THE  LIBRARY 

of 

VICTORIA  UNIVERSITY 

Toronto 


The  International  Standard 
Bible  Encyclopaedia 


THE 

International  Standard 
Bible  Encyclopaedia 


JAMES  ORR,  M.A.,  D.D.,  General  Editor 

JOHN  L.  NUELSEN,  D.D.,  LL.D. 
EDGAR  Y.  MULLENS,  D.D.,  LL.D. 

ASSISTANT  EDITORS 

MORRIS  0.  EVANS,  D.D.,  Ph.D.,  Manning  Editor 


VOLUME  III 
HERESY-  NAARAH 


CHICAGO 

THE  HOWARD-SEVERANCE  COMPANY 

1915 


Copyright,  1915,  by 
The  Howard-Severance  Company 

All  Rights  of  Translation  and 
Reproduction  Reserved 


International  Copyright  Secured 

2o-  S 


The  Publishers  supply  this   F.ncyclopaeciia  only  through 
authorized  sales-agent...        Booksellers  cannot  obtain  it. 


Printed  by  the  Lakeside  Pre.-s 

Types  cast  and  set  by  the  University  of  Chicago  Press 

Chicago,  Illinois,  U.S.A. 


1377 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


HERESY,    her'e-si,  _  her'g-si     (atpeo-is,    hairesis, 
from  vb.  aipe'w,   hairdo,  "to  choose"):    The  word 
has  acquired  an  ecclesiastical   meaning  that  has 
passed  into  common  usage,  containing  elements  not 
found  in  the  term  in  the  NT,  except  as  implied  in 
one  passage.     In  classical  Gr,  it  may  be  used  either 
in  a  good  or  a  bad  sense,  first,  simply  for  "choice," 
then,   "a  chosen  course  of  procedure,"  and  after- 
ward of  various  schools  and  tendencies.     Polybius 
refers  to  those  devoting  themselves  to  the  study  of 
Gr  literature  as  given   to   the  Hellenike  hairesis. 
It  was  used  not  simply  for  a  teaching  or  a  course 
followed,   but  also  for  those  devoting  themselves 
to  such  pursuit,  viz.  a  sect,  or  assembly  of  those 
advocating  a  particular  doctrine  or  mode  of  life. 
Thus  in  Acts,  the  word  is  used  in  the  Gr,  where  AV 
and  RV  have  "sect,"  "s.  of  Sadducees"  (5  17),  "s. 
of  Nazarenes"  (24  5).     In  Acts  26  5  the  Pharisees 
are  called  "the  straitest  hairesis  [sect]."     The  name 
was  applied  contemptuously  to  Christianity  (Acts 
24  14;  28  22).    Its  application,  with  censure, is  found 
in  1  Cor  11  19  m;    Gal  5  20  m,  where  it  is  shown 
to  interfere  with  that  unity  of  faith  and  community 
of  interests  that  belong  to  Christians.     There  being 
but  one  standard  of  truth,  and  one  goal  for  all  Chris- 
tian life,  any  arbitrary  choice  varying  from  what 
was  common  to  all  believers,   becomes  an  incon- 
sistency and  a  sin  to  be  warned  against.     Ellicott, 
on  Gal  5  20,  correctly  defines  "heresies"  (AV,  ERV) 
as  "a  more  aggravated  form  of  dichostasia"  (ARV 
"parlies")  "when  the  divisions  have  developed  into 
distinct  and  organized  parties";    so  also  1  Cor  11 
19,  trd  by  RV  "factions."     In  2  Pet  2  1,  the  tran- 
sition  toward   the  subsequent   ecclesiastical   sense 
can  be  traced.     The  "destructive  heresies"  (RVm, 
ERVm   "sects  of  perdition")   are  those  guilty  of 
errors  both  of   doctrine  and   of   life  very  fully  de- 
scribed throughout  the  entire  chapter,  and  who,  in 
such  course,  separated  themselves  from  the  fellow- 
ship of  the  church. 

In  the  fixed  ecclesiastical  sense  that  it  ultimately 
attained,  it  indicated  not  merely  any  doctrinal 
error,  but  "the  open  espousal  of  fundamental  error" 
(Ellicott  on  Tit  3  10),  or,  more  fully,  the  persistent, 
obstinate  maintenance  of  an  error  with  respect  to 
the  central  doctrines  of  Christianity  in  the  face  of 
all  better  instruction,  combined  with  aggressive 
attack  upon  the  common  faith  of  the  church,  and 
its  defenders.  Roman  Catholics,  regarding  all 
professed  Christians  who  are  not  in  their  com- 
munion as  heretics,  modify  their  doctrine  on  this 
point  by  distinguishing  between  Formal  and  Ma- 
terial Heresy,  the  former  being  unconscious  and 
unintentional,  and  between  different  degrees  of 
each  of  these  classes  (Calh.  Eur,  VII,  256  ff).  For 
the  development  of  the  ecclesiastical  meaning,  see 
Suicer's  Thesaurus  Ecclesiasticus,  I,  119-23. 

II.  E.  Jacobs 
HERETH,  he'reth,  THE  FOREST  OF  (1^ 
ft*y%  ,  yu'ar  hard  ft;  LXX  iroAis  SapeiK,  polis  Sarefk'; 
AV  Hareth):  David  (1  S  22  5)  was  told  by  the 
prophet  Gad  to  depart  from  Mizpah  of  Moab  and 
go  to  the  land  of  Judah,  and  he  "came  into  the  forest 
of  Heret  h."  The  LXX  has  "city"  instead  of  forest ; 
see  also  Jos,  Ant,  VI,  xii,  4.  The  village  Kharas, 
on  an  ancient  high  road,  3  miles  S.E.  of  Aid  el  ma, 
probably  David's  stronghold  Adullam  (q.v.),  may 
possibly  answer  to  the  place  (PEF,  III,  305,  Sh 
XXI).  "Horesh"  has  been  suggested  as  an  alter- 
native reading.  E.  W.  G.  Masterman 

HERETIC,  her'e-tik,  her'S-tik,  HERETICAL, 
hE-ret'i-kal  (alptnKos,  hairetikos):  Used  in  Tit  3 
10,  must  be  interpreted  according  to  the  sense  in 
which  Paul  employs  the  word  "heresy"  (1  Cor  11 
19;  Gal  5  20)  for  "parties"  or  "factions."  Ac- 
cording to  this,  the  Scriptural  meaning  of  the  word 


Heredity 
Hermogenes 

is  no  more  than  "a  factious  man"  (ARV),  an  agi- 
tator who  creates  divisions  and  makes  parties. 
V\  eizsacker  translates  it  into  German  ein  Sektierer 
a  sectanst,"  The  nature  of  the  offence  is  de- 
scribed in  other  words  in  2  Thess  2  6.11. 

HERITAGE,  her'i-taj  (nbn3 ,  nahdlah,  from 
nahal,  "to  give";  kXt^oco,  kleruo):  That  which  is 
allotted,  possession,  property,  portion,  share,  pe- 
culiar right,  inheritance;  applied  to  land  transferred 
from  the  Canaanites  to  Israel  (Ps  11  6;  136  22)- 
to  Israel,  as  the  heritage  of  Jeh  (Joel  3  2,  etc). 
In  the  NT  (Eph  1  11)  applied  to  believers,  the 
spiritual  Israel,  as  God's  peculiar  possession  (Elli- 
cott, Eadie). 

HERMAS,  hur'mas  ('Epuds,  Hermds) :  An  abbre- 
viated form  of  several  names,  e.g.  Hermagoras, 
liermeros,  Hermodorus,  Hermogenes,  etc;  the 
name  of  a  Rom  Christian  to  whom  Paul  sent  greet- 
ings (Rom  16  14).  Origen  and  some  later  writers 
have  identified  him  with  the  author  of  The  Pastor 
of  Hennas,  but  without  sufficient  reason.  Accord- 
ing to  the  Canon  of  Muratori,  the  author  of  The 
Pastor  wrote  when  his  brother  Pius  was  bishop  of 
Rome  (140-55  AD).  He  speaks  of  himself,  how- 
ever, as  a  contemporary  of  Clement  of  Rome  (ch  4) 
(c  100  AD).  The  name  Hermas  is  very  common, 
and  Ongen's  identification  is  purely  conjectural. 

S.  F.  Huxter 

HERMENEUTICS,    hur-mn-nu'tiks.       See    In- 

TERPRETATION. 

HERMES,  hur'mez  ('EP|xfjs,  Hermts):    In  RVm 

of  Acts  14  12  for  "Mercury"  in  text  (AV  "Mer- 

curius"). 

HERMES  ('Epulis,  Hermts) :  The  name  of  a  Rom 
Christian,  otherwise  unknown,  to  whom  Paul  sent 
greetings  (Rom  16  14).  "Hermes  is  among  the 
commonest  slave  names.  In  the  household  alone 
probably  not  less  than  a  score  of  persons  might  be 
counted  up  from  the  inscriptions,  who  bore  this 
name  at  or  about  the  time  when  St.  Paul  wrote" 
(Lightfoot,   Philippians,  176). 

HERMOGENES,    her-moj'e-nez    ('Epilogs, 

Hermogenes,   lit.    "born   of   Hermes,"    a  Gr  deity, 

called  by  the  Romans,  "Mercury,"  2 

1.  Where  Tim  1  15):  Hermogenes  was  a  Chris- 
Did  He  tian,  mentioned  by  Paul  as  having, 
"Turn  along  with  Phygellus  and  "all  that 
Away"?          are  in  Asia,"  turned  away  from  him. 

It  is  not  clear  when  or  where  the  de- 
fection of  those  Asiatic  Christians  from  the  apostle 
took  place,  whether  it  was  at  Rome  at  the  time  of 
Paul's  second  imprisonment  there,  and  esp.  on  the 
occasion  of  his  being  brought  before  the  emperor's 
supreme  court,  to  be  tried  on  a  charge  now  involving 
the  death  penalty,  or  whether  it  was  at  some  pre- 
vious time  in  Ephesus. 

If  it  was  the  latter,  then  the  meaning  is  that  Paul 
wishes  to  inform  Timothy,  or  perhaps  only  to  re- 
mind   him,    how   in    Ephesus,    where 

2.  Was  It      Timothy  was  the  presiding  minister 
in  Ephesus?  of    the    church,   these    persons,    Phy- 
gellus   and    Hermogenes    with    many 

more,  had  turned  away  from  him,  that  is,  had  re- 
fused to  submit  to  his  authority,  and  had  rejected 
the  Christian  doctrine  which  he  taught,  This 
latter  meaning,  referring  the  "turning  away"  to 
some  previous  occasion  in  Ephesus,  is  thought  by 
some  expositors  to  be  the  probable  signification, 
owing  to  the  fact  that  the  vb.  "they  be  turned 
away"  is  in  the  aorist  tense,  referring  to  a  time  long 
past  when  the  apostle  wrote. 


Hermon 
Herod 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1378 


On  the  other  hand  there  is  no  evidence  that  then: 
ever  was  a  time  when  "all  they  which  are  in  Asia 
(AV)    turned    away    from    obedience 

3.  Unlike-  to  Paul.  Whatever  may  have  been 
lihood  of  It  the  disloyalty  and  disobedience  of 
Being  in  individuals— and  this  certainly  existed; 
Ephesus        see,  e.g.,  Acts  20  29 f— yet,   certainly 

the  NT  does  not  show  that  all  that 
were  in  Asia,  the  Christian  community  as  a  whole, 
in  Ephesus  and  Miletus  and  Laodicea  and  Hiera- 
polis   and  Colossae   and    other   places,    repudiated 

his  apostolic  authority.     If  the  words 

4.  Proba-  "all  they  which  are  in  Asia"  refer  to 
bility  of  It  all  the  Christians  from  the  procon- 
Being  in  sular  province  of  Asia,  who  happened 
Rome  to  be  in  Rome  at,  the  time  of  Paul  s 

second  imprisonment  there,  it-  can 
easily  be  understood  that  they  should  turn  away 
from'  him  at  that  testing  time.  It-  is  impossible  to 
say  exactly  what  form  their  desertion  of  the  apostle 
assumed.  Their  turning  away  would  likely  be; 
caused  by  fear,  lest  if  it  were  known  that  they  were 
friends  of  the  prisoner  in  1  he  Mamertine,  they  would 
be  involved  in  the  same  imprisonment  as  had  over- 
taken him,  and  probably  also  in  the  same:  death 
penalty. 

It  is  altogether  in  favor  of  a  reference  to  Rome, 
that  what  is  said  about  Phygellus  and  Hermogenes 
and  their  turning  away  from  Paul  is  immediately 
followed  by  a  reference"  to  Onesiphorus,  and  to  the 
great  kindness  which  he  showed,  when  he  sought 
the  apostle  out  very  diligently  in  Rome.  On  the 
whole,  therefore,  a  reference  to  Rome  and  to  the 
manner  in  which  these  persons,  named  and  un- 
named, from  Asia,  had  deserted  Paul,  seems  most 
probable.     See  Phygellus.     John  Rutherfurd 

HERMON,  hur'mon  CP'Knn,  hermon;   B,  'Aep- 
iicov,  Haermdn):    The  name  of  the  majestic  moun- 
tain in  which  the  Anti-Lebanon  range 
1    Descrip-   terminates   to   the   S.    (Dt  3  8,    etc), 
tion  It  reaches  a  height  of  9,200  ft,  above 

the  sea,  and  extends  some  16  to  20 
miles  from  N.  to  S.  It  was  called  Sirion  by  the 
Sidonians  (Dt-  3  9;  cf  Ps  29  6),  and  Semr  by  the 
\morites  (Dt  3  9).  It  is  also  identified  with  Sum 
(Dt  4  48).  See  Sirion;  Skxir;  Sion.  Some- 
times it  is  called  "Mt.  Hermon"  (Dt  3  8;  Josh  11 
17;  1  Ch  5  23,  etc);  at  other  times 
2.  The  simplv     "Hermon"     (Josh  11  3;      Ps 

Hermons  89  12,  etc).  .  Once  it  is  called  "Her- 
mons"  (3'1"'2"!n ,  hermonlm).  AV 
mistakenly  renders  this  "the  Hermonites"  (Ps  42 
6).  It  must  be  a  reference  to  the  triple  summits  of 
the  mountain.  There  are  three  distinct  heads, 
rising  near  the  middle  of  the  mass,  the  two  higher 
being  toward  the  E.  The  eastern  declivities  arc 
steep  and  bare;  the  western  slopes  are  more  grad- 
ual; and  while  the  upper  reaches  are  barren,  the 
lower  are  well  wooded;  and  as  one  descends  he 
passes  through  fruitful  vineyards  and  orchards, 
finally  entering  the  rich  fields  below,  in  Wady  et- 
Teim.  The  Aleppo  pine,  the  oak,  and  the  poplar 
are  plentiful.  The  wolf  and  the  leopard  are  still  to 
be  found  on  the  mountain;  and  it  is  the  last  resort 
of  the  brown,  or  Syrian,  bear.  Snow  lies  long  on 
the  summits  and  shoulders  of  the  mountain;  and 
in  some  of  the  deeper  hollows,  esp.  to  the  X.,  it 
may  be  seen  through  most  of  the  year. 

Mt.  Hermon  is  the  source  of  many  blessings  to 
the  land  over  which  it  so  proudly  lifts  its  splendid 
form.  Refreshing  breezes  blow  from  its  cold 
heights.  Its  snows  are  carried  to  Damascus  and 
to  The  towns  on  the  seaboard,  where,  mingled  with 
the  sharub,  "drink,"  they  mitigate  the  heat  of  the 
Syrian  summer.  Great  reservoirs  in  the  depths  of 
the  mountain,  fed  by  the  melting  snows,  find  outlet 


in  the  magnificent-  springs  at  Hasbeiyeh,  Tell  el- 
Kd'.lij,  and  Banias,  while  the  dew-clouds  of  Hermon 
bring  a  benediction  wherever  they  are  carried  (Ps 

133  3). 

Hermon  marked  the  northern  limit  of  Joshua's 
victorious  campaigns  (Josh  12   1,  etc).     It  was  part 
of   the  dominion  of  Og   (ver  5),   and 
3.  Sanctu-     with  the  full  of  that,  monarch,  it  would 
aries  naturally  come  under  Israelitish  influ- 

ence. Its  remote  and  solitary  heights 
must  have  attracted  worshippers  from  the  earliest 
times;  and  we  cannot  doubt,  that  it  was  a  famous 
sanctuary  in  far  antiquity.  I'nder  the  highest 
peak  are  the  ruins  of  Kmr  KAntar,  which  may  have 
been  an  ancient  sanctuary  of  Baal.  Unom  speaks 
of  a  temple  on  the  summit,  much  frequented  by  the 
surrounding  peoples;  and  the  remains  of  many 
temples  of  the  Rom  period  have  been  found  on  the 
sides  and  at  the  base  of  the  mountain.  The  sacred- 
ness  of  Hermon  may  be  inferred  from  the  allusion 
in  Ps  89  12  (cf  En'6  0;  and  see  also  Baal  Her- 
mon). .    .      „, 

Some  have  thought  that  the  scene  of  the  trans- 
figuration should  be  sought  here;  see,  however, 
Transfiguration,  Mount  of. 

The  modern  name  of  Hermon  is  Jebel  etfi-1  hilj, 
"mount  of  snow,"  or  Jebel  esh-sheikh,  "mount  of  the 
elder,"  or  "of  the  chief." 

Little  Hermon,  the  name  now  often  applied  to 
the  hill  between  Tabor  and  Gilboa,  possibly  the 
Hill  of  Moreh,  on  which  is  the  sanctuary  of  Neby 
Dahy  has  no  Bib.  authority,  and  dates  only  from 
the  Middle  Ages.  W.  Ewing 

HERMONITES,  hur'mon-Its:  In  Ps  42  0  AV, 
where  RV  reads  "Hermons."     See  Hermon. 

HEROD,  her 'ud:  . 

The  name  Herod  (  H/jcoStjs,  Herodes)  is  a 
familiar  one  in  the  history  of  the  Jews  and 
of  the  early  Christian  church.  The  name  itself 
signifies  "heroic,"  a  name  not  wholly  applicable 
to  the  family,  which  was  characterized  by  craft 
and  knavery  rather  than  by  heroism.  The  for- 
tunes of  the  Herodian  family  are  inseparably  con- 
nected with  the  last  flickerings  of  the  flame  of 
Judaism,  as  a  national  power,  before  it  was  forever 
extinguished  in  the  great  Jewish  war  of  rebellion 
70  AD  The  history  of  the  Herodian  family  is  not 
lacking  in  elements  of  greatness,  but  whatever  these 
elements  were  and  in  whomsoever  found,  they  were 
in  every  case  dimmed  by  the  insufferable  egotism 
which  disfigured  the  family,  root  and  branch.  Some 
of  the  Herodian  princes  were  undeniably  talented; 
but  these  talents,  wrongly  used,  left  no  marks  for 
the  good  of  the  people  of  Israel.  Of  nearly  all  the, 
kings  of  the  house  of  Herod  it-  may  truly  be  said 
that  at  their  death  "they  went  without  being  de- 
sired," unmissed,  unmourned.  The  entire  family 
history  is  one  of  incessant  brawls  suspicion  in- 
trigue and  shocking  immorality.  In  the  baleful 
and  waning  light  of  the  rule  of  the  Herodians,  Christ 
lived  and  died,  and  under  it  the  foundations  ot  the 
Christian  church  were  laid.  . 

The  Herodians  were  not  of  Jewish  stock.     Herod 
the  Great  encouraged  the  circulation  of  the  legend 
of  the  family  descent  from  an  lllus- 
1.  The  trious  Bab  Jew  (Ant,  XIV,  i,  3),  but 

Family  it  has  no  historic  basis.     It  is  true  the 

Descent  Idumaeans  were  at  that  time  nominal 
Jews,  since  they  were  subdued  by  John 
Hyrcanus  in  125  BC,  and  embodied  in  the  Asmonean 
kingdom  through  an  enforced  crrcumcision  but 
the  old  national  antagonism  remained  (Gen  Z7  4  I). 
The  Herodian  family  sprang  from  Antipas  (d.  /!=> 
BC),  who  was  appointed  governor  of  Idumaca  by 
Alexander  Jannaeus.     His  son  Antipater,  who  sue- 


1379 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Hermon 
Herod 


ceeded  him,  possessed  all  the  cunning,  resourceful- 
ness and  unbridled  ambition  of  his  son  Herod  the 
Great.  He  had  an  open  eye  for  two  things — the  un- 
conquerable strength  of  the  Rom  power  and  the 
pitiable  weakness  of  the  decadent  Asmonean  house, 
and  on  these  two  factors  he  built  the  house  of  his 
hopes.  He  craftily  chose  the  side  of  Hyrcanus  II 
in  his  internecine  war  with  Aristobulus  his  brother 
(G9  BC),  and  induced  him  to  seek  the  aid  of  the 
Romans.  Together  they  supported  the  claims  of 
Pompey  and,  after  the  hitter's  defeat,  they  availed 
themselves  of  the  magnanimity  of  Caesar  to  submit 
to  him,  after  the  crushing  defeat  of  Pompey  at 
Pharsalus  (48  BC).  As  a  reward,  Antipater  re- 
ceived the  procuratorship  of  Judaea  (47  BC),  while 
his  innocent  dupe  Hyrcanus  had  to  satisfy  himself 
with  the  high-priesthood.  Antipater  died  by  the 
hand  of  an  assassin  (43  BC)  and  left  four  sons, 
Phasael,  Herod  the  Great,  Joseph,  Pheroras,  and  a 
daughter  Salome.  The  second  of  these  sons  raised 
the   family  to  its  highest  pinnacle  of  power  and 


in  raising  the  always  welcome  tribute-money  for 
the  Rom  government,  gained  for  him  additional 
power  at  court.  His  advance  became  rapid. 
Antony  appointed  him  "tetrarch"  of  Judaea  in  41 
BC,  and  although  he  was  forced  by  circumstances 
temporarily  to  leave  his  domain  in  the  hands  of  the 
Parthians  and  of  Antigonus,  this,  in  the  end,  proved 
a  blessing  in  disguise.  In  this  final  spasm  of  the 
dying  Asmonean  house,  Antigonus  took  Jerus  by 
storm,  and  Phasael,  Herod's  oldest  brother,  fell 
into  his  hands.  The  latter  was  governor  of  the 
city,  and  foreseeing  his  fate,  he  committed  suicide 
by  dashing  out  his  brains  against  the  walls  of  his 
prison.  Antigonus  incapacitated  his  brother  Hyr- 
canus, who  was  captured  at  the  same  time,  from 
ever  holding  the  holy  office  again  by  cropping  off 
his  ears  (Ant,  XIV,  xiii,  10).  Meanwhile,  Herod 
was  at  Rome,  and  through  the  favor  of  Antony  and 
Augustus  he  obtained  the  crown  of  Judaea  in  37 
BC.  The  fond  ambition  of  his  heart  was  now  at- 
tained, although  he  had  literally  to  carve  out  his 


THE  HERODIAN  FAMILY  TREE 


f  Herod  (king  of  Oal- 
chis)  (1.  48  AD 


Antipas 
(1.  78  BC 

Antipater 

(Proc.  Judaea 
47-43  BC1) 


Phasael 


Herod  the  <  treat 
(king  of  Judaea 
37  BO-4  AD) 


f  Herod    Agrippa 

(king   of    Calchis) 
d.  100  AD 


■[  Herod  Agrippa 

(king  of  Judaea 
d.   14  AD 

Herodias 
(Mk  6; 


Bernice 

(Acts   25   23) 

Drusilla 

(Acts  24  24) 


Joseph 


Pheroras 


Salome 


Herod  had,  besides,  five  other  wives  (Ant,  XVII,  i 
or  at  least  do  not  figure  in  history. 

glory.  Pheroras  was  nominally  his  co-regent  and, 
possessed  of  his  father's  cunning,  maintained  him- 
self to  the  end,  surviving  his  cruel  brother,  but  he 
cuts  a  small  figure  in  the  family  history.  He,  -as  well 
as  his  sister  Salome,  proved  an  endless  source  of 
trouble  to  Herod  by  the  endless  family  brawls  which 
they  occasioned.  . 

With  a  different  environment  and  with  a  differ- 
ent character,  Herod  the  Great  might  have  been 
worthy  of  the  surname  which  he  now 
2.  Herod  bears  only  as  a  tribute  of  inane  flattery, 
the  Great  What  we  know  of  him,  we  owe,  in  the 
main,  to  the  exhaustive  treatment  of 
the;  subject  by  Jos  in  his  Antiquities  and  Jewish 
War,  and  from  Strabo  and  Dio  Cassius  among  the 
classics.  We  may  subsume  our  little  sketch  of 
Herod's  life  under  the  heads  of  (1)  political  activity, 
(2)  evidences  of  talent,  and  (3)  character  and 
domestic  life. 

(1)  Political  activity—  Antipater  had  great  am- 
bitions for  his  son.  Herod  was  only  a  young  man 
when  he  began  his  career  as  governor  of  Galilee. 
Jos'  statement,  however,  that  he  was  only  ''fifteen 
years  old"  (Ant,  XIV,  ix,  2)  is  evidently  the  mistake 
'of  sonic  transcriber,  because  we  are  told  (X\  II,  vim 
1)  that  "he  continued  his  life  till  a  very  old  age. 
That  was  42  years  later,  so  that  Herod  at  this  tune 
must  have  been  at  least  25  years  old.  His  activity 
and  success  in  ridding  his  dominion  of  dangerous 
bands  of  freebooters,  and  his  still  fyeater  success 


{  By  Doris 

Antipater  (exec. 
4BC) 

lit/   Mariamne 
Aristobulus 

(murdered  7  BC) 
Alexander 

(murdered  7  BC) 

By  Mariamne 

(laughter  of 

Simon 
Herod  Philip 
(Mk  6  17) 

Hi/   Malthace 

Antipas.  d.  39  AD 

(tetr.  of  Gal.) 
Archelaus 

(ethn.  of  Judaea 

4  BC-0  AD) 

By  Cleopatra 
Herod  Philip  (tetr. 
of  E.  .lord,  terri- 
tory 4  BC-34  AD) 

3;    li.i ,  I,  xviii,  4)  and  seven  other  children,  who  died  early, 


own  empire  with  the  sword.  He  made  quick  work 
of  the  task,  cut  his  way  back  into  Judaea  and  took 
Jerus  by  storm  in  37  BC. 

The  first  act  of  his  reign  was  the  extermination 
of  the  Asmonean  house,  to  which  Herod  himself 
was  related  through  his  marriage  with  Mariamne, 
the  grandchild  of  Hyrcanus.  Antigonus  was  slain 
and  with  him  45  of  his  chief  adherents.  Hyrcanus 
was  recalled  from  Babylon,  to  which  he  had  been 
banished  by  Antigonus,  but  the  high-priesthood  was 
bestowed  on  Aristobulus,  Herod's  brother-in-law, 
who,  however,  soon  fell  a  victim  to  the  suspicion 
and  fear  of  the  king  (Ant,  XV,  iii,  3).  These  out- 
rages against  the  purest  blood  in  Judaea  turned  the 
love  of  Mariamne,  once  cherished  for  Herod,  into 
a  bitter  hatred.  The  Jews,  loyal  to  the  dynasty 
of  the  Maccabees,  accused  Herod  before  the  Rom 
court,  but  he  was  summarily  acquitted  by  Antony. 
Hyrcanus,  mutilated  and  helpless  as  he  was,  soon 
followed  .Aristobulus  in  the  way  of  death,  31  BC 
(Ant,  XV,  vi,  1).  When  Antony,  who  had  ever 
befriended  Herod,  was  conquered  by  Augustus  at 
Actium  (31  BC),  Herod  quickly  turned  to  the 
powers  that  were,  and,  by  subtle  flattery  and  timely 
support,  won  the  imperial  favor.  The  boundaries 
of  his  kingdom  were  now  extended  by  Borne.  And 
Herod  proved  equal  to  the  greater  task.  By  a 
decisive  victory  over  the  Arabians,  he  showed,  as 
he  had  done  in  his  earlier  Galilean  government, 
what  manner  of  man  he  was,  when  aroused  to  action. 


Herod 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


13S0 


The  Arabians  were  wholly  crushed,  and  submitted 
themselves  unconditionally  under  the  power  of 
Herod  (Ant,  XV,  v,  f>).  Afraid  to  leave  a  rem- 
nant of  the  Asmonean  power  alive,  he  sacrificed 
Mariamnc  his  wife,  the  only  human  being  he  ever 
seems  to  have  loved  (28  BC),  his  mother-in-law 
Alexandra  (Ant,  XV,  vii,  S),  and  ultimately,  shortly 
before  his  death,  even  his  own  sons  by  Mariamne, 
Alexander  and  Aristobulus  7  BC  (Ant,  XVI,  xi,  7'. 
In  his  emulation  of  the  habits  and  views  of  life 
of  the  Romans,  he  continually  offended  and  defied 
his  .Jewish  subjects,  by  the  introduction  of  Rom 
sports  and  heathen  temples  in  his  dominion.  His 
influence  on  the  younger  Jews  in  this  regard  was 
baneful,  and  slowly  a  distinct,  party  arose,  partly 
political,  partly  religious,  which  called  itself  the 
Herodian  party,  Jews  in  outward  religious  forms 
but  (Jen tiles  in  their  dress  and  in  their  whole  view 
of  life.  They  were  a  bitter  offence  to  the  rest  of 
the  nation,  but  were  associated  with  t ho  Pharisees 
and  Sadducees  in  their  opposition  to  Christ  (Mt 
22  lf>;  Mk  3  G;  12  13).  In  vain  Herod  fried 
to  win  over  the  Jews,  by  royal  charity  in  time  of 
famine,  and  by  yielding,  wherever  possible,  to  their 
bitter  prejudices.  They  saw  in  him  only  a  usurper 
of  the  throne  of  David,  maintained  by  the  strong 
arm  of  the  hated  Rom  oppressor.  Innumerable 
plots  were  made  against,  his  life,  but,  with  almost 
superhuman  cunning,  Herod  defeated  them  all 
(Ant,  XV,  viii).  He  robbed  his  own  people  that 
he  might  give  munificent  gifts  to  the  Romans;  he 
did  not  even  spare  the  grave  of  Ring  David,  which 
was  held  in  almost  idolatrous  reverence  by  the  people, 
but  robbed  it  of  its  treasures  (Ant,  XVI,  vii,  1). 
The  last  days  of  Herod  were  embittered  by  endless 
court  intrigues  and  conspiracies,  by  an  almost  in- 
sane suspicion  on  the  part  of  the  aged  king,  and  by 
increasing  indications  of  the  restlessness  of  the 
nation.  Like  Augustus  himself,  Herod  was  the 
victim  of  an  incurable  and  loathsome  disease.  His 
temper  became  more  irritable,  as  the  malady  made 
progress,  and  he  made  both  himself  and  his  court 
unutterably  miserable.  The  picture  drawn  by 
Jos  (A nl,  XVII)  is  lifelike  and  tragic  in  its  vivid- 
ness. In  his  last  will  and  testament,  he  remained 
true  to  his  life-long  fawning  upon  the  Rom  power 
(Ant,  XVII,  vi,  1).  So  great  became  his  suffering 
toward  the  last  that  he  made  a  fruitless  attempt  at- 
suicide.  But,  true  to  his  character,  one  of  the  last 
acts  of  his  life  was  an  order  to  execute  his  son  Anti- 
pater,  who  had  instigated  the  murder  of  his  half- 
brothers,  Alexander  and  Aristobulus,  and  another 
order  to  slay,  after  his  death,  a  number  of  nobles, 
who  were  guilty  of  a  small  outbreak  at  Jerus  and 
who  were  confined  in  the  hippodrome  (Ant,  XVI,  vi, 
5).  He  died  in  the  37th  year  of  his  reign,  34  years 
after  he  had  captured  Jerus  and  slain  Antigonus. 
Jos  writes  this  epitaph:  "A  man  he  was  of  great 
barbarity  toward  all  men  equally,  and  a  slave  to  his 
passions,  but  above  the  consideration  of  what  was 
right.  Yet  was  he  favored  by  fortune  as  much  as 
any  man  ever  was,  for  from  a  private  man  he  became 
a  king,  and  though  he  were  encompassed  by  ten 
thousand  dangers,  he  got  clear  of  them  all  and  con- 
tinued his  life  to  a  very  old  age"  (Ant,  XVII,  viii,  1). 
(2)  Evidences  of  talent. — The  life  of  Herod  the 
Great  was  not  a  fortuitous  chain  of  favorable  acci- 
dents. He  was  unquestionably  a  man  of  talent. 
In  a  family  like  that  of  Antipas  and  Antipater,  talent 
must  necessarily  be  hereditary,  and  Herod  inherited 
it  more  largely  than  any  of  his  brothers.  His  whole 
life  exhibits  in  no  small  degree  statecraft,  power  of 
organization,  shrewdness.  He  knew  men  and  he 
knew  how  to  use  them.  He  won  the  warmest 
friendship  of  Rom  emperors,  and  had  a  faculty  of 
convincing  the  Romans  of  the  righteousness  of  his 
cause,  in  every  contingency.     In  ins  own  dominions 


he  was  like  Lshmael,  his  hand  against  all,  and  the 
hands  of  all  against  him,  and  yet  he  maintained 
himself  in  the  government  for  a  whole  generation. 
His  Galilean  governorship  showed  what  manner  of 
man  he  was,  a  man  with  iron  determination  and 
great  generalship.  His  Judaean  conquest  proved 
the  same  thing,  as  did  his  Arabian  war.  Herod  was 
a  born  leader  of  men.  Under  a  different  environ- 
ment he  might  have  developed  into  a  truly  great 
man,  and  had  his  character  been  coordinate  with 
his  gifts,  he  might  have  done  great  things  for  the 
Jewish  people.  But,  by  far  the  greatest  talent  of 
Herod  was  his  singular  architectural  taste  and 
ability.  Here  he  reminds  one  of  the;  old  Egyp 
Pharaohs.  Against  the  laws  of  Judaism,  which 
he  pretended  to  obey,  he  built  at  Jerus  a  magnificent, 
theater  and  an  amphitheater,  of  which  the  ruins 
remain.  The  one  was  within  the  city,  the  other 
outside  the  walls.  Thus  he  introduced  into  the 
ascetic  sphere  of  the  Jewish  life  the  frivolous  spirit, 
of  the  Greeks  and  the  Romans.  To  offset  this 
cruel  infraction  of  all  the  maxims  of  orthodox  Juda- 
ism, he  tried  to  placate  the  nation  by  rebuilding  the 
temple  of  Zerubbabel  and  making  it  more  magnifi- 
cent than  even  Solomon's  temple  had  been.  This 
work  was  accomplished  somewhere  between  10  BC 
and  11  or  9  BC,  although  the  entire  work  was  not 
finished  till  the  procuratorship  of  Albinus,  02-64: 
AD  (Ant,  XV,  xi,  5,  6;  NX,  ix,  7;  .In  2  20).  It 
was  so  transcendent  ly  beautiful  that  it  ranked 
among  flu;  world's  wonders,  and  Jos  does  not  tire 
of  describing  its  glories  (J>J,  V,  v).  Even  Titus 
sought  to  spare  the  building  in  the  final  attack  on 
the  city  (BJ,  VI,  iv,  3).  Besides  this,  Herod  rebuilt 
and  beautified  Strato's  Tower,  which  he  called  after 
the  emperor,  Caesarea.  He  spent  12  years  in  this 
gigantic  work,  building  a  theater  and  amphitheater, 
and  above  all  in  achieving  the  apparently  impossible 
by  creating  a  harbor  where  there  was  none  before. 
This  was  accomplished  by  constructing  a  gigantic 
mole  far  out  into  the  sea,  and  so  enduring  was  the 
work  that  the  remains  of  it  are  seen  today.  The 
Romans  were  so  appreciative  of  the  work  done  by 
Herod  that  they  made  Caesarea  the  capital  of  the 
new  regime,  after  the  passing  away  of  the  Herodian 
power.     Besides  this,  Herod  rebuilt  Samaria,  to  the 


)f  One  of  Herod's  Temples  in  Samaria. 


utter  disgust  of  the  Jews,  calling  it  Sebaste.  In 
Jerus  itself  he  built  the  three  great  towers,  Antonia, 
Phasaelus  and  Mariamne,  which  survived  even  the 
catastrophe  of  the  year  70  AD.  All  over  Herod's 
dominion  were  found  the  evidences  of  this  con- 
structive passion.  Antipatris  was  built  by  him, 
on  the  site  of  the  ancient  Kapharsaba,  as  well  as 
the  stronghold  Phasaelus  near  Jericho,  where  he  was 
destined  to  see  so  much  suffering  and  ultimately 
to  die.  He  even  reached  beyond  his  own  domain 
to  satisfy  this  building  mania  at  Ascalon,  Damascus, 
Tyre  and  Sidon,  Tripoli,  Ptolemais,  nay  even  at 
Athens  and  Lacedaemon.  But  the  universal  char- 
acter of  these  operations  itself  occasioned  the  bitter- 


1381 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Herod 


est  hatred  against  him  on  the  part  of  the  narrow- 
minded  Jews. 

(3)  Characteristics  and  domestic  life. — The  per- 
sonality of  Herod  was  impressive,  and  he  was  pos- 
sessed of  great  physical  strength.  His  intellectual 
powers  were  far  beyond  the  ordinary;  his  will  was 
indomitable;  he  was  possessed  of  great  tact,  when 
he  saw  fit  to  employ  it;  in  the  great  crises  of  his 
life  he  was  never  at  a  loss  what  to  do;  and  no  one 
has  ever  accused  Herod  the  Great  of  cowardice. 
There  were  in  him  two  distinct  individualities,  as 
was  the  case  with  Nero.  Two  powers  struggled 
in  him  for  the  mastery,  and  the  lower  one  at  last 
gained  complete  control.  During  the  first  part  of 
his  reign  there  were  evidences  of  large-heartedness, 
of  great  possibilities  in  the  man.  But  the  bitter 
experiences  of  his  life,  the  endless  whisperings  and 
warnings  of  his  court,  the  irreconcilable  spirit  of 
the  Jews,  as  well  as  the  consciousness  of  his  own 
wrongdoing,  changed  him  into  a  Jewish  Nero:  a 
tyrant,  who  bathed  his  own  house  and  his  own 
people  in  blood.  The  demons  of  Herod's  life  were 
jealousy  of  power,  and  suspicion,  its  necessary 
companion. 

He  was  the  incarnation  of  brute  lust,  which  m 
turn  became  the  burden  of  the  lives  of  his  children 
History  tells  of  few  more  immoral  families  than  the 
house  of  Herod,  which  by  intermarriage  of  its  mem- 
bers so  entangled  the  genealogical  tree  as  to  make 
it  a  veritable  puzzle.  As  these  marriages  were 
nearly  all  within  the  line  of  forbidden  consanguinity, 
under  the  Jewish  law,  they  still  further  embittered 
the  people  of  Israel  against  the  Herodian  family. 
When  Herod  came  to  the  throne  of  Judaea,  Phasael 
was  dead.  Joseph  his  younger  brother  had  fallen 
in  battle  (Ant,  XIV,  xv,  10),  and  only  Pheroras  and 
Salome  survived.  The  first,  as  we  have  seen,  nomi- 
nally shared  the  government  with  Herod,  but  was  of 
little  consequence  and  only  proved  a  thorn  in  the 
king's  flesh  by  his  endless  interference  and  plotting. 
To  him  were  allotted  the  revenues  of  the  East 
Jordanic  territory.  Salome,  his  sister,  was  ever 
neck-deep  in  the  intrigues  of  the  Herodian  family, 
but  had  the  cunning  of  a  fox  and  succeeded  in 
making  Herod  believe  in  her  unchangeable  loyalty, 
although  the  king  had  killed  her  own  son-in-law 
and  her  nephew,  Aristobulus,  his  own  son.  The 
will  of  Herod,  made  shortly  before  his  death,  is  a 
convincing  proof  of  his  regard  for  his  sister  (Ant, 
XVII,  viii,  1). 

His  domestic  relations  were  very  unhappy.  ( >i 
his  marriage  with  Doris  and  of  her  son,  Antipater, 
he  reaped  onlv  misery,  the  son,  as  stated  above, 
ultimately  falling  a  victim  to  his  father's  wrath, 
when  the  crown,  for  which  he  plotted,  was  prac- 
tically within  his  grasp.  Herod  appears  to  have 
been  deeply  in  love  with  Mariamne,  the  grandchild 
of  Hyrcanus,  in  so  far  as  he  was  capable  of  such  a 
feeling,  but  his  attitude  to  the  entire  Asmonean 
family  and  his  fixed  determination  to  make  an  end 
of  it  changed  whatever  love  Mariamne  had  for  him 
into  hatred.  Ultimately  she,  as  well  as  her  two 
sons,  fell  victims  to  Herod's  insane  jealousy  o! 
1  tower.  Like  Nero,  however,  in  a  similar  situation, 
Herod  felt  the  keenest  remorse  after  her  death. 
As  his  sons  grew  up,  the  family  tragedy  thickened, 
and  the  court  of  Herod  became  a  veritable  hotbed 
of  mutual  recriminations,  intrigues  and  catastro- 
phes. The  trials  and  executions  of  his  own  con- 
spiring sons  were  conducted  with  the  acquiescence 
of  the  Rom  power,  for  Herod  was  shrewd  enough 
not  to  make  a  move  without  it.  Yet  so  thoroughly 
was  the  condition  of  the  Jewish  court  understood  at 
Rome,  that  Augustus,  after  the  death  of  Mariamne's 
sons  (7  BC),is  said. to  have  exclaimed:  "1  would 
rather  be  Herod's  hog  than  his  son."  At  the  time 
of  his  death,  the  remaining  sons  were  these:   Herod, 


son  of  Mariamne,  Simon's  daughter;  Archelaus 
and  Antipas,  sons  of  Malthace,  and  Herod  Philip, 
son  of  Cleopatra  of  Jerus.  Alexander  and  Aristo- 
bulus were  killed,  through  the  persistent  intrigues 
of  Antipater,  the  oldest  son  and  heir  presumptive 
to  the  crown,  and  he  himself  fell  into  the  grave  he 
had  dug  for  his  brothers. 

By  the  final  testament  of  Herod,  as  ratified  by 
Rome,  the  kingdom  was  divided  as  follows:  Arche- 
laus received  one-half  of  the  kingdom,  with  the 
title  of  king,  really  "ethnarch,"  governing  Judaea, 
Samaria  and  Idumaea;  Antipas  was  appointed 
"tetrarch"  of  Galilee  and  Peraea;  Philip,  "tetrarch" 
of  Trachonitis,  Gaulonitis  and  Paneas.  To  Sa- 
lome, his  intriguing  sister,  he  bequeathed  Jamnia, 
Ashdod  and  Phasaelus,  together  with  500,000 
drachmas  of  coined  silver.  All  his  kindred  were 
liberally  provided  for  in  his  will,  "so  as  to  leave 
them  all  in  a  wealthy  condition"  (Ant,  XVII, 
viii,  1).  In  his  death  he  had  been  better  to  his 
family  than  in  his  life.  He  died  unmourned  and 
unbeioved  by  his  own  people,  to  pass  into  history 
as  a  name  soiled  by  violence  and  blood.  As  the 
waters  of  Callirhoe  were  unable  to  cleanse  his  cor- 
rupting body,  those  of  time  were  unable  to  wash 
away  the  stains  of  a  tyrant's  name.  The  only  t ime 
he  is  mentioned  in  the  NT  is  in  Mt  2  and  Lk  1. 
In  Mt  he  is  associated  with  the  wise  men  of  the 
East,  wdio  came  to  investigate  the  birth  of  the 
"king  of  the  Jews."  Learning  their  secret,  Herod 
found  out  from  the  "priests  and  scribes  of  the  people" 
where  the  Christ  was  to  be  born  and  ordered  the 
"massacre  of  the  innocents,"  with  which  his  name 
is  perhaps  more  generally  associated  than  with  any 
other  act  of  his  life.  As  Herod  died  in  4  BC  and 
some  time  elapsed  between  the  massacre  and  his 
death  (Mt  2  10),  we  have  here  a  clue  to  the  ap- 
proximate fixing  of  the  true  date  of  Christ's  birth. 
Another,  in  this  same  connection,  is  an  eclipse;  of 
the  moon,  the  only  one  mentioned  by  Jos  (Ant, 
XVII,  vi,  4;  text  and  note),  which  was  seen  shortly 
before  Herod's  death.  This  eclipse  occurred  on 
March  13,  in  the  year  of  the  Julian  Period,  4710, 
therefore  4  BC. 

Herod  Antipas  was  the  son  of  Herod  the  Great 
and    Malthace,    a   Samaritan    woman.     Half    Idu- 
maean,  half  Samaritan,  he  had  there- 
3.  Herod       fore  not  a  drop  of  Jewish  blood  in  his 
Antipas  veins,   and   "Galilee  of  the  Gentiles" 

seemed  ant  dominion  for  such  a  prince. 
He  ruled  as  "tetrarch"  of  Galilee  and  Peraea  (Lk 
3  1)  from  4  BC  till  3'.)  AD.  The  gospel  picture  we 
have  of  him  is  far  from  prepossessing.  He  is  super- 
stitious (Mt  14  If),  foxlike  in  his  cunning  (Lk  13 
31  f)  and  wholly  immoral.  John  the  Baptist  was 
brought  into  his  life  through  an  open  rebuke  of 
his  gross  immorality  and  defiance  of  the  laws  of 
Moses  (Lev  18  Hi),  and  paid  for  his  courage  with 
his  lite  (Mt  14  10;    Ant,   XVIII,  v,  2). 

On  the  death  of  his  father,  although  he  was 
younger  than  his  brother  Archelaus  (Ant,  XVII, 
ix,  4  f;  BJ,  II,  ii,  3),  Ik;  contested  the  will  of  Herod, 
who  had  given  to  the  other  the  major  part  of  the 
dominion.  Rome,  however,  sustained  the  will 
and  assigned  to  him  the  "tetrarehy"  of  Galilee 
and  Peraea,  as  it  had  been  set  apart  for  him  by 
Herod  (Ant,  XVII,  xi,  4).  Educated  at  Rome 
with  Archelaus  and  Philip,  his  half-brother,  son 
of  Mariamne,  daughter  of  Simon,  he  imbibed 
many  of  the  tastes  and  graces  and  far  more  of  the 
vices  of  the  Romans.  His  first  wife  was  a 
daughter  of  Aretas,  king  of  Arabia.  But  he  sent 
her  back  to  her  father  at.  Petra,  for  the  sake  of 
Herodias,  the  wife  of  his  brother  Philip,  whom  he 
had  met  and  seduced  at  Home.  Since  the  latter 
was  the  daughter  of  Aristobulus,  his  half-brother, 
and  therefore  his  niece,  and  at  the  same  time  the 


Herod 
Herodias 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1382 


wife  of  another  half-brother,  the  union  between 
her  and  Antipas  was  doubly  sinful.  Aretas  repaid 
this  insult  to  his  daughter  by  a  destructive  war 
(Ant,  XVIII,  V,  1).  Herodias  had  a  baneful  influ- 
ence over  him  and  wholly  dominated  his  life  (Mi 
14  3-10).  He  emulated  the  example  of  his  father 
in  a  mania  for  erecting  buildings  and  beautifying 
cities.  Thus  he  built  the  wall  of  Sepphoris  and 
made  the  place  his  capital.  He  elevated  Bethsaida 
to  the  rank  of  a.  city  and  gave  it  the  name  "Julia," 
after  the  daughter  of  Tiberius.  Another  example 
of  this  inherited  or  cultivated  building-mania  was 
the  work  he  did  at  Betharamphtha,  which  he  called 
"Julias"  (Ant,  XVIII,  ii,  1).  His  influence  on  his 
subjects  was  morally  bad  (Mk  8  15).  If  his  life 
was  less  marked  by  enormities  than  his  father's,  if 
was  only  so  by  reason  of  its  inevitable  restrictions. 
The  last  glimpse  the  Gospels  afford  of  him  shows 
him  to  us  in  the  final  tragedy  of  the  life  of  Christ. 
He  is  then  at  Jerus.  Pilate  in  his  perplexity  had 
sent  the  Saviour  bound  to  Herod,  and  the  utter 
inefficiency  and  flippancy  of  the  man  is  revealed 
in  the  account  the  Gospels  give  us  of  the  incident 
(Lk  23  7-12;  Acts  4  27).  It  served,  however,  to 
bridge  the  chasm  of  the  enmity  between  Herod 
and  Pilate  (Lk  23  12),  both  of  whom  were  to  be 
stripped  of  t  heir  power  and  to  die  in  shameful  exile. 
When  Caius  Caligula  had  become  emperor  and 
when  his  scheming  favorite  Herod  Agrippa  I, 
the  bitter  enemy  of  Antipas,  had  been  made  king 
in  37  AD,  Herodias  prevailed  on  Herod  Antipas 
to  accompany  her  to  Pome  to  demand  a  similar 
favor.  The  machinations  of  Agrippa  and  the  ac- 
cusation of  high  treason  preferred  against,  him, 
however,  proved  his  undoing,  and  he  was  banished 
to  Lyons  in  Caul,  where  he  died  in  great  misery 
(Ant,  XVIII,  vii,  2;    BJ,  II,  ix,  0). 

Herod  Philip  was  the  son  of  Herod  the  Great  and 

Cleopatra  of  Jerus.     At   the  death  of  his  father  he 

inherited  Gaulonitis,  Trachonitis  and 

4.  Herod  Paneas  (Ant,  XVII,  viii,  1).  lb-  was 
Philip  apparently   utterly  unlike  the  rest    of 

the  Herodian  family,  retiring,  digni- 
fied, moderate  and  just.  He  was  also  wholly  free 
from  the  intriguing  spirit  of  his  brothers,  and  it  is 
but  fair  to  suppose  that  he  inherited  this  totally 
un-Herodian  character  and  disposition  from  his 
mother.  He  died  in  the  year  34  AD,  and  his 
territory  was  given  three  years  later  to  Agrippa  I, 
his  nephew  and  the  son  of  Aristobulus,  together 
with  the  tetrarchy  of  Lvsanias  (Ant,  XVIII,  iv,  6; 
XIX,  v,  1). 

Herod  Archelaus  was  the  oldest  son  of  Herod  the 
Great  by  Malthace,  the  Samaritan.     He  was  a  man 

of  violent  t  emper,  reminding  one  a  great 

5.  Herod  deal  of  his  father.  Educated  like  all 
Archelaus      the  Herodian  princes  at  Pome,  he  was 

fully  familiar  with  the  life  and  arbi- 
trariness of  the  Pom  court.  In  the  last,  days  of  his 
father's  life,  Antipater,  who  evidently  aimed  at  the 
extermination  of  all  the  heirs  to  the  throne,  accused 
him  and  Philip,  his  half-brother,  of  treason.  Both 
wen;  acquitted  (Ant,  XVI,  iv,  4;  XVII,  vii,  1). 
By  the  will  of  his  father,  the  greater  part  of  the 
Herodian  kingdom  fell  to  his  share,  with  the  title 
of  "ethnarch."  The  will  was  contested  by  his 
brother  Antipas  before  the  Pom  court.  While 
the  matter  was  in  abeyance,  Archelaus  incurred 
the  hatred  of  the  Jews  by  the  forcible  repression  of 
a  rebellion,  in  which  some  3,000  people  were  slain. 
They  therefore  opposed  his  claims  at  Pome,  but 
Archelaus,  in  the  face  of  all  this  opposition,  received 
the  Rom  support  (Ant,  XVII,  xi,  4).  It  is  very 
ingeniously  suggested  that  this  episode  may  be 
the  foundation  of  the  parable  of  Christ,  found  in 
Lk  19  12-27.  Archelaus,  once  invested  with  the 
government  of  Judaea,  ruled  with  a  hard  hand,  so 


that  Judaea  and  Samaria  were  both  soon  in  a  chronic 
state  of  unrest.  The  two  nations,  bitterly  as  they 
hated  each  other,  became  friends  in  this  common 
crisis,  and  sent  an  embassy  to  Pome  to  complain 
of  t  he  conduct  of  Archelaus,  and  this  t  ime  t  hey  were 
successful.  Archelaus  was  warned  by  a  dream  of 
the  coming  disaster,  whereupon  he  went  at  once  to 
Rome  to  defend  himself,  but  wholly  in  vain.  His 
government  was  taken  from  him,  his  possessions 
were  all  confiscated  by  flu;  Rom  power  and  he  him- 
self was  banished  to  Vienna  in  Gaul  (Ant,  XVII,  xiii, 
2,  3).  He,  too,  displayed  some  of  his  father's  taste 
for  architecture,  in  the  building  of  a  royal  palace 
at  Jericho  and  of  a  village,  named  after  himself, 
Archelais.  He  was  married  first  to  Mariamne,  and 
after  his  divorce  from  her  to  Glaphyra,  who  had 
been  the  wife  of  his  half-brother  Alexander  (Ant, 
XVII,  xiii).  The  only  mention  made  of  him  in 
the  Gospels  is  found  in  Mt  2  22. 

Of  Herod,  son  of  Herod  the  Great  and  Mariamne, 
Simon's  daughter,  we  know  nothing  except  that 
he  married  Herodias,  the  daughter  of  his  dead  half- 
brother  Aristobulus.  He  is  called  Philip  in  the  XT 
(Alt  14  3),  and  it  was  from  him  that  Antipas  lured 
Herodias  away.  His  later  history  is  wholly  un- 
known, as  well  as  that  of  Herod,  the  brother  of 
Philip  the  tetrarch,  and  the  oldest  son  of  Herod  the 
Great  and  Cleopatra  of  Jerus. 

Two  members  of  the  Herodian  family  are  named 
Agrippa.  They  are  of  the  line  of  Aristobulus,  who 
through  Mariamne,  granddaughter 
6.  Herod  of  Hyrcanus,  carried  down  the  line  of 
Agrippa  I  the  Asmonean blood.  Audit  is  worthy 
of  note  that  in  this  line,  nearly  extin- 
guished by  Herod  through  his  mad  jealousy  and 
fear  of  the  Maccabean power,  the  kingdom  of  Herod 
came  to  its  greatest  glory  again. 

Herod  Agrippa  I,  called  Agrippa  by  Jos,  was  the 
son  of  Aristobulus  and  Bernice  and  th(!  grandson 
of  Herod  the  Great  and  Mariamne.  Educated  at, 
Rome  with  Claudius  (Ant,  XVIII,  vi,  1,  4),  he  was 
possessed  of  great  shrewdness  and  tact.  Returning 
to  Judaea  for  a  little  while,  he  came  back  to  Rome 
in  37  AD.  He  hated  his  uncle  Antipas  and  left 
no  stone  unturned  to  hurt  his  cause.  His  mind 
was  far-seeing,  and  he  cultivated,  as  his  grandfather 
had  done,  every  means  that  might  lead  to  his  own 
promotion.  He,  therefore,  made  fast  friends  with 
Caius  Caligula,  heir  presumptive  to  the  Rom 
throne,  and  his  rather  outspoken  advocacy  of  the 
hitter's  claims  led  to  his  imprisonment  by  Tiberius. 
This  proved  the  making  of  his  fortune,  for  Caligula 
did  not  forget  him,  but  immediately  on  his  accession 
to  the  throne,  liberated  Agrippa  and  bestowed  on 
him,  who  up  to  that  time  had  been  merely  a  private 
citizen,  the  "tetrarchies"  of  Philip,  his  uncle,  and 
of  Lysanias,  with  the  title  of  king,  although  he 
did  not  come  into  the  possession  of  the  latter  till 
two  more  years  had  gone  by  (Ant,  XVIII,  vi,  10). 
The  foolish  ambition  of  Herod  Antipas  led  to  his 
undoing,  and  the  emperor,  who  had  heeded  the 
accusation  of  Agrippa  against,  his  uncle,  bestowed 
fin  him  the  additional  territory  of  Galilee  and  Peraea 
in  39  AD.  Agrippa  kept  in  close  touch  with  the 
imperial  government,  and  when,  on  the  assassina- 
tion of  Caligula,  the  imperial  crown  was  offered  to 
the  indifferent  Claudius,  it  fell  to  the  lot  of  Agrippa 
to  lead  the  latter  to  accept  the  proffered  honor. 
This  led  to  further  imperial  favors  and  further  ex- 
tension of  his  territory,  Judaea  and  Samaria  being 
added  to  his  domain,  40  AD.  The  fondest  dreams 
of  Agrippa  had  now  been  realized,  his  father's  fate 
was  avenged  and  the  old  Herodian  power  had  been 
restored  to  its  original  extent.  He  ruled  with  great 
munificence  and  was  very  tactful  in  his  contact 
with  the  Jews.  With  this  end  in  view,  several 
years  before,  he  had  moved  Caligula  to  recall  the 


13S3 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Herod 
Herodias 


command  of  erecting  an  imperial  statue  in  the  city 
of  Jerus;  and  when  he  was  forced  to  take  sides  in  the 
struggle  between  Judaism  and  the  nascent  Christian 
sect,  he  did  not  hesitate  a  moment,  but  assumed  the 
role  of  its  bitter  persecutor,  slaying  James  the  apostle 
with  the  sword  and  harrying  the  church  whenever 
possible  (Acts  12).  He  died,  in  the  full  flush  of  his 
power,  of  a  death,  which,  in  its  harrowing  details 
reminds  us  of  the  fate  of  his  grandfather  (Acts  12 
20-23;  Ant,  XIX,  viii,2).  Of  the  four  children  he 
left  [BJ,  II,  xi,  (>),  three  are  known  to  history- 
Herod  Agrippa  II,  king  of  Calchis,  Bernice  of  im- 
moral celebrity,  who  consorted  with  her  own 
brother  in  defiance  of  human  and  Divine  law,  and 
became  a  byword  even  among  the  heathen  (Juv. 
Sat.  vi. 156-60),  and  Drusilla,  the  wife  of  the  Rom 
governor  Felix  (Acts  24  24).  According  to  tradi- 
tion the  latter  perished  in  the  eruption  of  Vesuvius 
in  79  AD,  together  with  her  son  Agrippa.  With 
Herod  Agrippa  I,  the  Herodian  power  had  virtu- 
all  v  run  its  course. 

Herod  Agrippa  II  was  the  son  of  Herod  Agrippa 
1  and  Cypros.  When  his  father  died  in  44  AD  he 
was  a  youth  of  only  17  years  and  con- 
7.  Herod  sidered  too  young  to  assume  the  gov- 
Agrippa  II  ernment  of  Judaea.  Claudius  there- 
fore; placed  the  country  under  the  care 
of  a  procurator.  Agrippa  had  received  a  royal 
education  in  the  palace  of  the  emperor  himself 
(Ant,  NIX,  ix,  2).  But  he  had  not  wholly  for- 
gotten his  people,  as  is  proven  by  his  intercession 
in  behalf  of  the  Jews,  when  they  asked  to  be  per- 
mitted to  have  the  custody  of  the  official  high- 
priestly  robes,  till  then  in  the  hands  of  the  Romans 
and  to  be  used  only  on  stated  occasions  (Ant,  NX, 
i,  1).  On  the  death  of  his  uncle,  Herod  of  Calchis, 
Claudius  made  Agrippa  II  "tetrarch"  of  the  terri- 
tory, 48  AD  (BJ,  II,  xii,  1;  XIV,  iv;  Ant,  XX,  v, 
2).  As  Jos  tells  us,  he  espoused  the  cause  of  the 
Jews  whenever  he  could  (Ant,  XX,  vi,  3).  Four 
years  later  (52  AD),  Claudius  extended  the  do- 
minion of  Agrippa  by  giving  him  the  old  "tetrar- 
chies"of  Philip  and  Lysanias.  Even  at  Calchis  they 
had  called  him  king;  now  it  became  his  official  title 
{Aid,  XX,  vii,  1).  Still  later  (^  AD),  Nero  added 
some  Galilean  and  Peraean  cities  to  his  domain. 
His  whole  career  indicates  the  predominating  influ- 
ence of  the  Asmonean  blood,  which  had  shown  itself 
in  his  father's  career  also.  If  the  Herodian  taste 
for  architecture  reveals  itself  here  and  there  (Ant, 
NX,  viii,  11;  IX,  iv),  there  is  a  total  absence  of  the 
cold  disdain  wherewith  the  Herods  in  general  treated 
their  subjects.     The  Agrippas  are  Jews. 

Herod  Agrippa  II  figures  in  the  NT  in  Acts  25 
13;  26  32.  Paul  there  calls  him  "king"  and  ap- 
peals to  him  as  to  one  knowing  the  Scriptures.  As 
the  brother-in-law  of  Felix  he  was  a  favored  guest 
on  this  occasion.  His  relation  to  Bernice  his  sister 
was  a  scandal  among  Jews  and  Gentiles  alike  (Ant, 
XX,  vii,  3).  In  the  fall  of  the  Jewish  nation,  Herod 
Agrippa's  kingdom  went  down.  Knowing  the 
futility  of  resistance,  Agrippa  warned  the  Jews  not 
to  rebel  against  Rome,  but  in  vain  (BJ ,  II,  xvi,  2- 
5;  XVII,  iv;  XVIII,  ix;  XIX,  iii).  When  the 
war  began  he  boldly  sided  with  Rome  and  fought 
under  its  banners,  getting  wounded  by  a  sling-stone 
in  the  siege  of  Gamala  (BJ,  IV,  i,  3).  The 
oral  ion  by  which  he  sought  to  persuade  the  Jews 
against  the  rebellion  is  a  masterpiece  of  its  kind 
and  became  historical  (BJ,  II,  xvi).  When  the  in- 
evitable came  and  when  with  the  Jewish  nation 
also  the  kingdom  of  Herod  Agrippa  II  had  been 
destroyed,  the  Romans  remembered  his  loyalty. 
With  Bernice  his  sister  he  removed  to  Rome, 
where  he  became  a  -praetor  and  died  in  the  year  100 
AD,  at  the  age  of  70  years,  in  the  beginning  of 
Trajan's  reign. 


Literature. — Jos,  Ant  and  BJ;  Strabo;    Dio  Cassias. 
Among  all  modern  works  on  the  subject,  Schtirer,    The 

Jewish  People  in  the  Time  of  Jesus  Christ  (5  vols)  is  per- 
haps still  the  best. 

Henry  E.  Dosker 
HERODIANS,  he-ro'di-anz  ('HpwSiavoi,  Hero- 
dianol):  A  party  twice  mentioned  in  the  Gospels 
(Alt  22  16||Mk  12  13;  3  6)  as  acting  with  the 
Pharisees  in  opposition  to  Jesus.  They  were  not  a 
religious  sect,  but,  as  the  name  implies,  a  court  or 
political  party,  supporters  of  the  dynasty  of  Herod. 
Nothing  is  known  of  them  beyond  what  the  Gospels 
state.  Whatever  their  political  aims,  they  early 
perceived  that  Christ's  pure  and  spiritual  teaching 
on  the  kingdom  of  God  was  irreconcilable  with 
these,  and  that  Christ's  influence  with  the  people 
was  antagonistic  to  their  interests.  Hence,  in 
Galilee,  on  the  occasion  of  the  landing  of  the  man 
with  the  withered  hand,  they  readily  joined  with 
the  more  powerful  party  of  the  Pharisees  in  plots  to 
crush  Jesus  (Mk  3  6);  and  again,  in  Jerus,  in  the 
last  week  of  Christ's  life,  they  renewed  this  alliance 
in  the  attempt  to  entrap  Jesus  on  the  question  of 
the  tribute  money  (Mt  22  10).  The  warning  of 
Jesus  to  His  disciples  to  "beware  of  the  leaven  of 
Herod"  (Mk  8  15)  may  have  had  reference  to  the 
insidious  spirit  of   this  party.  James  Our 

HERODIAS,  he-ro'di-as   ('HpwSids  or  'HpwSids, 

Hirudins):  The  woman  who  compassed  the  death 
of  John  the  Baptist  at  Machaerus  (Mt  14  1-12; 
Mk  6  14-29;  cfalsoLk  3  19.20;  9  7-9).  Accord- 
ing to  the  Gospel  records,  Herodias  had  previously 
been  married  to  Philip,  but  had  deserted  him  for 
his  brother  Herod  the  tetrarch.  For  this  Herod 
was  reproved  by  John  (cf  Lev  18  16;  20  21),  and 
Herod,  therefore,  to  please  Herodias,  bound  him 
and  cast  him  into  prison.  According  to  Mt  14  5 
he  would  even  then  have  put  John  to  death,  but 
"feared  the  multitude,"  which  regarded  John  as  a 
prophet.  But  Mk  6  19  f  relates  it  was  Herodias 
who  esp.  desired  the  death  of  John,  but  that  she 
was  withstood  by  Herod  whose  conscience  was  not 
altogether  dead.  This  latter  explanation  is  more 
in  harmony  with  the  sequel.  At  Herod's  birthday 
feast,  Herodias  induced  her  daughter  Salome,  whose 
dancing  had  so  charmed  the  tetrarch,  to  ask  as  her 
reward  the  head  of  John  the  Baptist  on  a  charger. 
This  was  given  her  and  she  then  brought  it  to  her 
mother. 

Herodias  was  daughter  of  Aristobulus,  son  of 
Herod  the  Great,  by  Mariamne,  daughter  of  Hyr- 
canus.  Her  second  husband  (cf  above)  was  Herod 
Antipas,  tetrarch  of  Galilee  and  Peraea  (c  4-39  AD), 
son  of  Herod  tin;  Great  by  Malthace.  Herod  Anti- 
pas  was  thus  the  step-brother  of  Aristobulus,  father 
of  Herodias.  Regarding  the  first  husband  of  Hero- 
dias, to  whom  she  bore  Salome,  some  hold  that  the 
Gospel  accounts  are  at  variance  with  that  of  Jos. 
In  Mt  14  3;  Mk  6  17;  Lk  3  19,  he  is  called  Philip 
the  brother  of  Herod  (Antipas).  But  in  Mt  14  3 
and  Lk  3  19  the  name  Philip  is  omitted  by  certain 
important  MSS.  According  to  Jos,  he  was  Herod, 
son  of  Herod  tin;  Great  by  Mariamne  daughter  of 
Simon  the  high  priest,  and  was  thus  a  step-brother 
of  Herod  Antipas  (cf  Jos,  Aid,  XVIII,  v,  4).  It  is 
suggested  in  explanation  of  the  discrepancy  (1)  that 
Herod,  son  of  "Mariamne,  bore  a  second  name 
Philip,  or  (2)  that  there  is  confusion  in  the  Gospels 
with  Herod-Philip,  tetrarch  of  Trachonitis,  who 
was  the  son  of  Herod  the  Great  and  Cleopatra,  and 
who  was  in  reality  the  husband  of  Salome,  daughter 
of  Herodias  (cf  also  A.  B.  Bruce,  Expos  Gr  Teat., 
I,  381;  A.  C.  Headlam,  art.  "Herod"  in  II DB,  II, 
359,  360).  According  to  Jos  (Ant,  VIII,  vii,  2; 
XVIII,  vii,  1)  the  ambition  of  Herodias  proved  the 
ruin  of  Herod  Antipas.  Being  jealous  of  the  power 
of  Agrippa  her  brother,  she  induced  Herod  to  de- 


Herodion 
Hezekiah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1384 


mand  of  Caligula  the  title  of  king.  This  was  refused 
through  the  machinations  of  Agrippa,  and  Herod 
was  banished.  But  the  pride  of  Hcrodias  kept  her 
still  faithful  to  her  husband  in  his  misfortune. 

C.  M.  Kerr 
HERODION,  he-ro'di-on  ('Hpu>5uov,  Herddidn; 
\YH  'Hpu>5uovj:  A  Rom  Christian  to  whom  Paul 
sent  greetings  (Bom  16  11).  The  name  seems  to 
imply  that  he  was  a  freed  man  of  the  Herods,  or  a 
member  of  the  household  of  Aristobulus,  the  grand- 
son of  Herod  the  Great  (ver  10).  Paul  calls  him 
"my  kinsman,"  i.e.  "a  Jew"  (see  Jr.vi.vs,  1). 

HERON,  her'un  (HEIX ,  'dndphdh;  xaPa5Pl°s, 
charadrios;  bat  Ardea  cincrea):  Herons  are  men- 
tioned only  in  the  abomination  lists  of  Lev  11  19 
(m  "ibis")  and  Dt  14  18.     They  are  near  relatives 


--^asggj 

BR    '     ;YlAw  ifi^  \ 

^H%M 

i,;.C:~^^  ~-Ti-lfP 

■■ 

Heron  (Ard> 


en). 


of  crane,  stork,  ibis  and  bittern.  These  birds,  blue, 
white  or  brown,  swarmed  in  Europe  and  wintered 
around  Merom,  along  the  Jordan,  at  the  head- 
waters of  the  Jabbok  and  along  its  marshy  bed  in 
the  dry  season.  Herons  of  Southern  Africa  that 
summered  in  the  Holy  Land  loved  to  nest  on  the 
banks  of  Merom,  and  raise;  their  young  among  the 
bulrushes,  papyrus,  reeds  and  water  grasses, 
although  it  is  their  usual  habit  to  build  in  large  trees. 
The  white  herons  were  small,  the  blue,  larger,  and 
the  brown,  close  to  the  same  size.  The  blue  were 
3^  ft.  in  length,  and  had  a  5-ft,  sweep.  The  beak, 
neck  and  legs  constituted  two-thirds  of  the  length 
of  the  body,  which  is  small,  lean  and  bony,  taking 
its  appearance  of  size  from  its  long  loose  feathers. 
Moses  no  doubt  forbade  these;  birds  as  an  article  of 
diet,  because  they  ate  fish  and  in  older  specimens 
would  be  tough,  dark  and  evil  smelling.  The  very 
poor  of  our  western  and  southeastern  coast  states 
eat  them.  Gene  Stratton-Porter 

HESED,  he'sed,  SON  OF.     See  Bex-hkskd. 

HESHBON,  hesh'bon  OpSEn  ,  heshbon;  'Eo-«Pciv, 
Hcsebdn) :  The  royal  city  of  Sihon  king  of  tin."  Amor- 
it  es,  taken  and  occupied  by  the  Israelites  under 
Moses  (No  21  25  f,  etc).  It  lay  on  the  southern 
border  of  Gad  (Josh  13  20),  and  was  one  of  the 
cities  fortified  by  Reuben  (Nu  32  37).  It  is  reck- 
oned among  the;  cities  of  Gad  given  to  the  Merarite 


Levites  (Josh  21  39).  In  later  lit.  (Isa  15  4;  16. 
8f;  Jer  48  2.34.45;  49  3)  it  is  referred  to  as  a 
city  of  Meab.  It  passed  again  into  Jewish  hands, 
and  is  mentioned  by  Jos  (Ant,  XIII,  xv,  4)  as 
among  their  possessions  in  the  country  of  Moab 
under  Alexander  Jannaeus.  The  city  with  its 
district  called  Hesebonitis,  was  also  under  the  juris- 
diction of  Herod  the  Great  (Ant,  XV,  vii,  5,  where 
it  is  described  as  lying  in  the  Peraea).  Onom 
places  it  20  Bom  miles  from  the  Jordan.  It  is  rep- 
resented by  the  modern  Hesbdn,  a  ruined  site  in  the 
mountains  over  against  Jericho,  about  1G  miles  E. 
of  the  Jordan.  It  stands  on  the  edge  of  Wddy 
Hesbdn  in  a  position  of  great  strength,  about  600 
ft.  above  xAin  Hesbdn.  The  ruins,  dating  mainly 
from  Bom  times,  spread  over  two  hills,  respectively 
2,930  ft.  and  2,954  ft.  in  height .  Then;  are  remains 
of  a  temple  overlooked  from  the  W.  by  those  of  a 
castle.  There  is  also  a  large  ruined  reservoir;  while 
the  spring  in  the  valley  forms  a  succession  of  pools 
(Cant  7  4).  The  city  is  approached  from  the  valley 
by  a  steep  path  passing  through  a  cutting  in  the 
rock,  which  mav  have  been  closed  by  a  gate  (Con- 
der,  Heth  and  Moab,  142).  On  a  hill  to  the  W., 
el-Kurmlyeh,  is  a  collection  of  dolmens  and  stone 
circles  (Musil,  Arabia  Petraea,  I,  383  fT). 

W.    EwiNG 

HESHMON,  hesh'mon  CpETpn,  heshmon):  An 
unidentified  place  on  the  border  of  Judah  toward 
Edom  (Josh  15  27).  This  may  have  been  the 
original  home  of  the  Hasmoneans. 

HETH,  hath  (n):  The  eighth  letter  of  the  Heb 
alphabet;  transliterated  in  this  Encyclopaedia  as 
h  (guttural  h).  It  came  also  to  be  used  for  the 
number  8.     For  name,  etc,  see  Alphabet. 

HETH,  heth  (Tin,  heth):  In  Gen  23  10  the  an- 
cestor of  the  Hittites.  As  the  various  peoples  who 
occupied  Canaan  were  thought  to  belong  to  one 
stock,  Gen  10  15  (1  Ch  1  13)  makes  Heth  the 
(2d)  son  of  Canaan.  In  Gen  23  the  "sons of  Heth" 
occupy  Hebron,  but  they  were  known  to  have  come 
there  from  the  north.  A  reference;  to  this  seems  to 
be  preserved  in  the  order  of  the  names  in  Gen  10 
15.16,  where  Heth  is  placed  between  Sidon  and  the 
Jebusites.     Sec;  Hittites. 

HETHLON,  heth'lon  (~\bvn ,  hethlon;  Pesh 
hethron):  Name;  of  a  place  associated  with  Zedad 
on  the  ideal  northern  boundary  of  Israel,  as  given 
in  Ezk  47  15  and  48  1,  but  not  named  in  Nu  34 
8,  while  the  LXX  evidently  If1  the  text  it  had.  In 
accordance  with  the  opinion  they  hold'as  to  the 
boundary  line  of  Northern  Israel,  van  Kasteren  and 
Buhl  seek  to  identify  Hethlon  with  'Adlun  on  the 
river  Qasmiyeh.  Much  more  in  harmony  with  the 
line  of  the  oilier  border  towns  given  is  its  identifi- 
cation with  Hedlala  to  the  N.E.  of  Tripoli.  The 
"way  of  Hethlon"  would  then  coincide  with  the 
Eleutherus  valley,  between  Horns  and  the  Mediter- 
ranean, through  which  the  railway  now  runs,  and 
to  this  identification  the  LXX  seems  to  give  testi- 
mony, indicating  some  path  of  "descent"  from  the 
Biqa'a.  W.  M.  Christie 

HEWER,  hu'er  (lt?H,  hotebh):  Applies  esp.  to  a 
wood-worker  or  wood-gatherer  (cf  Arab,  hattdb, 
"a  woodman")  (Josh  9  21.23.27;  2  Ch  2  10;"Jer 
46  22).  Gathering  wood,  like  drawing  water,  was 
a  menial  task.  Special  servants  were  assigned  to 
the  work  (Dt  29  11).  Joshua  set  the  Gibeonites  to 
hewing  wood  and  drawing  water  as  a  punishment 
for  their  trickery,  whereas  were  it  not  for  the  oath 
which  the  Israelites  had  sworn,  the  Gibeonites 
would  probably  have  been  killed.  See  Drawer 
of  Water, 


1385 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Herodion 
Hezekiah 


n$n,  hdcabh,  from  the  root  "to  cut"  or  "to 
carve,"  applies  to  hewers  of  stone  in  1  K  5  15; 
2  K  12  12;  1  Ch  22  15;   2  Ch  2  18. 

James  A.  Patch 
HEXATEUCH,  hek'sa-tuk:    This  word,   formed 
on  the  analogy  of  Pentateuch,  Heptateuch,  etc,  is 
used  by  modern  writers  to  denote  the 

1.  Evidence  first  six  books  of  the  Bible   (i.e.  the 
for  Law    and    Josh)    collectively.     Many 

critics  hold  that  these  six  books  were 
composed  out  of  the  sources  JEP,  etc  (on  which 
see  Pentateuch),  and  only  separated  very  much 
later  into  different  works.  The  main  grounds  for 
this  belief  are:  (1)  the  obvious  fact  that  Josh  pro- 
vides the  sequel  to  the  Pent,  narrating  the  conquest 
and  settlement  in  Canaan  to  which  the  latter  work 
looks  forward,  and  (2)  certain  material  and  stylistic 
resemblances.  The  composition  of  the  respective 
works  is  considered  in  the  arts.  Pentateuch  and 
Joshx^a. 

Here  we  must  glance  at  the  evidence  against  the 
theory  of  a  Hexateuch.     It  is  admitted  that  there 

is  no  trace  of  any  such  work  as  the 

2.  Evidence  Hexateuch     anywhere     in     tradition. 
against  The  Jewish  Canon  places  the  Pent  in 

a  separate  category  from  Josh.  The 
Samaritans  went  farther  and  adopted  the  Pent 
alone.  The  orthography  of  the  two  works  differs 
in  certain  important  particulars  (see  E.  Konig, 
Einleitung,  151  f,  250).  Hence  a  different  literary 
history  has  to  be  postulated  for  the  two  works,  even 
by  those  who  adopt  the  theory  of  a  Hexateuch. 
But  that  theory  is  open  to  objection  on  other 
grounds.  There  are  grave  differences  of  opinion 
among  its  supporters  as  to  whether  all  the  supposed 
Pentateuchal  documents  are  present  in  Josh,  and 
in  any  case  it  is  held  that  they  are  quite  differently 
worked  up,  the  redactors  having  proceeded  on  one 
system  in  the  Pent  and  on  quite  another  in  Josh. 
Arguments  are  given  in  the  art.  Pentateuch  to 
show  the  presence  of  Mosaic  and  pre-Mosaic  ele- 
ments in  the  Pent  and  the  unsoundness  of  the  docu- 
mentary theory  in  that  work,  and  if  these  be  correct 
the  theory  of  a  Hexateuch  necessarily  falls  to  the 
ground. 

For  Bibliography  see  Pentateuch;    Joshua. 
Harold  M.  Wiener 

HEZEKI,  hez'e-kl  ppTH  ,  hizki).     See  Hizki. 

HEZEKIAH,  hez-e-kl'a  (TPpTn,  hizkiyah): 

(1)  King  of  Judah.     See  special  art. 

(2)  A  son  of  Neariah,  of  the  royal  family  of  Ju- 
dah (1  Ch  3  23,  RV  "Hizkiah").  ' 

(3)  An  ancestor  of  Zephaniah  (Zeph  1  1,  AV 
"Hizkiah"). 

(4 1  One  of  the  returned  exiles  from  Babvlon 
(Ezr  2  16;   Neh  7  21). 

HEZEKIAH  (Tr'pTn,  hizkiyah,  "Jeh  has  st  length- 
ened"; also  written  ^rPpTJl ,  hizkiyahu,  "Jeh  has 
strengthened  him";  'E^Kias,  Hezekias):  One  of  the 
greatest  of  the  kings  of  Judah;  reigned  (according 
to  the  most  self-consistent  chronology)  from  c  715 
to  c  090  BC. 

On  the  OT  standard  of  loyalty  to  Jeh  he  is  eulo- 
gized by  Jesus  Sirach  as  one  of  the  three  kings  who 
alone  did  not  "commit  trespass"  (Sir 
OT  Esti-  49  4),  the  other  two  being  David  and 
mate  Josiah.    The  Chronicler  represents  him 

(2  Ch  32  31)  as  lapsing  from  the;  wis- 
dom of  piety  only  by  his  vainglory  in  revealing 
the  resources  of  his  realm  to  the  envoys  of 
Merodach-baladan.  In  2  K  18  5,  the  earliest  es- 
timate, his  special  distinction,  beyond  all  other 
Judaean  kings,  before  or  after,  was  that  he 
"trusted  in  Jeh,  the  God  of  Israel."     It  is  as  the 


king  who  "clave  to  Jeh"  (2  K  18  0)  that  the  Ileb 
mind  sums  up  his  royal  and  personal  character. 

/.   Sources  for  His  Life   and   Times. — The    his- 
torical   accounts    in    2  K  18-20    and    2  Ch  29-32 
are  derived  in  the  main  from  the  same 

1.  Scripture  state  annals,  though  the  latter  seems 
Annals  also  to  have  had  the  Temple  archives 

to  draw  upon.  For  "the  rest  of  his 
acts,"  2  K  refers  to  a  source  then  still  in  existence 
but  now  lost,  "the  book  of  the  chronicles  of  the 
kings  of  Judah"  (2  K  20  20),  and  2  Ch  to  "the 
vision  of  Isaiah  the  prophet  the  son  of  Amoz,  in 
the  book  of  the  kings  of  Judah  and  Israel"  (2  Ch  32 
32).  In  this  last-named  source  (if  this  is  the  origi- 
nal of  our  Book  of  Isa),  besides  the  warnings  and 
directions  called  out  by  the  course  of  the  history, 
there  is  a  narrative  section  (Isa  36-39)  recounting 
the  Sennacherib  crisis  much  as  do  the  other  his- 
tories, but  incorporating  also  a  passage  of  Isaianic 
prophecy  (37  22-32)  and  a  "writing  of  Hezekiah 
king  of  Judah"  (38  10-20).  Lastly/in  Sir  48  17- 
25,  there  is  a  summary  of  the  good  and  wise  deeds 
of  Hezekiah,  drawn  from  the  accounts  that  we 
already  have. 

Of  these  sources  the  account  in  2  K  is  most  purely 
annalist ic,  originating  at  a  time  when  religious  and 

political  values,  in  the  Heb  mind,  were 

2.  View-         inseparable.     In    2  Ch    the    religious 
point  and       coloring,    esp.    in   its   later   developed 
Coloring         ritual  and  legal  aspects,   has  the  de- 
cided predominance.     Sirach,  with  the 

mind  of  a  man  of  letters,  is  concerned  mainly 
with  eulogizing  PI.  in  his  "praise  of  famous  men" 
(cf  Sir  44-50),  of  course  from  the  devout  Heb 
point  of  view.  In  the  vision  of  Isaiah  (Isa  1-39), 
we  have  the  reflection  of  the  moral  and  spiritual 
situation  in  Jerus,  as  realized  in  the  fervid  prophetic 
consciousness;  and  in  the  prophecy  of  his  younger 
contemporary  Micah,  the  state  of  things  in  the  out- 
lying country  districts  nearest  the  path  of  invasion, 
where  both  the  iniquities  of  the  ruling  classes  and 
the  horrors  of  war  were  felt  most  keenly.  Doubt- 
less also  many  devotional  echoes  of  these  times  of 
stress  are  deducible  from  the  Pss,  so  far  as  we.  can 
fairly  identify  them. 

It  is  in  Hezekiah's  times  esp.  that  the  Assyr  in- 
scriptions become   illuminating  for  the  history  of 
Israel;    for  one  important  thing  they 

3.  Side-         furnish  certain  fixed  dates  to  which  the 
Lights  chronology  of  the  times  can   be  ad- 
justed.    Of  Sennacherib's  campaign  of 

701,  for  instance,  no  fewer  than  six  accounts  are  at 
present  known  (see  G.  A.  Smith,  Jerus,  II,  154,  n.), 
the  most  detailed  being  the  "Taylor  Cylinder,"  now 
in  the  British  Museum,  which  in  the  main  agrees,  or 
at  least  is  not  inconsisl  ent ,  wit  h  t  he  Scripture  history. 
//.  Events  of  His  Reign. — From  his  weak  and 
unprincipled    father    Ahaz     (cf    2  Ch  28  16-25), 

Hezekiah  inherited  not  only  a  dis- 
1.  His  organized  realm  but  a  grievous  burden 

Heritage         of  Assyr  dominance  and  tribute,  and 

the  constant,  peril  ami  suspense  of 
greater  encroachments  from  that  arrogant  and  arbi- 
trary power:  the  state  of  things  foretold  in  Isa  7 
20;  8  7  f.  The  situation  was  aggravated  by  the 
fact  that  not  only  the  nation's  weakness  but  its 
spiritual  propensities  had  incurred  it:  the  domi- 
nant classes  were  aping  the  sentiments,  fashions  and 
cultus  of  the  East  (cf  Isa  2  6-8),  while  the  neg- 
lected common  people  were  exposed  to  the  corrup- 
tions of  the  still  surviving  heathenism  of  the  land. 
The  realm,  in  short,  was  at  the  spiritual  nadir-point 
from  which  prophets  like  Isaiah  and  Micah  were 
laboring  to  bring  abotit  the  birth  of  a  true  Heb  con- 
science and  faith.  Their  task  was  a  hard  one:  with 
a  nation  smear-eyed,  dull-eared,  fat-hearted  (Isa  6 
10),  whose  religion  was  a  precept  of  men  learned  by 


Hezekiah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1386 


rote  (L;i  29  13).  Clearly,  from  this  point  of  view, 
a  most  difficult  career  was  before  him. 

The  sense  of  this  unspiritual  state  of  things  fur- 
nishes the  best  keynote  of   Hezekiah's  reforms  in 
religion,  which  according  to  the  Chroni- 

2.  Religious  cler  he  set  about,  as  soon  as  he  came 
Reform  to  the  throne  (2  Ch  29  3).     It  is  the 

Chronicler  who  gives  the  fullest,  ac- 
count of  these  reforms  (2  Ch  29-31);  naturally, 
from  his  priestly  point  of  view  and  access  to  eccle- 
siastical archives.  Hezekiah  began  with  the*  most 
pressing  constructive  need,  the  opening  and  cleans- 
ing of  the  Temple,  which  his  father  Ahaz  had  left 
closed  and  desecrated  (2  Ch  28  24),  and  went  on 
to  the  reorganization  of  its  liturgical  and  choral 
service.  In  connection  wit  h  this  work  he  appointed 
a  Passover  observance,  which,  on  a  scale  and  spirit, 
unknown  since  Solomon  (2  Ch  30  26),  he  designed 
as  a  religious  reunion  of  the  devout-minded  in  all 
Israel,  open  not  only  to  Jerus  and  Judah,  but-  to  all 
who  would  accept  his  invitation  from  Samaria, 
Galilee,  and  beyond  the  Jordan  (2  Ch  30  5-12.18). 
The  immediate  result  of  the  enthusiasm  engendered 
by  this  Old  Home  Week  was  a  vigorous  popular 
movement  of  iconoclasm  against  the  idolatrous  high 
places  of  f  he  land.  That  t  his  was  no  weak  fanat  ical 
impulse  to  break  something,  but  a  touch  of  real 
spiritual  quickening,  seems  evidenced  by  one  inci- 
dent of  it:  the  breaking  up  of  Moses'  old  brazen 
serpent  and  calling  it  what  it  had  come  to  mean, 
n'hushtan,  "a  piece  of  brass"  (2  K  18  4);  the 
movement  seems  in  fact  to  have  had  in  it  the  sense, 
however  crude,  that  old  religious  forms  had  become 
hurtful  and  effete  superstitions,  hindering  spirit- 
uality. Nor  could  the  movement  stop  with  the  old 
fetich.  With  it  went  the  demolition  of  the  high 
places  themselves  and  the  breaking  down  of  the 
pillars  {maQqebhoth)  and  felling  of  the  sacred  groves 
I'asherah),  main  symbols  these  of  a  debasing  nature- 
cult.  This  reform,  on  account  of  later  reactions 
(see  under  Manasseh),  has  been  deemed  ineffeel ive; 
rather,  its  effects  were  inward  and  germinal;  nor 
were  they  less  outwardly  than  could  reasonably  be 
expected,  before  its  meanings  were  more  deepened 
and  centralized. 

All  this,  on  the  king's  part,  was  his  response  to 

the  spiritual  influence  of  Isaiah,  with  whose  mind 

his  own  was  sincerely  at  one.     As  a 

3.  Internal    devout  disciple  in  the  school  of  pro- 
Improve-        phetic  ideas,  he  earnestly  desired  to 
ments  maintain  the  prophet's  insistent  atti- 
tude   of    "quietness    and    confidence" 

(cf  Isa  30  15),  that  is,  of  stedfast  trust  in  Jeh 
alone,  and  of  abst  inence  from  revolt  and  entangling 
alliances  with  foreign  powers.  This,  however,  in 
the  stress  and  suspense  of  the  times,  did  not  pre- 
clude a  quiet  preparation  for  emergencies;  and 
doubtless  the  early  years  of  his  reign  were  notable, 
not  only  for  mild  and  just  administration  through- 
out his  realm,  but  for  measures  looking  to  the  fort  i- 
fying  and  defence  of  the  capital.  His  work  of 
repairing  and  extending  the  walls  and  of  strength- 
ening the  citadel  (Millo),  as  mentioned  in  2  Ch  32 
5,  had  probably  been  in  progress  long  before  the 
Assyr  crisis  was  imminent.  Nor  was  he  backward 
in  coining  to  an  understanding  with  other  nations, 
as  to  the  outlook  for  revolt  against  Assyria.  He 
could  not  learn  his  lesson  of  faith  all  at  once,  esp. 
with  a  factious  court  pulling  the  other  way.  He 
did  not  escape  the  suspicion  of  Sargon  (d.  705),  who 
for  his  Egyp  leanings  counted  him  among  the  "plot- 
ters of  sedition"  (cf  COT,  100);  while  the  increas- 
ing prosperity  and  strength  of  his  realm  marked 
him  for  a  leading  role  in  an  eventual  uprising.  He 
weathered  at,  least  one  chance  of  rebellion,  however, 
in  711,  probably  through  the  strenuous  exertions 
of  Isaiah  (see  Isa  20  1  f'f). 


Hezekiah's  opportunity  to  rise  against  Assyr 
domination  seems  to  have  been  taken   about   704. 

How  so  pious  a  king  came  to  do  it,  in 
4.  The  spite  of   Isaiah's  strenuous  warnings, 

Assyrian  both  against  opposition  to  Assyria  and 
Crisis  alliance  with  other  powers,  is  not  very 

clear.  The  present  writer  ventures 
to  suggest,  the  view  that  the  beginning  was  forced 
or  perhaps  sprung  upon  him  by  his  princes  and 
nobles.  In  the  year  before,  Sargon,  dying,  had  left 
his  throne  to  Sennacherib,  and,  as  at  all  ancient 
changes  of  sovereignty,  this  was  the  signal  for  a 
general  effort  for  independence  on  the  part  of  sub- 
ject provinces.     That  was  also  the  year  of  Heze- 


Pool  of  Hezekiah. 

kiah's  deadly  illness  (2  K  20;  Isa  38),  when  for 
a  time  we  know  not  how  long  he  would  be  incapaci- 
tated for  active  administration  of  affairs.  Not  un- 
likely on  his  recovery  he  found  his  realm  committed 
beyond  withdrawal  to  an  alliance  with  Egypt  and 
perhaps  the  leadership  of  a  coalition  with  Philistia; 
in  which  case  personally  he  could  only  make  the 
best  of  the  situation.  There  was  nothing  for  it  but 
to  confirm  this  coalition  by  force,  which  he  did  in 
his  Phili  campaign  mentioned  in  2  K  18  8.  Mean- 
while, in  the  same  general  uprising,  the  Chaldaean 
Merodach-baladan,  who  had  already  been  expelled 
from  Babylon  after  an  11-year  reign  (721-710), 
again  seized  that  throne;  and  in  due  time  envoys 
from  him  appeared  in  Jerus,  ostensibly  to  con- 
gratulate the  king  on  his  recovery  from  his  illness, 
but  really  to  secure  his  aid  and  alliance  against, 
Assyria  (2  K  20  12-15;  Isa  39  1-4).  Hezekiah, 
flattered  by  such  distinguished  attention  from  so 
distant  and  powerful  a  source,  by  revealing  his 
resources  committed  wrhat  the  Chronicler  calls  the 
one  impious  indiscretion  of  his  life  (2  Ch  32  31), 
incurring  also  Isaiah's  reproof  and  adverse  predic- 
tion (2  K  20  17  f;  Isa  39  6f).  The  conflict  with 
Sennacherib  was  now  inevitable;  and  Hezekiah, 
by  turning  the  water  supply  of  Jerus  from  the  Gihon 
spring  to  a  pool  within  the  walls  and  closing  it  from 
without,  put  the  capital  in  readiness  to  stand  a 
siege.  The  faith  evoked  by  this  wise  work,  con- 
firmed by  the  subsequent  deliverance,  is  reflected 
in  Ps  46.  That  this  incurring  of  a  hazardous  war, 
however,  with  its  turmoils  and  treacheries,  and  the 
presence  of  uncouth  Arab  mercenaries,  was  little 
to  the  king's  desire  or  disposition,  seems  indicated 
in  Ps  120,  which  with  the  other  Songs  of  Degrees 
(Pss  120-34)  may  well  reflect  the  religious  faith  of 
this  period  of  Hezekiah's  life. 

The  critical  moment  came  in  701,  when  Sen- 
nacherib, who  the  year  before  had  reconquered 
Babylon  and  expelled  Merodach- 
5.  Invasion  baladan  (perhaps  Isa  21  1-9  refers  to 
and  De-  this),  was  free  to  invade  his  rebellious 
liverance  provinces  in  the  W.  It  was  a  vig- 
orous and  sweeping  campaign;  in 
which,  beginning  with  Sidon  and  advancing  down 


1387 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Hezekiah 


through  the  coast  lands,  he  speedily  subdued  the 
Phili  cities,  defeating  them  and  their  southern  allies 
(whether  these  were  from  Egypt  proper  or  from  its 
extension  across  the  Sinai  peninsula  and  Northern 
Arabia,  Mucri,  is  not  quite  clear)  at  Eltekeh;  in 
which  campaign,  according  to  his  inscription,  he 
took  46  walled  towns  belonging  to  Judah  with  their 
spoil  and  deported  over  200,000  of  their  inhabitants. 
This,  which  left  Jerus  a  blockaded  town  (in  fact 
he  says  of  Hezekiah:  "Himself  I  shut  up  like  a  bird 
in  a  cage  in  Jerus  his  royal  city"),  seems  referred  to 
in  Isa  1  7-9  and  predicted  in  Isa  6  11  f.  Its 
immediate  effect  was  to  bring  Hezekiah  to  terms 
and  extort  an  enormous  tribute  (2  K  18  14-16). 
When  later,  however,  he  was  treacherous  enough 
to  disregard  the  compact  thus  implied  (perhaps  Isa 
ch  33  refers  to  this),  and  demanded  the  surrender  of 
the  city  (2  K  18  17—19  7;  Isa  36  2—37  7),  Heze- 
kiah besought  the  counsel  of  Isaiah,  who  bade  him 
refuse  the  demand,  and  predicted  that  Sennacherib 
would  "hear  tidings"  and  return  to  his  own  land; 
which  prediction  actually  came  to  pass,  and  sudden- 
ly Hezekiah  found  himself  free.  A  deliverance  so 
great,  and  so  signally  vindicating  the  forthputting 
of  faith,  could  not  but  produce  a  momentous  revul- 
sion in  the  nation's  mind,  like  a  new  spiritual  birth 
in  which  the  faith  of  the  "remnant"  became  a  vital 
power  in  Israel;  its  immediate  effect  seems  por- 
trayed in  Ps  124  and  perhaps  Ps  126,  and  its  deep 
significance  as  the  birth  of  a  nation  in  a  day  seems 
summarized  long  afterward  in  Isa  66  7-9;  cf  37  3; 
2  K  19  3. 

A  second  summons  to  surrender,  sent  from  Libnah 
by  letter  (2  K  19  1  ff ;    Isa  37  8  ff),  is  treated  by 
the    Scripture    historians    as    a    later 
6.  The  feature    of    the    same  campaign;    but 

Second  recent    researches    seem    to    make    it 

Summons  possible,  nay  probable,  that  this  be- 
longed to  another  campaign  of  Sen- 
nacherib, when  Taharka  of  Ethiopia  (Tirhakah, 
2  K  19  9;  Isa  37  9)  came  to  power  in  Egypt,  in 
691.  If  this  was  so,  there  is  room  in  Hezekiah's 
latter  years  for  a  decade  of  peace  and  prosperity 
(cf  Ch  32  22.23.27-30),  and  in  Isaiah's  old  age  for 
a  collection  and  revision  of  his  so  wonderfully 
vindicated  prophecies.  The  historians'  evident 
union  of  two  stories  in  one  makes  the  new  attitude 
with  which  this  crisis  was  met,  obscure;  but  the  tone 
of  confirmed  confidence  and  courage  seems  decidedly 
higher.  The  discomfiture  of  Sennacherib  in  this 
case  was  brought  about,  not  by  a  rumor  of  rebellions 
at  home,  but  by  an  outbreak  of  plague  (2  K  19 
35  f;  Isa  37  36  f),  which  event  the  Scripture 
writers  interpreted  as  a  miracle.  The  prophetic 
sign  of  deliverance  (2  K  19  29;  Isa  37  30)  may 
be  referred  to  the  recovery  of  the  devastated  lands 
from  the  ravage  inflicted  by  Sennacherib  in  his  first 
campaign  (cf  also  Ps  126  5  f). 

///.  His  Character. — Our  estimate  of  Hezekiah's 
character  is  most  consistently  made  by  regarding 
him  as  a  disciple  of  Isaiah,  who  was  earnestly 
minded  to  carry  out  his  prophetic  ideas.  As, 
however,  these  were  to  begin  with  only  the  initial 
ideas  of  a  spiritual  "remnant,"  the  king's  sym- 
pathies must  needs  be  identified  at  heart,  not  with 
his  imperious  nobles  and  princes,  but  with  a  minor- 
ity of  the  common  people,  whose  religious  faith  did 
not  become  a  recognizable  influence  in  the  state  until 
after  701.  In  the  meantime  his  zeal  for  purer  wor- 
ship and  justcr  domestic  administration,  which 
made  him  virtually  king  of  the  remnant,  made  him 
a  wise  and  sagacious  prince  over  the  whole  realm. 
Isaiah's  glowing  prophecy  (32  1-8)  seems  to  be  a 
Messianic  projection  of  the  saner  and  clearer-seeing 
era  that  his  domestic  policy  adumbrated — a  time 
when  king  and  nobles  rule  in  righteousness,  when 
man  can  lean  on  man,  when  things  good  and  evil 


are  seen  as  they  are  and  called  by  their  right  names. 
When  it  came  to  dealing  with  the  foreign  situation, 
however,  esp.  according  to  the  Isaianic  program, 
his  task  was  exceedingly  difficult,  as  it  were  a  pioneer 
venture  in  faith.  His  effort  to  maintain  an  attitude 
of  stedfast  trust  in  Jeh,  with  the  devout  quietism 
which,  though  really  its  consistency  and  strength 
looked  like  a  supine  passivity,  would  lead  his  rest- 
lessly scheming  nobles  to  regard  him  as  a  pious 
weakling;  and  not  improbably  they  came  to  deem 
him  almost  a  negligible  quantity,  and  forced  his 
hand  into  diplomacies  and  coalitions  that  were  not 
to  his  mind.  Some  such  insolent  attitude  of  theirs 
seems  to  be  portrayed  in  Isa  28  14-22.  This  was 
rendered  all  the  more  feasible,  perhaps,  by  the 
period  of  incapacitation  that  must  have  attended 
his  illness,  in  the  very  midst  of  the  nation's  critical 
affairs.  Isaiah's  words  (33  17  If)  may  be  an  allu- 
sion at  once  to  his  essential  kingliness,  to  the  abey- 
ance of  its  manifestation  due  to  his  disease,  and  to 
the  constricted  condition  into  which,  meanwhile,  the 
realm  had  fallen.  This  exceedingly  critical  episode 
of  Hezekiah's  career  does  not  seem  to  have  had  its 
rights  with  students  of  the  era.  Considering  the 
trials  that  his  patient  faith  must  have  had,  always 
at  cross-purposes  with  his  nobles  (cf  Ps  120  6  f ) ; 
that  now  by  reason  of  his  sickness  they  had  the 
whip  hand;  that  his  disease  cut  him  off  not  only 
from  hope  of  life,  but  from  association  with  men  and 
access  to  the  sanctuary  (cf  Isa  38  10.11.12);  that, 
as  his  son  Manasseh  was  not  born  till  three  years 
within  the  fifteen  now  graciously  added  to  his  life 
(cf  2  K  21  1),  his  illness  seemed  to  endanger  the 
very  perpetuity  of  the  Davidic  dynasty,  we  have 
reason  for  regarding  him  as  well-nigh  a  martyr  to 
the  new  spiritual  uprise  of  faith  which  Isaiah  was 
laboring  to  bring  about.  In  the  Messianic  ideal 
which,  in  Isaiah's  sublime  conception,  was  rising 
into  personal  form,  it  fell  to  his  lot  to  adumbrate 
the  first  kingly  stage,  the  stage  of  committal  to 
Jeh's  word  and  will  and  abiding  the  event.  It  was 
a  cardinal  element  in  that  composite  ideal  which 
the  Second  Isaiah  pushes  to  its  ultimate  in  his  por- 
trayal of  the  servant  of  Jeh;  another  element,  the 
element  of  sacrifice,  has  yet  to  be  added.  Mean- 
while, as  with  the  king  so  with  his  remnant-realm, 
the  venture  of  faith  is  like  a  precipitation  of  spirit- 
ual vitality,  or,  as  the  prophet  puts  it,  a  new  birth 
(cf  Isa  26  17  f;  37  3;  66  7  f ,  for  the  stages  of  it). 
The  event  of  deliverance,  not  by  men's  policies  but 
by  Jeh's  miraculous  hand,  was  the  speedy  vindi- 
cation of  such  trust;  and  the  revulsion  of  the  next 
decade  witnessed  a  confirming  and  solidifying  of 
spiritual  integrity  in  the  remnant  which  made  it  a 
factor  to  be  reckoned  with  in  the  trying  times  that 
succeeded  (see  under  Manasseh).  The  date  of 
Hezekiah's  death  (probably  not  long  after  690)  is 
not  certainly  known;  nor  of  the;  death  of  his  mentor 
Isaiah  (tradition  puts  this  by  martyrdom  under 
Manasseh);  but  if  our  view  of  his  closing  years  is 
correct,  the  king's  death  crowned  a  consistent  char- 
acter of  strength  and  spiritual  stedfastness;  while 
the  unapproachable  greatness  of  Isaiah  speaks  for 
itself. 

IV.  Reflection  of  His  Age  in  Literature. — The 
sublime  and  mature  utterances  of  Isaiah  alone,  fall- 
ing in  this  time,  are  sufficient  evidence! 
1.  Compila-  that  in  Hezekiah's  age,  Israel  reached 
tion  and  its  golden  literary  prime.  Among  the 
Revival  idealists  and  thinkers  throughout  the 

nation  a  new  spiritual  vigor  and  insight 
were  awake.  Of  their  fellowship  was  the  king  him- 
self, who  emulated  the  activity  of  his  predecessor 
Solomon  as  patron  of  piety  and  letters.  The  com- 
pilation of  the  later  Solomonic  section  of  the  Prov- 
erbs (Prov  25-29),  attributed  to  the  "men  of 
Hezekiah,"    indicates   the   value   attached    to   the 


Hezekiah 
High  Day 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1388 


accumulations  of  the  so-called  Wisdom  literature; 
and  it  is  fair  to  assume  that  these  men  of  Hezekiah 
did  not  stop  with  compiling,  but  stamped  upon  the 
body  of  Proverbs  as  a  whole  that  sense  of  it  as  a 
philosophy  of  life  which  it  henceforth  bears,  and 
perhaps  added  the  introductory  section,  Prov  1-9. 
Nor  would  a  king  so  zealous  for  the  organization  and 
enrichment  of  the  temple-worship  (cf  Isa  38  20) 
he  indifferent  to  its  body  of  sacred  song.  It  seems 
certain  that  his  was,  in  all  the  nation's  history,  the 
greatest  single  agency  in  compiling  and  adapting 
the  older  Davidic  Pss,  and  in  the  composition  of 
new  ones.  Perhaps  this  union  of  collecting  and 
creative  work  in  psalmody  is  referred  to  in  the  men- 
tion of  "the  words  of  David,  and  of  Asaph  the  seer" 
(2  Ch  29  30).  To  Hezekiah  himself  is  attributed 
one  "writing"  which  is  virtually  a  psalm,  Isa  38  20. 
The  custom  through  all  the  history  of  hymnology 
(in  our  own  day  also)  of  adapting  older  composi- 
tions to  new  liturgical  uses  makes  uncertain  the 
identification  of  psalms  belonging  specifically  to 
this  period;  still,  many  psalms  of  books  ii  and  iii, 
and  esp.  those  ascribed  to  Asaph  and  the  sons  of 
Korah,  seem  a  close  reflection  of  the  spirit  of  the 
times.  An  interesting  theory  recently  advanced 
(see  Thirtle,  OT  Problems)  that  the  fifteen  Songs 
of  the  Steps  ("Degrees"  or  "Ascents,"  Pss  120-34) 
are  a  memorial  of  Hezekiah's  fifteen  added  years, 
when  as  a  sign  the  shadow  went  backward  on  the 
steps  of  Ahaz  (2  K  20  8-11),  seems  to  reveal 
many  remarkable  echoes  of  that  eventful  time. 
Nor  does  it  seem  unlikely  that  with  this  first  ex- 
tensive collection  of  psalms  the  titles  began  to  be 
added. 

This  literary  activity  of  Hezekiah's  time,  though 
concerned  largely  with  collecting  and  reviving  the 
treasures  of  older  literature,  was  pur- 
2.  Of  More  sued  not  in  the  cold  scribal  spirit,  but 
Creative  in  a  fervid  creative  way.  This  may  be 
Strain  realized  in  two  of  the  psalms  which  the 

present  writer  ascribes  to  this  period. 
Ps  49,  a  psalm  of  the  sons  of  Korah,  is  concerned  to 
make  an  essential  tenet  of  Wisdom  viable  in  song  (cf 
vs  3.4),  as  if  one  of  the  "men  of  Hezekiah"  who  is 
busy  with  the  Solomonic  counsels  would  popularize 
the  spirit  of  his  findings.  Ps  78  in  like  manner,  a 
Masehil  of  Asaph,  is  concerned  to  make  the  noble 
histories  of  old  viable  in  song  (ver  2),  esp.  the  wilder- 
ness history  when  Israel  received  the  law  and  beheld 
Jeh's  wonders,  and  down  to  the  time  when  Ephraim 
was  rejected  and  Judah,  in  the  person  of  David, 
was  chosen  to  the  leadership  in  Israel. 

Such  a  didactic  poem  would  not  stand  solitary  in  a 
period  so  instructed.  As  in  Wisdom  and  psalmody,  so 
in  t  lie  domain  of  law  and  its  attendant  history,  the  literary 
activity  was  vigorous.  This  age  of  Hezekiah  seems  the 
likeliest  time  for  putting  into  literary  idiom  that  "hook 
of  the  law"  found  later  in  the  Temple  (2  K  22);  which 
book  Josiah's  reforms,  carried  out  according  to  its  com- 
mands, prove  to  have  been  our  Book  of  Dt.  This  is 
not  the  place  to  discuss  tin:  Deuteronomic  problem  (see 
under  Josiah)  ;  it  is  fair  to  note  here,  however,  that  as 
compared  with  the  austere  statement  of  the  Mosaic 
statutes  elsewhere,  this  book  has  a  literary  art  and  color- 
ing which  seem  to  stamp  its  style  as  that  of  a  later  age 
than  Moses',  though  its  substance  is  Mosaic;  and  this 
age  of  Hezekiah  seems  the  likeliest  time  to  put  its  re- 
writing and  adaptation.  Nor  did  the  new  spirit  of 
literary  creation  feed  itself  entirely  on  the  past.  The 
king's  chastening  experience  of  illness  and  trial,  with  the 
stedfast  faith  that  upbore  and  survived  it,  must  have 
been  fruitful  of  new  ideas,  esp.  of  that  tremendous  con- 
ception, now  just  entering  into  thought,  of  the  ministry 
of  suffering.  Time,  of  course,  must  be  allowed  for  the 
ripening  of  an  idea  so  full  of  involvement;  and  it  is  long 
before  its  sacrificial  and  atoning  values  come  to  light 
in  such  utterances  as  Isa  53.  But  such  psalms  as  49 
and  73,  not  to  mention  Hezekiah's  own  psalm  (Isa  38), 
show  that  the  problem  was  a  living  one;  it  was  working, 
moreover,  in  connection  with  the  growing  Wisdom  phi- 
losophy, toward  the  composition  of  the  Book  of  Job, 
which  in  a  masterly  way  both  subjects  the  current  Wis- 
dom motives  to  a  searching  test  and  vindicates  the 
intrinsic  integrity  of  the  patriarch  in  a  discipline  of  ex- 


tremes! trial.  The  life  of  a  king  whose  experience  had 
some  share  in  clarifying  the  ideas  of  such  a  book  was  not 
lived  in  vain. 

John  Franklin  Genung 
HEZEKIAH'S  SICKNESS.     See  Dial  of  Ahaz. 

HEZEKIAH,  THE  MEN  OF:  A  body  of  men  of 
letters  to  whom  is  ascribed  the  compilation  of  a  sup- 
plementary collection  of  Solomonic  proverbs  (Prov 
25  1).  See  Proverbs,  Book  of,  II.  5;  Hezekiah, 
IV,  2. 

HEZION,  he'zi-on  ClTTlJ ,  hezyon;  LNX  B, 
'A^eiv,  Azeiti,  A,  ' A£a^|\,  Azntl):  An  ancestor  of 
Ben-hadad,  king  of  Syria  (1   K  15  18). 

HEZIR,  he'zer: 

(1)  ("Vm,  hezlr;  LXX  B,  Xi^tCv,  Chezeln,  A, 
Tttdp,  lezeir):  A  Levite  in  the  time  of  David  (1  Ch 
24  lo). 

(2)  (LXX  'H$£tP,  Hezeir) :  A  chief  of  the  people 
in  the  time  of  Nehemiah  (Neh  10  20). 

HEZRO,  hez'ro,  HEZRAI,  hez'ra-I,  hez'ri  (iltn , 
hezro,  2  S  23  35;  1  Ch  11  37,  but  the  Kere'  of 
2  S  23  35  is  "Hjn  hezray.  The  ancient  YSS  almost 
unanimously  support  the  form  Hezrai) :  A  Carmel- 
ite, i.e.  an  inhabitant  of  Carmel.  See  Carmelite. 
One  of  David's  thirty  "mighty  men." 

HEZRON,  hez'ron  Cp?H ,  hecron,  and  ];1Sn , 
hegron;  LXX  'Ao-pwv,  Asroit): 

(1)  A  son  of  Reuben  (Gen  46  9;  Ex  6  14),  and 
head  of  the  family  of  the  Hezronites  (Nu  26  6). 

(2)  A  son  of  Perez,  and  grandson  of  Judah  (Gen 
46  12;  Nu  26  21;  1  Ch  2  5.9.18.21.24.25;  4  1), 
a  direct  ancestor  of  David  (Ruth  4  18  f).  He 
appears  also  in  the  genealogy  of  Our  Lord  ('E<rpw/x, 
Esrom)  (Mt  13;    Lk  3  33 ). 

HEZRON  (fPlSn,  hegron,  "inclosure") :  On  the 
S.  boundary  of  Judah  between  "Kadesh-barnea" 
and  "Addar"  (Josh  15  3);  in  the  ||  passage  (Nu 
34  4)  "Hazar-addar."  The  two  places  may  have 
been  near  together.  Conder  suggests  that  the  name 
survives  in  Jebel  Hadhireh,  a  mountain  N.W.  of 
Petra  in  the  Tth. 

HEZRONITES,  hez'ron-Its  pp'nEnn  and 
"|j"linn ,  ha-hegronl;  LXX  6  'Ao-pwv«i,  ho  Asronei) : 
The  name  of  the  descendants  of  Hezron  the  son  of 
Reuben  (Nu  26  6),  and  of  the  descendants  of  Hez- 
ron the  son  of  Perez  (26  21). 

HIDDAI,  hid'a-i,  hi-da'i  p ~n ,  hidday;  Alex. 
'A08ai,  Hathihai):  One  of  David's  thirty  "mighty 
men"  (2  S  23  30),  described  as  "of  the  brooks  of 
Gaash."  In  the  ||  list  in  1  Ch  11  32  the  form  of 
the  name  is  "Hurai"  ("H^H,  huray). 

HIDDEKEL,  hid'e-kel  (^"H ,  hiddekel):  One 
of  the  rivers  of  Eden  (q.v.)  (Gen  2  14,  RVm  "that 
is,  Tigris" ;  so  LXX  Tiypis,  Tigris),  said  to  flow  E. 
to  Assyria,  usually  identified  with  the  Tigris,  which 
rises  in  Armenia  near  Lake  Van  and,  after  flowing 
S.E.  through  8  degrees  of  latitude,  joins  the  Eu- 
phrates in  Babylonia  to  form  the  Shatt  el-' Arab, 
which  runs  for  100  miles  through  a  delta  which 
has  been  formed  since  the  time  of  Abraham,  and 
now  enters  the  Pers  Gulf  through  2  branches. 
About  one-third  of  the  distance  below  its  source, 
and  soon  after  it  emerges  from  the  mountains  of 
Kurdistan,  the  Tigris  passes  by  Mosul,  the  site  of 
ancient  Nineveh,  and,  lower  down  at  Bagdad,  ap- 
proaches within  a  few  miles  of  the  Euphrates.  Here 
and  for  many  miles  below,  since  the  level  is  lower 


13S9 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Hezekiah 
High  Day 


than  that  of  the  Euphrates,  numerous  canals  are 
conducted  to  it,  irrigating  the  most  fertile  portions 
of  Babylonia.  George  Frederick  Wright 

HIDDEN,  hid"n:  The  tr  of  taman,  "to  hide," 
"to  bury"  (Job  3  1G);  of  gaphan  "to  conceal," 
"store  up"  (15  20,  "The  number  of  years  is  hidden 
to  the  oppressor,"  RV  "even  the  number  of  years 
that  are  laid  up  for  the  oppressor,"  m  "and  years 
that  are  numbered  are  laid  up";  Job  24  1,  "Why, 
seeing  times  are  not  hidden  from  the  Almighty," 
RV  "Why  are  times  not  laid  up  by  the  Almighty?" 
m  as  AV  with  "Why  is  it?"  prefixed;  Ps  83  3, 
"They  consulted  [RV  "consult"]  against  thy  hidden 
ones");  of  magpunim  (from  gaphan),  "hidden  things 
or  places"  (Ob  ver  6,  "How  are  his  hidden  things 
sought  up!"  RV  "treasures,"  ARV  "sought  out"); 
of  paid',  "to  be  wonderful,"  "difficult"  (Dt  30  11, 
"This  commandment  ....  is  not  hidden  from  thee," 
RV  "too  hard  for  thee,"  m  "or  wonderful");  of 
kaphas,  Hithpael,  "to  hide  one's  self"  (Prov  28  12, 
RV  "When  the  wicked  rise,  men  hide  themselves," 
in  "Heb  must  be  searched  for");  of  kruptos, 
"hidden,"  "secret"  (1  Pet  3  4,  "the  hidden  man 
of  the  heart";  1  Cor  4  5,  krupton,  "the  hidden 
things  of  darkness";  2  Cor  4  2,  "the  hidden 
things  of  dishonesty,"  RV  "of  shame");  of  apokrup- 
to,  "to  hide  away,"  trop.,  not  to  reveal  or  make 
known  (1  Cor  2  7,  "But  we  speak  God's  wisdom 
in  a  mvstery,  even  the  wisdom  that  hath  been 
hidden";  cf  Eph  3  9;  Col  120). 

Among  the  occurrences  of  "hidden"  in  Apoc  we  have 
(2  Esd  16  02),  "The  Spirit  of  Almighty  (Jod  .... 
searcheth  out  all  hidden  things  in  the  secrets  of  the 
earth,"  KV  "He  who  made  all  things  and  searcheth  out 
hidden  things  in  hidden  places " ;  Ecclus  42  l'.>.  "reveal- 
ing the  steps  [II V  "traces"]  of  hidden  things,"  apokru- 
phos;  ver  20,  "  Neither  any  word  is  hidden  from  him," 
KY  "hid,"  ekrube). 

W.  L.  Walker 

HIEL,  hi' el  (bi*TJ,  Mel;  'AX^X,  Achiii):  A 
Bethelite  who  according  to  1  K  16  34  rebuilt 
Jericho,  and  in  fulfilment  of  a  curse  pronounced  by 
Joshua  (Josh  6  20)  sacrificed  his  two  sons.  This 
seems  to  have  been  a  custom  prevalent  among 
primitive  peoples,  the  purpose  being  to  ward  off  ill 
luck  from  the  inhabitants,  esp.  in  a  case  where  the 
destroyer  had  invoked  a  curse  on  him  who  pre- 
sumed to  rebuild.  Numerous  instances  are  brought 
to  light  in  the  excavations  of  Gezer  (Macalister, 
Bible  Side-Lights  from  the  Mound  of  Gezer,  ch  x). 
At  first  the  very  best  was  claimed  as  a  gift  to  the 
deity,  e.g.  one's  own  sons;  then  some  less  valuable 
member  of  the  community.  When  civilization 
prevented  human  sacrifice,  animals  were  offered 
instead.  The  story  of  Abraham  offering  Isaac  may 
be  a  trace  of  this  old  custom,  the  tenor  of  the  story 
implying  that  at  the  time  of  the  writing  of  the 
record,  the  custom  was  coming  to  be  in  disrepute. 
A  similar  instance  is  the  offering  of  his  eldest  son  by 
the  king  of  Edom  to  appease  the  deity  and  win  suc- 
cess in  battle  (2  K  3  27;  cf  Mic  6  7).  Various 
conjectures  have  been  made  as  to  the  identity  of 
this  king,  Ewald  regarded  him  as  a  man  of  wealth 
and  enterprise  (unternehmender  reicher  Mann); 
Cheyne  following  Niebuhr  makes  it  Jehu  in  dis- 
guise, putting  1  K  16  34  after  2  K  10  33;  Winck- 
ler  explains  as  folklore.  W.  N.  Stearns 

HIERAPOLIS,  he-er-ap'6-lis  ('Iepd-rroXis,  Hier- 
apolis, "sacred  city") :  As  the  name  implies,  Hierap- 
olis was  a  holy  city.  It  was  situated  0  miles  from 
Laodicea  and  twice  that  distance  from  Colossae, 
on  the  road  from  Sardis  to  Apamea.  Though  its 
history  is  not  well  known,  it  seems  to  have  been  of 
Lydian  origin,  and  once  bore  the  name  of  Kydrara. 
The  Phrygian  god  Sabazios  was  worshipped  there 
under  the  name  Echidma,  and  represented  by  the 


symbol  of  the  serpent.  Other  local  deities  were  Leto 
and  her  son  Lairbenos.  Though  called  the  holy 
city,  Hierapolis  was  peculiarly  regarded  as  the 
stronghold  of  Satan,  for  there  was  a  Plutonium,  or 
a  hole  reaching  far  down  into  the  earth,  from  which 
there  issued  a  vapor,  even  poisoning  the  birds  flying 
above.  It  is  supposed  that  upon  a  stool,  deep  in 
the  Plutonium,  a  priest  or  priestess  sat,  and,  when 
under  the  influence  of  the  vapor,  uttered  prophecies 
valuable  to  those  who  sought  them.  Though  a 
stronghold  of  Satan,  Hierapolis  early  became  a 
Christian  city,  for,  according  to  Col  4  13,  the  only 
place  where  it  is  mentioned  in  the  NT,  a  church 
was  founded  there  through  the  influence  of  Paul 
while  he  was  at  Ephesus.  Tradition  claims  that 
Philip  was  the  first  evangelist  to  preach  there,  and 
it  also  claims  that  he  and  his  two  unmarried 
daughters  were  buried  there;  a  third  who  was 
married,  was  buried  at  Ephesus.  Several  of  the 
early  Christians  suffered  martyrdom  at  Hierapolis, 
yet  Christianity  flourished,  other  churches  wen,' 
built,  and  during  the  4th  cent,  the  Christians 
filled  the  Plutonium  with  stones,  thus  giving  evi- 
dence that  the  paganism  had  been  entirely  sup- 
planted by  the  church.  During  the  Rom  period, 
Justinian  made  the  city  a  metropolis,  and  it  con- 
tinued to  exist  into  the  Middle  Ages.  In  the  year 
1190  Frederick  Barbarossa  fought  with  the  Byzan- 
tines there. 

The  modern  town  is  called  Pambuk  Kalessi,  or 
cotton  castle,  not  because  cotton  is  raised  in  the 
vicinity,  but  because  of  the  white  deposit  from  the 
water  of  the  calcareous  springs.  The  springs  were 
famous  in  ancient  times  because  they  were  supposed 
to  possess  Divine  powers.  The  water  is  tepid, 
impregnated  with  alum,  but  pleasant  to  the  taste. 
It  was  used  by  the  ancients  for  dyeing  and  medicinal 
purposes.  The  deposit  of  pure  white  brought  up 
by  the  water  from  the  springs  has  heaped  itself 
over  the  surrounding  buildings,  nearly  burying 
them,  and  stalactite  formations,  resembling  icicles, 
hang  from  the  ruins.  The  ruins,  which  are  exten- 
sive, stand  on  a  terrace,  commanding  an  extensive 
view,  and  though  they  are  partly  covered  by  the 
deposit,  one  may  still  trace  the  city  walls,  the 
temple,  several  churches,  the  triumphal  arch,  the 
gymnasium  and  baths,  and  the  most  perfect  theater 
in  Asia  Minor.     Outside  the  walls  are  many  tombs. 

E.  J.  Banks 

HIEREEL,  hl-er'e-el  ('IepeT]X.,  Ifiereel):  1  Esd 
9  21.     In  Ezr  8  9  the  name  is  Jehiel. 

HIERIELUS,  hi-er-i-e'lus  ('l^p^Xos,  Tezrielos). 
See  Jezrielus. 

HIEREMOTH,  hi-er'e-moth  ('Itpe^Q,  leremoth) : 

(1)  1  Esd  9  27  =  Jeremoth  (Ezr  10  20). 

(2)  1  Esd  9  30  =  Jeremoth  (Ezr  10  29,  m  "and 
Ramoth"). 

HIERMAS,  ln-ur'mas  ('lepras,  Hiermds):  1  Esd 
9  20,  corresponding  to  Ramiah  in  Ezr  10  25. 

HIGGAION,  hi-ga'yon,  hi-gl'on  (fpan,  hig- 
gdyon):  The  meaning  of  this  word  is  uncertain. 
Two  interpretations  arc;  possible;  the  oik;  based 
on  an  allied  Arab,  root  gives  "a  deep  vibrating 
sound,"  the  other  derived  from  the  Gr  VSS  of  Ps 
9  10,  where  we  read  higgdyon  Seldh,  takes  it  to 
mean  an  instrumental  interlude.     See  Psalms. 

HIGH  DAY:  Is  found  in  Gen  29  7  as  a  render- 
ing of  the  Heb  51~!3  UV ,  yom  gadhdl,  lit.  "great 
day."  The  Heb  means  the  day  at  its  height,  broad 
daylight,  as  contrasted  with  the  time  for  getting 
the  cattle  to  their  sheds  for  the  night  (cf  Fr.  grand 
jour).      In    Jn  19  31,    "highday"     renders    ixeyd.\ri 


Highest 
High  Things 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1390 


ijixipa,  megdlc  hcmera,  lit,  "groat  day,"  and  refers  to 
the  Passover  Sabbath— and  therefore  a  Sabbath  of 
special  sanctity. 

HIGHEST,  hi' est  CPn?" ,  xelyon;  vxJuo-tos,  hii- 
psistos):  The  tr  of  'elydii',  used  frequently  of  God 
and  commonly  tr'1  "Most  High"  (Ps  18  13,' The 
Highest  gave  his  voice,"  RV  "Most  High";  87  5, 
"the  highest  himself,"  RV  "Most  High";  Ezk  41 
7,  "the  lowest  [chamber]  to  the  highest");  of  gam- 
men  th,  the  foliage  of  a  tree  (as  if  the  wool  or  hair 


"sum");  gappe  murom,  "on  the  ridges  of  the 
heights"  (Prov  9  3,  "the  highest  places  of  the 
city");  ghabhoah  me'al  gtibho"h,  lit,  "one  high 
[powerful)  who  is  above  the  high  [oppressor],"  is  trd 
"he  that  is  higher  than  the  highest"  (Eccl  5  8), 
RV  "one  higher  than  the  high  [regardeth]."  In 
the  NT,  hupsistos  (like  *clyon)  is  used  of  Cod  (Lk  1 
32,  "the  Son  of  the  Highest,"  ver  35,  "the  power 
of  the  Highest,"  ver  76,  "the  prophet  of  the  High- 
est"; 6  35,  "the  children  of  the  Highest,"  in  these 
places  RV  has  "Most  High");  we  have  also  "Ho- 
sanna  in  the  highest"  (Mt  21  9;  Mk  11  10;  see 
Hosanna),  "Glory  to  God  in  the  highest"  (Lk  2 
14),  "Glory  in  the  highest"  (Lk  19  38);  protoklisia, 
"the  first  reclining-place"  (at  table),  the  chief  place 
at  meals,  the  middle  place  in  each  couch  of  the 
triclinium  (Robinson),  is  rendered  (Lk  14  8),  "the 
highest  room,"  RV  "chief  seat";  "room"  was  intro- 
duced by  Tindale;  Wiclif  had  "the  first  place"; 
protokathedria  {prdtos,  "first,"  kdthedra,  "seat"), 
"the  first  or  chief  seat,"  is  rendered  (Lk  20  4(5)  "the 
highest  seats,"  RV  "chief  seats,"  Wiclif  "the  first 
chairs." 

"The  Highest"  as  a  term  for  God  appears  (2  Esd 
4  11.34,  RV  "Most  High";  Wisd  6  3,  hupsistos; 
Ecclus  28  7,  RV  "Most  High").  See  also  Cod, 
Names  of.  W.  L.  \\  alkeh 

HIGHMINDED,  ln'mlnd-ed:  In  modern  usage 
denotes  elevation  of  mind  in  a  good  sense,  but 
formerly  it  was  used  to  denote  upliftedness  in 
a  bad  sense,  pride,  arrogance.  It  is  the  tr  of 
hupselophroneo,  "to  be  highminded,"  "proud," 
"haughty"  (Rom  11  20,  "Be  not  highminded,  but 
fear";  1  Tim  6  17,  "Charge  them  that  are  rich 
....  that  thev  be  not  highminded");  of  tuphoo 
"to  wrap  in  mist  or  smoke,"  trop.,  to  wrap  in  con- 
ceit, to  make  proud,  etc  (2  Tim  3  4,  "Traitors, 
heady,  highminded,"  RV  "puffed  up";  cf  1  Tim 
3  6;  6  4).  "No  one  can  be  highminded  without 
thinking  better  of  himself,  and  worse  of  others,  than 
he  ought  to  think"  (Crabb,  English  Synonymes). 

W.  L.  Walker 

HIGH,  MOST.     See  God,  Names  of. 

HIGH  PLACE:  (1)  "High  place"  is  the  normal 
tr  of  fflflS,  bamuh,  a  word  that  means  simply  "ele- 
vation" (Jer  26  18;  Ezk  36  2,  etc; 
1.  General  cf  the  use  in  Job  9  8  of  the  waves  of 
the  sea.  For  the  pi.  as  a  proper  noun 
see  Bamoth).  In  AV  of  Ezk  16  24.25.31.39, 
"high  places"  is  the  tr  of  T\12~\ ,  ramah  (RV  "lofty 
places"),  a  common  word  (see  Ramah)  of  exactly 
the  same  meaning,  indistinguishable  from  bumah 
in  ver  16.  In  three  of  these  vs  of  Ezk  (24.31.39) 
ramah  is  paralleled  by  S3,  gabh,  which  again  has 
precisely  the  same  sense  ("eminent  place"  in  AV, 
ERV),  and  the  "vaulted  place"  of  ARV  (ERVm)  is 
in  disregard  of  Heb  parallelism.  In  particular,  the 
high  places  are  places  of  worship,  specifically  of 
idolatrous  worship.  So  the  title  was  transferred  from 
the  elevation   to   the  sanctuary  on   the  elevation 


(1  K  11  7;  14  23;  cf  the  burning  of  the  "high 
place"  in  2  K  23  15),  and  so  came  to  be  used  of  any 
idolatrous  shrine,  whether  constructed  on  an  ele- 
vation or  not  (note  how  in  2  K  16  4;  2  Ch  28  4 
the  "high  places"  are  distinguished  from  the  "hills"). 
So  the  "high  places"  in  the  cities  (2  K  17  9;  2  Ch 
21  11  [LXX])  could  have  stood  anywhere,  while 
in  Ezk  16  16  a  portable  structure  seems  to  be  in 
point.  (2)  The  use  of  elevations  for  purposes  of 
worship  is  so  widespread  as  to  be  almost  universal, 


Tell  Taanach  (a  Typical  Canaanite  High  Place). 

and  rests,  probably,  on  motives  so  primitive  as  to 
evade  formal  analysis.  If  any  reason  is  to  be  as- 
signed, the  best  seems  to  be  that  to  dwellers  in  hilly 
country  the  heaven  appears  to  rest  on  the  ridges 
and  the  sun  to  go  forth  from  them — but  such  reasons 
are  certainly  insufficient  to  explain  everything. 
Certain  it  is  that  Israel,  no  less  than  her  neighbors, 
found  special  sanctity  in  the  hills.  Not  only  was 
Sinai  the  "Mount  of  God,"  but  a  long  list  can  be 
drawn  up  of  peaks  that  have  a  special  relation  to 
Jeh  (see  Mount,  Mountain;  and  for  the  NT,  cf 
Mk  9  2;  He  12  18-24,  etc).  And  the  choice  of  a 
hilltop  for  the  Temple  was  based  on  considerations 
other  than  convenience  and  visibility.  (But  bdmdh 
is  not  used  of  the  Temple  Mount.) 

Archaeological    research,    particularly    at    Petra 
and  Gezer,  aided  by  the  OT  notices,  enables  us  to 

reconstruct  these  sanctuaries  with 
2.  Descrip-  tolerable  fulness.  The  cult  was  not 
tion  limited  to  the  summit  of  the  hill  but 

took  place  also  on  the  slopes,  and  the 
objects  of  the  cult  might  be  scattered  over  a  con- 
siderable area.  The  most  sacred  objects  were  the 
upright  stone  pillars  (macqcbJidh),  which  seem  to 
have  been  indispensable.  (Probably  the  simplest 
"high  places"  were  only  a  single  upright  stone.) 
They  were  regarded  as  the  habitation  of  the  deity, 
but,  none  the  less,  were  usually  many  in  number 
(a  fact  that  in  no  way  need  implicate  a  plurality  of 
deities).  At  one  time  they  were  the  only  altars, 
and  even  at  a  later  period,  when  the  altar  proper 
was  used,  libations  were  sometimes  poured  on  the 
pillars  directly.  The  altars  were  of  various  shapes, 
according  to  their  purpose  (incense,  whole  burnt 
offerings,  etc),  but  were  always  accompanied  by 
one  or  more  pillars.  Saucer-shaped  depressions, 
into  which  sacrifices  could  be  poured,  are  a  remnant 
of  very  primitive  rites  (to  this  day  in  Samaria  the 
paschal  lamb  is  cooked  in  a  pit).  The  trees  of  the 
high  place,  esp.  the  "terebinths"  (oaks?),  were 
sacred,  and  their  number  could  be  supplemented 
or  t  heir  absence  supplied  by  an  artificial  tree  or  pole 
{'dsherah,  the  "grove"  of  AV).  (Of  course  the 
original  meaning  of  the  pillar  and  asherah  was  not 
always  known  to  the  worshipper.)  An  amusing 
feature  of  the  discoveries  is  that  these  objects  were 
often  of  minute  size,  so  that  the  gods  could  be  grati- 
fied at  a  minimum  of  expense  to  the  worshipper. 
Images  (ephods?;  the  frdphim  were  household 
objects,  normally)  are  certain,  but  in  Pal  no  rem- 
nants exist  (the  Tittle  Bes  and  Astarte  figures  were 


1391 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


not  idols  used  in  worship).  Other  necessary  fea- 
tures of  a  high  place  of  the  larger  size  were  ample 
provision  of  water  for  lustral  purposes,  kitchens 
where  the  sacrifices  could  be  cooked  (normally  by 
boiling),  and  tables  for  the  sacrificial  feasts.  Nor- 
mally, also,  the  service  went  on  in  the  open  air,  but 
slight  shelters  were  provided  frequently  for  some 
of  the  objects.  If  a  regular  priest  was  attached  to 
the  high  place  (not  always  the  case),  his  dwelling 


Highest 
High  Things 


Pillars  and  Hollow  Stone  of  the  High  Place  at  Gezer. 
[Bible  Side-Lights  from  the  Mound  of  Gczer.\ 

must  have  been  a  feature,  unless  lie  lived  in  some 
nearby  village.  Huts  for  those  practising  incuba- 
tion (sleeping  in  the  sanctuary  to  obtain  revelations 
through  dreams)  seem  not  to  have  been  uncommon. 
But  formal  temples  were  very  rare  and  "houses  of  the 
high  places"  in  1  K  12  31;  13  32;  2  K  17  29.32; 
23  19  may  refer  only  to  the  slighter  structures  just 
mentioned  (see  the  comm.).  In  any  case,  however, 
the  boundaries  of  the  sanctuary  were  marked  out, 
generally  by  a  low  stone  wall,  and  ablutions  anil 
removal  of  the  sandals  were  necessary  before  the 
worshipper  could  enter. 

For  the  ritual,  of  course,  there  was  no  uniform 
rule.  The  gods  of  the  different  localities  were 
different,  and  in  Pal  a  more  or  less  thorough  rededi- 
cation  of  the  high  places  to  Jeh  had  taken  place. 
So  the  service  might  be  anything  from  the  orderly 
worship  of  Jeh  under  so  thoroughly  an  accredited 
leader  as  Samuel  (1  S  9  11-24)  'to  the  wildest 
orgiastic  rites.  That  the  worship  at  many  high 
places  was  intensely  licentious  is  certain  (but  it 
must  be  emphasized  against  the  statements  of  many 
writers  that  there  is  no  evidence  for  a  specific  phallic 
cult,  and  that  the  explorations  have  revealed  no  un- 
mistakable phallic  emblems).  The  gruesome  ceme- 
tery for  newly  born  infants  at  Gezer  is  only  one  of 
the  proofs  of  the  prevalence  of  child-sacrifice,  and 
the  evidence  for  human  sacrifice  in  other  forms  is 
unfortunately  only  too  clear.  See  Gezer,  and 
illustration  on  p.  1224. 

(1)  The  opposition  to  the  high  places  had  many 
motives.     When  used  for  the  worship  of  other  gods 

their  objectionable  character  is  ob- 
3.  History      vious,  but  even  the  worship  of  Jeh  in 

the  high  places  was  intermixed  with 
heathen  practices  (Hos  4  14,  etc).  In  Am  5  21- 
24,  etc,  sacrifice  in  the  high  places  is  denounced 
because  it  is  regarded  as  a  substitute  for  righteous- 
ness in  exactly  the  same  way  that  sacrifice  in  the 
Temple  is  denounced  in  Jer  7  21-24.  Or,  sacri- 
fice in  the  high  places  may  be  denounced  under  the 
best  of  conditions,  because  in  violation  of  the  law 
of  the  one  sanctuary  (2  Ch  33   17,  etc). 

(2)  In  1  S,  sacrifice  outside  of  Jerus  is  treated 
as  an  entirely  normal  thing,  and  Samuel  presides 
in  one  such  case  (1  S  9  11-24).  In  1  K  the  prac- 
tice of  using  high  places  is  treated  as  legitimate 
before  the  construction  of  the  Temple  (1  K  3  2-4), 
but  after  that  it  is  condemned  unequivocally.  The 
primal  sin  of  Northern  Israel  was  the  establishment 


of  high  places  (1  K  12  31-33;  13  2.33  f),  and  their 
continuance  was  a  chief  cause  of  the  evils  that  came 
to  pass  (2  K  17  10  f),  while  worship  in  them  was 
a  characteristic  of  the  mongrel  throng  that  repopu- 
lated  Samaria  (2  K  17  32).  So  Judah  sinned  in 
building  high  places  (1  K  14  23),  but  the  editor  of 
K  notes  with  obvious  regret  that  even  the  pious 
kings  (Asa,  1  K  15  14;  Jehoshaphat,  22  43; 
Jehoash,    2  K  12  3;     Amaziah,    14  4;     Azariah, 

15  4;  Jotham,  15  35)  did  not  put  them  away;  i.e. 
the  editor  of  K  has  about  the  point  of  view  of  Dt 
12  8-11,  according  to  which  sacrifice  was  not  to  be 
restricted  to  Jerus  until  the  country  should  be  at 
peace,  but  afterward  the;  restriction  should  be 
absolute.  The  practice  had  been  of  such  long 
standing  that  Hezekiah's  destruction  of  the  high 
places  (2  K  18  4)  could  be  cited  by  Rabshakeh 
as  an  act  of  apostasy  from  Jeh  (2  K  18  22;  2  Ch 
32  12;  Isa  36  7).  "Under  Manasseh  they  were 
rebuilt,  in  connection  with  other  idolatrous  prac- 
tices (2  K  21  3-9).  This  act  determined  the  final 
punishment  of  the  nation  (vs  10-15),  and  the  root- 
and-branch  reformation  of  Josiah  (ch  23)  came  too 
late.  The  attitude  of  the  editor  of  Ch  is  still  more 
condemnatory.  He  explains  the  sacrifice  at  Gibeon 
as  justified  by  the  presence  of  the  Tabernacle  (1  Ch 

16  39;  21  29;  2  Ch  1  3.13),  states  that  God- 
fearing northerners  avoided  the  high  places  (2  Ch 
11  10;  cf  1  K  19  10.14),  and  (against  K)  credits 
Asa  (2  Ch  14  3.5)  and  Jehoshaphat  (2  Ch  17  0) 
with  their  removal.  (This  last  notice  is  also  in  con- 
tradiction with  2  Ch  20  33,  but  16  17a  is  probably 
meant  to  refer  to  the  Northern  Kingdom,  despite 
17/>.)  On  the  other  hand,  the  construction  of  high 
places  is  added  to  the  sins  of  Jehoram  (2  Ch  21  11) 
ami  of  Ahaz  (2  Ch  28  4.5). 

(3)  Among  the  prophets,  Elijah  felt  the  destruc- 
tion of  the  many  altars  of  God  as  a  terrible  grief 
(1  K  19  10.14).  Amos  and  Hosea  each  mention 
the  high  places  by  name  only  once  (Am  7  9;  Hos 
10  8),  but  both  prophets  have  only  denunciation 
for  t  he  sacrificial  practices  of  the  Northern  Kingdom. 
That,  however,  these  sacrifices  were  offered  in  (lie 
wrong  place  is  not  said.  Isa  has  nothing  to  say 
about  the  high  places,  except  in  36  7,  while  Mic 
1  5  equates  the  sins  of  Jerus  with  those  of  the 
high  places  (if  the  text  is  right),  but  promises  the 
exaltation  of  Jerus  (4  If).  In  the  references  in 
Jer  7  31;  19  5;  32  35;  Ezk  6  3.6;  16  10;  20 
29;  43  7,  idolatry  or  abominable  practices  are  in 
point  (so  probably  in  Jer  17  3,  while  Jer  48  35 
and  Isa  16  12  refer  to  non-Israelites). 

(4)  The  interpretation  of  the  above  data  and  their 
historical  import  depend  on  the  critical  position 
taken  as  to  the  general  history  of  Israel's  religion. 
See  Religion  of  Israel;  Criticism;  Deuter- 
onomy, etc. 

Literature. — See,  esp.,  Idolatry,  and  also  Altars; 
Asherah,  etc.  For  the  archaeological  lit.,  see  Pales- 
tine. 

Burton  Scott  Easton 
HIGH  PRIEST.     See  Priest,  High. 

HIGH  THINGS:  The  tr  of  hupselos,  "high," 
"lofty,"  "elevated"  (Rom  12  10,  "Mind  not  high 
things,  but  condescend  to  men  of  low  estate,"  AVm 
"be  contented  with  mean  things,"  RV  "Set  not 
your  mind  on  high  things,  but  condescend  to  [m  "Gr 
be  carried  away  with"]  things  [m  "them"]  that  are 
lowly");  high  things  are  proud  things,  things  re- 
garded by  the  world  as  high. 

High  thing  is  hupsoma,  "a  high  place,"  "eleva- 
tion," etc  (2  Cor  10  5,  "casting  down  every  high 
thing  that  is  exalted  against  the  knowledge  of  God," 
"like  a  lofty  tower  or  fortress  built  up  proudly  by 
the  enemy").  In  Jth  10  8;  13  4,  hupsoma  is  ren- 
dered "exaltation."  W.  L.  Walker 


Highway 
Hinnom 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1392 


HIGHWAY,  hl'wa.     See  Road;  Way. 

HILEN,  hl'len  ("'m  ,  hllen):  A  city  in  the  hill 
country  of  Judah,  probably  \Y.  or  S.W.  of  Hebron, 
assigned  with  its  suburbs  to  the  Levites  (1  Ch  6  58 
[Heb  43]).  The  form  of  the  name  in  Josh  15  51; 
21  15  is  Holon  (q.v.). 

HILKIAH,  hil-ki'a  (rFpbn ,  hilklyah,  "Jeh  is 
my  portion"  or  "Jeh's  portion"):  The  name  of  8 
individuals  in  the  OT  or  7,  if  the  person  mentioned 
in  Neh  12  7.21  was  the  same  who  stood  with  Ezra 
at  the  reading  of  the  haw  (.Neh  8  4).  The  latter 
appears  as  Ezecias  (AV)  in  1  Esd  9  43.  Live  of 
this  name  are  clearly  associated  with  the  priest- 
hood, and  the  others  are  presumably  so.  The  ety- 
mology suggests  this.  Either  interpretation  ol  the 
name 'expresses  the  person's  claim  on  Jeh  or  the 
parents'  recognition  of  Jeh's  claim  on  him. 

(1)  The  person  mentioned  above  (Neh  8  4,  etc). 

(2)  A  Levite  of  the  sons  of  Merari  (1   Ch  6  45). 

(3)  Another  Levite  of  Merari,  son  of  Hosah  (1  Ch 
26  11).     Is  he  the  "porter,"   i.e.   "doorkeeper"  of 

1  Ch  16  38?  „    ,  ,  .  ,      , 

(4)  Father  of  the  Gemariah  whom  Zedekiah  ol 
Judah  sent  to  Nebuchadnezzar  (Jer  29  3). 

(5)  The  man  in  2  K  18  ISf'f  who  is  evidently 
more  famous  as  the  father  of  Eliakim,  the  major- 
domo  of  Hezekiah's  palace  (Isa  22  20  ff;  36  3fT). 
Probably  the  father's  name  is  given  in  this  and 
similar  cases  to  distinguish  between  two  persons  of 
otherwise  identical  name. 

(6)  A  priest  of  Anathoth,  father  of  Jeremiah 
(Jer  1  1). 

(7)  The  son  of  Shallum,  and  the  best  known  of 
the  name  (1  Ch  6  13).  He  is  great-grandfather 
of  Ezra  through  his  son  Azariah    (1  Esd  8  1;    cf 

1  Ch  9  11;  Neh  11  11).  He  discovered  the  lost 
Book  of  the  Law  during  the  repairing  of  the  Temple 
(2  K  22  4.8  ff);  became  chief  leader  in  the  ensuing 
reformation  in  621  BC  (2  K  23  4;  2  Ch  34  9  ff ; 
35  8).  He  showed  the  recovered  book  to  Shaphan 
the  scribe,  who,  in  turn,  brought  it  to  the  notice  of 
the  king.  At  Josiah's  request  he  led  a  deputation 
to  Huldah  the  prophetess  to  "enquire  of  the  Lord" 
concerning  the  new  situation  created  by  the  dis- 
covery. The  book  discovered  is  usually  identified 
with  the  Book  of  Dt.     See  Deuteronomy. 

Henry  Wallace 
HILL,  HILL  COUNTRY,  hil'  kun-tri:   The  com- 
mon tr  of  three  Heb  words: 

(1)  H?!?,  gibh'dh,  from  root  meaning  "to  be 
curved,"' is  almost  always  trd  "hill";  it  is  a  pecul- 
ia-'v  appropriate  designation  for  the  very  rounded 
hills  of  Pal;  it  is  never  used  for  a  range  of  mountains. 
Several  times  it  occurs  as  a  place-name,  "Gibeah 
of  Judah"  (Josh  15  20.57);  "Gibeah  of  Benjamin" 
or  "Saul"  Ugsl9  12-16,  etc);  "Gibeah  of  Phine- 
has"  (Josh  24  33  m),  etc  (see  Gibeah).  Many 
such  hills  were  used  for  idolatrous  rites  (1  K  14  23; 

2  K  17   10;    Jer  2  20,  etc). 

(2)  in  ,  har,  frequently  tr'1  in  AV  "hill,"  is  in  RV 
usually  trd  "mountain"  (cf  Gen  7  19;  Josh  15  9; 
18  15  f,  and  many  other  references),  or  "hill- 
country."  Thus  we  have  the  "hill-country  of  the 
Amorifes"  (Dt  1  7.19.20);  the  "hill-country  of 
Gilead"  (Dt  3  12);  the  "hill-country  of  Ephraim" 
(Josh  17  15. 16. IS;  19  50;  20  7,  etc);  the  "hill- 
country  of  Judah"  (Josh  11  21;  20  7;  21  11;  2 
Ch  27  4,  etc;  and  \v  tyeivf),  he  oreine]  Lk  1  30.6.")); 
the  "hill-country  of  Naphtali"  (Josh  20  7).  For 
geographical  descriptions  see  Palestine;  Country; 
Ephraim;  Judah,  etc. 

(3)  bD'y,  <dj>hel,  is  tr'1  by  "hill"  in  2KB  24; 
Isa  32  14 ;     Mic  4  8,     but    may    possibly    mean 


"tower"   or   "fort."     In  other  passages   the   word 
occurs  with  the  art.  as  a  place-name.     See  Ophel. 
E.  W.  G.  Masterman 
HILL,  MOUNT,  MOUNTAIN: 

(1)  The  commonest  word  is  1H ,  har  (also 
"nn,    hdrCvr,  and   "HH,   herer),  which  is  rendered 

"hill,"  "mount,"  or  "mountain."     It 
1.  Names      occurs  several  hundreds  of  times. 

In  a  number  of  places  RV  changes  "hill"  to  "moun- 
tain," e.g.  Gen  7  19,  mountains  covered  by  flood;  Ex 
24  4,  Horeb;  Josh  18  14,  mountain  before  Beth-horon: 
.Jgs  16  3.  mountain  before  Hebron;  Ps  95  4,  "The 
heights  of  the  mountains  are  his  also";  121  1,  "I  will 
lift  up  mine  eyes  unto  the  mountains."  "Hill"  remains 
in  Dt  11  11,  "land  of  hills  and  valleys";  1  K  20  23, 
"god  of  the  hills";  Ps  2  6,  "my  holy  hill  of  Zion"; 
98  8,  "hills  sing  for  joy."  "Mount"  is  changed  to 
"hill-country"  in  Dt  1  7,  "hill-country  of  the  Amor- 
ites";  Jgs  12  15,  "hill-country  of  the  Amalekites"; 
Dt  3  12,  "hill-country  of  Gilead";  but  Gen  31  21, 
"mountain  of  Gilead";  and  Jgs  7  3,  "Mount  Gilead." 
"Hill"  or  "hills"  is  changed  to  "hill-country"  in  Dt 
1  7;  Josh  9  1;  10  40;  11  l(i;  17  16;  21  11.  In  Dt  1 
41.43,  ARV  changes  "hill"  to  "hill-country,"  while  ER\ 
has  "mountain."  The  reasons  for  these  differences  of 
treatment  are  not  in  all  cases  apparent. 

(2)  The  Gr  opos,  oros,  is  perhaps  etymologically 
akin  to  "in,  har.  It  occurs  often  in  the  NT,  and  is 
usually  trd  "mount"  or  "mountain."  In  three 
places  (Mt  5  14;  Lk  4  29;  9  37)  AV  has  hill, 
which  RV  retains,  except  m  Lk  9  37,  "when  they 
were  come  down  from  the  mountain"  (of  the  trans- 
figuration). The  derivative  6Peiv6s,  oreinos,  "hill 
country,"  occurs  in  Lk  1  39.65. 

(3)  The  common  Heb  word  for  "hill"  is  ill?!} , 
gibh<ah  =  Gibeah  (Jgs  19.12);  cf  Geba,  733,  gebha* 
(1  S  13  3);     Gibeon,    "p?!*,    gib'on    (Josh  9  3), 

from  root  213,  gabha\  "to  be  high";  cf  Aral).  &Ai  , 
kubbeh,  "dome";   Lat  caput;   KefaXy,  kephalt. 

(4)  In  1  S  9  11,  AV  has  "hill"  for  F^WO, 
ma'aleh,  root   nbr,   >alah,  "to  ascend";    cf  Arab. 

ULc,  'ala',  "to  be  high,"  and  J*&,  'all,  "high." 

Here  and  elsewhere  RV  has  "ascent." 

(5)  EV  has   "hill"    in    Isa  5   1  for  "pj? ,  kercn, 

"horn";    cf   Arab.    {UJs,   karri,   "horn,"   which   is 

also  used  for  a  mountain  peak. 

(6)  "V1I2,  tar,  is  tr'1  "mountain"  in  Dnl  2  35.45, 

but  RVm  "rock"  in  Dnl  2  35.  The  Arab. 
tur,  "mountain,"  is  esp.  used  with  Sinai, 
c\J<ami    »«-l£  ,  jebel  tur  sina  . 

(7)  niTa,  muccabh  (Isa  29  3),  is  trd  in  AV 
"mount,"  in  ERV  "fort,"  in  ARV  "posted  troops"; 
cf  2X"Q,  magcabh,  "garrison"  (1  S  14  1,  etc),  from 

root  121 ,  nagabh,  "to  set";  cf  Arab,  ^xai  ,  nasab, 

"to  set." 

(S)  nbbb,  soHdh,  from  b*y ,  sdlal,  "to  raise," 
is  in  AV  and  ERV  "mount,"  AVm  "engine  of  shot," 
ARV  "mound"  (Jer  32  24;  33  4;  Ezk  4  2;  17 
17;   21  22;   26  8;    Dnl  11  15). 

The  mountains  and  hills  of  Pal  are  the  features 
of  the  country,  and  were  much  in  the  thoughts  of 
the  Bib.  writers.  Their  general  aspect 
2.  Figura-  is  that  of  vast  expanses  of  rock.  As 
tive  and  compared  with  better-watered  regions 
Descriptive  of  the  earth,  the  verdure  is  sparse  and 
incidental.  Snow  remains  through- 
out the  year  on  Hermon  and  the  two  highest  peaks 
of  Lebanon,  although  in  the  summer  it  is  in  great 
isolated  drifts  which  are  not  usually  visible  from 
below.     In  Pal  proper,  there  are  no  snow  moun- 


1393 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Highway 
Hinnom 


tains.  Most  of  the  valleys  are  dry  wadies,  and  the 
roads  often  follow  these  wadies,  which  are  to  the 
traveler  veritable  ovens.  It  is  when  he  reaches 
a  commanding  height  and  sees  the  peaks  and  ridges 
stretching  away  one  after  the  other,  with  perhaps, 
through  some  opening  to  the  \\\,  a  gleam  of  the  sea 
like  molten  metal,  that  he  thinks  of  the  vastness 
and  enduring  strength  of  the  mountains.  At  sun- 
set the  rosy  lights  are  succeeded  by  the  cool  purple 
shadows  that  gradually  fade  into  cold  gray,  and  the 
traveler  is  glad  of  the  shelter  of  his  tent.  The  stars 
come  out,  and  there  is  no  sound  outside  the  camp 
except  perhaps  the  cries  of  jackals  or  the  barking 
of  some  goat-herd's  dog.  These  mountains  are 
apt  to  repel  the  casual  traveler  by  their  bareness. 
They  have  no  great  forests  on  their  slopes.  Steep 
and  rugged  peaks  like  those  of  the  Alps  are  entirely 
absent.  There  are  no  snow  peaks  or  glaciers. 
There  are,  it  is  true,  cliffs  and  crags,  but  the  general 
outlines  are  not  striking.  Nevertheless,  these 
mountains  and  hills  have  a  great  charm  for  those 
who  have  come  to  know  them.  To  the  Bib.  writers 
they  are  symbols  of  eternity  (Gen  49  26;  Dt  33 
15;  Job  15  7;  Hab  3  6).  'Tiny  are  strong  and 
stedfast,  but  they  too  are  the  creation  of  Cod,  and 
they  manifest  His  power  (Ps  18  7;  97  5;  lsa  40 
12;  41  15;  54  10;  Jer  4  24;  Nah  1  5;  Hab  3 
6).  The  hills  were  places  of  heathen  sacrifice  (Dt 
12  2;  1  K  11  7;  2  K  16  4;  17  10;  Ezk  6  13; 
Hos  4  13),  and  also  of  sacrifice  to  Jeh  (Gen  22  2; 
31  54;  Josh  8  30).  Zion  is  the  lull  of  the  Lord 
(Ps  2  6;  135  21;   lsa  8  18;  Joel  3  21;  Mic  4  2). 

Many  proper  names  are  associated   with  the  moun- 
tains and  hills:  as  Abarini,  Amalekites,  Ammah,  Amorites, 
Ararat,     Baalah,     Baal-hermon,     Bashan, 
3    Par-  Beth-el,  Bether,   Carmel,  Chesalon,   Ebal, 

fiVnioT-  Ephraim,    Ephron,    Esau,    Gaash,    Gareb, 

ucuiar  Geba,    Gerizim,   Gibeah,    Gibeon,    Gilboa, 

Mountains  Gilead,  Hachilah,  Halak,  Hebron,  Hens, 
Hermon,  Hor,  Horeb,  Jearim,  Judah, 
Lebanon,  Mizar,  Moreh,  Modal).  Xaphtali,  Nebo,  Olives, 
Olivet,  Paran,  Perazim,  Pisgah,  Samaria,  Seir,  Senir, 
Sephar,  Shepher,  Sinai,  Sion,  Sirion,  Tabor,  Zalmon, 
Zemaraim,  Zion.  See  also  " mountain  of  the  east"  (Gen 
10  HO);  "mountains  of  the  leopards"  (('ant  4  8);  "rocks 
of  the  wild  goats"  (1  S  24  2);  "hill  of  the  foreskins" 
(Gibeah-haaraloth)  (Josh  5  3i;  "mountains  of  brass" 
(Zee  6  1);  "hill  of  God"  (Gibeah  of  God)  (1  S  10  5); 
"hill  of  Jeh"  (Ps  24  3);  "mount  of  congregation"  (lsa 
14  13);  see  also  Mt  4  8;  5  1;  14  23;  15  29;  17  1 ; 
28   16;    Lk  8  32;    Gal  4  25. 

Alfred  Ely  Day 

HILLEL,  hil'el  (Vsn ,  hillel,  "he  greatly  praised"; 
LXX  'E\\t|\,  Eltii):  An  inhabitant  of  Pirathon  in 
the  hill  country  of  Ephraim,  and  father  of  Abdon, 
one  of  the  judges  of  Israel  (Jgs  12  13.15). 

HIN,  hin  (I"1?!,  hln):  A  liquid  measure  containing 
12  logs,  ecjual  to  about  8  quarts.  See  Weights 
and  Measures. 

HIND,  hind.     See  Deer. 

HIND  OF  THE  MORNING,  THE:  The  tr  of 
Aijeleth  hash-Shahar  ('ayyeleth  ha-shahar)  in  the 
title  of  Ps  22,  probably  the  name  of  some  well- 
known  song  to  which  the  ps  was  intended  to  be 
sung,  which  possibly  had  reference  to  the  early 
habits  of  the  deer  tribe  in  search  of  water  and 
food,  or  to  the  flight  of  the  hind  from  the  hunters 
in  early  dawn;  or  "morning"  may  symbolize  the 
deliverance  from  persecution  and  sorrow. 

"The  first  rays  of  the  morning  sun,  by  which  it  an- 
nounces its  appearance  before  being  itself  visible,  an; 
compared  to  the  fork-like  antlers  of  a  stag;  and  this 
appearance  is  called,  Ps  22  title,  'The  hind  of  the  morn- 
ing,' because  those;  antler  rays  preceded  the  red  of  dawn, 
which  again  forms  the  transition  to  sunrise"  (Delitzsch, 

Iris.  107). 

According  to  Hengstenberg,  the  words  indicate 
the  subject-matter  of  the  poem,  the  character, 
sufferings,  and  triumph  of  the  person  who  is  set 


Ancient  Egyptian  Hinges. 


salt  pi' 


before  us.  See  Psalms.  For  an  interesting  Mes- 
sianic interpretation  see  Hood,  Christmas  Evans, 
the  Preacher  of  Wild  Wales,  92  ff.      M.  O.  Evans 

HINGE,  hinj  (PS,  pdth):  Hinges  of  Jewish 
sacred  buildings  in  Scripture  are  mentioned  only  in 
connection  with  Solomon's  temple.  Here  those  for 
the  doors,  both  of  the  oracle  and  of  the  outer  temple, 
are  said  to  have  been  of 
gold(l  K  7  50).  By  this 
is  probably  to  be  under- 
stood that  the  pivots  upon 
which  the  doors  swung, 
and  which  turned  in  the 
sockets  of  the  threshold 
and  the  lintel,  were  cased 
in  gold.  The  proverb, 
"As  the  door  turneth  upon 
its  hinges,  so  doth  the 
sluggard  upon  his  bed" 
(Prov26  14),  describes  the 
ancient  mode  of  ingress 
and  egress  into  important 
edifices.  In  the  British 
Museum  are  many  exam- 
ples of  stone  sockets  taken 
from  Bab  and  Assyr  pal- 
aces and  temples,  engraved 
with  the  name  and  titles  of  the  royal  builder;  while 
in  the  Hauran  doors  of  a  single  slab  of  stone  with 
stone  pivots  are  still  found  in  situ.  Hinges,  as  we 
understand  the  word,  were  unknown  in  the  ancient 
world.     See  House  II,  1. 

W.  Shaw  Caldecott 

HINNOM,  hin'om,  VALLEY  OF  (SSH  ■$,  ge 
hinnom,  Josh  15  8;  18  1G;  "valley  of  the  son  of 
Hinnom"  [32!"!  "\2  "'jl ,  ge  bhen  hinnom],  Josh  15  8; 
18  1G;     2  Ch  28"  3;     33  6;     Jer  7  31  f;     19  2.G; 

32  35;  "valley  of  the  children  [sons]  of  Hinnom" 
[32n  ^1"!  ^,gebh''ne  hinnom],  2  K  23  10;  or  simply 
"the  valley,"  lit,  the  "hollow"  or  "ravine"  [tf^n, 
ha-gay'j,  2  Ch  26  9;  Neh  2  13.15;  3  13;  Jer  31 
40  and,  perhaps  also,  Jer  2  23  [the  above  refer- 
ences are  in  the  Heb  text ;  there  are  some  variations 
in  the  LXX]):  The  meaning  of  "Hinnom"  is  un- 
known; the  expressions  ben  Hinnom  and  brne 
Hinnom  would  suggest  that  it  is  a  proper  name;  in 
Jer  7  32;  19  G  it  is  altered  by  the  prophet  to 
"valley  of  slaughter,"  and  therefore  some  have 
thought  the  original  name  must  have  had  a  pleasing 
meaning. 

It  was  near  the  walls  of  Jems,  "by  the  entry  of  the 
gate  Harsith"  (Jer  19  2);  the  Valley  Gate  opened 
into  it  (Neh  2  13;  3  13).  The 
1.  Bible  boundary  between  Judah  and  Benja- 
References  min  ran  along  it  (Josh  15  8;  18  16). 
and  History  It  was  the  scene  of  idolatrous  practices 
in  the  days  of  Ahaz  (2  Ch  28  3)  and  of 
Manasseh,  who  "made  his  children  to  pass  through 
the  fire  in  the  valley  of  the  son  of  Hinnom"  (2  Ch 

33  6),  but  Josiah  in  the  course  of  his  reforms  "de- 
filed Topheth,  which  is  in  the  valley  of  the  children 
[m  "son"]  of  Hinnom,  that  no  man  might  make  his 
son  or  his  daughter  to  pass  through  the  fire  to  Mo- 
lech"  (2  K  23  10).  It  was  on  account  of  these 
evil  practices  that  Jeremiah  (7  32;  19  6)  announced 
the  change  of  name.  Into  this  valley  dead  bodies 
were  probably  cast  to  be  consumed  by  the  dogs,  as 
is  done  in  the  Wddy  er-Rababi  today,  and  fires  were 
here  kept  burning  to  consume  the  rubbish  of  the 
city.  Such  associations  led  to  the  Ge-Hinnom 
(NT  "Gehenna")  becoming  the  "type  of  Hell" 
(Milton,  Paradise  Lost,  i,  405).     See  Gehenna. 

The  Valley  of  Hinnom  has  been  located  by  differ- 
ent writers  in  each  of  the  three  great  valleys  of 
Jerus.     In  favor  of  the  eastern  or  Kidron  valley 


Hinnom 
Hittites 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1394 


we  have  the  facts  that  Eusobius  and  Jerome 
(Onom)  place  "Gehennom"  under  the  eastern  Avail 

of  Jerus  and  the  Moslem  geographical 
2.  Situation  writers,   Mukaddasi  and  Nasir-i-khus- 

ran,  call  the  Kidron  valley  Wddy 
Jahamum.  The  Jewish  writer  Kimchi  also  identifies 
tin-  Valley  of  Jehoshaphat  (i.e.  the  Kidron)  with 
Hinnom.     These   ideas   are   probably   due   to   the 


Gehenna  and  Akeldama. 

identification  of  the  eastern  valley,  on  account,  of  its 
propinquity  to  the  Temple,  as  the  scene  of  the  last 
judgment — the  "Valley  of  Jehoshaphat"  of  Joel 
3  2 — and  the  consequent  transference  there  of  the 
scene  of  the  punishment  of  the  wicked,  Gehenna, 
after  the  ancient  geographical  position  of  the  Valley 
of  Hinnom,  had  long  been  lost.  In  selecting  sacred 
sites,  from  the  4th  Christian  cent,  onward,  no 
critical  topographical  acumen  has  been  displayed 
until  quite  modern  times.  There  are  three  amply 
sufficient  arguments  against  this  view:  (1)  the 
Kidron  valley  is  always  called  a  nahal  and  not  a 
gay'  (see  Kidron);  (2)  the  "Gate  of  the  Gai" 
clearly  did  not  lie  to  the  E.  of  the  city;  (3)  En-rogel, 
which  lay  at  the  beginning  of  the  Valley  of  Hinnom 
and  to  its  E.  (Josh  15  8;  18  16)  cannot  be  the 
"Virgin's  fount,"  the  ancient  Gihon  (2  S  17  17). 
See  Gihon. 

Several  distinguished  modern  writers  have  sought 
to  identify  the  Tyropceon  Valley  (el  Wad)  with 
Hinnom,  but  as  the  Tyropceon  was  incorporated 
within  the  city  walls  before  the  days  of  Manasseh 
(see  Jerusalem),  it  is  practically  impossible  that 
it  could  have  been  the  scene  of  the  sacrifice  of 
children — a  ritual  which  must  have  occurred  be- 
yond the  city's  limits  (2  K  23  10,  etc). 

The  clearest  geographical  fact  is  found  in  Josh 
16  8;    18  16,  where  we  find  that  the  boundary  of 
Judah    and    Benjamin    passed    from 
3.  Wady  er-  En-rogel  "by  the  valley  of  the  son  of 
Rababi  Hinnom";  if  the  modern  Bir  Eyyub  is 

En-rogel,  as  is  certainly  most  probable, 
then  the  Wddy  er-Rab&bi,  known  traditionally  as 
Hinnom,  is  correctly  so  called.  It  is  possible  that 
the  name  extended  to  the  wide  open  land  formed 
by  the  junction  of  the  three  valleys;  indeed,  some 
would  place  Tophet  at  this  spot,  but  there  is  no 
need  to  extend  the  name  beyond  the  actual  gorge. 
The  Wddy  er-Rabdbi  commences  in  a  shallow,  open 
valley  due  W.  of  the  Jaffa  Gate1,  in  the  center  of 
which  lies  the  Birket  Mamilla;  near  the  Jaffa  Gate 
it  turns  S.  for  about  3  of  a  mile,  its  course  being 
dammed  here  to  form  a  large  pool,  the  Birket  es 
Saltan.  Below  this  it  gradually  curves  to  the  E. 
and  rapidly  descends  between  sides  of  bare  rocky 
scarps,  much  steeper  in  ancient  times.  A  little 
before  the  valley  joins  the  wide  Kidron  valley  lies 
the  traditional  site  of  Akeldama  (q.v.). 

E.  W.  G.  Masterman 


HIP  (piT2>,  shok,  "leg,"  "limb,"  J'hip,"  "shoul- 
der"): Samson  smote  the  Philis  "hip  and  thigh" 
(Heb  "leg  upon  thigh"),  which  was  indicative  of  "a 
great  slaughter"  (Jgs  15  8),  the  bodies  being  hewed 
in  pieces  with  such  violence  that  they  lay  in  bloody 
confusion,  their  limbs  piled  up  on  one  another  in 
great  heaps.     See  also  Sinew. 

HIPPOPOTAMUS,  hip-6-pot'a-mus (Job  41  lm). 
See  Behemoth. 

HIRAH,  hl'ra  (TTpTl  ,  hlrah;  LXX  Etpds,  Eirds) : 
A  native  of  Adullam,  and  a  "friend"  of  Judah 
(Gen  38  1.12).  The  LXX  and  the  Vulg  both 
describe  him  as  Judah's  "shepherd." 

HIRAM,  hi' ram  (D"}*1!"! ,  hiram;  LXX  Xipd|i, 
Chirdm,  but  Xeipap.,  Chcirdm,  in  2  S  5  11;  1  Ch 
14  1):  There  is  souk;  confusion  regarding  the  form 
of  this  name.  In  the  books  of  S  and  K  the  pre- 
vailing form  is   "Hiram''   (3"Vn ,  hlram);    but  in 

1  K  5  10.18m  (Heb  24.32)^  7  40  m  "Hirom" 
(STPn  ,  hirdm)  is  found.  In  Ch  the  form  of  the 
word  is  uniformly  "Huram"  (2Tn ,  hurdm). 

(1)  A  king  of  Tyre  who  lived  on  most  friendly 
terms  with  both  David  and  Solomon.  After  David 
had  taken  the  stronghold  of  Zion,  Hiram  sent 
messengers  and  workmen  and  materials  to  build 
a  palace  for  him  at  Jerus  (2  S  5  11;  1  Ch  14  1). 
Solomon,  on  his  accession  to  the  throne,  made  a 
league  with  Hiram,  in  consequence  of  which  Hiram 
furnished  the  new  king  of  Israel  with  skilled  work- 
men and  with  cedar  trees  and  fir  trees  and  algum 
trees  from  Lebanon  for  the  building  of  the  Temple. 
In  return  Solomon  gave  annually  to  Hiram  large 
quantities  of  wheat  and  oil  (1  K  5  1  [Heb  15]  ff; 

2  Ch  2  3  [Heb  2]  ff) .  "At  the  end  of  twenty  years, 
wherein  Solomon  had  built  the  two  houses,  the 
house  of  Jeh  and  the  king's  house,"  Solomon  made 
a  present  to  Hiram  of  twenty  cities  in  the  land  of 
Galilee.  Hiram  was  not  at  all  pleased  with  these 
cities  and  contemptuously  called  them  "Cabul." 
His  displeasure,  however,  with  this  gift  does  not 
seem  to  have  disturbed  the  amicable  relations  that 
had  hitherto  existed  between  the  two  kings,  for 
subsequently  Hiram  sent  to  the  king  of  Israel  120 
talents  of  gold  (1  K  9  10-14).  Hiram  and  Solo- 
mon maintained  merchant  vessels  on  the  Medi- 
terranean and  shared  mutually  in  a  profitable  trade 
with  foreign  ports  (1  K  10  22).  Hiram's  servants, 
"shipmen  that  had  knowledge  of  the  sea,"  taught 
the  sailors  of  Solomon  the  route  from  Ezion-geber 
and  Eloth  to  Ophir,  whence  large  stores  of  gold  were 
brought  to  King  Solomon  (1  K  9  26;  2  Ch  8  17  f). 

Jos  (CAp,  I,  17,  18)  informs  us,  on  the  authority 
of  the  historians  Dius  and  Menander,  that  Hiram 
was  the  son  of  Abibal,  that  he  had  a  prosperous 
reign  of  34  years,  and  died  at  the  age  of  53.  He 
tells  us  on  the  same  authority  that  Hiram  and 
Solomon  sent  problems  to  each  other  to  solve;  that 
Hiram  could  not  solve  those  sent  him  by  Solomon, 
whereupon  he  paid  to  Solomon  a  large  sum  of  money, 
as  had  at  first  been  agreed  upon.  Finally,  Abde- 
mon,  a  man  of  Tyre,  did  solve  the  problems,  and 
proposed  others  which  Solomon  was  unable  to  ex- 
plain; consequently  Solomon  was  obliged  to  pay 
back  to  Hiram  a  vast  sum  of  money.  Jos  further 
states  (Ant,  VIII,  ii,  8)  that  the  correspondence 
carried  on  between  Solomon  and  Hiram  in  regard 
to  the  building  of  the  Temple  was  preserved,  not 
only  in  the  records  of  the  Jews,  but  also  in  the  public 
records  of  Tyre.  It  is  also  related  by  Phoenician 
historians  that  Hiram  gave  his  daughter  to  Solomon 
in  marriage. 

(2)  The  name  of  a  skilful  worker  in  brass  and 
other    substances,    whom    Solomon    secured    from 


1395 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Hinnom 
Hittites 


Hiram  king  of  Tyre  to  do  work  on  the  Temple. 
His  father  was  a  brass-worker  of  Tyre,  and  his 
mother  was  a  woman  of  the  tribe  of  Naphtali  (IK 
7  14),  "a  woman  of  the  daughters  of  Dan"  (2  Ch 
2  14  [Heb  13];  1  K  7  13  ff;  2  Ch  2  13  f  [Heb 
12.13]).  Jesse  L.  Cotton 

HIRCANUS,  her-ka'nuz.     See  Hyrcanus. 

HIRE,  hlr:  Two  entirely  different  words  are  tr'1 
"hire"  in  the  OT: 

(1)  The  most  frequent  one  is  "OTp ,  sdkhdr,  vb. 
IDTp  ,  sdkhar,  and  verbal  adj.  T5©  ,  sakhir.  (a)  As 
a  vb.  it  means  "to  hire"  for  a  wage,  either  money 
or  something  else;  in  this  sense  it  is  used  wit  h  regard 
to  ordinary  laborers  (1  S  2  5;  2  Ch  24  12),  or 
mercenary  soldiers  (2  S  10  G;  2  K  7  0;  1  Ch  19 
G;  2  Ch  25  G),  or  a  goldsmith  (Isa  46  6),  or  a 
band  of  loose  followers  (Jgs  9  4),  or  a  false  priest 
(Jgs  18  4),  or  Balaam  (Dt  23  4;  Neh  13  2),  or 
hostile  counsellors  (Ezr  4  5),  or  false  prophets  (Neh 
6  12  f).  As  a  verbal  adj.  it  refers  to  things  (Ex 
22  15;  Isa  7  20)  or  men  (Lew  19  13;  Jer  46  21). 
(b)  As  a  noun  it  denotes  the  wage  in  money,  or  some- 
thing else,  paid  to  workmen  for  their  services  (Gen 
30  32  f;  31  8;  Dt  24  15;  1  K  5  G;  Zee  8  10), 
or  the  rent  or  hire  paid  for  a  thing  (Ex  22  15),  or 
a  work-beast  (Zee  8  10).  In  Gen  30  1G  Leah  hires 
from  Rachel  the  privilege  of  having  Jacob  with  her 
again,  and  her  conception  and  the  subsequent  birth 
of  a  son,  she  calls  her  hire  or  wage  from  the  Lord 
for  the  gift  of  her  slave  girl  to  Jacob  as  a  concubine 
(Cen  30  18). 

(2)  The  other  word  trd  hire  is  "JPK  ,  'cthndn, 
once  "js^X  >  'ethnan.  It  is  rather  a  gift  (from  root 
■jP! ,  ndthan,  "to  give")  than  a  wage  earned  by 
labor,  and  is  used  uniformly  in  a  bad  sense.  It  is 
the  gift  made  to  a  harlot  (Dt  23  18),  or,  reversing 
the  usual  custom,  made  by  the  harlot  nation  (Ezk 
16  31.41).  It  was  also  used  metaphorically  of  the 
gifts  made  by  Israelites  to  idols,  since  this  was 
regarded  as  spiritual  harlotry  (Isa  23  17  f;  Mic 
1  7;  cf  alsollos  8  9f). 

In  the  Eng.  NT  the  word  occurs  once  as  a  vb. 
and  3  t  as  a  noun  as  the  tr  of  fua66s,  misthds,  and 
its  verbal  form.  In  Mt  20  1.8  and  Jas  5  4  it 
refers  to  the  hiring  of  ordinary  field  laborers  for  a 
daily  wage.  In  Lk  10  7  it  signifies  the  stipend 
which  is  due  the  laborer  in  the  spiritual  work  of  the 
kingdom  of  God.  It  is  a  wage,  earned  by  toil,  as 
that  of  other  laborers.  The  word  is  very  significant 
here  and  absolutely  negatives  the  idea,  all  too 
prevalent,  that  money  received  by  the  spiritual  toiler 
is  a  gift.  It  is  rather  a  wage,  the  reward  of  real  toil. 
William  Joseph  McGlothlin 

HIRELING,  hir'ling  ("P?E,  sakhir):  Occurs 
only  6  t  in  the  OT,  and  uniformly  means  a  laborer 
for  a  wage.  In  Job  7  1  f  there  is  reference  to  the 
hireling's  anxiety  for  the  close  of  the  day.  In  Isa 
16  14  and  21  1G  the  length  of  the  years  of  a  hireling 
is  referred  to,  probably  because  of  the  accuracy 
with  which  they  were  determined  by  the  employer 
and  the  employee.  Malachi  (3  5)  speaks  of  the 
oppression  of  the  hireling  in  his  wages,  probably  by 
the  smallness  of  the  wage  or  by  in  some  way  de- 
frauding him  of  part  of  it. 

In  the  NT  the  word  "hireling"  (pucrdwTos,  misthotds) 
occurs  only  in  Jn  10  12  f,  where  his  neglect  of  the 
sheep  is  contrasted  unfavorably  with  the  care  and 
courage  of  the  shepherd  who  owns  the  sheep,  who 
leads  them  to  pasture  and  lays  down  his  life  for  their 
protection  from  danger  and  death. 

William  Joseph  McGlothlin 

HIS,  hiz:  Used  often  in  AV  with  reference  to  a 
neuter  or  inanimate  thing,  or  to  a  lower  animal 


(Gen  1  11,  "after  his  kind";  Lev  1  1G,  "pluck 
away  his  crop";  Acts  12  10,  "of  his  own  accord"; 
1  Cor  15  38,  "his  own  body"),  etc.  RV  substi- 
tutes "its." 

HISS,  his  (p^Tp ,  shdrak) :  "To  hiss"  has  two  appli- 
cations: (1)  to  call,  (2)  to  express  contempt  or 
scorn. 

(1)  It  is  the  tr  of  shdrak,  a  mimetic  word  meaning 
to  hiss  or  whistle,  to  call  (bees,  etc),  (a)  Isa  5  26, 
"I  will  hiss  unto  them  from  the  ends  of  the  earth," 
RV  "hiss  for  them  [m  "him"]  from  the  end  of  the 
earth";  7  18,  "Jeh  will  hiss  for  tin;  fly  that  is  in  the 
uttermost  part  of  the  rivers  of  Egypt,  and  for  the  bee 
that  is  in  the  land  of  Assyria" ;  viz.  Egyptians  whose 
land  was  noted  for  flics  (18  1)  and  Assyrians  whose 
country  was  preeminently  one  of  bees.  Danger- 
ous enemies  are  compared  to  bees  in  Dt  1  44; 
Ps  118  12  (Skinner's  Isaiah) :  Zee  10  8,  "I  will  hiss 
for  them,  and  gather  them"  (His  own  people,  who 
will  come  at  His  call). 

(2)  More  often,  to  hiss  is  to  express  contempt  or 
derision  (1  K  9  8;  Job  27  23;  Jer  19  8,  etc). 
In  this  sense  we  have  also  frequently  a  hissing  (2 
Ch  29  8;  Jer  19  8;  25  9.18;  29  18;  51  37;  Mic 
6  16,  sherekah);  Jer  18  16,  sffrlkoth  or  sherukoth; 
Ecclus  22  1,  "Every  one  will  hiss  him  [the  slothful 
man]  out  in  his  disgrace"  (eksurisso,  "to  hiss  out"); 
Wisd  17  9,  "hissing  of  serpents"  {suritptios). 

W.  L.  Walker 
HITHERTO,  hith'er-too  (to  this):    Used  of  both 
place  and  time.     It  is  the  tr  of  various  words  and 
phrases : 

(1)  Of  place,  <adh  hdldm  (2  S  7  18,  "Thou  hast 
brought  me  hitherto,"  RV  "thus  far";  1  Ch  17  16; 
perhaps  1  S  7  12,  xadh  henndh,  "Hitherto  hath  Jeh 
helped  us"  [in  connection  with  the  setting  up  of  the 
stone  Ebcnczer])  belongs  to  this  head ;  henndh  is 
properly  an  adv.  of  place;  it  might  always  be  ren- 
dered "thus  far." 

(2)  Of  time,  Kadh  kuh,  "unto  this"  (Ex  7  16, 
"Hitherto  thou  hast  not  hearkened";  Josh  17  14, 
"Hitherto  Jeh  hath  blessed  me");  me'dz,  "from 
then"  (2  S  15  34,  RV  "in  time  past");  hdl°'dh, 
"beyond,"  etc  (Isa  18  7,  "terrible  from  their  be- 
ginning hitherto,"  RV  "onward");  \idh  kdh,  Aram. 
(Dnl  7  28,  RV  "here,"  m  "hitherto");  <ad~h  hen- 
ndh, "unto  here"  (Jgs  16  13;  1  S  1  16;  Ps  71  17, 
etc);  dchri  toil  deuro  (Rom  1  13,  "was  let  [RV 
"hindered"]  hitherto");  Mas  drti,  "until  now"  (Jn 
5  17,  "My  Father  worketh  hitherto,  and  I  work," 
RV  "even  until  now,"  that  is,  "on  the  Sabbath  as 
well  as  on  other  days,  and  I  do  as  He  does";  16  24, 
"Hitherto  have  ye  asked  nothing  in  my  name:  ask, 
and  ye  shall  receive,"  that  is  "up  till  now";  "now 
ask  in  my  name  and  ye  shall  receive");  oupo,  "not 
yet"  (1  Cor  3  2,  "Hitherto  ye  were  not  able  to 
bear  it,"  RV  "not  yet").  W.  L.  Walker 

HITTITES,  hit'its  (Tin  ^2,  D^nn,  b*ne  hcth, 
hiltim;  XeTTcuoi,  Chettaioi):  One  of  the  seven 
nations  conquered  by  Israel  in  Pal. 

I.     OT  Notices 

1.  Enumeration  of  Races 

2.  Individuals 

3.  Later  Mention 
II.     History 

1.  Sources 

2.  Chronology 

3.  Egyptian  Invasions:  XVIIIth  Dynasty 

4.  "The  Great  King" 

5.  Egyptian  Invasions:    XlXth   Dynasty 
0.    Declension  of  Power:    Aryan   Invasion 

7.  Second  Aryan  Invasion 

8.  Assyrian  Invasions 

9.  Invasion  by  Assur-nasir-pal 

10.  Invasions  by   Shalmaheser   II   and   Kimmon- 
nirari  III 

11.  Revolts  and  Invasions 

12.  Break-up  of  Hittite  Power 

13.  Mongols  in  Syria 


Hittites 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1396 


III.       L  iNOUAGE 

Mongol  Race 

Hittite  and  Egyptian  Monuments 
Hair  and  Beard 
Hittite  Dress 
Hittite  Names 

Vocabulary  of  Pterium  Epistles 
7.   Tell  el-Amarna  Tablet 
IV.     Religion 

1.  Polytheism:  Names  of  Deities 

2.  Religious  Symbolism 
V.     Script 

1.  ( 'unciform  and  Hieroglyphic 

2.  I  )escription  of  Signs 

3.  Interpretation  of  Monuments 
Literature 

/.    OT Notices. — The  "sons  of  Hcth"  are  noticed 

12  t  and  the  Hittites  4S  t  in  the  OT.     In  21  cases 

the  name  occurs  in    the    enumeration 

1.  Enumer-  of  races,  in  Syria  and  Canaan,  which  are 
ation  of  said  (Gen  10  6  f )  to  have  been  akin 
Races              to  the  early  inhabitants  of  Chaldaea 

and  Babylon.  From  at  least  2000 
BC  this  population  is  known,  from  monumental 
records,  to  have  been  partly  Sem  and  partly  Mon- 
golia; and  the  same  mixed  race  is  represented  by  the 
Hittite  records  recently  discovered  in  Cappadocia  and 
Pontus.  Thus  while  the  Canaanites  ("lowlanders"), 
Amorites  (probably  "highlanders"),  Hivites  ("tribes- 
men") and  Perizzites  ("rustics")  bear  Sem  titles,  the 
Hittites,  Jebusites  and  Girgashites  appear  to  have 
non-Sem  names.  Ezekiel  (16  3.45)  speaks  of  the 
Jebusites  as  a  mixed  Hittite-Amorite  people. 

The  names  of  Hittites  noticed  in  the  OT  include 
several  that  are  Sem   (Ahimelech,   Judith,   Bashe- 

math,  etc),  but  others  like  Uriah  and 

2.  Individ-    Beeri  (Gen  26  34)  which  are  probably 
uals  non-Sem.     Uriah  appears  to  have  mar- 
ried  a   Heb    wife     (Bathsheba),    and 

Esau  in  like  manner  married  Hittite  women  (Gen 
26  34;  36  2).  In  the  time  of  Abraham  we  read 
of  Hittites  as  far  S.  as  Hebron  (Gen  23  3  ff;  27  40), 
but  there  is  no  historic  improbability  in  this  at  a 
time  when  the  same  race  appears  (see  Zoan)  to 
have  ruled  in  the  Nile  Delta  (but  see  Gray  in  Expos, 
May,  1898,  340  f). 


^H^ 

r^: 

,  ***-»   ft  •)  ...  ,5p 

;]Wmi> 

wv-tff1^^ 

Uu. 

~'::.,.        ">#&   ...   V: 

fLxlJ* 

'   ?*' J>    •:  J?  . 

^%; 

Lion-Gate  at  Boghaz-keui. 

In  later  times  the  "land  of  the  Hittites"  (Josh  1 
4;   Jgs  1  26)  was  in  Syria  and  near  the  Euphrates 

(see  Tahtim-hodshi)  ;  though  Uriah 
3.  Later  (2  S  11)  lived  in  Jerus,  and  Ahimelech 

Mention         (1  S  26  6)    followed    David.     In   the 

time  of  Solomon  (1  K  10  29),  the 
"kings  of  the  Hittites"  are  mentioned  with  the 
"kings  of  Syria,"  and  were  still  powerful  a  century 
later  (2  K  7  6).  Solomon  himself  married  Hittite 
wives  (1  K  11  1),  and  a  few  Hittites  seem  still  to 
have  been  left  in  the  S.  (2  Ch  8  7),  even  in  his  time, 
if  not  after  the  captivity  (Ezr  9  1;    Neh  9  8). 

//.   History. — The   Hittites   were  known   to   the 
Assyrians  as  Haiti,  and  to  the  Egyptians  as  Kheta, 

and  their  history  has  been  very  fully 
1.  Sources    recovered    from    the    records    of    the 

XVIIIth  and  XlXth  Egyp  Dynasties, 
from  the  Am  Tab,  from  Assyr  annals  and,  quite 


recently,  from  copies  of  letters  addressed  to  Bab 
rulers  by  the  Hittite  kings,  discovered  by  Dr.  H. 
Winekler  in  the  ruins  of  Boghaz-kevi  ("the  town 
of  the  pass"),  the  ancient  Pterium  in  Pontus,  E. 
of  the  river  Halys.  The  earliest  known  notice 
(King,  Egypt  and  W.  Asia,  250)  is  in  the  reign  of 
Saamsu-ditana,  the  last  king  of  the  first  Bab  Dy- 
nasty, about  2000  BC,  when  the  Hittites  marched 
on  the  "land  of  Akkad,"  or  "highlands"  N.  of  Meso- 
potamia. 

The  chronology  of  the  Hittites  has  been  made 
clear  by  the  notices  of  contemporary  rulers  in  Baby- 
lonia,    Matiene,     Syria    and     Egypt, 

2.  Chronol-  found  by  Winekler  in  the  Hittite 
ogy  correspondence  above  noticed,  and  is 

of  great  importance  to  Bible  history, 
because,  taken  in  conjunction  with  the  Am  Tab, 
with  the  Kassite  monuments  of  Nippur,  with  the 
Bab  chronicles  and  contemporary  chronicles  of 
Babylon  and  Assyria,  it  serves  to  fix  the  dates  of  the 
Egyp  kings  of  the  XVIIIth  and  XlXth  Dynasties 
which  were  previously  uncertain  by  nearly  a  century, 
but  which  may  now  be  regarded  as  settled  within  a 
few  years.  From  the  Am  Tab  it  is  known  that 
Thothmes  IV  was  contemporary  with  the  father 
of  Adad-nirari  of  Assyria  (Berlin  no.  30),  and 
Amenophis  IV  with  Burna-burias  of  Babylon 
(Brit.  Mus.  no.  2);  while  a  letter  from  Hattu-sil, 
the  Hittite  contemporary  of  Rameses  II,  was 
addressed  to  Kadashman-Turgu  of  Babylon  on  the 
occasion  of  his  accession.  These  notices  serve  to 
show  that  the  approximate  dates  given  by  Brugsch 
for  the  Pharaohs  are  more  correct  than  those  pro- 
posed by  Mahler;  and  the  following  table  will  be 
useful  for  the  understanding  of  the  history — Thoth- 
mes III  being  known  to  have  reigned  54  years, 
Amenophis  111  at  least  36  years,  and  Rameses  II, 
66  years  or  more.  The  approximate  dates  appear  to 
be  thus  fixed. 

The  Hyksos  race  having  been  expelled  from  the 

Delta  by  Aahmes,   the  founder  of  the    XVIIIth 

(Theban)    Dynasty,    after    1700    BC, 

3.  Egyptian  the  great  trade  route  through  Pal  and 
Invasions:  Syria  was  later  conquered  by  Thothmes 
XVIIIth  1,  who  set  up  a  monument  on  the  W. 
Dynasty         bank  of  the  Euphrates.  _  The  conquests 

of  Aahmes  were  maintained  by  his  suc- 
cessors Amenophis  I  and  Thothmes  I  and  II;  but 
when  Thothmes  III  attained  his  majority  (about 
1580  BC),  a  great  league  of  Syrian  tribes  and  of 
Canaanites,  from  Sharuhen  near  Gaza  and  "from 
the  water  of  Egypt,  as  far  as  the  land  of  Naharain" 
(Aram-naharaim),  opposed  this  Pharaoh  in  his  22d 
year,  being  led  by  the  king  of  Kadesh — probably 
Kadesh  on  the  Orontes  (now  Kedes,  N.  of  Riblah) — 
but  they  were  defeated  near  Megiddo  in  Central 
Pal;  and  in  successive  campaigns  down  to  his  31st 
year,  Thothmes  III  reconquered  the  Pal  plains,  and 
all  Syria  to  Carchemish  on  the  Euphrates.  In  his 
29th  year,  after  the  conquest  of  Tuneb  (now  Tennib, 
W.  of  Arpad),  he  mentions  the  tribute  of  the  Hit- 
tites including  "304  lbs  in  8  rings  of  silver,  a  great 
piece  of  white  precious  stone,  and  zagu  wood." 
They  were,  however,  still  powerful,  and  further  wars 
in  Syria  were  waged  by  Amenophis  II,  while  Thoth- 
mes IV  also  speaks  of  his  first  "campaign  against 
the  land  of  the  Kheta."  Adad-nirari  I  wrote  to 
Egypt  to  say  that  Thothmes  IV  had  established 
his  father  (Bel-tiglat-Assur)  as  ruler  of  the  land  of 
Marhasse  (probably  Mer'ash  in  the  extreme  N.  of 
Syria),  and  to  ask  aid  against  the  "king  of  the  land 
of  the  Hittites."  Against  the  increasing  power  of 
this  race  Thothmes  IV  and  his  son  Amenophis  111 
strengthened  themselves  by  marriage  alliances  with 
the  Kassite  kings  of  Babylon,  and  with  the  cognate 
rulers  of  Matiene,  E.  of  the  Hittite  lands  of  Syria, 
and  Cappadocia.    Dusratta  of  Matiene,  whose  sister 


1397 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Hittites 


Gilukhepa  was  married  by  Amenophis  III  in  his 
10th  year,  wrote  subsequently  to  this  Pharaoh  to 
announce  his  own  accession  (Am  Tab,  Brit.  Mus. 
no.  9)  and  his  defeat  of  the  Hittites,  sending  a  two- 
horse  chariot  and  a  young  man  and  young  woman 
as  "spoils  of  the  land  of  the  Hittites." 

About  this  time  (1480  BC)  arose  a  great  Hittite 
ruler    bearing    the    strange    name    Subbiliuliuma, 

similar  to  that  of  Sapalulmi,  chief  of 
4.  "The  the  Hattinai,  in  North  Syria,  men- 
Great  King"  tioned  by  Shalmaneser  II  in  the  9th 

cent.  BC.  He  seems  to  have  ruled  at 
Pterium,  and  calls  himself  "the  great  king,  the  noble 
king  of  the  Hatti."  He  allied  himself  against 
Dusratta  with  Artatama,  king  of  the  Harri  or  North 
Syrians.  The  Syrian  Hittites  in  Marhassi,  N.  of 
the  land  of  the  Amorites,  were  led  shortly  after  by 
Edugamma  of  Kinza  (probably  Kittiz,  N.  of  Arpad) 
in  alliance  with  Aziru  the  Amorite,  on  a  great  raid 
into  Phoenicia  and  to  Bashan,  S.  of  Damascus. 
Thus  it  appears  that  the  Amorites  had  only  reached 
this   region    shortly    before    the   Heb   conquest    of 


The  XVIIIth  Dynasty  was  succeeded,  about 
1400  BC,  or  a  little  later,  by  the  XlXth,  and 
Rameses  I  appears  to  have  been  the 
5.  Egyptian  Pharaoh  who  made  the  treaty  which 
Invasions:  Mursilis,  brother  of  Arandas,  con- 
XlXth  tracted     with     Egypt.     But    on     the 

Dynasty  accession  of  Seti  1,  son  of  Rameses  I, 
the  Syrian  tribes  prepared  to  "make 
a  stand  in  the  country  of  the  Harri"  against  the 
Egyp  resolution  to  recover  the  suzerainty  of  their 
country.  Seti  I  claims  to  have  conquered  "Kadesh 
(on  the  Orontes)  in  the  Land  of  the  Amorites,"  and 
it  is  known  that  Mutallis,  the  eldest  son  of  Mur- 
silis, fought  against  Egypt.  According  to  his 
younger  brother  Hattusil,  he  was  a  tyrant,  who 
was  finally  driven  out  by  his  subjects  and  died  before 
the  accession  of  Kadashman-Turgu  (about  1355  BC) 
in  Babylon.  Hattusil,  the  contemporary  of  Rameses 
II,  then  seized  the  throne  as  "great  king  of  the 
Hittites"  and  "king  of  Kus"  ("Cush,"  Gen  2  13), 
a  term  which  in  the  Akkadian  language  meant  "the 
West."     In    his    2d    year    Rameses    II    advanced, 


CONTEMPORARIES   OF  THE   HITTITE   KINGS 


Babylon 

Assyria 

Egypt 

1529   BC, 

l\ssi 

c 

1520  BC 

Bcl-tiglat-Assur 

c 

1520  BC, 

Thothmes  IV 

1521      " 

Adumetas 

1510      " 

Tazzigurumas 

1500      " 

Agukakrime 

c 

1500      " 

Rinnnon-nirari  I 

1490      " 

Kadashman-Aku 

c 

1490      " 

Amenophis  III 

14S0      " 

Kadashman-indas 

c 

14S0      " 

Assur-Bcl-nisisu 

1475      " 

Kuri-galzu  I 

c 

1454      " 

Amenophis  IV 

1440      " 

Burna-burias 

c 

1450      " 

Buzur-Assur 

c 

1430      " 

I I or us 

1400      " 

Kadashman-urutas 

c 

1430      " 

Assur-uballidh 

c 

1400      " 

Rameses  I 

1395      " 

Kuri-galzu  II 

c 

1390     " 

Bel-nirari  I 

1355      " 

Nazimarutas 

c 

1360      " 

Arik-den-ilu 

c 

13C)0      " 

Seti  I 

1335      " 

Kadashman-Turgu 

c 

1340      " 

Adad-nirari  II 

c 

1337      " 

Rameses  II 

1320      " 

Kadashman-burias 

c 

1320      " 

Shalmaneser  I 

1300      " 

Kadashman-Enlil 

c 

1300      " 

Tukulti-Ninip 

1285      " 

Sagarakti-burias 

1270      " 

Rimmon-nadin-akhi 

c 

1205      " 

Bel-kudur-usur 

c 

1270      " 

Merenptah 

1240      " 

Rimmon-sum-nasir 

c 

1235      " 

Adar-bal-asa'r 

c 

1235      " 

Seti  II 

1210      " 

Zagaga-sum-edin' 

c 

1200      " 

Assur-dan 

1170      " 

Marduk-bal-edin 

c 

1175      " 

Mutakkil-Nusku 

c 

1200      " 

Rameses  III 

Bashan.  Amenophis  III  repelled  them  in  Phoeni- 
cia, and  Subbiliuliuma  descended  on  Kinza,  having 
made  a  treaty  with  Egypt,  and  captured  Edugamma 
and  his  father  Suttatarra.  He  also  conquered  the 
land  of  Ikata  which  apparently  lay  E.  of  the  Eu- 
phrates and  8.  of  Carchemish.  Some  30  years 
later,  in  the  reign  of  Amenophis  IV,  Dusratta  of 
Matiene  was  murdered,  and  his  kingdom  was 
attacked  by  the  Assyrians;  but  Subbiliuliuma, 
though  not  a  friend  of  Dusratta  with  whom  he 
disputed  the  suzerainty  of  North  Syria,  sent  aid 
to  Dusratta's  son  Mattipiza,  whom  he  set  on  his 
throne,  giving  him  his  own  daughter  as  a  wife.  A 
little  later  (about  1440  BC)  Aziru  the  Amorite,  who 
had  been  subject  to  Amenophis  III,  submitted  to 
this  same  great  Hittite  ruler,  and  was  soon  able  to 
conquer  the  whole  of  Phoenicia  down  to  Tyre.  All 
the  Egyp  conquests  were  thus  lost  in  the  latter  part 
of  the  reign  of  Amenophis  III,  and  in  that  of  Ameno- 
phis IV.  Only  Gaza  seems  to  have  been  retained, 
and  Burna-burias  of  Babylon,  writing  to  Amenophis 
IV,  speaks  of  the  Canaanite  rebellion  as  beginning 
in  the  time  of  his  father  Kuri-galzu  I  (Am  Tab, 
Brit.  Mus.  no.  2),  and  of  subsequent  risings  in  his 
own  time  (Berlin  no.  7)  which  interrupted  communi- 
cation with  Egypt.  Assur-yuballidh  of  Assyria 
(Berlin  no.  9),  writing  to  the  same  Pharaoh,  states 
also  that  the  relations  with  Assyria,  which  dated 
back  even  to  the  time  of  Assur-nadin-akhi  (about 
1550  BC),  had  ceased.  About  this  earlier  period 
Thothmes  III  records  that  he  received  presents  from 
Assyria.  The  ruin  of  Egypt  thus  left  the  Hittites 
independent,  in  North  Syria,  about  the  time  when 
— according  to  OT  chronology — Pal  was  conquered 
by  Joshua.  They  probably  acknowledged  Arandas, 
the  successor  of  Subbiliuliuma,  as  their  suzerain. 


after  the  capture  of  Ashkelon,  as  far  as  Beirut,  and 
in  his  5th  year  he  advanced  on  Kadesh  where  he 
was  opposed  by  a  league  of  the  natives  of  "the  land 
of  the  Kheta,  the  land  of  Naharain,  and  of  all  the 
Kati"  (or  inhabitants  of  Cilicia),  among  which  con- 
federates the  "prince  of  Aleppo"  is  specially  noticed. 
The  famous  poem  of  Pentaur  gives  an  exaggerated 
account  of  the  victory  won  by  Rameses  II  at 
Kadesh,  over  the  allies,  who  included  the  people 
of  Carchemish  and  of  many  other  unknown  places; 
for  it  admits  that  the  Egyp  advance  was  not  con- 
tinued, and  that  peace  was  concluded.  A  second 
war  occurred  later  (when  the  sons  of  Rameses  II 
were  old  enough  to  take  part),  and  a  battle  was 
then  fought  at  Tuneb  (Teunib)  far  N.  of  Kadesh, 
probably  about  1316  BC.  The  celebrated  treaty 
between  Rameses  II  and  Hattusil  was  then  made,  in 
the  21st  year  of  the  first  named.  It  was  engraved 
on  a  silver  tablet  having  on  the  back  the  image  of 
Set  (or  Sutekh),  the  Hittite  god  of  heaven,  and  was 
brought  to  Egypt  by  Tar-Tessubas,  the  Hittite 
envoy.  The  two  "great  kings"  treated  together 
as  equals,  and  formed  a  defensive  and  offensive 
alliance,  with  extradition  clauses  which  show  the 
advanced  civilization  of  the  age.  In  the  34th 
year  of  his  reign,  Rameses  II  (who  was  then  over 
50  years  of  age)  married  a  daughter  of  llattusil, 
who  wrote  to  a  son  of  Kadashman-Turgu  (probably 
Kadashman-burias)  to  inform  this  Kassite  ruler  of 
Babylon  of  the  event.  He  states  in  another  letter 
that  he  was  allied  by  marriage  to  the  father  of 
Kadashman-Turgu,  but  the  relations  between  the 
Kassite  rulers  and  the  Hittites  were;  not  very  cordial, 
and  complaints  were  made  on  both  sides.  llattusil 
died  before  Rameses  II,  who  ruled  to  extreme  old 
age;  for  the  latter  (and  his  queen)  wrote  letters  to 


Hittites 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1398 


Pudukhipa,  the  widow  of  this  successful  Hittite 
overlord.  He  was  succeeded  by  Dudhalia,  who 
calls  himself  "the  great  king"  and  the  "sou  of 
Pudukhipa  the  great  queen,  queen  of  the  land  of 
the  city  of  the  Hatti." 


Hittite  King  and  Daughter. 

The  Hittite  power  began  now,  however,  to  decline, 

in  consequence  of  attacks  from  the  \Y.  by  hostile 

Aryan  invaders.     In  the  5th  year  of 

6.  Declen-  Seti  Merenptah  II,  son  of  Rameses  11, 
sion  of  these  fair  "peoples  of  the  North"  raided 
Power:  the  Syrian  coasts,  and  advanced  even 
Aryan  In-  to  Belbeis  and  Heliopolis  in  Egypt, 
vasion  in   alliance   with   the   Libyans    W.   of 

the  Delta.  They  were  defeated,  and 
Merenptah  appears  to  have  pursued  them  even  to 
Pa-Kan'ana  near  Tyre.  A  text  of  his  5th  year 
(found  by  Dr.  Flinders  Petrie  in  1896)  speaks  of 
this  campaign,  and  says  that  while  "Israel  is  spoiled" 
the  "Hittites  are  quieted":  for  Merenptah  appears 
to  have  been  on  good  terms  with  them,  and  allowed 
corn  to  be  sent  in  ships  "to  preserve  the  life  of 
this  people  of  the  Hatti."  Dudhalia  was  succeeded 
by  his  son  "Arnuanta  the  great  king,"  of  whom 
a  bilingual  seal  has  been  found  by  Dr.  Winckler, 
in  Hittite  and  cuneiform  characters;  but  the  con- 
federacy of  Hittite  tribes  which  had  so  long  resisted 
Egypt  seems  to  have  been  broken  up  by  these 
disasters  and  by  the  increasing  power  of  Assyria. 

A  second  invasion  by  the  Aryans  occurred  in  the 
reign  of  Rameses  III  (about  1200  BC)  when  "agi- 
tation seized  the  peoples  of  the  North," 

7.  Second  and  "no  people  stood  before  their 
Aryan  In-  arms,  beginning  with  the  people  of  the 
vasion  Hatti,  of  the  Kati,  of  Carchemish  and 

Aradus."  The  invaders,  including  Da- 
nai  (or  early  Greeks),  came  by  land  and  sea  to 
Egypt,  but  were  again  defeated,  and  Rameses  III — 
the  last  of  the  great  Pharaohs — pursued  them  far 
north,  and  is  even  supposed  by  Brugsch  to  have 
conquered  Cyprus.  Among  the  cities  which  he  took 
he  names  Carchemish,  and  among  his  captives  were 
"the  miserable  king  of  the  Hatti,  a  living  prisoner," 
and  the  "miserable  king  of  the  Amorites." 

Half  a  century  later  (1150  BC)  the  Assyrians 
began  to  invade  Syria,  and  Assur-ris-isi  reached 
Beirut ;  for  even  as  early  as  about  1270  BC  Tukulti- 
Ninip  of  Assyria  had  conquered  the  Kassites,  and 
had  set  a  Sem  prince  on  their  throne  in  Babylon. 
Early  in  his  reign  (about  1130  BC)  Tiglath-pileser  I 


claims  to  have  subdued  42  kings,  marching  "to  the 

fords  of  the  Euphrates,  the  land  of  the  Hatti,  and 

the  upper  sea  of  the  setting  sun" — or 

8.  Assyrian   Mediterranean.     Soldiers  of  the  Hatti 
Invasions       had  seized  the  cities  of  Sumasti  (prob- 
ably Samosata) ,  but  the  Assyr  conqueror 

made  his  soldiers  swim  the  Euphrates  on  skin  bags, 
and  so  attacked  "Carchemish  of  the  land  of  the 
Hittites."  The  Moschians  in  Cappadocia  were  aj>- 
parently  of  Hittite  race,  and  were  ruled  by  5  kings: 
for  50  years  they  had  exacted  tribute  in  Comma- 
gene  (Northeastern  Syria),  and  they  were  defeated, 
though  placing  20,000  men  in  the  field  against, 
Tiglath-pileser  I.  He  advanced  to  Kumani  (prob- 
ably Comana  in  Cappadocia),  and  to  Arini  which 
was  apparently  the  Hittite  capital  called  Arinas 
(now  Iranes),  W.  of  Caesarea  in  the  same  region. 

The  power  of  the  Hittites  was  thus  broken  by 

Assyria,  yet  they  continued  the  struggle  for  more 

than  4  centuries  afterward.     After  the 

9.  Invasion  defeat  of  Tiglath-pileser  I  by  Marduk- 
by  Assur-  nadin-akhi  of  Babylon  (1128-1111 
nasir-pal        BC),  there  is  a  gap  in  Assyr  records, 

and  we  next  hear  of  the  Hittites  in  the 
reign  of  Assur-nasir-pal  (883-858  BC);  he  entered 
CoTinnagene,  and  took  tribute  from  "the  son  of 
Bahian  of  the  land  of  the  Hatti,"  and  from  "San- 
gara of  Carchemish  in  the  land  of  the  Hatti,"  so 
that  it  appears  that  the  Hittites  no  longer  acknowl- 
edged a  single  "great  king."  They  were,  however, 
still  rich,  judging  from  the  spoil  taken  at  Carche- 
mish, which  included  20  talents  of  silver,  beads, 
chains,  and  sword  scabbards  of  gold,  100  talents 
of  copper,  250  talents  of  iron,  and  bronze  objects 
from  the  palace  representing  sacred  bulls,  bowls, 
cups  and  censers,  couches,  scats,  thrones,  dishes, 
instruments  of  ivory  and  200  slave  girls,  besides 
embroidered  robes  of  linen  and  of  black  and  purple 
stuffs,  gems,  elephants'  tusks,  chariots  and  horses. 
The  Assyr  advance  continued  to  (Azzaz  in  North 
Syria,  and  to  the  Afrtn  river,  in  the  country  of  the 
Hattinai  who  were  no  doubt  Hittites,  where  similar 
spoils  are  noticed,  with  1,000 oxen  and  10,000 sheep: 
the  pagutu,  or  "maces"  which  the  Syrian  kings  used 
as  scepters,  and  which  are  often  represented  on 
Hittite  monuments,  are  specially  mentioned  in  this 
record.  Assur-nasir-pal  reached  the  Mediterranean 
at  Arvad,  and  received  tribute  from  "kings  of 
the  sea  coast"  including  those  of  Gebal,  Sidon  and 
Tyre.  He  reaped  the  corn  of  the  Hittites,  and  from 
Mt.  Amanus  in  North  Syria  he  took  logs  of  cedar, 
pine,  box  and  cvpress. 

His  son  Shalmaneser  II  (858-823  BC)  also  in- 
vaded Syria  in  his  1st  year,  and  again  mentions 

Sangara  of  Carchemish,  with  Sapalulmi 

10.  Inva-  of  the  Hattinai.  In  Commagene  the 
sions  by  chief  of  the  Gamgums  bore  the  old 
Shalma-  Hittite  name  Mutallis.  In  856  BC 
neserlland  Shalmaneser  II  attacked  Mer'ash  and 
Rimmon-  advanced  by  Dabigu  (now  Toipuk) 
nirari  III  to  'Azzaz.  He  took  from  the  Hat- 
tinai 3  talents  of  gold,  100  of  silver, 

300  of  copper,  1,000  bronze  vases  and  1,000  em- 
broidered robes.  He  also  accepted  as  wives  a 
daughter  of  Mutallis  and  another  Syrian  princess. 
Two  years  later  120,000  Assyrians  raided  the  same 
region,  but  the  southward  advance  was  barred 
by  the  great  Syrian  league  which  came  to  the 
aid  of  Irhulena,  king  of  Hamath,  who  was  not  sub- 
dued till 'about  840  BC.  In  836  BC  the  people  of 
Tubal,  and  the  Kati  of  Cappadocia  and  Cilicia,  were 
again  attacked.  In  831  BC  Qubarna,  the  vassal 
king  of  the  Hattinai  in  Syria,  was  murdered  by  his 
subjects,  and  an  Assyr  tarlanu  or  general  was  sent 
to  restore  order.  The  rebels  under  Sapalulmi  had 
been  confederated  with  Sangara  of  Carchemish. 
Adad-nirari  III,  grandson  of  Shalmaneser  II,  was 


1399 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Hittites 


the  next  Assyr  conqueror:  in  80.1  BC  he  attacked 

'Azzaz  and  Arpad,  but  the  resistance  of  the 
Syrians  was  feeble,  and  presents  were;  sent  from 
Tyre,  Sidon,  Damascus  and  Edom.  This  conqueror 
states  that  he  subdued  "the  land  of  the  Hittites, 
the  land  of  the  Amorites,  to  the  limits  of  the  land 
of  Sidon,"  as  well  as  Damascus,  Edom  and  Philistia. 
But  the  Hittites  were  not  as  yet  thoroughly  sub- 
dued, and  often  revolted.  In  738  BC  Tiglath- 
pileser  II  mentions  among  his  tribu- 

11.  Revolts  taries  a  chief  of  the  Gamgums  bearing 
and  In-  the  Hittite  name  Tarku-lara,  with 
vasions  Pisiris    of    Carchemish.     In    702    BC 

Sennacherib  passed  peacefully  through 
the  "land  of  the  Hatti"  on  his  way  to  Sidon:  for 
in  717  BC  Sargon  had  destroyed  Carchemish,  and 
had  taken  many  of  the  Hittites  prisoners,  sending 
them  away  far  east  and  replacing  them  by  Baby- 
lonians. Two  years  later  he  in  the  same  way  took 
the  Hamathites  as  captives  to  Assyria.  Some  of 
the  Hittites  may  have  fled  to  the  S.,  for  in  709  BC 
Sargon  states  that  the  king  of  Ashdod  was  deposed 
by  "people  of  the  Hatti  plotting  rebellion  who  des- 
pised his  rule,"  and  who  set  up  Azuri  instead. 

The  power  of  the  Hittites  was  thus  entirely  broken 
before  Sennacherib's  time,  but  they  were  not  entirely 

exterminated,   for,   in   G73   BC,  Esar- 

12.  Break-  haddon  speaks  of  "twenty-two  kings 
up  of  Hit-  of  the  Hatti  and  near  the  sea."  Hittite 
tite  Power     names  occur  in  712  BC  (Tarhu-nazi  of 

Meletene)  and  in  711  BC  '(Mutallis 
of  Commagene),  but  after  this  they  disappear. 
Yet,  even  in  a  recently  found  text  of  Nebuchad- 
nezzar (after  600  BC),  we  read  that  "chiefs  of  the 
land  of  the  Hattim,  bordering  on  the  Euphrates  to 
the  AY.,  where  by  command  of  Nergal  my  lord 
I  had  destroyed  their  rule,  were  made  to  bring 
strong  beams  from  the  mountain  of  Lebanon  to 
my  city  Babylon."  A  Hittite  population  seems  to 
have  survived  even  in  Rom  times  in  Cilicia  and 
Cappadocia,  for  (as  Dr.  Mordtman  observed)  a 
king  and  his  son  in  this  region  both  bore  the  name 
Tarkon-dimotos  in  the  time  of  Augustus,  according 
to  Dio  Cassius  and  Tacitus;  and  this  name  recalls 
that  of  Tarku-timme,  the  king  of  Erine  in  Cappa- 
docia, occurring  on  a  monument  which  shows  him 
as  brought  captive  before  an  Assyr  king,  while  the 
same  name  also  occurs  on  the  bilingual  silver  boss 
which  was  the  head  of  his  scepter,  inscribed  in 
Hittite  and  cuneiform  characters. 

The  power  of  the  Mongolic  race  decayed  gradu- 
ally as  that  of  the  Sem  Assyrians  increased;    but 
even  now  in  Syria  the  two  races  remain 

13.  Mon-  mingled,  and  Turkoman  nomads  still 
gols  in  camp  even  as  far  S.  as  the  site  of 
Syria  Kadesh  on  the  Orontes,  while  a  few 

tribes  of  the  same  stock  (which  entered 
Syria  in  the  Middle  Ages)  still  inhabit  the  plains 
of  Sharon  and  Esdraelon,  just  as  the  southern  Hit- 
tites dwelt  among  the  Amorites  at  Jerus  and  Hebron 
in  the  days  of  Abraham,  before  they  were  driven 
north  by  Thothmes  III. 

///.  Language. — The  questions  of  race  and  lan- 
guage in  early  times,  before  the  early  stocks  were 

mixed  or  decayed,  cannot  be  dissoci- 
1.  Mongol  ated,  and  we  have  abundant  evidence 
Race  of  the  racial  type  and  characteristic 

dress  of  the  Hittites.  The  late  Dr. 
Birch  of  the  British  Museum  pointed  out  the  Mon- 
gol character  of  the  Hittite  type,  and  his  opinion  has 
been  very  generally  adopted.  In  1888  Dr.  Sayce 
{The  Hittites,  15,  101)  calls  them  "Mongoloid," 
and  says,  "They  had  in  fact,  according  to  craniolo- 
gists,  the  characteristics  of  a  Mongoloid  race." 
This  was  also  the  opinion  of  Sir  W.  Flower;  and, 
if  the  Hittites  were  Mongols,  it  would  appear  prob- 
able that  they  spoke  a  Mongol  dialect.     It  is  also 


apparent  that,  in  this  case,  they  would  be  related 
t  o  1  he  old  Mongol  populat  ion  of  Chaldaea  (the  people 
of  Akkad  and  Sumir  or  "of  the  highlands  and  river 
valley")  from  whom  the  Sem  Babylonians  derived 
their  earliest  civilization. 


Passage- Frieze,  Iasili-kaia. 

The  Hittite  type  is  represented,  not  only  on  their 
own  monuments,  but  on  those  of  the  XVIIIth  and 

XlXth  Egyp  Dynasties,  including  a 
2.  Hittite  colored  picture  of  the  time  of  Rame- 
on  Egyp-  ses  III.  The  type  represented  has  a 
tian  Monu-  short  head  and  receding  forehead, 
ments  a    prominent    and    sometimes    rather 

curved  nose,  a  strong  jaw  and  a  hair- 
less face.  The  complexion  is  yellow,  the  eyes 
slightly  slanting,  the  hair  of  the  head  black,  and 
gathered  into  a  long  pigtail  behind.  The  physiog- 
nomy is  like  that  of  the  Sumerians  represented  on  a 
bas-relief  at  Tel-loh  (Zirgul)  in  Chaldaea,  and  very 
like  that  of  some  of  the  Kirghiz  Mongols  of  the 
present  time,  and  of  some  of  the  more  purely  Mon- 
golic Turks.  The  head  of  Gudea  at  Zirgul  in  like 
manner  shows  (about  2S00  BC)  the  broad  cheek 
bones  and  hairless  face  of  the  Turkish  type;  and  the 
language  of  his  texts,  in  both  grammar  and  vocabu- 
lary, is  closely  similar  to  pure  Turkish  speech. 


■£^: 


■:■■  . . 


S 


Priest- King  and  God  of  Cultivation. 

Among  Mongolic  peoples  the  beard  grows  only 
late  in  life,  and  among  the  Akkadians  it  is  rarely 

represented — excepting  in  the  case  of 
3.  Hair  and  gods  and  ancient  kings.  The  great 
Beard  bas-relief     found     by     Koldewey     at 

Babylon,  and  representing  a  Hittite 
thunder-god  with  a  long  pigtail  and  (at  the  back)  a 
Hittite  inscription,  is  bearded,  but  the  pigtailed 
heads  on  other  Hittite  monuments  are  usually  hair- 


Hittites 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1400 


less.  At  Iasili-Kaia— the  rock  shrine  near  Pterium 
—only  the  supreme  god  is  bearded,  and  all  the  other 
male  figures  are  beardless.  At  Ibreez,  in  Lycaonia, 
the  gigantic,  god  who  holds  (torn  and  grapes  in  his 
hands  is  bearded,  and  the  worshipper  who  approaches 
him  also  has  a  beard,  and  his  hair  is  arranged  in  t  he 
distinctive  fashion  of  the  Sem  Babylonians  and 
Assyrians.  This  type  may  represent  Sem  mixture, 
for  M.  Chantre  discovered  at  Kara-eyak,  inCappa- 
docia,  tablets  in  Sem  Bab  representing  traders' 
letters  perhaps  as  old  as  2000  BC.  The  type  of 
the  Ibreez  figures  has  been  said  to  resemble  that  of 
the  Armenian  peasantry  of  today;  but,  although  the 
Armenians  are  Aryans  of  the  old  Phrygian  stock, 
and  their  language  almost  purely  Aryan,  they  have 
mixed  with  the  Turkish  and  Sem  races,  and  have 
been  said  even  to  resemble  the  Jews.  Little  re- 
liance can  be  placed,  therefore,  on  comparison  with 
modern  mixed  types.  The  Hittite  pigtail  is  very 
distinctive  of  a  Mongolic  race.  It  was  imposed  on 
the  Chinese  by  the  Manchus  in  the  17th  cent.,  but 
it  is  unknown  among  Aryan  or  Sem  peoples,  though 
it  seems  to  be  represented  on  some  Akkadian  seals, 
and  on  a  bas-relief  picturing  the  Mongolic  Susians 
in  the  7th  cent.  BC. 

The  costume  of  the  Hittites  on  monuments  seems 
also     to     indicate     Mongolic    origin.     Kings     and 

priests  wear  long  robes,  but  warriors 
4.  Hittite  (and  the  gods  at  Ibreez  and  Babylon) 
Dress  wear  short   jerkins,   and  the  Turkish 

shoe  or  slipper  with  a  curled-up  toe, 
which,  however,  is  also  worn  by  the  Heb  tribute 
bearers  from  Jehu  on  the  "black  obelisk"  (about 
840  BC)  of  Shalmaneser  II.  Hittite  gods  and 
warriors  are  shown  as  wearing  a  high,  conical  head- 
dress, just  like  that  which  (with  addition  of  the 
Moslem  turban)  characterized  the  Turks  at  least 
as  late  as  the  18th  cent.  The  short  jerkin  also 
appears  on   Akkadian    seals    and    bas-reliefs,  and, 


Hittite  Warrior  (from  Scnjirli). 

generally  speaking,  the  Hittites  (who  were  enemies 
of  the  Lycians,  Danai  and  other  Aryans  to  their 
west)  may  be  held  to  be  very  clearly  Mongolic 
in  physical  type  and  costume,  while  the  art  of 
their  monuments  is  closely  similar  to  that  of  the 
most  archaic  Akkadian  and  Bab  sculptures  of  Meso- 
potamia. It  is  natural  to  suppose  that  they  were  a 
branch  of  the  same  remarkable  race  which  civilized 


Chaldaea,  but  which  seems  to  have  had  its  earliest 
home  in  Akkad,  or  the  "highlands"  near  Ararat 
and  Media,  long  before  the  appearance  of  Aryan 
tribes  either  in  this  region  or  in  Ionia.  The  con- 
clusion also  agrees  with  the  OT  statement  that  the 
Hittites  were  akin  to  the;  descendants  of  Ham  in 
Babylonia,  and  not  to  the  "fair"  tribes  (Japheth), 
including  Medes,  lonians  and  other  Aryan  peoples. 
As  early  as  I860  Chabas  remarked  that  the 
Hittite  names  (of  which  so  many  have  been  men- 
tioned above)  were  clearly  not  Sem, 
5.  Hittite  and  this  has  been  generally  allowed. 
Names  Those  of  the  Amorites,  on  the  other 

hand,  are  Sem,  and  the  type  repre- 
sented, with  brown  skin,  dark  eyes  and  hair,  aqui- 
line features  and  beards,  agrees  (as  is  generally 
allowed)  in  indicating  a  Sem  race.  There  are  now 
some  60  of  these  Hittite  names  known,  and  they 
do  not  suggest,  any  Aryan  etymology.  They  arc; 
quite  unlike  those  of  the  Aryan  Medes  (such 
as  Baga-datta,  etc)  mentioned  by  the  Assyrians, 
or  those  of  the  Vannic  kings  whose  language  (as 
shown  by  recently  published  bilinguals  in  Vannic 
and  Assyrian)  seems  very  clearly  to  have  been 
Iranian — or  similar  to  Pers  and  Sanskrit — but  which 
only  occurs  in  the  later  Assyr  age;.  Comparisons 
with  Armenian  and  Georgian  (derived  from  the 
Phrygian  and  Scythian)  also  fail  to  show  any 
similarity  of  vocabulary  or  of  syntax,  while  on  the 
other  hand  comparisons  with  the  Akkadian,  the 
Kassite  and  modern  Turkish  at  once  suggest  a 
linguistic  connection  which  fully  agrees  with  what 
has  been  said  above  of  the  racial  type.  The 
common  element  Turku,  or  Tar  khan,  in  Hittite 
names  suggests  the  Mongol  dargo  and  the  Turkish 
larkhan,  meaning  a  "tribal  chief."  Sil  again  is  an 
Akkadian  word  for  a  "ruler,"  and  nazi  is  an  element 
in  both  Hittite  and  Kassite  names. 

It  has  also  been  remarked  that  the  vocabulary 

of   the  Hittite  letters   discovered   by   Chantre   at 

Pterium  recalls  that  of  the  letter  writ- 

6.  Vocabu-  ten  by  Dusratta  of  Matiene  to  Amen- 
lary  of  ophis  III  (Am  Tab  no.  27,  Berlin), 
Pterium  and  that  Dusratta  adored  the  Hittite 
Epistles  god  Tessupas.     A  careful  study  of  the 

language  of  this  letter  shows  that,  in 
syntax  and  vocabulary  alike,  it  must  be  regarded 
as  Mongolic  and  as  a  dialect  of  the  Akkadian  group. 
The  cases  of  the  noun,  for  instance,  are  the  same 
as  in  Akkadian  and  in  modern  Turkish.  No  less 
than  50  words  and  terminations  are  common  to  the 
language  of  this  letter  and  of  those  discovered 
by  M.  Chantre  and  attributed  to  the  Hittites  whose 
territory  immediately  adjoined  that  of  Matiene. 
The  majority  of  these  words  occur  also  in  Akkadian. 
But  in  addition  to  these  indications  we  have  a 
letter  in  the  Am  Tab  (Berlin  no.  10)  written  by  a 

Hittite  prince,  in  his  own  tongue  and 

7.  Tell  el-  in  the  cuneiform  script.  It  is  from 
Amarna  (and  not  to,  as  has  been  wrongly  sup- 
Tablet            posed   by   Knudtzon)   a  chief  named 

Tarhun-dara,  and  is  addressed  to 
Amenophis  III,  whose  name  stands  first.  In  all 
the  other  letters  the  name  of  the  sender  always 
follows  that  of  the  recipient.  The  general  meaning 
of  this  letter  is  clear  from  the  known  meanings  of 
the  "ideograms"  used  for  many  words;  and  it  is 
also  clear  that  the  language  is  "agglutinative" 
like  the  Akkadian.  The  suffixed  possessive  pro- 
nouns follow  the  pi.  termination  of  the  noun  as  in 
Akkadian,  and  prepositions  are  not  used  as  they 
are  in  Sem  and  Aryan  speech;  the  precative  form 
of  the  vb.  has  also  been  recognized  to  be  the  same 
as  used  in  Akkadian.  The  pronouns  mi,  "my," 
and  ti,  "thy,"  are  to  be  found  in  many  living  Mon- 
golic dialects  (e.g.  the  Zyrianian  vie  and  te);  in 
Akkadian  also  thev  occur  as  mi  and  zi.     The  letter 


1401 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Hittites 


Storm-God  Tessupas. 


opens  with  the  usual  salutation:   "Letter  to  Ameno- 
phis  III  the  great  king,  king  of  the  land  of  Egypt 
[Mizzari-na],   from    Tarhun-dara    [Tarhundara-da], 
king  of  the  land  of  Arzapi  [or  Arzaa],   thus.     To 
me  is  prosperity.     To  my 
nobles,  my  hosts,  my  ca- 
valry, to  all  that  is  mine 
in  all  my  lands,  may  there 
be  prosperity;  [moreover?] 
may  there  be  prosperity: 
to  thy  house,  thy  wives, 
thy  sons,  thy  nobles,  thy 
hosts,  thy  cavalry,  to  all 
that  is  thine  in  thy  lands 
may    there    be     prosper- 
ity."   The  letter  continues 
to  speak  of  a  daughter  of 
the  Pharaoh,  and  of  a  sum 
of    gold    which    is    being 
sent  in  charge  of  an  envoy 
named   Irsappa.     It   con- 
cludes (as  in  many  other 
instances)  with   a   list   of 
presents,  these  being  sent 
by    "the     Hittite     prince 
[Nu  Hattu]  from  the  land 
Igait"  (perhaps  the  same 
as  lkata),  and  including, 
besides  the  gold,  various 
robes,  and  ten  chairs  of 
ebony  inlaid   with   ivory. 
As  far   as   it   can   at   present   be   understood,    the 
language  of  this  letter,  which  bears  no  indications 
of  either  Sem  or  Aryan  speech,  whether  in  vocabu- 
lary or  in  syntax,  strongly  favors  the  conclusion  that 
the  native  Hittite  language  was  a  dialect  of  that 
spoken  by  the  Akkadians,  the  Kassites  and  the  Min- 
yans  of  Matiene,  in  the  same  age. 

IV.  Religion. — The  Hittites  like  their  neighbors 

adored    many    gods.     Besides    Set     (or    Sutekh), 

the     "great    ruler    of    heaven,"    and 

1.  Poly-  Istar  (Ashtoreth),  we  also  find  men- 
theism:  tioncd  (in  Hattusil's  treaty)  gods  and 
Names  of  goddesses  of  "the  hills  and  rivers  of  the 
Deities           land  of  the  Ilatti,"  "the  great  sea,  the 

winds  and  the  clouds."  Tessupas  was 
known  to  the  Babylonians  as  a  name  of  Rimmon, 
the  god  of  thunder  and  rain.  On  a  bilingual  seal 
(in  Hittite  and  cuneiform  characters),  now  in  the 
Ashmolean  Museum,  we  find  noticed  the  goddess 
Ishara,  whose  name,  among  the  Kassites,  was 
equivalent  to  Istar.  The  Hittite  gods  are  repre- 
sented— like  those  of  the  Assyrians — standing  erect 
on  lions.  One  of  them  (at  Samala  in  Syria)  is 
lion-headed  like  Nergal.  They  also  believed  in 
demons,  like  the  Akkadians  and  others. 

Their  pantheon  was  thus  also  Mongolic,  and  the 
suggestion    (by    Dr.    Winckler)    that   they   adored 

Indian  gods  (Indra,  Varuna),  and  the 

2.  Religious  Pers  Mithra,  not  only  seems  improb- 
Symbolism    able,  but  is  also  hardly  supported  by 

the  quotations  from  Sem  texts  on 
which  this  idea  is  based.  The  sphinx  is  found  as  a 
Hittite  emblem  at  Eyuk,  N.  of  Pterium,  with  the 
double-headed  eagle  which  again,  at  Iasili-kaia, 
supports  a  pair  of  deities.  It  also  occurs  at  Tel- 
loh  as  an  Akkadian  emblem,  and  was  adopted 
by  the  Seljuk  Turks  about  1000  AD.  At  Eyuk 
we  have  a  representation  of  a  procession  bringing 
goats  _  and  rams  to  an  altar.  At  Iflatun-bunar 
the  winged  sun  is  an  emblem  as  in  Babylonia.  At 
Mer'ash,  in  Syria,  the  mother  goddess  carries  her 
child,  while  an  eagle  perches  on  a  harp  beside  her. 
At  Carchemish  the  naked  Istar  is  represented  with 
wings.  The  religious  symbolism,  like  the  names  of 
deities,  thus  suggests  a  close  connection  with  the  em- 
blems and  beliefs  of  the  Kassites  and  Akkadians. 


V.  Script. — In  the  16th  cent    BC,  and  down  to 

the    13th    cent.,    the    Hittites   used   the  cuneiform 

characters     and     the     Bab     language 

1.  Cunei-  for  correspondence  abroad.  On  seals 
form  and  and  mace-heads  they  used  their  own 
Hiero-  hieroglyphics,  together  with  the  cunei- 
glyphic            form.     These    emblems,    which    occur 

on  archaic  monuments  at  Hamath, 
Carchemish  and  Aleppo  in  Syria,  as  well  as  very 
frequently  in  Cappadocia  ancf  Pontus,  and  less  fre- 
quently as  far  W.  as  Ionia,  and  on  the  E.  at  Baby- 
lon, are  now  proved  to  be  of  Hittite  origin,  since  the 
discovery  of  the  seal  of  Arnuanta  already  noticed. 
The  suggestion  that  they  were  Hittite  was  first  made 
by  the  late  Dr.  W.  Wright  (British  and  Foreign 
Evangelical  Review,  1874).  About  100  such  monu- 
ments are  now  known,  including  seals  from  Nineveh 
and  Cappadocia,  and  Hittite  gold  ornaments  in  the 
Ashmolean  Museum;  and  there  can  be  little  doubt 
that,  in  cases  where  the  texts  accompany  figures 
of  the  gods,  they  are  of  a  votive  character. 

The  script  is  quite  distinctive,  though  many  of 

the   emblems   are   similar    to   those   used    by   the 

Akkadians.     There  are  some  170  signs 

2.  Descrip-  in  all,  arranged  one  below  another  in 
tion  of  the  line — as  among  Akkadians.  The 
Signs              lines  read  alternately  from  right  to  left 

and  from  left  to  right,  the  profile  em- 
blems always  facing  the  beginning  of  each  line. 

The  interpretation  of  these  texts  is  still  a  contro- 
versial question,  but  the  most  valuable  suggestion 
toward  their  understanding  is  that  made  by  the 
late  Canon  Isaac  Taylor  (see  The  Alphabet,  1883). 
A   syllabary    which   was   afterward    used    by   the 


Inscription  and  Mutilated  Figure  from  Jerabis. 


Greeks  in  Cyprus,  and  which  is  found  extensively 
spread  in  Asia  Minor,  Egypt,  Pal,  Crete,  and  even 
on  later  coins  in  Spain,  was  recognized  by  Dr. 
Taylor  as  being  derived  from  the  Hittite  signs.     It 


Hivite 
Holiness 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1402 


was  deciphered  by  George  Smith  from  a  Cypriote- 
Phoenician  bilingual,  and  appears  to  give  the  sounds 

applying  to  some  60  signs.  These 
3.  Interpre-  sounds  are  confirmed  by  the  short  bi- 
tation  of  Unguals  as  yet  known,  and  they  appear 
Monuments  in  some  cases  at  least  to  be  very  clearly 

the  monosyllabic  words  which  apply 
in  Akkadian  to  similar  emblems.  We  have  thus 
the  bases  of  a  comparative  study,  by  aid  of  a 
known  language  and  script — a  method  similar  to 
that  which  enabled  Sir  II.  Rawlinson  to  recover 
scientifically  the  lost  cuneiform,  or  Champollion 
to  decipher  Egyp  hieroglyphics.  See  also  Archae- 
ology of  Asia  Minok;  Recent  Exploration. 

Literature. — The  Egyp  notices  will  be  found  in 
Brugsch's  .1  History  of  Egypt  under  the  Pharaohs,  1S7<>, 
and  the  Assyr  in  Schroder's  Cuneiform  I  user,  plums  and 
the  OT  Y.'V  1885.  The  discoveries  of  Ohantre  are 
published  in  his  Mission  en  Cappadore,  189S,  and  those 
of  Dr.  11.  Winckler  in  the  Mitteilungen  der  deutschen 
Orient-Gesellschaft,  no.  35,  December,  1007.  The  re- 
searches of  Humann  and  Puchstein,  Reisen  in  Klein- 
asien  und  Nordsi/rien,  1890,  are  also  valuable  for  this 
question;  as  is  also  Dr.  Robert  Koldewey's  discovery  of 
a  llittite  monument  at  Babylon  (Die  hettische  Inschrift, 
1000).  The  recent  discovery  of  sculpture  at  a  site  N.  of 
Samala  by  Professor  Garstang  is  published  in  the  Annals 
of  Archaeology,  1,  no.  f,  loos,  by  the  University  of  Liver- 
pool. These  sculptures  are  supposed  to  date  about  <S0() 
BC,  but  no  accompanying  inscriptions  have  as  yet  been 
found.  The  views  of  the  present  writer  are  detailed  in 
his  Tell  A  mama  Tablets,  13d  ed,  1894,  and  in  The  Hittites 
and  Their  Languages,  1898.  Dr.  Sayce  has  given  an 
account  of  his  researches  in  a  small  volume,  The  Hittites, 
isss,  but  many  discoveries  by  Sir  C.  Wilson,  Mr.  D.  (i. 
Hogarth,  Kir  VV.  Ramsay,  and  other  explorers  have  since; 
been  published,  and  are  scattered  in  various  periodicals 
not  easily  accessible.  The  suggestions  of  Drs.  Jensen, 
Hommel,  and  Peiser,  in  Germany,  of  comparison  with 
Armenian,  Georgian  and  Turkish,  have  not  as  yet  pro- 
duced any  agreement;  nor  have  those  of  Dr.  Sayce,  who 
looks  to  vannic  or  to  Gr;  and  further  light  on  Hittite 
decipherment  is  still  awaited.  See,  further,  Professor 
Garstang 'S  Land  of  the  Hittites,  1010. 

C.    R.    CONDER 

HIVITE,  hl'vlt  PTI,  hiwwl;   Evcuos,   Heuaios): 

A  son  of  Canaan  (Gen  10  17),  i.e.  an  inhabitant  of 

the   land   of   Canaan   along   with   the 

1.  Name        Canaanite  and  other  tribes  (Ex  3  17, 

etc) .  In  t  he  list  of  Canaanite  peoples 
given  in  Gen  15  19-21,  the  Hivites  are  omitted 
in  the  Ileb  text,  though  inserted  in  LNX  and  S. 
Gesenius  suggests  that  the  name  is  descriptive, 
meaning  "villagers."  The  difficulty  of  explaining 
it  is  increased  by  the  fact  that  it  has  been  confused 
with  "Horite"  in  some  passages  of  the  Heb  text. 
In  Josh  9  7  the  LXX  reads  "Horite"  as  also  does 
Cod.  A  in  Gen  34  2,  and  in  Gen  36  2  a  comparison 
with  vs  24.25  shows  that  "Horite"  must  be  substi- 
tuted for  "Hivite." 

In  Jgs  3  3  the  Hittites  are  described  as  dwelling 

"in  Mount  Lebanon,  from  Mount  Baal-hermon  unto 

the  entrance  of  Hamath,"andin  accord- 

2.  Geo-  ance  with  this  the  Hivite  is  described 
graphical  in  Josh  11  3  as  being  "under  Hermon 
Situation        in  the  land  of  Mizpeh,"  and  in  2  S  24 

7  they  are  mentioned  immediately 
after  "the  stronghold  of  Tyre."  Hence  the  LXX 
(Cod.  A)  reading  must  be  right  in  Gen  34  2  and 
Josh  9  7,  which  makes  the  inhabitants  of  Shechem 
and  Gibeon  Horites  instead  of  Hivites;  indeed,  in 
Gen  48  22  the  people  of  Shechem  are  called  Amorit  e, 
though  this  was  a  general  name  for  the  population 
of  Canaan  in  the  patriarchal  period.  No  name 
resembling  Hivite  has  yet  been  found  in  the  Egyp 
or  Bab  inscriptions.  A.  H.  Sayce 

HIZKI,  hiz'ki  OpTH ,  hizkl;  LXX  'AJokC, 
Az/tk'i;  AV  Hezeki):  A  son  of  Elpaal,  a  descendant 
of  Benjamin   (1  Ch  8  17). 

HIZKIAH,  hiz-kl'a  (n*pTH ,  hizklydh;  LXX 
'Ei^a,  Ezekia,  "strength  of  Jeh"): 


(1)  A  son  of  Neariah,  a  descendant  of  David 
(1   Ch  3  2:5,    AV  "Hezekiah"). 

(2)  An  ancestor  of  the  prophet  Zephaniah  (Zeph 

I  1).  In  RV  this  word  is  here  trd  "Hezekiah." 
This  name  again  appears  in  Neh  10  17  [Heb  18 j 
in  the  form  of  "Hizkijah"  in  AV,  but  as  "Hezekiah" 
in  BY.     See  Hezekiah. 

HOAR,    hor,    HOARY,    hor'i.     See   Color    (8); 

II  AH. 

HOAR-FROST,  hor'frost,  HOARY.     See  Frost. 

HOBAB,  ho'bab  (Sin  ,  hobhdbh,  "beloved";  LXX 
'0(3dp,  Obdb) :  This  name  occurs  only  twice  (Nu  10 
29;  jgs  4  11).  It  is  not  certain  whether  it  denotes 
the  father-in-law  or  the  brother-in-law  of  Moses. 
The  direct  statement  of  Nu  10  29  is  that  Hobab 
was  "the  son  of  Reuel"  (AV  "Raguel").  This  is 
probably  the  correct  view  and  finds  support  in  Ex 
18  27,  which  tells  us  that  some  time  before  the 
departure  of  the  Israelites  from  Sinai,  Jethro  had 
departed  and  returned  to  his  own  land.  The  state- 
ment of  Jgs  4  11  is  ambiguous,  and  therefore  does 
not  help  us  out  of  the  difficulty,  but  is  rather  itself 
to  be  interpreted  in  t  he  light  of  the  earlier  statement 
in  Nu  10  29. 

Mohammedan  traditions  favor  the  view  that 
Hobab  was  only  another  name  for  Jethro.  But 
this  has  little  weight  against  the  statements  of 
Scripture.  However,  whether  father-in-law  or 
brother-in-law  to  Moses,  the  service  he  rendered  to 
the  leader  of  the  hosts  of  Israel  wa.s  most  valuable 
and  beautiful.  Hobab  was  an  experienced  sheikh 
of  the  desert  whose  counsel  and  companionship 
Moses  desired  in  the  unfamiliar  regions  through 
which  he  was  to  journey.  His  knowledge;  of  the 
wilderness  and  of  its  possible  dangers  would  enable 
him  to  be  to  the  Israelites  "instead  of  eyes." 

The  facts  recorded  of  this  man  are  too  meager  to 
enable  us  to  answer  all  the  questions  that  arise  con- 
cerning him.  A  difficulty  that  remains  unsolved  is 
the  fact  that  in  Jgs  1  16  and  4  11  he  is  described  as 
a  Kenite,  while  in  Ex  3  1  and  18  1,  the  father-in- 
law  of  Moses  is  spoken  of  as  "the  priest  of  Midian." 

Jesse  L.  Cotton 

HOBAH,  hd'ba  (rCfin  ,  hvbhah) :  A  place  "on  the 
left  hand,"  i.e.  to  the  N.  of  "Damascus,"  to  which 
Abraham  pursued  the  defeated  army  of  Chedor- 
laomer  (Gen  14  15).  It  is  probably  identical  with 
the  modern  Hoba,  about  60  miles  NAY.  of  Damascus. 

HOBAIAH,  ho-ba'ya  (""Pin  ,  hdbhaydh,  "whom 
Jeh  hides,"  i.e.  "protects"):  The  head  of  a  priestly 
family  that  returned  from  Babylon  with  Zerubbabel. 
Because  they  could  not  trace  their  genealogy,  they 
were  not  permitted  to  serve  in  the  priestly  office 
(Neh  7  63  f).  In  the  Ker5  of  this  passage  and  in  the 
||  list  of  Ezr  2  61,  this  name  appears  in  the  form 
"Habaiah"  (rPSn,  habhayyah).  "Obdia"  is  the 
form  of  the  word  in  1  Esd  5  38. 

HOCK  ppy  ,  'dkar,  "to  root  out") :  To  hamstring, 
i.e.  to  render  useless  by  cutting  the  tendons  of  the 
hock  (in  AV  and  ERV  "hough").  "In  their  self- 
will  they  hocked  an  ox"  (Gen  49  6,  AV  "digged 
down  a  wall"),  in  their  destructiveness  maiming 
those  which  they  could  not  carry  off.  See  also 
Josh  11  6.9;  2  S  8  4. 

HOD,  hod  (TV!,  hudh,  "majesty,"  "splendor"; 
LXX  A,  "ftS,  Hod;  B,  'Ha,  Od):  One  of  the  sons 
of  Zophah,  a  descendant  of  Asher  (1  Ch  7  37). 

HODAIAH,  ho-da'ya.     See  Hodaviah. 


1403 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Hivite 
Holiness 


HODAVIAH,  hod-a-vl'a  (r^TlIn,  hodhawydh, 
or  'in^'llin ,   hodhawydhu;    LXX  A,  'i!8ov£a,  Ho- 

douia) : 

(1)  Ono  of  the  heads  of  the  half-tribe  of  Manasseh 
on  the  E.  of  the  Jordan  (1  Ch  5  24). 

(2)  A  Benjamite,  the  son  of  Hassenuah  (1  Ch  9 
7). 

(.3)  A  Levite,  who  seems  to  have  been  the  head 
of  an  important  family  in  that  tribe  (Ezr  2  40). 
In  Neh  7  43  the  name  is  Hodevah  ((THln ,  hodhe- 
wah;  K>re  Pl^n,  hodfcyah).     Cf  Ezr*  3  9. 

(4)  A  son  of  Elioenai,  and  a  descendant  of  David 
(1  Ch  3  24;  inYHin,  hodhaywdhu;  Kere  irPYTin , 
hodhawydhu,  AV  "Hodaiah"). 

HODESH,  ho'desh  (tHn,  hodhesh,  "newmoon"): 
One  of  the  wives  of  Shaharaim,  a  Benjamite  (1  Ch 
8  9). 

HODEVAH,  ho-de'va,  hf/de-va  (HY-pH,  hodhe- 
wdh,  n^"ln ,  hodh'ydh,  "splendor  of  Jell"):  A 
Levite  and  founder  of  a  Levite  family,  seventy-four 
of  whom  returned  from  exile  with  Zerubbabel,  538 
BC  (Neh  7  43).  ARVm  gives  as  another  reading 
''Hodeiah.''  In  Ezr  2  40  he  is  called  Hodaviah, 
of  which  Hodevah  and  Hodeiah  are  slight  textual 
corruptions,  and  in  Ezr  3  9  Judah,  a  name  prac- 
tically synonymous. 

HODIAH,  hf)-dl'a,  HODIJAH,  hd-dfja  (T^IIPI , 
hodhiyah,  "splendor  of  Jeh"): 

(1)  A  brother-in-law  of  Naham  (1  Ch  4  19), 
and  possibly  for  that  reason  reckoned  a  member  of 
the  tribe  of  Judah.     AV  tr  "his  wife"  is  wrong. 

(2)  One  of  the  Levites  who  explained  to  the 
people  the  Law  as  read  by  Ezra  (Neh  8  7)  and  led 
their  prayers  (Neh  9  5).  He  is  doubtless  one  of 
the  two  Levites  of  this  name  who  sealed  the  cove- 
nant of  Nehemiah  (Neh  10  10.13). 

(3)  One  of  the  chiefs  of  the  people  who  sealed 
the  covenant  of  Nehemiah   (Neh  10  18). 

J.  Gray  McAllister 
HOGLAH,  hog'la  (Tlban,  hoyhlah,  "partridge"): 
The  third  of  five  daughters  of  Zelophehad  of  the 
tribe  of  Manasseh  (Nu  26  33).  Z.  leaving  no  male 
heir,  it  was  made  a  statute  that  the  inheritance  in 
such  cases  should  pass  to  the  daughters,  if  such 
there  were,  as  joint  heirs,  on  condition,  however,  of 
marriage  within  the  tribe  (Nu  27  1-11;  36  1-12; 
Josh  17  3f). 

HOHAM,  ho'ham  (DSlln,  hoham,  "whom  Jeh 
impels[?]"  Ges.):  An  Amorite  king  of  Hebron  and 
one  of  the  five  kings  of  the  Amorites  who  leagued 
for  war  on  Gibeon  because  of  its  treaty  of  peace 
with  Joshua.  The  five  were  defeated  in  the  decisive 
battle  of  Beth-horon,  shut  up  in  the  cave  at  Mak- 
kedah  in  which  they  had  taken  refuge,  and  after 
the  battle  were  slain,  hanged  and  cast  into  the  cave 
(Josh  10  1-27). 

HOISE,  hoiz:  The  older  form  of  "hoist"  (OE 
hoise),  to  raise,  to  lift,  and  is  the  tr  of  epairo,  "to 
lift  up":  "they  ....  hoised  up  the  mainsail  to 
the  wind"  (Acts  27  40).  RV  "and  hoisting  up 
the  foresail  to  the  wind";  Wiclif  has  "lefte  up," 
Tindale  "hoysed  up." 

HOLD,  hold:  In  ARV  frequently  "stronghold" 
(Jgs  9  49;  1  S  22  4;  24  22;  2  S  5  17;  23  14; 
1  Ch  11  16;  12  16).  See  Fortification.  In  Rev 
18  2  for  AV  "cage"  (phulake)  RV  substitutes,  as  in 
first  clause,  "hold,"  and  in  m  "prison." 

HOLDING,  hol'ding:  Occurs  with  various 
shades  of  meaning:    (1)   as  the  tr  of  tdmakh,  "to 


acquire,"  it  has  the  sense  of  taking,  obtaining  (Isa 
33  15,  RV  "that  shaketh  his  hands  from  taking  a 
bribe/'  ERV,  as  AV,  "holding");  (2)  of  kill,  "to 
hold,"  "contain,"  having  the  sense  of  containing 
or  restraining  (Jer  6  11,  "I  am  weary  with  holding 
in");  (3)  of  krated,  "to  receive,"  "observe,"  "main- 
tain" (Mk  7  3,  "holding  the  tradition  of  the 
elders";  1  Tim  1  19,  echo,  "holding  faith  and  a 
good  conscience";  3  9,  "holding  the  mystery  of  the 
faith  in  a  pure  conscience") ;  (4)  holding  fast,  cleav- 
ing to,  krated  (Col  2  19,  "not  holding  the  head," 
RV  [ 'holding  fast^';  cf  Acts  3  11;  Rev  7  1, 
"holding  the  four  winds  of  the  earth,  that  no  wind 
should  blow");  antechomai,  "to  hold  over  against 
one's  self,"  "to  hold  fast"  (Tit  1  9,  RV  "holding 
to  the  faithful  word");  (5)  holding  forth,  epechd, 
"to  hold  upon,  to  hold  out  toward"  (Phil  2  10, 
"holding  forth  the  word  of  life,"  so  RV);  Light  foot 
has  "holding  out"  (as  offering);  others,  however, 
render  "holding  fast,"  persevering  in  the  Christian 
faith  and  life — connecting  with  being  "blameless 
and  harmless"  in  ver  15.  W.  L.  Walker 

HOLINESS,  ho'li-nes  (ti;"£  ,  kddhosh,  "holy," 
tJ~p,  kodhesh,  "holiness";    avios,  hdgios,  "holy"): 

I.     In-  the  OT  Meaning  of  the  Term 

1.  The  Holiness  of  God 

(1)  Absoluteness  and  Majesty 

(2)  Ethical  Holiness 

2.  Holiness  of  Place,  Time  and  Object 

3.  Holiness  of  Men 

(1)  Ceremonial 

(2)  Ethical  and  Spiritual 

II.     In  the  NT:   The  Christian  Conception 

1.  Applied  to  God 

2.  To  Christ 

3.  To  Things 

4.  To  Christians 

(1)  As  Separate  from  the  World 

(2)  As  Bound  to  the  Pursuit  of  an  Ethical  Ideal 

/.  In  the  OT  Meaning  of  the  Term. — There  has 
been  much  discussion  as  to  the  original  meaning 
of  the  Sent  root  KDSH,  by  which  the  notion  of 
holiness  is  expressed  in  the  OT.  Some;  would  con- 
nect it  with  an  Assyr  word  denoting  purity,  clear- 
ness; most  modern  scholars  incline  to  the  view 
that  the  primary  idea  is  that  of  cut  ting  off  or  separa- 
tion. Etymology  gives  no  sure  verdict  on  the  point, 
but  the  idea  of  separation  lends  itself  best  to  the 
various  senses  in  which  the  word  "holiness"  is  em- 
ployed. In  primitive  Sent  usage  "holiness"  seems 
to  have  expressed  nothing  more  than  that  ceremonial 
separation  of  an  object  from  common  use  which  the 
modern  study  of  savage  religions  has  rendered  famil- 
iar under  the  name  of  taboo  (W.  R.  Smith,  Religion 
of  the  Semites,  Lect  iv).  But  within  the  Bib.  sphere, 
with  which  alone  we  are  immediately  concerned, 
holiness  attaches  itself  first,  of  all,  not  to  visible 
objects,  but  to  the  invisible  Jeh,  and  to  places,  sea- 
sons, things  and  human  beings  only  in  so  far  as  they 
are  associated  with  Him.  And  while  the  idea  of 
ceremonial  holiness  runs  through  the  OT,  the  ethi- 
cal significance  which  Christianity  attributes  to  the 
term  is  never  wholly  absent,  and  gradually  rises  in 
tin;  course  of  the  revelation  into  more  emphatic 
prominence. 

As  applied  to  God  the  notion  of  holiness  is  used 
in  the  OT  in  two  distinct  senses:    (1)  First  in  the 
more  general  sense  of  separation  from 
1.  The  all  that  is  human  and  earthly.     It  thus 

Holiness  denotes  the  absoluteness,  majesty,  and 
of  God  awfulness  of  the  Creator  in  His  dis- 

tinction from  the  creature.  In  this 
use  of  the  word,  "holiness"  is  little  more  than 
an  equivalent  general  term  for  "Godhead,"  and  the 
adj.  "holy"  is  almost  synonymous  with  "Divine" 
(cf  Dnl  4  8.9.18;  5  11).  Jeh's  "holy  arm"  (Isa 
52  10;  Ps  98  1)  is  His  Divine  arm,  and  His  "holy 
name"  (Lev  20  3,  etc)  is  His  Divine  name.  When 
Hannah  sings  "There  is  none  holy  as  Jeh"  (1  S  2  2), 


Holiness 
Holy  Place 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1404 


the  rest  >f  the  verse  suggests  that  she  is  referring, 
not  to  His  ethical  holiness,  but  simply  to  His 
supreme  Divinity. 

(2)  But,  in  the  next,  place,  holiness  of  character 
in  the  distinct  ethical  sense  is  ascribed  to  God. 
The  injunction,  "Be  ye  holy;  for  I  am  holy"  (Lev 
11  44;  19  2),  plainly  implies  an  ethical  concep- 
tion. Men  cannot  resemble  Cod  in  His  incom- 
municable attributes.  They  can  reflect  His  like- 
ness only  along  the  lines  of  those  moral  qualities  of 
righteousness  and  love  in  which  true  holiness  con- 
sists. In  the  Psalmists  and  Prophets  the  Divine 
holiness  becomes,  above  all,  an  ethical  reality  con- 
victing men  of  sin  (Isa  6  3.5)  and  demanding  of 
those  who  would  stand  in  His  presence  clean  hands 
and  a  pure  heart  (l's  24  3  f). 

From  the  holiness  of  Cod  is  derived  that  cere- 
monial holiness  of  tilings  which  is  characteristic 
of  the  OT  religion.     Whatever  is  con- 

2.  Holiness  nected  with  the  worship  of  the  holy 
of  Place,  Jeh  is  itself  holy.  Nothing  is  holy  in 
Time  and  itself,  but,  anything  becomes  holy  by 
Object  its    consecration     to    Him.      A    place 

where  He  manifests  His  presence  is 
holy  ground  (Ex  3  5).  The  tabernacle  or  temple 
in  which  His  glory  is  revealed  is  a  holy  building 
(Ex  28  29;  2  Ch  35  5);  and  all  its  sacrifices  (Ex 
29  33),  ceremonial  materials  (30  25;  Nu  5  17) 
and  utensils  (1  K  8  4)  are  also  holy.  The  Sab- 
bath is  holy  because  it  is  the  Sabbath  of  the  Lord 
(Ex  20  8-11).  "Holiness,  in  short,  expresses  a 
relation,  which  consists  negatively  in  separation 
from  common  use,  and  positively  in  dedication  to 
the  service  of  Jeh"  (Skinner  in  HDB,  II,  395). 

The  holiness  of  men  is  of  two  kinds:  (1)  A  cere- 
monial holiness,  corresponding  to  that  of  impersonal 

objects  and  depending  upon  their  reia- 

3.  Holiness  lion  to  the  outward  service  of  Jeh. 
of  Men  Priests  and  Levites  are  holy  because 

they  have  been  "hallowed"  or  "sancti- 
fied" by  acts  of  consecration  (Ex  29  1;  Lev  8  12. 
30).  The  Nazirite  is  holy  because  he  has  separated 
himself  unto  the  Lord  (Nu  6  5).  Above  all, 
Israel,  notwithstanding  all  its  sins  and  shortcomings, 
is  holy,  as  a  nation  separated  from  other  nations 
for  Divine  purposes  and  uses  (Ex  19  6,  etc;  cf 
Lev  20  24).  (2)  But  out  of  this  merely  ceremonial 
holiness  there  emerges  a  higher  holiness  that  is  spirit- 
ual and  ethical.  For  unlike  other  creatures  man  was 
made  in  the  image  of  God  and  capable  of  reflecting 
the  Divine  likeness.  And  as  God  reveals  Himself 
as  ethically  holy,  He  calls  man  to  a  holiness  resem- 
bling His  own  (Lev  19  2).  In  the  so-called  "Law  of 
Holiness"  (Lev  17-26),  God's  demand  for  moral 
holiness  is  made  clear;  and  yet  the  moral  contents 
of  the  Law  are  still  intermingled  with  ceremonial 
elements  (17  10  ff;  19  19;  21  Iff).  In  psalm  and 
prophecy,  however,  a  purely  ethical  conception 
comes  into  view — the  conception  of  a  human  holi- 
ness which  rests  upon  righteousness  and  truth 
(Ps  15  1  f)  and  the  possession  of  a  contrite  and 
humble  spirit  (Isa  57  15).  This  corresponds  to  the 
knowledge  of  a  God  who,  being  Himself  ethically 
holy,  esteems  justice,  mercy  and  lowly  piety  more 
highly  than  sacrifice  (Hos  6  6;   Mic  6  6-8). 

//.  In  the  NT:  The  Christian  Conception. — 
The  idea  of  holiness  is  expressed  here  chiefly  by 
the  word  hagios  and  its  derivatives,  which  corre- 
spond very  closely  to  the  words  of  the  KDSH  group 
in  Heb,  and  are  employed  to  render  them  in  the 
LXX.  The  distinctive  feature  of  the  NT  idea  of 
holiness  is  that  the  external  aspect  of  it  has  almost 
entirely  disappeared,  and  the  ethical  meaning  has 
become  supreme.  The  ceremonial  idea  still  exists 
in  contemporary  Judaism,  and  is  typically  repre- 
sented by  the  Pharisees  (Mk  7  1-13;  Lk  i8  11  f). 
But  Jesus  proclaimed  a  new  view  of  religion  and 


morality  according  to  which  men  are  cleansed  or 
defiled,  not  by  anything  outward,  but  by  the 
thoughts  of  their  hearts  (Alt  15  17-20),  and  God  is 
to  be  worshipped  neither  in  Samaria  nor  Jerus,  but 
wherever  men  seek  Him  in  spirit  and  in  truth  (Jn 
4  21-21). 

In   the  NT  the  term  "holy"  is  seldom  applied 

to   Cod,   and   except   in   quotations    from   the  OT 

(Lk  1  49;    1  Pet  1  15  f),  only  in  the 

1.  Applied  Johannine  writings  (Jn  17  11;  Rev 
to  God  4  8;  6  10).     But  it  is  constantly  used 

of  the  Spirit  of  Cod  (Mt  1  18;  Acts 
1  2;  Rom  5  5,  etc),  who  now,  in  contrast  with 
OT  usage,  becomes  specifically  the  Holy  Spirit  or 
Holy  Ghost. 

In    several    passages    the    term    is 

2.  Applied  applied  to  Christ  (Mk  1  24;  Acts  3 
to  Christ        14;   4  30,  etc;),  as  being  the  very  type 

of  ethical  perfection  (cf  He  7  20). 
In  keeping  with  the  fact  that  things  are  holy  in  a 
derivative  sense;  through  their  relationship  to  God, 
the  word  is  used  of  Jerus   (Mt  4  5), 

3.  Applied  the  OT  covenant  (Lk  1  72),  the 
to  Things       Scriptures    (Rom    1  2),    the    Law    (7 

12),  the  Mount  of  Transfiguration  (2 
Pet  1  18),  etc. 

But  it  is  esp.  in  its  application  to  Christians  that 
tin;  idea  of  holiness  meets  us  in  the  NT  in  a  sense 

that  is  characteristic  and  distinctive. 

4.  Applied  to  Christ's  people  are  regularly  called 
Christians      "saints"  or  holy  persons,  and  holiness  in 

the  high  ethical  and  spiritual  meaning 
of  the  word  is  used  to  denote  the  appropriate  quality 
of  their  life  and  conduct.  (1)  No  doubt,  as  applied 
to  believers,  "saints"  conveys  in  the  first  place  the 
notion  of  a  separation  from  the  world  and  a  con- 
secration to  Cod.  Just  as  Israel  under  the  old 
covenant  was  a  chosen  race,  so  the  Christian  church 
in  succeeding  to  Israel's  privileges  becomes  a  holy 
nation  (1  Pet  2  9),  and  the  Christian  individual, 
as  one  of  the  elect  people,  becomes  a  holy  man  or 
woman  (Col  3  12).  In  Paul's  usage  all  baptized 
persons  are  "saints,"  however  far  they  may  still 
be  from  the  saintly  character  (cf  1  Cor  1  2.14 
with  5  1  ff).  (2)  But  though  the  use  of  the  name 
does  not  imply  high  ethical  character  as  a  realized 
fact,  it  always  assumes  it  as  an  ideal  and  an  obliga- 
tion. It  is  taken  for  granted  that  the  Holy  Spirit 
has  taken  up  His  abode  in  the  heart  of  every 
regenerate  person,  and  that  a  work  of  positive 
sanctification  is  going  on  there.  The  NT  leaves  no 
room  for  the  thought  of  a  holiness  divorced  from 
those  moral  qualities  which  the  holy  God  demands 
of  those  whom  He  has  called  to  be  His  people.  See 
Sanctification. 

Literature. — Robertson  Smith,  Religion  of  the  Sem- 
ites, Lccts  iii,  iv;  A.  II.  Davidson,  Theology  of  the  OT, 
145  ff;  Kchultz,  Theology  of  the  OT,  II,  1(57  If;  Orr,  Sin 
as  a  Problem  of  To-day,  ch  iii;  Sanday-Headlam,  Romans, 
12  ff;  arts.  "Holiness"  in  IIDB  and  "  Heiligkeit  Gottes 
im  AT"  in  RE. 

J.  C.  Lambert 

HOLLOW,  hol'o  ("3 ,  kaph,  222  ,  nabhabh) : 
"Hollow"  is  the  tr  of  kaph,  "hollow"  (Gen  32 
25.32,  "the  hollow  of  his  thigh,"  the  hip-pan  or 
socket,  over  the  sciatic  nerve);  of  nabhabh,  "to  be 
hollow"  (Ex  27  8;  38  7;  Jer  52  21);  of  sho'al, 
"hollow"  (Isa  40  12,  "Who  hath  measured  the 
waters  in  the  hollow  of  his  hand?"  [in  handfuls; 
cf  1  K  20  10;  Ezk  13  19]);  of  makhtesh,  "a  mor- 
tar," "socket  of  a  tooth"  (from  its  shape)  (Jgs  15 
19,  "God  clave  an  [RV  "the"]  hollow  place  that  is 
in  Lehi");  of  sheka'drurdth,  prob.  from  kefar,  "to 
sink"  (Lev  14  37,  "the  walls  of  the  house  with 
hollow  strakes,"  so  ERV,  ARV  "hollow  streaks," 
depressions);  of  koilotes  (Wisd  17  19,  "the  hollow 
mountains,"  RV  "hollows  of  the  mountains");  of 
koiloma  (2  Mace  1  19,  "hollow  place  of  a  pit,"  RV 


1405 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Holiness 
Holy  Place 


"hollow  of  a  well");  of  antrddes  (2  5,  "a  hollow 
cave,"  RV  "a  chamber  in  the  rock,"  m  "Gr  a  caver- 
nous chamber").  W.  L.  Walker 

HOLM-TREE,  hdm'tre: 

(1)  nT")P,  tirzah  (Isa  44  14,  AV  "cypress"): 
The  name,  from  the  root  meaning  (cf  Arab,  larazn) 
"to  be  hard,"  implies  some  very  hard  wood.  Yulg 
has  ilex,  which  is  Lat  for  holm  oak,  so  named  from 
its  holly-like  leaves  (hollen  in  OE  =  "holly");  this  tr 
has  now  been  adopted,  but  it  is  doubtful. 

(2)  irplvos,  prinos,  Sus  ver  58.  This  is  the  ilex  or 
holm  oak.  There  is  a  play  on  the  words  prinos 
and  prisai  (lit.  "saw")  in  vs  58 and 59  (sccSusanna). 
The  evergreen  or  holm  oak  is  represented  by  two 
species  in  Pal,  Quercus  ilex  and  Q.  cocci/era.  The 
leaf  of  both  species  is  somewhat  like  a  small  holly 
leaf,  is  glossy  green  and  usually  spiny.  The  Q.  ilex 
is  insignificant,  but  Q.  coccifera  is  a  magnificent  tree 
growing  to  a  height  of  40  ft.  or  more,  and  often 
found  in  Pal  flourishing  near  sacred  tombs,  and  itself 
not  infrequently  the  object  of  superstitious  venera- 
tion. E.  \Y.  G.  Mastekman 

HOLOFERNES,  hol-6-fur'nez  ('OXo^pv^s,  Olo- 
phernes):  According  to  the  Book  of  Jth,  chief  cap- 
tain of  Nebuchadnezzar,  king  of  the  Assyrians 
(Jth  2  4),  who  was  commissioned  to  make  war 
upon  the  West  country  and  to  receive  from  the 
inhabitants  the  usual  tokens  of  complete  sub- 
mission, earth  and  water.  The  object  of  the 
expedition  of  II.,  who  thus  became  the  typical 
persecutor  of  the  Jews,  was  to  compel  men  every- 
where to  worship  Nebuchadnezzar.  He  was  slain 
by  Judith,  the  heroine  of  the  book  of  that  name, 
during  the  siege  of  Bethulia.  There  is  no  notice  of 
H.  except  in  the  Book  of  Jth.  The  termination  of 
the  word  would  seem  to  indicate  a  Pers  origin  for 
the  name.  The  II.  of  Shakespeare  and  Rabelais 
is  in  no  way  connected  with  the  deeds  of  the  H. 
of  the  Apoc.  J.  Hutchison 

HOLON,  ho'lon  (fbH  or  "V*n  ,  holon): 

(1)  One  of  the  towns  in  the  hill  country  of 
Judah  (Josh  15  51)  assigned  to  the  Levites  (21 
15).  In  1  Ch  6  58  (Heb  43),  it  is  Hilen  (which 
see).  The  site  may  be  the  important  ruins  of 
Beit  'Alum  (see  PEF,  III,  313,  321,  Sh  XXI). 

(2)  Probablv  once  an  important  town  in  the 
"plain,"  i.e.  plateau,  of  Moab  (Jer  48  21);  the 
site  is  unknown. 

HOLYDAY,  ho'li-da:  This  word  occurs  twice  in 
AV,  viz.  Ps  42  4,  "a  multitude  that  kept  [RV 
"keeping"]  holyday,"  and  Col  2  10.  In  the  latter 
case  it  is  a  rendering  of  the  Gr  word  eoprri,  heart? , 
the  ordinary  term  for  a  religious  festival.  RV 
trs  "feast  day."  In  the  former  instance  "keeping 
holyday"  renders  Win  ,  haghegh.  The  vb.  means  to 
"make  a  pilgrimage,"  or  "keep  a  religious  festival." 
Occasionally  the  idea  of  merrymaking  prevails,  as 
in  1  S  30  16 — "eating  and  drinking,"  and  enjoying 
themselves  merrily.  The  Psalmist  (who  was  per- 
haps an  exiled  priest)  remembers  with  poignant 
regret  how  he  used  to  lead  religious  processions  on 
festival  occasions.  T.  Lewis 

HOLY  GHOST,  ho'li  gost.     See  Holy  Spirit. 

HOLY  GHOST  (SPIRIT),  SIN  AGAINST  THE. 

See  Blasphemy;  Holy  Spirit,  III,  1,  (4). 

HOLY  OF  HOLIES,  h5'liz  (D^pn  tthp ,  ko- 
dhesh  ha-kodhdshim,  Ex  26  33,  "12^1 ,  debhir,  1  K 
6  16,  etc;  in  the  NT,  a-yia  a-yttov,  hdgia  haglon,  He 
9  3) :  The  name  given  to  the  innermost  shrine,  or 
adytum  of  the  sanctuary  of  Jeh. 


The  most  holy  place  of  the  tabernacle  in  the 

wilderness    (Ex  26  31-33)    was   a    small    cube    of 

10  cubits  (15  ft.)  every  way.     It  was 

1.  In  the  divided  from  the  holy  place  by  a  veil 
Tabernacle    which  was  lifted  when  entrance  was 

made  (see  Veil).  Ceiled  by  curtains 
which  bore  cherubic  figures  embroidered  in  blue  and 
purple  and  scarlet  (26  1),  it  contained  no  furniture 
but  the  Ark  of  the  Covenant,  covered  by  a  slab  of 
gold  called  the  Mkrcy-Seat  (q.v.),  and  having 
within  it  only  the  two  stone  tables  of  the  Law  (see 
Tabernacle;  Ark  of  Covenant).  Only  the 
high  priest,  and  he  but  once  a  year,  on  the  great 
Day  of  Atonement  (q.v.),  was  permitted  to  enter 
within  the  veil,  clothed  in  penitential  garments, 
amid  a  cloud  of  incense,  and  with  blood  of  sacrifice 
(Lev  16;    cf  He  9  7). 

The  proportions  of  the  most  holy  place  in  the 
first  temple  were  the  same  as  in  the  tabernacle, 

but    the    dimensions    were    doubled. 

2.  In  the  The  sacred  chamber  was  enlarged  to  20 
Temple  of  cubits  (30  ft.)  each  way.  We  now 
Solomon        meet   with  the  word    d'bhir,  "oracle" 

(1  K  6  16,  etc),  which  with  the 
exception  of  Ps  28  2,  belonging  perhaps  to  the 
same  age,  is  met  with  in  Scripture  only  in  the  period 
of  Solomon's  reign.  This  sanctum,  like  its  pred- 
ecessor, contained  but  one  piece  of  furniture — the 
Ark  of  the  Covenant.  It  had,  however,  one  new 
conspicuous  feature  in  the  two  large  figures  of  cheru- 
bim of  olive  wood,  covered  with  gold,  with  wings 
stretching  from  wall  to  wall,  beneath  which  the  ark 
was  now  placed  (1  K  6  23-28;  2  Ch  3  10-13; 
see  Temple). 

In  Ezekiel's  temple  plans,  which  in  many  things 

may  have  been  those  of  the  temple  of  Zerubbabel, 

the   prophet   gives   20  cubits   as   the 

3.  In  Later  length  and  breadth  of  the  most  holy 
Times  place,     showing     that     these     figures 

were  regarded  as  too  sacred  to  undergo 
change  (Ezk  41  4).  There  was  then  no  Ark  of 
the  Covenant,  but  Jewish  tradition  relates  that  the 
blood  of  the  great  Day  of  Atonement  was  sprinkled 
on  an  unhewn  stone  that  stood  in  its  place.  In 
Herod's  temple,  the  dimensions  of  the  two  holy 
chambers  remained  the  same — at  least  in  length 
and  breadth  (see  Temple,  Herod's).  The  holiest 
place  continued  empty.  In  the  spoils  of  the  temple 
depicted  on  the  Arch  of  Titus  there  is  no  representa- 
tion of  the  Ark  of  the  Covenant ;  only  of  the  furni- 
ture of  the  outer  chamber  or  holy  place. 

In  the  Ep.   to  the  He  we  are  taught  that  the 

true  holy  of  holies  is  the  heaven  into  which  Jesus 

has  now  entered  to  appear  in  virtue  of 

4.  Figura-  His  own  sacrifice  in  the  presence  of 
tive  God  for  us  (He  9  11  ff).     Restriction 

is  now  removed,  and  the  way  into 
the  holiest  is  made  open  for  all  His  people  (10 
19.20).  W.  Shaw  Caldecott 

HOLY  ONE.     See  God,  Names  of. 

HOLY  PLACE  (thfen,  ha-kodhesh,  Ex  26  33, 
x3nn ,  ha-hekhal,  1  K  6  17,  etc;    t)  irptoTTi  o-kt]vt|, 

he  prate  skeni,  He  9  6f):  The  taber- 
1.  The  nacle    consisted    of    two    divisions    to 

Terms  which  a  graduated  scale  of  holiness  is 

attached:  "The  veil  shall  separate  unto 
you  between  the  holy  place  anil  the  most  holy" 
(Ex  26  33).  This  distinction  was  never  abrogated. 
In  the  Ep.  to  the  He  these  divisions  are  called  the 
"first"  and  "second"  tabernacles  (He  9  6  f).  The 
term  "holy  place"  is  not  indeed  confined  to  the  outer 
chamber  of  the  sanctuary;  in  Lev  6  16,  it  is 
applied  to  "the  court  of  the  tent  of  meeting." 
But  the  other  is  its  technical  use.  In  Solomon's 
temple  we  have  a  different  usage.     The  word  hekhal, 


Holy  Spirit 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1406 


"temple, "  is  not  ;it  first  applied,  as  after,  to  the 
whole  building,  but  is  the  designation  specifically 
of  the  holy  place,  in  distinction  from  the  d'blilr, 
or  "oracle"  (cf  1  K  6  3.5.1(1.17.33,  etc;  so  in 
Ezk  41  1.2.4,  etc).  The  wider  usage  is  later  (cf 
2   K   11    10  11.13,  etc). 

The  size  of  the  holy  place  differed  at  different 

times.     The  holy   place  of  the  tabernacle  was  20 

cubits  long  by    10  broad  and  10  high 

2.  Size  of  (30X15X15  ft.);  that  of  Solomon's 
the  Holy  temple  was  twice  this  in  length  and 
Place     '  breadth— 40  by   20  cubits;    but   it  is 

contended  by  many  (Btihr,  etc)  that 
in  height  it  was  the  full  internal  height  of  the 
building — 30  cubits;  the  Mcrodian  temple  lias 
the  same  dimensions  of  length  and  breadth,  but 
Jos  and  Middbth  give  largely  increased,  though 
differing,  numbers  for  the  height  (see  Temple, 
Herod's). 

The  contents  of  the  holy  place  were  from  the 

beginning   ordered    to    be    these    (Ex  25  23  if ;     30 

1-10):    the  altar  of  incense,  a  golden 

3.  Contents  candlestick  (in  Solomon's  temple  in- 
of  Holy  creased  to  ten,  1  K  7  49),  and  a  table 
Place              of    showbread    (likewise    increased    to 

ten,  2  Ch  4  8).  for  the  construction, 
position,  history  and  uses  of  these  objects,  see 
Tabernacle;  Temple,  and  arts,  under  the  several 
headings.  This,  as  shown  by  Jos  and  by  the  sculp- 
tures on  the  Arch  of  Titus,  continued  to  be  the 
furniture  of  the  holy  place  till  the  end. 

As  the  outer  division  of  the  sanctuary,  into  which, 
as  yet,  not  the  people,  but  only  their  representa- 
tives in  the  priesthood,  were  admitted 

4.  Symbol-    while  yet  the  symbols  of  the  people's 
ism  consecrated  life  (prayer,  light,  thanks- 
giving) were  found  in  it,  the  holy  place 

may  be  said  to  represent,  the  people's  relation  to 
God  in  the  earthly  life,  as  tin1  holy  of  holies  repre- 
sented God's  relation  to  the  people  in  a  perfected 
communion.  In  the  Ep.  to  the  He,  the  holy  place 
is  not  largely  dwelt  on  as  compared  with  the  court 
in  which  the  perfect  sacrifice  was  offered,  and  the 
holiest  of  all  into  which  Christ  has  now  entered 
(Christ  passes  "through"  tin-  tabernacle  into  the 
holiest,  9  11).  It  pertains,  however,  evidently  to 
the  earthly  sphere  of  Christ's  manifestation,  even 
as  earth  is  the  present  scene  of  the  church's  fellow- 
ship. Through  earth,  by  the  way  which  Christ  has 
opened  up,  the  believer,  already  in  spirit,  finally 
in  fact,  passes  with  Him  into  the  holiest  (He  10 
19;  cf  9  8;  see  Westcott,  Hebrews,  233  ft). 

W.  Shaw  Caloecott 
HOLY  SPIRIT,  ho'li  spir'it : 

I.     OT   Teachings   as  to   the   Spirit 

1.  Meaning  of  the  Word 

2.  The  Spirit  in  Relation  to  the  Godhead 

3.  In  External  Nature 

4.  In  Man 

5.  Imparting  Powers  for  Service 

(1)  Judges  and  Warriors 

(2)  Wisdom  for  Various  Purposes 
(:*)  In  Prophecy 

0.  Imparting  Moral  Character 
7.    In  the  Messiah 

s.   Predictions  of  Future  Outpouring  of  the  Spirit 
II.     Tin:  Non-Canonical  Literature 

1.  The  Spirit  in  Josephus 

2.  In  the  Pseudepigrapha 

:(.    In  the  Wisdom  of  Solomon 
4.    In  Philo 
III.     The  Holy  Spirit  in  the  XT 

1.  In  Relation  to  the  Person  and  Work  of  Christ 

(1)  Birth  of  Jesus 

(2)  Baptism 
(:i)  Temptation 

(4)  Public  Ministry 

(5)  Death    and    Resurrection    and    Pentecostal 
Gift 

2.  The  Holy  Spirit  in  the  Kingdom  of  God 

(1)  Synoptic  Teachings 

(2)  In  the  Writings  of  John 

(3)  In  Acts 

(4)  In  Paul's  Writings 


(a)  The  Spirit  and  Jesus 

(b)  In  Bestowing  Charismatic  (J if ts 

(r)  In  the  Beginnings  of  the  Christian  Life 

(d)  In  the  Religious  and  Moral  Life 

ie)  In  the  Church 

(/')  In  the  Resurrection  of  Believers 
(."))   The  Holy  Spirit  in  Other  NT  Writings 
Literature 

The  expression  Spirit,  or  Spirit  of  Clod,  or  Holy 
Spirit,  is  found  in  the  great,  majority  of  the  books  of 
the  Bible.  In  the  OT  the  1  lob  word  uniformly 
employed  for  the  Spirit  as  referring  to  God's  Spirit 
is  !Tn,  rW'h,  meaning  "breath,"  "wind"  or  "breeze." 
The  vb.  form  of  the  word  is  H7"!,  ru"h,  or  n",-,! ,  rl"h, 
used  only  in  the  Hiphil  and  meaning  "to  breathe," 
"to  blow."  A  kindred  vb.  is  FPT,  rdwah,  meaning 
"to  breathe,"  "having  breathing  room,"  "to  be 
spacious,"  etc.  The  word  always  used  in  the  NT 
for  the  Spirit  is  the  Gr  neuter  noun  irvev/xa,  pneiima, 
with  or  without  the  article,  and  for  Holy  Spirit, 
TTvevixa  iiyiov,  pnetima  hdgion,  or  to  Trveufia  to  ayiov, 
to  pneuma  to  hdgion.  In  the  XT  we  find  also  the 
expressions,  "the  Spirit,  of  God,"  "the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,"  "the  Spirit  of  the  Father,"  "the  Spirit  of 
Jesus,"  "of  Christ."  The;  word  for  Spirit  in  the 
Gr  is  from  the  vb.  ttv^gj,  pneo,  "to  breathe,"  "to 
blow."  The  corresponding  word  in  the  Lat  is 
spiritus,  meaning  "spirit." 

/.    77ie  Teachings  as  to  the  Spirit  in  the  OT. — 

At  the  outset  we  note  the  significance  of  the  term 

itself.     From     the    primary    meaning 

1.  Meaning  of  the  word  which  is  "wind,"  as  refer- 
of  the  ring  to  Nature,  arises  the  idea  of  breath 
Word  in  man  and  thence  the  breath,  wind  or 

Spirit  of  God.  We  have  no  way  of 
tracing  exactly  how  the  minds  of  the  Bib.  writers 
connected  the  earlier  literal  meaning  of  the  word 
with  the  Divine  Spirit.  Nearly  all  shades  of 
meaning  from  the  lowest  t  o  t  he  highest  appear  in  the 
OT,  audit  is  not  difficult  to  conceive  how  the  original 
narrower  meaning  was  gradually  expanded  into  the 
larger  and  wid(n\  The  following  are  some  of  the 
shades  of  OT  usage.  From  the  notion  of  wind  or 
breath,  ru"h  came  to  signify:  (1)  the  principle  of 
life  itself;  spirit  in  this  sense  indicated  the  degree 
of  vitality:  "My  spirit  is  consumed,  my  days  are 
extinct"  "(Job  17  1;  also  Jgs  15  19;  1  S  30  12); 
(2)  human  feelings  of  various  kinds,  as  anger  (Jgs 
8  3;  Prov  29  11),  desire;  (Isa  26  9),  courage  (Josh 
2  11);  (3)  intelligence  (Ex  28  3;  Isa  29  24);  (4) 
general  disposition  (Ps  34  18;  51  17;  Prov  14  29; 
16  18;  29  23). 

No  doubt  the  Bib.  writers  thought  of  man  as 
made  in  the  image  of  God  (Gen  1  27  f),  and  it  was 
easy  for  them  to  think  of  God  as  being  like  man.  It 
is  remarkable  that  their  anthropomorphism  did  not 
go  farther.  They  preserve,  however,  a  highly 
spiritual  conception  of  God  as  compared  with  that 
of  surrounding  nations.  But  as  the  human  breath 
was  an  invisible  part  of  man,  and  as  it  represented 
his  vitality,  his  life  and  energy,  it  was  easy  to  trans- 
fer the  conception  to  God  in  the  effort  to  represent 
His  energetic  and  transitive  action  upon  man  and 
Nature.  The  Spirit  of  (Jod,  therefore',  as  based 
upon  the  idea  of  the  ru"h  or  breath  of  man,  originally 
stood  for  the  energy  or  power  of  God  (Isa  31  3; 
cf  A.  B.  Davidson,  Theology  of  the  OT,  117-18),  as 
contrasted  with  the  weakness  of  the  flesh. 

We  consider  next  the  Spirit  of  God  in  relation  to 

God  Himself  in  the  OT.     Here  there  are  several 

points  to  be  noted.     The  first  is  that 

2.  The  there  is  no  indication  of  a  belief  that 
Spirit  in  the  Spirit  of  God  was  a  material  par- 
Relation  to  tide  or  emanation  from  God.  The 
the  God-  point  of  view  of  Bib.  writers  is  neat-K- 
nead always  practical  rather  than  specula- 
tive.    They  did  not  philosophize  about 

the  Divine  nature.     Nevertheless,  they  retained  a 


1407 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Holy  Spirit 


very  clear  distinction  between  spirit  and  flesh  or 
other  material  forms.  Again  wc  observe  in  the  OT 
both  an  identification  of  God  and  the  Spirit  of  God, 
and  also  a  clear  distinction  between  them.  The 
identification  is  seen  in  Ps  139  7  where  the  omni- 
presence of  the  Spirit  is  declared,  and  in  Isa  63  10; 
Jer  31  33;  Ezk  36  27.  In  a  great  number  of 
passages,  however,  God  and  the  Spirit  of  God  are 
not  thought  of  as  identical,  as  in  Gen  12;  6  3; 
Neh  9  20;  Ps  51  11;  104  20  f.  Of  course  this 
does  not  mean  that  God  and  the  Spirit  of  God  were 
two  distinct  beings  in  the  thought  of  OT  writers, 
but  only  that  the  Spirit  had  functions  of  His  own  in 
distinction  from  God.  The  Spirit  was  God  in 
action,  particularly  when  the  action  was  specific, 
with  a  view  to  accomplishing  some  particular  end 
or  purpose  of  God.  The  Spirit  came  upon  indi- 
viduals for  special  purposes.  The  Spirit  was  thus 
God  immanent  in  man  and  in  the  world.  As  the 
angel  of  the  Lord,  or  angel  of  the  Covenant  in  certain 
passages,  represents  both  Jeh  Himself  and  one  sent 
by  Jeh,  so  in  like  manner  the  Spirit  of  Jeh  was  both 
Jeh  within  or  upon  man,  and  at  the  same  time  one 
sent  by  Jeh  to  man. 

Do  the  OT  teachings  indicate  that  in  the  view 
of  the  writers  the  Spirit  of  Jeh  was  a  distinct  person 
in  the  Divine  nature?  The  passage  in  Gen  1  26 
is  scarcely  conclusive.  The  idea  and  importance 
of  personality  were  but  slowly  developed  in  Israelit- 
ish  thought.  Not  until  some  of  the  later  prophets 
did  it  receive  great  emphasis,  and  even  then  scarcely 
in  the  fully  developed  form.  The  statement  in 
Gen  1  20  may  be  taken  as  the  pi.  of  majesty  or  as 
referring  to  the  Divine  council,  and  on  this  account 
is  not  conclusive  for  the  Trinitarian  view.  Indeed, 
there  are  no  OT  passages  which  compel  us  to  under- 
stand the  complete  NT  doctrine  of  the  Trinity  and 
the  distinct  personality  of  the  Spirit  in  the  NT 
sense.  There  are,  however,  numerous  OT  passages 
which  are  in  harmony  with  the  Trinitarian  con- 
ception and  prepare  the  way  for  it,  such  as  Ps  139 
7;  Isa  63  10;  48  16;  Hag  2  5;  Zee  4  6.  The 
Spirit  is  grieved,  vexed,  etc,  and  in  other  ways  is 
conceived  of  personally,  but  as  He  is  God  in  action, 
God  exerting  power,  this  was  the  natural  way  for 
the  OT  writers  to  think  of  the  Spirit. 

The  question  has  been  raised  as  to  how  the  Bib. 
writers  were  able  to  hold  the  conception  of  the 
Spirit  of  God  without  violence  to  their  monotheism. 
A  suggested  reply  is  that  the  idea  of  the  Spirit  came 
gradually  and  indirectly  from  the  conception  of 
subordinate  gods  which  prevailed  among  some  of 
the  surrounding  nations  (I.  F.  Wood,  The  Spirit 
of  God  in  Bib.  Literature,  30).  But  the  best 
Israelitish  thought  developed  in  opposition  to, 
rather  than  in  analogy  with,  polytheism.  A  more 
natural  explanation  seems  to  be  that  their  simple 
anthropomorphism  led  them  to  conceive  the  Spirit 
of  God  as  the  breath  of  God  parallel  with  the  con- 
ception of  man's  breath  as  being  part  of  man  and 
yet  going  forth  from  him. 

We  consider  next  the  Spirit,  of  God  in  external 
Nature.     "And    the    Spirit    of    God    moved    [was 
brooding  or  hovering]  upon  the  face 
3.  The  of  the  waters"  (Gen  1  2).     The  figure 

Spirit  in  is  that  of  a  brooding  or  hovering  bird 
External  (cf  Dt  32  11).  Here  the  Spirit  brings 
Nature  order  and  beauty  out  of  the  primeval 

chaos  and  conducts  the  cosmic  forces 
toward  the  goal  of  an  ordered  universe.  Again  in 
Ps  104  2S-30,  God  sends  forth  Bis  Spirit,  and  visible 
things  are  called  into  being:  "Thou  sendest  forth 
thy  Spirit,  they  are  created;  and  thou  renewest 
the  face  of  the  ground."  In  Job  26  13  the  beauty 
of  the  heavens  is  ascribed  to  the  Spirit:  "By  his 
Spirit  the  heavens  are  garnished."  In  Isa  32  1") 
the  wilderness  becomes  a  fruitful  field  as  the  result 


of  the  outpouring  of  the  Spirit.  The  Bib.  writers 
scarcely  took  into  their  thinking  the  idea  of  second 
causes,  certainly  not  in  the  modern  scientific  sense. 
They  regarded  the  phenomena  of  Nature  as  the  result 
of  God's  direct  action  through  His  Spirit.  At 
every  point  their  conception  of  the  Spirit  saved 
them  from  pantheism  on  the  one  hand  and  poly- 
theism on   the   other. 

The  Spirit  may  next  be  considered  in  imparting 

natural  powers  both  physical  and  intellectual.     In 

Gen  2  7  God  originates  man's  person- 

4.  The  al  and  intellectual  life  by  breathing 
Spirit  of  into  his  nostrils  "the  breath  of  life." 
God  in  Man  In    Nu  16  22    God    is    "the    God    of 

the  spirits  of  all  flesh."  In  Ex  28  3; 
31  3;  35  31,  wisdom  for  all  kinds  of  workmanship 
is  declared  to  be  the  gift  of  God.  So  also  physical 
life  is  due  to  the  presence  of  the  Spirit  of  God  (Job 
27  3);  and  Elihu  declares  (Job  33  4)  that  the 
Spirit  of  God  made  him.  Sen;  also  Ezk  37  14  and 
39  29.  Thus  man  is  regarded  by  the  OT  writers, 
in  all  the  parts  of  his  being,  body,  mind  and  spirit,  as 
the  direct  result  of  the  action  of  the  Spirit  of  God. 
In  Gen  6  3  the  Spirit  of  God  "strives"  with  or 
"rules"  in  or  is  "humbled"  in  man  in  the  antedilu- 
vian world.  Here  reference  is  not  made  to  the 
Spirit's  activity  over  and  above,  but  within  the 
moral  nature  of  man. 

The  greater  part  of  the  OT  passages  which  refer 
to  the  Spirit  of  Cod  deal  with  the  subject  from  the 

point  of  view  of  the  covenant  relations 

5.  In  Im-  between  Jeh  and  Israel.  And  the 
parting  greater  portion  of  these",  in  turn,  have 
Powers  for  to  do  with  gifts  and  powers  conferred 
Service  by  the  Spirit  for  service  in  the  ongoing 

of  the  kingdom  of  God.  We  fail  to 
grasp  the  full  meaning  of  very  many  statements 
of  the  OT  unless  wc  keep  constantly  in  mind  the 
fundamental  assumption  of  all  the  OT,  viz.  the 
covenant  relations  between  God  and  Israel.  Extra- 
ordinary powers  exhibited  by  Israelites  of  what- 
ever kind  were  usually  attributed  to  the  Spirit. 
These  are  so  numerous  that  our  limits  of  space 
forbid  an  exhaustive  presentation.  The  chief 
points  we  may  not  ice. 

(1)  Powers  conferred  upon  judges  and  warriors.— 
The  children  of  Israel  cried  unto  Jeh  and  lb;  raised 
up  a  savior  for  them,  Othniel,  the  son  of  Kenaz: 
"And  the  Spirit  of  Jeh  came  upon  him,  and  he 
judged  Israel"  (Jgs  3  10).  So  also  Gideon  (Jgs 
6  34):  "The  Spirit  of  Jeh  came  upon  [lit.  clothed 
itself  with]  Gideon."  In  Jgs  11  20  "the  spirit  of 
Jeh  came  upon  Jephthah";  and  in  13  25  "the 
Spirit,  of  Jeh  began  to  move"  Samson.  In  14  6 
"the  Spirit  of  Jeh  came  mightily  upon  him."  In 
1  S  16  14  we  read  "the  Spirit  of  Jeh  departed 
from  Saul,  and  an  evil  spirit  from  Jeh  troubled 
him."  In  all  this  class  of  passages,  the  Spirit 
imparts  special  endowments  of  power  without 
necessary  reference  to  the  moral  character  of  the 
recipient.  The  end  in  view  is  not  personal,  merely 
to  the  agent,  but  concerns  the  theocratic  kingdom 
and  implies  the  covenant  between  God  and  Israel. 
In  some  cases  the  Spirit  exerts  physical  energy  in  a 
more  direct  way  (2  K  2  16;   Ezk  2  If;   3  12). 

(2)  Wisdom  and  skill  bestowed  for  various  purposes. 
— Bezalel  is  filled  with  the  Spirit  of  God  in  wisdom 
and  in  understanding  to  work  in  gold,  and  silver 
and  brass,  etc,  in  the  building  of  the  tabernacle 
(Ex  31  2-4;  35  31);  and  the  Spirit  of  wisdom  is 
given  to  others  in  making  Aaron's  garments  (Ex 
28  3).  So  also  of  one  of  the  builders  of  Solomon's 
temple  (1  K  7  14;  2  Ch  2  14).  In  these  cases 
there  seems  to  be  a  combination  of  the  thought  of 
natural  talents  and  skill  to  which  is  superadded  a 
special  endowment  of  the  Spirit.  Pharaoh  refers  to 
Joseph  as  one  in  whom  the  Spirit  of  God  is,  as  fitting 


Holy  Spirit 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1  108 


him  for  administration  and  government  (Gen  41 
38).  Joshua  is  qualified  for  leadership  by  the  Spirit 
(Nu  27  IS).  In  this  and  in  Dt  34  9,  Joshua  is 
represented  as  possessing  the  Spirit  through  the 
laying  on  of  the  hands  of  Moses.  This  is  an  inter- 
esting ()T  parallel  to  the  bestowment  of  the  Spirit 
by  laying  on  of  hands  in  the  NT  (Acts  8  17;  19  (>). 
Daniel  is  represented  as  having  wisdom  to  interpret 
dreams  through  the  Spirit,  and  afterward  beeause 
of  the  Spirit  he  is  exalted  to  a  position  of  authority 
and  power  (I)nl  4  8;  5  11  11;  6  3).  The  Spirit 
qualifies  Zerubbabel  to  rebuild  the  temple  (Zee  4 
6).  The  Spirit  was  given  to  the  people  for  instruc- 
tion and  strengthening  during  the  wilderness 
wanderings  (Neh  9  20),  and  to  the  elders  along 
with  Moses  (Nu  11  17.25;.  It  thus  appears  how 
very  widespread  were  the  activities  of  the  redemp- 
tive Spirit,  or  the  Spirit  in  the  covenant.  All 
these  forms  of  the  Spirit's  action  bore  in  some 
way  upon  the  national  life  of  the  people,  and  were 
directed  in  one  way  or  another  toward  theocratic 
ends. 

(3)  The  Spirit  in  OT  prophecy. — The  most 
distinctive  and  important  manifestation  of  the 
Spirit's  activity  in  the  OT  was  in  the  sphere  of 
prophecy.  In  the  earlier  period  the  prophet  was 
called  seer  (HSH ,  ro'eh),  and  later  he  was  called 
prophet  (X"vl  ,  nabhV).  The  word  "prophet" 
(irpo<j>r)TT)s,  propht'tes)  means  one  who  speaks  for  Cod. 
The  prophets  were  very  early  differentiated  from 
the  masses  of  the  people  into  a  prophetic  class  or 
order,  although  Abraham  himself  was  called  a 
prophet,  as  were  Moses  and  other  leaders  (Gen  20 
7;  Dt  18  15).  The  prophet  was  esp.  distinguished 
from  others  as  the  man  who  possessed  the  Spirit  of 
Cod  (Ilos  9  7).  The  prophets  ordinarily  began 
their  messages  with  the  phrase,  "thus  saith  Jeh," 
or  its  equivalent.  But  they  ascribed  their  mes- 
sages directly  also  to  the  Spirit  of  Cod  (Ezk  2  2; 
8  3;  11  1.24;  13  3).  The  case  of  Balaam  pre- 
sents some  difficulties  (Nu  24  2).  He  does  not 
seem  to  have  been  a  genuine  prophet,  but  rather  a 
diviner,  although  it  is  declared  that  the  Spirit  of 
God  came  upon  him.  Balaam  serves,  however, 
to  illustrate  the  OT  point  of  view.  The  chief  in- 
terest, was  the  national  or  theocratic  or  covenant 
ideal,  not  that  of  the  individual.  The  Spirit  was 
bestowed  at  times  upon  unworthy  men  for  the 
achievement  of  these  ends.  Saul  presents  a  similar 
example.  The  prophet  was  ( Jod's  messenger  speak- 
ing God's  message  by  the  Spirit.  His  message  was 
not  his  own.  It  came  directly  from  God,  and  at 
times  overpowered  the  prophet  with  its  urgency,  as 
in  the  case  of  Jeremiah  (1  4  IT). 

There  are  quite  perceptible  stages  in  the  develop- 
ment of  the  OT  prophecy.  In  the  earlier  period 
the  prophet  was  sometimes  moved,  not  so  much  to 
intelligible  speech,  as  by  a  sort  of  enthusiasm  or 
prophetic  ecstasy.  In  1  S  10  we  have  an  example 
of  this  earlier  form  of  prophecy,  where  a  company 
with  musical  instruments  prophesied  together.  To 
what  extent  this  form  of  prophetic  enthusiasm  was 
attended  by  warnings  and  exhortations,  if  so 
attended  at  all,  we  do  not  know.  There  was  more 
in  it  than  in  the  excitement  of  the  diviners  and 
devotees  of  the  surrounding  nations.  For  the 
Spirit  of  Jeh  was  its  source. 

In  t  he  later  period  we  have  prophecy  in  its  highest, 
forms  in  the  OT.  The  differences  between  earlier 
and  later  prophecy  are  probably  due  in  part  to  the 
conditions.  The  early  period  required  action,  the 
later  required  teaching.  The  judges  on  whom 
the  Spirit  came  were  deliverers  in  a  turbulent  age. 
There  was  not,  need  for,  nor  could  the  people  have 
borne,  the  higher  ethical  and  spiritual  truths  which 
came    in    later    revelations    through    the    prophets 


Isaiah,  Jeremiah  and  others.  See  2  S  23  2;  Ezk 
2  2;    8  3;    11  24;    13  3;    Mic  3  S;    Ilos  9  7. 

A  difficulty  arises  from  statements  such  as  the 
following:  A  lying  spirit,  was  sometimes  present  in 
the  prophet  (1  K  22  21  f);  Jeh  puts  a  spirit  in  the 
king  of  Assyria  and  turns  him  back  to  his  destruc- 
tion (Isa  37  7);  because  of  sin,  a  lying  prophet 
should  serve  the  people  (Mic  2  11);  'in  Micaiah's 
vision  Jeh  sends  a  spirit  to  entice  Ahab  through 
lying  prophets  (1  K  22  19 ff);  an  evil  spirit  from 
Jeh  comes  upon  Saul  (1  S  16  14;  18  10;  19  9). 
The  following  considerations  may  be  of  value  in 
explaining  these  passages.  Jeh  was  the  source 
of  things  generally  in  OT  thought.  Its  pronounced 
monotheism  appears  in  this  as  in  so  many  other 
ways.  Besides  this,  OT  writers  usually  spoke 
phenomenally.  Prophecy  was  a  particular  form 
of  manifestation  with  certain  outward  marks  and 
signs.  Whatever  presented  these  outward  marks 
was  called  prophecy,  whether  the  message  conveyed 
was  true  or  false.  The  standard  of  discrimination 
here  was  not  the  outward  signs  of  the  prophet,  but 
the  truth  or  right  of  the  message  as  shown  by  the 
event.  As  to  the  evil  spirit  from  Jeh,  it  may  be 
explained  in  either  of  two  ways.  First ,  it  may  have 
referred  to  the  evil  disposition  of  the  man  upon 
whom  God's  Spirit  was  acting,  in  which  case  he 
would  resist  the  Spirit  and  his  own  spirit  would  be 
the  evil  spirit.  Or  the  "evil  spirit  from  Jeh"  may 
have  referred,  in  the  prophet's  mind,  to  an  actual 
spirit  of  evil  which  Jeh  sent  or  permitted  to  enter 
the  man.  The  latter  is  the  more  probable  explana- 
tion, in  accordance  with  which  the  prophet  would 
conceive  that  Jeh's  higher  will  was  accomplished, 
even  through  the  action  of  the  evil  spirit  upon  man's 
spirit.  Jeh's  judicial  anger  against  transgression 
would,  to  the  prophet's  mind,  justify  the  sending  of 
an  evil  spirit  by  Jeh. 

The  activity  of  the  Spirit  in  the  OT  is  not  limited 

to  gifts  for  service.     Moral  and  spiritual  character 

is  traced  to  the  Spirit's  operations  as 

6.  The  well.  "Thy  holy  Spirit"  (Ps  51  11); 
Spirit  Im-  "his  holy  Spirit"  (Isa  63  10);  "thy 
parting  good  Spirit"  (Neh  9  20);  "Thy  Spirit 
Moral  and  is  good"  (Ps  143  10)  are  expressions 
Spiritual  pointing  to  the  ethical  quality  of  the 
Character      Spirit's  action.     "Holy"   is  from  the 

vb.  form  (£?"]?  ,  kddhash),  whose  root 
meaning  is  doubtful,  but  which  probably  meant 
"to  be  separated,"  from  which  it  conies  to  mean  to 
be  exalted,  and  this  led  to  the  conception  to  be 
Divine.  And  as  Jeh  is  morally  good,  the  concep- 
tion of  "the  holy  [  =  Divine]  one"  came  to  signify 
the  holy  one  in  the  moral  sense.  Thence  the  word 
was  applied  to  the  Spirit  of  Jeh.  Jeh  gives  His 
good  Spirit  for  instruction  (Neh  9  20);  the  Spirit 
is  called  good  because  it  teaches  to  do  Cod's  will 
(Ps  143  10);  the  Spirit  gives  the  fear  of  the  Lord 
(Isa  11  2-5);  judgment  and  righteousness  (Isa  32 
15  ff);  devotion  to  the  Lord  (Isa  44  3-5);  hearty 
obedience  and  anew  heart  (Ezk  36  26  f);  penitence 
and  prayer  (Zee  12  10).  In  Ps  51  11  there  is  an  in- 
tense sense  of  guilt  and  sin  coupled  with  the  prayer, 
"Take  not  thy  holy  Spirit  from  me."  Thus  we  sec 
that  the  OT  in  numerous  ways  recognizes  the  Holy 
Spirit  as  the  source  of  inward  moral  purity,  although 
the  thought  is  not  so  developed  as  in  the  NT. 

In  both  the  first  and  the  second  sections  of  Isa, 
there  are  distinct  references  to  the  Spirit  in  con- 
nection  with   the    Messiah,    although 

7.  The  the  Messiah  is  conceived  as  the  ideal 
Spirit  in  the  King  who  springs  from  the  root  of 
Messiah         David  in  some  instance's,  and  in  others 

as  the  Suffering  Servant  of  Jeh.  This 
is  not  the  place  to  discuss  the  Messianic  import  of 
the  latter  group  of  passages  which  has  given  rise  to 


1409 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Holy  Spirit 


much  difference  of  opinion.  As  in  the  case  of  the 
ideal  Davidic  King  which,  in  the  prophet's  mind, 
passes  from  the  lower  to  the  higher  and  Messianic 
conception,  so,  under  the  form  of  the  Suffering  Ser- 
vant, the  "remnant"  of  Israel  becomes  the  basis  for 
an  ideal  which  transcends  in  the  Messianic  sense 
the  original  nucleus  of  the  conception  derived  from 
the  historic  events  in  the  history  of  Israel.  The 
prophet  rises  in  the  employment  of  both  conceptions 
to  the  thought  of  the  Messiah  who  is  the  "anointed" 
of  Jeh  as  endued  esp.  with  the  power  and  wisdom  of 
the  Spirit.  In  Isa  11  1-5  a  glowing  picture  is 
given  of  the  "shoot  out  of  the  stock  of  Jesse." 
The  Spirit  imparts  "wisdom  and  understanding" 
and  endows  him  with  manifold  gifts  through  the 
exercise  of  which  he  shall  bring  in  the  kingdom 
of  righteousness  and  peace.  In  Isa  42  Iff,  the 
"servant"  is  in  like  manner  endowed  most  richly 
with  the  gift  s  of  the  Spirit  by  virtue  of  which  he  shall 
bring  fort  h  "justice  to  the  Gentiles."  In  Isa  61  1  ff 
occur  the  notable  words  cited  by  Jesus  in  Lk  4 
18  f,  beginning,  "The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  upon  me," 
etc.  In  these  passages  the  prophet  describes  elab- 
orately and  minutely  the  Messiah's  endowment 
with  a  wide  range  of  powers,  all  of  which  are  traced 
to  the  action  of  God's  Spirit. 

In  the  later  history  of  Israel,  when  the  sufferings 
of  the  exile  pressed  heavily,  there  arose  a  tendency 

to  idealize  a  past  age  as  the  era  of  the 
8.  Predic-  special  blessing  of  the  Spirit,  coupled 
tions  of  Fu-  with  a  very  marked  optimism  as  to  a 
ture  Out-  future  outpouring  of  the  Spirit.  In 
pouring  of  Hag  2  5  reference  is  made  to  the  Mo- 
the  Spirit       saic  period  as  the  age  of  the  Spirit, 

"when  ye  came  out  of  Egypt,  and  my 
Spirit  abode  among  you."  In  Isa  44  '.\  the  Spirit  is 
to  be  poured  out  on  Jacob  and  his  seed;  and  in  Isa 
59  20  a  Redeemer  is  to  come  to  Zion  under  the  cove- 
nant of  Jeh,  and  the  Spirit  is  to  abide  upon  the 
people.  The  passage,  however,  which  esp.  indicates 
the  transit  ion  from  OT  to  NT  times  is  that  in  Joel 
2  2S.32  which  is  cited  by  Peter  in  Acts  2  17-21. 
In  this  prophecy  the  bestowal  of  the  Spirit  is 
extended  to  all  classes,  is  attended  by  marvelous 
signs  and  is  accompanied  by  the  gift  of  salvation. 
Looking  back  from  the  later  to  the  earlier  period  of 
OT  history,  we  observe  a  twofold  tendency  of  teach- 
ing in  relation  to  the  Spirit.  The  first  is  from  the 
outward  gift  of  the  Spirit  for  various  uses  toward 
a  deepening  sense  of  inner  need  of  the  Spirit  for 
moral  purity,  and  consequent  emphasis  upon  the 
ethical  energy  of  the  Spirit.  The  second  tendency 
is  toward  a  sense  of  the  futility  of  the  merely  human 
or  theocratic  national  organization  in  and  of  itself 
to  achieve  the  ends  of  Jeh,  along  with  a  sense;  of  the 
need  for  the  Spirit  of  God  upon  the  people  generally, 
and  a  prediction  of  the  universal  diffusion  of  the 
Spirit. 

//.  The  Spirit  in  Non- Canonical  Jewish  Litera- 
ture.— In  the  Palestinian  and  Alexandrian  literature 
of  the  Jews  there  are  comparatively  few  references 
to  the  Spirit  of  God.  The  two  books  in  which  the 
teachings  as  to  the  Spirit  are  most  explicit  and  most 
fully  developed  are  of  Alexandrian  origin,  viz. 
The  Wisdom  of  Solomon  and  the  writings  of  Philo. 

In  the  OT  Apocrypha  and  in  Jos  the  references  to  the 
Spirit  are  nearly  always  merely  echoes  of  a  long-past 
age  when  the  Spirit  was  active  among  men.  In  no  par- 
ticular is  the  contrast  between  the  canonical  and  non- 
canonical  literature  more  striking  than  in  the  teaching 
as  to  the  Spirit  of  ( lod. 

Jos  has  a  number  of  references  to  the  Holy  Spirit,  but 
nearly  always  they  have  to  do  with  the  long-past  history 
of  Israel.  He  refers  to  22  books  of  the  OT 
1.  The  which  are  of  the  utmost,  reliability.     There 

•^nirii-  in  are  other  books,  but  none  "of  like  author- 

opuiim  i(y  ,,     hecause    there    has    "not     been    an 

JOSepnUS  exact  succession  of  prophets"  (CM  p,  1, 
X).  Samuel  is  described  as  having  a  large 
place  in  the  affairs  of  the  kingdom  because;  he  is  a  prophet 


2.  The 

Spirit  in 
the  Pseude- 
pigrapha 


(Ant,  VI,  v,  6).  God  appears  to  Solomon  in  sleep  and 
teaches  him  wisdom  (ib,  VIII,  ii);  Balaam  prophesies 
through  the  Spirit's  power  (ib,  IV,  v,  (i);  and  Moses  was 
such  a  prophet  that  his  words  were  God's  words  (ib, 
IV,  viii,  49).  In  Jos  we  have  then  simply  a  testimony 
to  the  inspiration  and  power  of  the  prophets  and  the 
books  written  by  them,  in  so  far  as  we  have  in  him  teach- 
ings regarding  the  Spirit  of  God.  Even  here  the  action 
of  the  Spirit  is  usually  implied  rather  than  expressed. 

In  the  pseudepigraphic  writings  the  Spirit  of  God  is 
usually  referred  to  as  acting  in  the  long-past  history  of 
Israel  or  in  the  future  Messianic  age.  In 
the  apocalyptic  books,  the  past  age  of 
power,  when  the  Spirit  wrought  mightily, 
becomes  the  ground  of  the  hopes  of  the 
future.  The  past  is  glorified,  and  out  of  it 
arises  the  hope  of  a  future  kingdom  of 
glory  and  power.  Enoch  says  to  Methuse- 
lah:* "The  word  calls  me  and  the  Spirit 
is  poured  out  upon  me"  (En  91  1).  In  49  1-4  the 
Messiah  has  the  Spirit  of  wisdom,  understanding  and 
might.  Enoch  is  represented  as  describing  his  own 
translation.  "He  was  carried  aloft  in  the  chariots  of  the 
Spirit"  (En  70  2).  In  Jub  31  16  Isaac  is  represented 
as  prophesying,  and  in  25  13  it  is  said  of  Kebekah  that 
the  "  Holy  Spirit  descended  into  her  mouth."  Sometimes 
the  action  of  the  Spirit  is  closely  connected  with  the 
moral  life,  although  this  is  rare.  "The  Spirit  of  God 
rests"  on  the  man  of  pure  and  loving  heart  (XII  P,  B(>nj. 
8).  In  Simeon  4  it  is  declared  that  Joseph  was  a  good 
man  and  that  the  Spirit  of  God  rested  on  him.  There 
appears  at  times  a  lament  for  the  departed  age  of  proph- 
ecy (1  Mace  9  27;  14  41).  The  future  is  depicted  in 
glowing  colors.  The  Spirit  is  to  come  in  a  future  judg- 
ment (XII  P,  Levi  18);  and  the  spirit  of  holiness  shall 
rest  upon  the  redeemed  in  Paradise  (Levi  18);  and  in 
Levi  2  the  spirit  of  insight  is  given,  and  the  vision  of  the 
sinful  world  and  its  salvation  follows.  Generally  speak- 
ing, this  literature  is  far  below  that  of  the  OT,  both  in 
moral  tone  and  religious  insight.  Much  of  it  seems 
childish,  although  at  times  we  encounter  noble  passages. 
There  is  lacking  in  it  the  prevailing  OT  mood  which  is 
best  described  as  prophetic,  in  which  the  writer  feels 
constrained  by  the  power  of  Cod's  Spirit  to  speak  or 
write.  The  ( )T  literature  thus  possesses  a  vitality  and 
power  which  accounts  for  the  strength  of  its  appeal  to 
our  religious  consciousness. 

We  note  in  the  next  place  a  few  teachings  as  to 
the  Spirit  of  God  in  Wisd.     Here  the  ethical  ele- 
ment in  character  is  a  condition  of  the 

3.  The  Spirit's  indwelling.  "Into  a  malicious 
Spirit  in  the  soul  wisdom  shall  not  enter:  nor  dwell 
Wisdom  of  in  the  body  that  is  subject  unto  sin. 
Solomon        For  the  holy  spirit  of  discipline  will 

flee  deceit,  and  will  not  abide  when 
unrighteousness  cometh  in"  (Wisd  1  4f).  This 
"holy  spirit  of  discipline"  is  evidently  God's  Holy 
Spirit,  for  in  ver  7  the  writer  proceeds  to  assert, 
"For  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  filleth  the  world,"  anil 
in  vs  8.9  there  is  a  return  to  the  conception  of  un- 
righteousness as  a  hindrance  to  right  speaking. 
In  Wisd  7  7  the  Spirit  of  Wisdom  comes  in  response 
to  prayer.  In  7  22-30  is  an  elaborate  and  very 
beautiful  description  of  wisdom:  "In  her  is  an  under- 
standing spirit,  holy,  one  only,  manifold,  subtil, 
lively,  clear,  undented,  plain,  not  subject  to  hurt, 
loving  the  thing  that  is  good,  quick,  which  cannot 
be  letted,  ready  to  do  good,  kind  to  man,  stedfast, 
sure,"  etc.  "She  is  the  brightness  of  the  ever- 
lasting light,  the  unspotted  mirror  of  the  power  of 
(lod,  and  the  image  of  his  goodness,"  etc.  No  out' 
can  know  God's  counsel  except  by  the  Holy  Spirit 
(9  17).  The  writer  of  Wisd  was  deeply  possessed 
of  t  he  sense  of  the  omnipresence  of  the  Spirit  of  ( lod, 
as  seen  in  1  7  and  in  12  1.  In  the  latter  passage  we 
read:  "For  thine  incorruptible  spirit  is  in  all  things." 
In  Philo  we  have  what  is  almost  wholly  wanting  in 
other  Jewish  literature,  viz.  analytic  and  reflective 
thought  upon  the  work  of  the  Spirit  of 

4.  The  God.  The  interest  in  Philo  is  primari- 
Spirit  in  ly  philosophic,  and  his  teachings  on 
Philo  the  Spirit  possess  special  interest  on 

this  account  in  contrast  with  Bib. 
and  other  extra-Bib.  literature.  In  his  Questions 
and  Solutions,  27,  28,  he  explains  the  expression  in 
Gen  8  1:  "lie  brought  a  breath  over  the  earth  and 
the  wind  ceased."  He  argues  that  water  is  not 
diminished    by    wind,    but   only  agitated  and  dis- 


Holy  Spirit 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1410 


turbed.  Hence  there  must  be  a  reference  to  Cod's 
Spirit  or  breath  by  which  the  whole  universe  obtains 
security.  He  lias  a  similar  discussion  of  the 
point  why  the  word  "Spirit"  is  not  used  instead 
of  "breath"  in  Gen  it)  the  account  of  man's  creation, 
and  concludes  that  "to  breathe  into''  here  means  to 
"inspire,''  and  that  Cod  by  His  Spirit  imparted  to 
man  mental  and  moral  life  and  capacity  for  Divine 
things  (Allegories,  xiii).  In  several  passages 
Philo  discusses  prophecy  and  the  prophetic  office. 
One  of  the  most  interesting  relates  to  the  prophetic 
office  of  Moses  (Life  of  Moses,  xxiiiff).  He  also 
describes  a  false  prophet  who  claims  (o  be  ''inspired 
and  possessed  by  the  Holy  Spirit"  (On  Those  Who 
Offer  Sacrifice,  xi).  In  a  very  notable  passage, 
Philo  describes  in  detail  his  own  subjective  experi- 
ences under  the  influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  his 
language  is  that  of  the  intellectual  mystic.  He  says 
that  at  times  he  found  himself  devoid  of  impulse 
or  capacity  for  mental  activity,  when  suddenly  by 
the  coming  of  the  Spirit  of  Cod,  his  intellect  was 
rendered  very  fruitful:  "and  sometimes  when  I 
have  come  to  my  work  empty  1  have  suddenly 
become  full,  ideas  being,  in  an  invisible  manner, 
showered  upon  me  and  implanted  in  me  from  on  high; 
so  that  through  the  influence  of  Divine  inspiration 
1  have  become  greatly  excited  and  have  known 
neither  the  place  in  which  1  was,  nor  those  who  were 
present,  nor  myself,  nor  what  1  was  saying,  nor  what 
1  was  writing,"  etc  (Migrations  of  Abraham,  vii). 

In  Philo,  as  in  the  non-canonical  literature  gener- 
ally, we  find  little  metaphysical  teaching  as  to  the 
Spirit  and  His  relations  to  the  Godhead.  On  this 
point  then*  is  no  material  advance  over  the  OT 
teaching.  The  agency  of  the  Holy  Spirit  in  shaping 
and  maintaining  the  physical  universe  and  as  the 
source  of  man's  capacities  and  powers  is  clearly 
recognized  in  Philo.  In  Philo,  as  in  Jos,  the  con- 
ception of  inspiration  as  the  complete  occupation 
and  domination  of  the  prophet's  mind  by  the 
Spirit  of  Cod,  even  to  the  extent,  of  suspending 
the  operation  of  the  natural  powers,  comes  clearly 
into  view.  This  is  rather  in  contrast  with,  than 
in  conformity  to,  the  OT  and  NT  conception  of 
inspiration,  in  which  the  personality  of  the  prophet 
remains  intensely  active  while  under  the  influence 
of  the  Spirit,  except  possibly  in  cases  of  vision  and 
trance. 

///.  The  Holy  Spirit  in  the  NT.— In  the  NT  there 
is  unusual  symmetry  and  completeness  of  teaching 
as  to  the  work  of  the  Spirit  of  God  in  relation  to  the 
Messiah  Himself,  and  to  the  founding  of  the  Mes- 
sianic kingdom.  The  simplest  mode  of  presenta- 
tion will  be  to  trace  the  course  of  the  progressive 
activities  of  the  Spirit,  or  teachings  regarding  these 
activities,  as  these  are  presented  to  us  in  the  NT 
literature  as  we  now  have  it,  so  far  as  the  nature  of 
the  subject  will  permit.  This  will,  of  course,  dis- 
turb to  some  extent  the  chronological  order  in  which 
the  NT  books  were  written,  since  in  some  cases,  as 
in  John's  Gospel,  a  very  late  book  contains  early 
teachings  as  to  the  Spirit . 

(1)  The  birth  of  Jesus— In  Mt  1  18  Mary  is 
found  with  child  "of  the'  Holy  Spirit"  (e*  nvev/jLaros 
ayiov,  ek  pneiimatos  hagiou);  an  angel 
1.  The  tells  Joseph  that  that  "which  is  con- 

Spirit  in  ceived  in   her  is  of  the  Holy  Spirit" 

Relation  to  (1  20),  all  of  which  is  declared  to  be  in 
the  Person  fulfilment  of  the  prophecy  that  a  virgin 
and  Work  shall  bring  forth  a  son  whose  name 
of  Christ  shall  be  called  Immanuel  (Isa  7  14). 
In  Lk  1  35  t  he  angel  says  to  Mary  that 
the  Holy  Spirit  (pneuma  hagion)  shall  come  upon 
her,  and  the  power  of  the  Most  High  (Stivanis 
"YficTTov,  dunamis  Hupsistou)  shall  overshadow 
her.  Here  "Holy  Spirit"  and  "power  of  the  Most 
High"  are  ||   expressions  meaning  the  same  thing; 


in  the  one  cast;  emphasizing  the  Divine  source  and 
in  the  other  the  holiness  of  "the  holy  thing  which  is 
begotten"  (1  3.5).  In  connection  with  the  pres- 
entation of  the  babe  in  the  temple,  Simeon  is 
described  as  one  upon  whom  the  Holy  Spirit  rested, 
to  whom  revelation  was  made  through  the  Spirit 
and  who  came  into  the  temple  in  the  Spirit  (Lk  2 
25-28).  So  also  Anna  the  prophetess  speaks  con- 
cerning the  babe,  evidently  in  Luke's  t  hought,  under 
the  influence'  of  the  Holy  Spirit  (Lk  2  36  ff). 

It  is  clear  from  the  foregoing  that  the  passages  in 
Mt  and  Lk  mean  to  set  forth,  first,  the  super- 
natural origin,  and  secondly,  the  sinlessness  of  the 
babe  born  of  Mary.  The  act  of  the  Holy  Spirit  is 
regarded  as  creative,  although  the  words  employed 
signify  "begotten"  or  "born"  (yewr]04v,  gennethen, 
Mt  1  20;  and  yew&ixevov,  genndmenon,  Lk  1  35). 
There  is  no  hint  in  the  stories  of  the  nativity  con- 
cerning the  pretemporal  existence  of  Christ.  This 
doctrine  was  developed  later.  Nor  is  there  any 
suggestion  of  the  immaculate  conception  or  sinless- 
ness of  Mary,  the  mother  of  Our  Lord.  Dr.  C.  A. 
Briggs  has  set  forth  a  theory  of  the  sinlessness  of 
Mary  somewhat  different  from  the  Roman  Catholic 
view,  to  the  effect  that  the  OT  prophecies  foretell 
the  purification  of  the  Davidic  line,  and  that  Mary 
was  the  culminating  point  in  the  purifying  process, 
who  thereby  became  sinless  (Incarnation  of  the  Lord, 
230-34).  This,  however,  is  speculative  and  without 
substantial  Bib.  warrant.  The  siidessness  of  Jesus 
was  not  due  to  the  sinlessness  of  His  mother,  but  to 
the  Divine  origin  of  His  human  nature,  the  Spirit 
of  God. 

In  He;  10  5  ff  the  writer  makes  reference  to  the 
sinless  body  of  Christ  as  affording  a  perfect  offering 
for  sins.  No  direct  reference  is  made  to  the  birth 
of  Jesus,  but  the  origin  of  His  body  is  ascribed  to 
Cod  (He  10  5),  though  not  specifically  to  the  Holy 
Spirit. 

(2)  The  baptism  of  Jesus. — The  NT  records  give 
us  very  little  information  regarding  the  growth  of 
Jesus  to  manhood.  In  Lk  2  40  ff  a  picture  is  given 
of  the  boyhood,  exceedingly  brief,  but  full  of  signifi- 
cance. The  "child  grew,  and  waxed  strong,  filled 
with  wisdom  [m  "becoming  full  of  wisdom"]:  and 
the  grace  of  God  was  upon  him."  Then  follows  the 
account  of  the  visit  to  the  temple.  Evidently  in 
all  these  experiences,  the  boy  is  under  the  influence 
and  guidance  of  the  Spirit.  This  alone  would 
supply  an  adequate  explanation,  although  Luke 
does  not  expressly  name  the  Spirit  as  the  source  of 
these  particular  experiences.  The  Spirit's  action  is 
rather  assumed. 

Great  emphasis,  however,  is  given  to  the  descent 
of  the  Spirit  upon  Jesus  at  His  baptism.  Mt  3  10 
declares  that  after  His  baptism  "the  heavens  were 
opened  unto  him,  and  he  saw  the  Spirit  of  God 
descending  as  a  dove,  and  coming  upon  him." 
Mk  1  10  repeats  the  statement  in  substantially 
equivalent  terms.  Lk  3  22  declares  that  the 
Spirit  descended  in  "bodily  form,  as  a  dove" 
(awfxarLKw  ei'Set  us  -KipurTepav,  somaliko  ehlei  hos 
peristerdn).  In  Jn  1  32.33  the  Baptist  testifies  that 
ho  saw  the  Spirit  descending  upon  Jesus  as  a  dove 
out  of  heaven,  and  that  it  abode  upon  Him,  and, 
further,  that  this  descent  of  the  Spirit  was  the 
mark  by  which  he  was  to  recognize  Jesus  as  "he 
that  baptizeth  in  the  Holy  Spirit." 

We  gather  from  these  passages  that  at  the  baptism 
there  was  a  new  communication  of  the  Spirit  to 
Jesus  in  great  fulness,  as  a  special  anointing  for  His 
Messianic  vocation.  The  account  declares  that  the 
dovelike  appearance  was  seen  by  Jesus  as  well  as 
John,  which  is  scarcely  compatible  with  a  subjec- 
tive experience  merely.  Of  course,  the  dove  here  is 
to  be  taken  as  a  symbol,  and  not  as  an  assertion  that 
God's  Spirit  assumed  the  form  of  a  dove  actually. 


1411 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Holy  Spirit 


Various  meanings  have  been  assigned  to  the  symbol. 
One  connects  it  with  the  creative  power,  according 
to  a  gentile  usage;  others  with  the  speculative 
philosophy  of  Alexandrian  Judaism,  according  to 
which  the  dove  symbolized  the  Divine;  wisdom  or 
reason.  But  the  most  natural  explanation  con- 
nects t  he  symbolism  of  the  dove  with  the  brooding  or 
hovering  of  the  Spirit  in  Gen  1  3.  In  this  new 
spiritual  creation  of  humanity,  as  in  the  first  physical 
creation,  the  Spirit  of  God  is  the  energy  through 
which  the  work  is  carried  on.  Possibly  the  dove, 
as  a  living  organism,  complete  in  itself,  may  sug- 
gest the  totality  and  fulness  of  the  gift  of  the 
Spirit  to  Jesus.  At  Pentecost,  on  the  contrary, 
the  Spirit  is  bestowed  distributively  and  partially 
at  least  to  individuals  as  such,  as  suggested  by  the 
cloven  tongues  as  of  fire  which  "sat  upon  each  one 
of  them"  (Acts  2  3).  Jn  3  34  emphasizes  the 
fulness  of  the  bestowal  upon  Jesus:  "For  he  whom 
God  hath  sent  speaketh  the  words  of  God:  for 
he  giveth  not  the  Spirit  by  measure."  In  the  wit- 
ness of  the  Baptist  the  permanence  of  the  anoint- 
ing of  Jesus  is  declared:  "Upon  whomsoever  thou 
shalt  seethe  Spirit  descending,  and  abiding"  (1  33). 

It  is  probable  that  the  connection  of  the  bestowal 
of  the  Spirit  with  water  baptism,  as  seen  later  in 
the  Book  of  Acts,  is  traceable  to  the  reception  of  the 
Spirit  by  Jesus  at  His  own  baptism.  Baptism  in 
the  Spirit  did  not  supersede  water  baptism. 

The  gift  of  the  Spirit  in  fulness  to  Jesus  at  His 
baptism  was  no  doubt  His  formal  and  public  anoint- 
ing for  His  Messianic  work  (Acts  10  38).  _  The 
baptism  of  Jesus  could  not  have  the  same  signifi- 
cance with  that  of  sinful  men.  For  the  symbolic 
cleansing  from  sin  had  no  meaning  for  the  sinless 
one.  Yet  as  an  act  of  formal  public  consecration 
it  was  appropriate  to  the  Messiah.  It  brought  to  a 
close  His  private  life  and  introduced  Him  to  His 
public  Messianic  career.  The  conception  of  an 
anointing  for  public  service  was  a  familiar  one  in 
the  OT  writings  and  applied  to  the  priest  (Ex  28 
41;  40  13;  Lev  4  3.5.16;  6  20.22);  to  kings  (1  S 
9  16:  10  1;  15  1;  16  3.13);  sometimes  to  prophets 
(1  K  19  10;  cf  Isa  61  1;  Ps  2  2;  20  6).  These 
anointings  were  with  oil,  and  the  oil  came  to  be 
regarded  as  a  symbol  of  the  Spirit  of  (iod. 

The  anointing  of  Jesus  with  the  Holy  Spirit 
qualified  Him  in  two  particulars  for  His  Messianic 
office,  (a)  It  was  the  source  of  His  own  endow- 
ments of  power  for  the  endurance  of  temptation, 
for  leaching,  for  casting  out  demons,  and  healing 
the  sick,  for  His  sufferings  and  death,  for  His 
resurrection  and  ascension.  The  question  is  often 
raised,  why  Jesus,  the  Divine  one,  should  have 
needed  the"  Holy  Spirit  for  His  Messianic  vocation. 
The  reply  is  that  His  human  nature,  which  was  real, 
required  the  Spirit's  presence.  Man,  made  in 
God's  image,  is  constituted  in  dependence  upon  the 
Spirit  of  God.  Apart  from  God's  Spirit  man  fails 
of  his  true  destiny,  simply  because  our  nature  is 
constituted  as  dependent  upon  the  indwelling  Spirit 
of  God  for  the  performance  of  our  true  functions. 
Jesus  as  human,  therefore,  required  the  presence  of 
God's  Spirit,  notwithstanding  His  Divine-human 
consciousness.  (/>)  The  Holy  Spirit's  coming  upon 
Jesus  in  fulness  also  qualified  Him  to  bestow  the 
Holy  Spirit  upon  His  disciples.  John  the  Baptist 
esp.  predicts  that  it  is  Pie  who  shall  baptize  in  the 
Holy  Spirit  (Mt  3  11;  Mk  18;  Lk  3  16;  see 
also  Jn  20  22;  Acts  1  5).  It  was  esp.  true  of 
the  king  that  lie  was  anointed  for  His  office,  and 
the  term  Messiah  (rPTpp  ,  mdshiah,  equivalent  to 
the  Gr  6  XpiarSs,  ho  Christos),  meaning  the  Anointed 
One,  points  to  this  fact. 

(3)   The  temptation  of  Jesus. — The  facts  as  to  the 
temptation  are  as  follows:    In  Mt  4  1  we  are  told 


that  Jesus  was  led  by  the  Spirit  into  the  wilderness 
to  be  tempted  of  the  devil.  Mk  1  12  declares  in 
his  graphic  way  that  after  the  baptism  "straight- 
way the  Spirit  driveth  [iKfidWei,  ekbdllei]  him 
forth  into  the  wilderness."  Lk  4  1  more  fully 
declares  that  Jesus  was  "full  of  the  Holy  Spirit," 
and  that  He  was  "led  in  the  Spirit  in  the  wilderness 
during  40  days."  The  impression  which  the  nar- 
ratives of  the  temptation  give  is  of  energetic  spiritual 
conflict.  As  the  Messiah  confronted  His  life  task 
He  was  subject  to  the  ordinary  conditions  of  other 
men  in  an  evil  world.  Not  by  sheer  divinity  and 
acting  from  without  as  God,  but  as  human  also 
and  a  part  of  the  world,  He  must  overcome,  so  that 
while  lie  was  sinless,  it  was  nevertheless  true  that 
the  righteousness  of  Jesus  was  also  an  achieved 
righteousness.  The  temptations  were  no  doubt 
such  as  were  peculiar  to  His  Messianic  vocation, 
the  misuse  of  power,  the  presumption  of  faith  and 
the  appeal  of  temporal  splendor.  To  these  He 
opposes  the  restraint  of  power,  the  poise  of  faith 
and  the  conception  of  a  kingdom  wholly  spiritual 
in  its  origin,  means  and  ends.  Jesus  is  hurled,  as 
it  were,  by  the  Spirit  into  this  terrific  conflict  with 
the  powers  of  evil,  and  His  conquest,  like  the 
temptations  themselves,  was  not  final,  but  typical 
and  representative.  It  is  a  mistake  to  suppose 
that  the  temptations  of  Jesus  ended  at  the  close  of 
the  forty  days.  Later  in  His  ministry,  He  refers  to 
the  disciples  as  those  who  had  been  with  Him  in  His 
temptations  (Lk  22  28).  The  temptations  con- 
tinued throughout  His  life,  though,  of  course,  the 
wilderness  temptations  were  the  severest  test  of  all, 
and  the  victory  there  contained  in  principle  and  by 
anticipation  later  victories.  Comment  has  been 
made  upon  the  absence  of  reference  to  the  Holy 
Spirit's  influence  upon  Jesus  in  certain  remarkable 
experiences,  which  in  the  case  of  others  would  ordi- 
narily have  been  traced  directly  to  the  Spirit,  as 
in  Lk  11  14  ff,  etc  (cf  art.  by  James  Denney  in 
DCG,  I,  732,  734).  Is  it  not  true,  however,  that 
the  point  of  view  of  the  writers  of  the  Gospels  is 
that  Jesus  is  always  under  the  power  of  the  Spirit? 
At  His  baptism,  in  the  temptation,  and  at  the 
beginning  of  His  public  ministry  (Lk  4  14)  very 
special  stress  is  placed  upon  the  fact.  Thence- 
forward the  Spirit's  presence  and  action  arc  assumed. 
From  time  to  time,  reference  is  made  to  the  Spirit 
for  special  reasons,  but  the  action  of  the  Spirit  in  and 
through  Jesus  is  always  assumed. 

(4)  The  public  ministry  of  Jesus. — Here  we  can 
select  only  a  few  points  to  illustrate  a  much  larger 
truth.  The  writers  of  the  Gospels,  and  esp.  Luke, 
conceived  of  the  entire  ministry  of  Jesus  as  under 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  After  declaring  that 
Jesus  was  "full  of  the  Holy  Spirit"  and  that  He  was 
led  about  by  the  Spirit  in  the  wilderness  forty  days 
in  4  1,  he  declares,  in  4  14,  that  Jesus  "returned  in 
the  power  of  the  Spirit  into  Galilee."  This  is 
followed  in  the  next  verse  by  a  general  summary  of 
His  activities:  "And  he  taught  in  their  synagogues, 
being  glorified  of  all."  Then,  as  if  to  complete  his 
teaching  as  to  the  relation  of  the  Spirit  to  Jesus, 
he  narrates  the  visit  to  Nazareth  and  the  citation  by 
Jesus  in  the  synagogue  there  of  Isaiah's  words 
beginning,  "The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  upon  me," 
with  the  detailed  description  of  His  Messianic 
activity,  viz.  preaching  to  the  poor,  announcement 
of  release  to  the  captives,  recovering  of  sight  to  the 
blind,  and  to  proclaim  the  acceptable  year  of  the 
Lord  (Isa  61  If).  Jesus  proclaims  the  fulfilment 
of  this  prophecy  in  Himself  (Lk  4  21).  In  Mt 
12  18  ff  a  citation  from  Isa  42  1-3  is  given  in 
connection  with  the  miraculous  healing  work  of 
Jesus.  It  is  a  passage  of  exquisite  beauty  and 
describes  the  Messiah  as  a  quiet  and  unobtrusive 
and  tender  minister  to  human  needs,  possessed  of 


Holy  Spirit 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1412 


irresistible  power  and  infinite  patience.  Thus  the 
highest  OT  ideals  as  to  the  operations  of  the  Spirit 
of  God  come  to  realization,  esp.  in  the  public  minis- 
try of  Jesus.  The  comprehensive  terms  of  the 
description  make  it  incontestably  clear  that  the 
NT  writers  thought  of  the  entire  public  lift*  of  Jesus 
as  directed  by  the  Spirit  of  God.  We  need  only  to 
read  the  evangelic  records  in  order  to  fill  in  the 
details. 

The  miracles  of  Jesus  were  wrought  through  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  Occasionally  He  is 
seized  as  it  were  by  a  sense  of  the  urgency  of  His 
work  in  some  such  way  as  to  impress  beholders  with 
the  presence  of  a  strange  power  working  in  Him. 
In  one  case  men  think  He  is  beside  Himself  (Mk 
3  21);  in  another  they  are  impressed  with  the 
authoritativeness  of  His  teaching  (Mk  1  22); 
in  another  His  intense  devotion  to  His  task  makes 
Him  forget  bodily  needs  (Jn  4  31);  again  men  think 
He  has  a  demon  (Jn  8  48);  at  one  time  He  is 
seized  with  a  rapturous  joy  when  the  70  return 
from  their  successful  evangelistic  tour,  and  Luke 
declares  that  at  that  hour  Jesus  rejoiced  in  the 
Holy  Spirit  (Lk  10  21;  cf  Mt  11  25).  This 
whole  passage  is  a  remarkable  one,  containing 
elements  which  point  to  the  Johannine  conception 
of  Jesus,  on  which  account  Harnack  is  disposed 
to  discredit  it  at  certain  points  (Sayings  of  Jesus, 
302).  One  of  the  most  impressive  aspects  of  this 
activity  of  Jesus  in  the  Spirit  is  its  suppressed 
intensity.  Nowhere  is  there  lack  of  self-control. 
Nowhere  is  there  evidence  of  a  coldlv  didactic 
attitude,  on  the  one  hand,  or  of  a  loose  rein  upon 
the  will,  on  the  other.  Jesus  is  always  an  intensely 
human  Master  wrapped  in  Divine  power.  The 
miracles  contrast  strikingly  with  the  miracles  of 
the  apocryphal  gospels.  In  the  latter  all  sorts  of 
capricious  deeds  of  power  are  ascribed  to  Jesus  as  a 
boy.  In  our  Gospels,  on  the  contrary,  no  miracle 
is  wrought  until  after  His  anointing  with  the  Spirit 
at  baptism. 

A  topic  of  especial  interest  is  that  of  blasphemy 
against  the  Holy  Spirit.  Jesus  cast  out  demons  by 
the  power  of  God's  Spirit.  In  Mt  12  31;  Mk  3 
28  f;  Lk  12  10,  we  have  the  declaration  that 
blasphemy  against  the  Holy  Spirit  is  an  unpardon- 
able sin.  Mark  particularizes  the  offence  of  the 
accusers  of  Jesus  by  saying  that  they  said  of  Jesus, 
"He  hath  an  unclean  spirit."  The  blasphemy 
against  the  Spirit  seems  to  have  been  not  merely 
rejection  of  Jesus  and  His  words,  which  might  be 
due  to  various  causes.  It  was  rather  the  sin  of 
ascribing  works  of  Divine  mercy  and  power — 
works  which  had  all  the  marks  of  their  origin  in 
the  goodness  of  God — to  a  diabolic  source.  The 
charge  was  that  lb;  cast  out  devils  by  Beelzebub 
the  prince  of  devils.  We  are  not  to  suppose  that 
the  unpardonable  nature  of  the  sin  against  the 
Holy  Spirit,  was  due  to  anything  arbitrary  in  God's 
arrangements  regarding  sin.  The  moral  and 
spiritual  attitude  involved  in  the  charge  against 
Jesus  was  simply  a  hopeless  one.  It  presupposed  a, 
warping  or  wrenching  of  the  moral  nature  from  the 
truth  in  such  degree,  a  deep-seated  malignity  and 
insusceptibility  to  Divine  influences  so  complete, 
that  no  moral  nucleus  remained  on  which  tin1 
forgiving  love  of  God  might  \vrork.  See  Blas- 
phemy. 

(5)  Death,  resurrection  and  Pentecostal  gift. — 
It  is  not  possible  to  give  here  a  complete  outline 
of  the  activities  of  Jesus  in  the  Holy  Spirit.  We 
observe  one  or  two  additional  points  as  to  the 
relations  of  the  Holy  Spirit  to  Him.  In  He  9  14 
it  is  declared  that  Christ  "through  the  eternal 
Spirit  offered  himself  without  blemish  unto  God," 
and  in  Rom  1  4,  Paul  says  He  was  "declared  to  be 
the  Son  of  God  with  power,  according  to  the  spirit 


of  holiness,  by  the  resurrection  from  the  dead" 
(cf  also  Rom  8  11). 

As  already  noted,  John  the  Baptist  gave  as  a 
particular  designation  of  Jesus  that  it  was  He  who 
should  baptize  with  the  Holy  Spirit,  in  contrast 
with  his  own  baptism  in  water.  In  Jn  20  22,  after 
the  resurrection  and  before  the  ascension,  Jesus 
breathed  on  the  disciples  and  said  "Receive  ye  the 
Holy  Spirit."  There  was  probably  a  real  com- 
munication of  the  Spirit  in  this  act  of  Jesus  in 
anticipation  of  the  outpouring  in  fulness  on  the  day 
of  Pentecost.  In  Acts  1  2  it  is  declared  that  He 
gave  commandment  through  the  Holy  Spirit,  and 
in  1  5  it  is  predicted  by  Him  that  the  disciples 
should  "be  baptized  in  the  Holy  Spirit  not  many 
days  hence";  and  in  1  S  it  is  declared,  "Ye  shall 
receive  power,  when  the  Holy  Spirit  is  come  upon 
you." 

It  is  clear  from  the  preceding  that  in  the  thought 
of  the  NT  writers  Jesus  is  completely  endued  with 
t  he  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  It  is  in  large  measure 
the  OT  view  of  the  Spirit ;  that  is  to  say,  the  opera- 
tion of  the  Spirit  in  and  through  Jesus  is  chiefly 
with  a  view  to  His  official  Messianic  work,  the 
charismatic;  Spirit  imparting  power  rather  than  the 
Spirit  for  holy  living  merely.  Yet  there  is  a  differ- 
ence between  the  OT  and  NT  representations  here. 
In  the  OT  the  agency  of  the  Spirit  is  made  very 
prominent  when  mighty  works  are  performed  by 
His  power.  In  the  Gospels  the  view  is  concen- 
trated less  upon  the  Spirit  than  upon  Jesus  Him- 
self, though  it  is  always  assumed  that  He  is  acting 
in  t  he  power  of  the  Spirit.  In  the  case  of  Jesus  also, 
the  moral  quality  of  His  words  and  deeds  is  always 
assumed. 

Our  next  topic  in  setting  forth  the  NT  teaching 
is  the  Holy  Spirit  in  relation  to  the  kingdom  of  God. 
Quite  in  harmony  with  the  plenary 
2.  The  enduement     of     Jesus,     the     founder 

Spirit  in  the  of  the  kingdom,  with  the  power  of  the 
Kingdom  Spirit,  is  the  communication  of  the 
of  God  Spirit    to    the    agents    employed    by 

Providence  in  the  conduct  of  the 
affairs  of  the  kingdom.  We  need,  at  all  points,  in 
considering  the  subject  in  the  NT  to  keep  in  view 
the  OT  background.  The  covenant  relations 
between  God  and  Israel  were  the  presupposition  of 
all  the  blessings  of  the  OT.  In  the  NT  there  is  not 
an  identical  but  an  analogous  point  of  view.  God 
is  continuing  His  work  among  men.  Indeed  in  a 
real  sense  He  has  begun  a  new  work,  but  this  new 
work  is  the  fulfilment  of  the  old.  The  new  differs 
from  the  old  in  some  very  important  respects,  chiefly 
indeed  in  this,  that  now  the  national  and  theocratic 
life  is  wholly  out  of  sight.  Prophecy  no  longer 
deals  with  political  questions.  The  power  of  the 
Spirit  no  longer  anoints  kings  and  judges  for  their 
duties.  The  action  of  the  Spirit  upon  the  cosmos 
now  ceases  to  receive  attention.  In  short,  the 
kingdom  of  God  is  intensely  spiritualized,  and  the 
relation  of  the  Spirit  to  the  individual  or  the  church 
is  nearly  always  that  which  is  dealt  with. 

(1)  Synoptic  teachings. — We  consider  briefly  the 
synoptic  teachings  as  to  the  Holy  Spirit  in  relation 
to  the  kingdom  of  God.  The  forerunner  of  Jesus 
goes  before  His  face  in  the  Spirit  and  power  of 
Elijah  (Lk  1  17).  Of  Him  it  had  been  predicted 
that  He  should  be  filled  with  the  Holy  Spirit  from 
His  mother's  womb  (Lk  1  15).  The  Master 
expressly  predicts  that  the  Holy  Spirit  will  give 
the  needed  wisdom  when  the  disciples  are  delivered 
up.  "It  is  not  ye  that  speak,  but  the  Holy  Spirit" 
(Mk  13  11).  In  Lk  12  12  it  is  also  declared  that 
"The  Holv  Spirit  shall  teach  you  in  that  very  hour 
what  ye  ought  to  say."  Likewise  in  Mt  10  20, 
"It  is  not  ye  that  speak,  but  the  Spirit  of  your 
Father  that  speaketh  in  you."     In   Lk  11  13   is 


1413 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Holy  Spirit 


a  beautiful  saying:  If  we  who  are  evil  give  good 
gifts  to  our  children,  how  much  more  shall  the 
"heavenly  Father  give  the  Holy  Spirit  to  them 
that  ask  him."  This  is  a  variation  from  the  j| 
passage  in  Mt  (7  11),  and  illustrates  Luke's  marked 
emphasis  upon  the  operations  of  the  Spirit.  In  Mt 
28  19,  the  disciples  are  commanded  to  baptize  in 
the  name  of  the  Father,  the  Son  and  the  Holy 
Spirit.  This  passage  has  been  called  in  question, 
but  there  is  not  sufficient  ground  for  its  rejection. 
Hitherto  there  has  been  almost  no  hint  directly  of 
the  personality  of  the  Spirit  or  the  Trinitarian  im- 
plications in  the  teaching  as  to  the  Spirit.  Here, 
however,  we  have  a  very  suggestive  hint  toward  a 
doctrine  of  the  Spirit  which  attains  more  complete 
development  later. 

(2)  In  the  Gospel  of  John  there  is  a  more  elaborate 
presentation  of  the  office  and  work  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  particularly  in  chs  14-17.  Several  earlier 
passages,  however,  must  be  noticed.  The  passage 
on  the  new  birth  in  Jn  3  5  ff  we  notice  first.  The 
expression,  "except  one  be  born  of  water  and  the 
Spirit,"  seems  to  contain  a  reference  to  baptism 
along  with  the  action  of  the  Spirit  of  God  directly 
on  the  soul.  In  the  light  of  other  NT  teachings, 
however,  we  are  not  warranted  in  ascribing  saving 
efficacy  to  baptism  here.  The  "birth,"  in  so  far 
as  it  relates  to  baptism,  is  symbolic  simply,  not 
actual.  The  outward  act  is  the  fitting  symbolic 
accompaniment  of  the  spiritual  regeneration  by  the 
Spirit.  Symbolism  and  spiritual  fact  move  on 
lines.  The  entrance  into  the  kingdom  is  symboli- 
cally effected  by  means  of  baptism,  just  as  the  "new 
birth"  takes  place  symbolically  by  the  same  means. 

In  Jn  6  51  IT  we  have  the  very  difficult  words 
attributed  to  Jesus  concerning  the  eating  of  His 
flesh  and  the  drinking  of  His  blood.  The  disciples 
were  greatly  distressed  by  these  words,  and  in  6  63 
Jesus  insists  that  "it  is  the  spirit  that  giveth  life; 
the  flesh  profiteth  nothing."  One's  view  of  the 
meaning  of  this  much-discussed  passage  will  turn 
largely  on  his  point  of  view  in  interpreting  it.  If 
he  adopts  the  view  that  John  is  reading  back  into 
the  record  much  that  came  later  in  the  history,  the 
inference  will  probably  follow  that  Jesus  is  here 
referring  to  the  Lord's  Supper.  If  on  the  other 
hand  it  is  held  that  John  is  seeking  to  reproduce 
substantially  what  was  said,  and  to  convey  an 
impression  of  the  actual  situation,  the  reference  to 
the  Supper  will  not  be  inferred.  Certainly  the 
language  fits  the  later  teaching  in  the  establish- 
ment of  the  Supper,  although  John  omits  a  detailed 
account  of  the  Supper.  But  Jesus  was  meeting  a 
very  real  situation  in  the  carnal  spirit  of  the  multi- 
tude which  followed  Him  for  the  loaves  and  fishes. 
His  deeply  mystical  words  seem  to  have  been 
intended  to  accomplish  the  result  which  followed, 
viz.  the  separation  of  the  true  from  the  false  dis- 
ciples. There  is  no  necessary  reference  to  the 
Lord's  Supper  specifically,  therefore,  in  His  words. 
Spiritual  meat  and  drink,  not  carnal,  are  the  true 
food  of  man.  He;  Himself  was  that  food,  but  only 
the  spiritually  susceptible  would  grasp  His  meaning. 
It  is  difficult  to  assign  any  sufficient  reason  why 
Jesus  should  have  here  referred  to  the  Supper,  or 
why  John  should  have  desired  to  introduce  such 
reference  into  the  story  at  this  stage. 

In  Jn  7  'M  if  we  have  a  saying  of  Jesus  and 
its  interpretation  by  John  which  accords  with  the 
synoptic  reference  to  a  future  baptism  in  the  Holy 
Spirit  to  be  bestowed  by  Jesus:  "He  that  believeth 
on  me,  as  the  scripture  hath  said,  from  within 
him  shall  flow  rivers  of  living  water."  John  adds: 
"But  this  spake  he  of  the  Spirit,  which  they  that 
believed  on  him  were  to  receive:  for  the  Spirit  was 
not  yet  given;  because  Jesus  was  not  yet  glorified." 
No  doubt  John's  Gospel  is  largely  a  reproduction 


of  the  facts  and  teachings  of  Jesus  in  the  evangel- 
ist's own  words.  This  passage  indicates,  however, 
that  John  discriminated  between  his  own  con- 
structions of  Christ's  teachings  and  the  teachings 
themselves,  and  warns  us  against  the  custom  of 
many  exegetes  who  broadly  assume  that  John 
employed  his  material  with  slight  regard  for  careful 
and  correct  statement,  passing  it  through  his  owrn 
consciousness  in  such  manner  as  to  leave  us  his 
own  subjective  Gospel,  rather  than  a  truly  historical 
record.  The  ethical  implications  of  such  a  process 
on  John's  part  would  scarcely  harmonize  with  his 
general  tone  and  esp.  the  teachings  of  his  Epp. 
No  doubt  John's  Gospel  contains  much  meaning 
which  he  could  not  have  put  into  it  prior  to  the 
coming  of  the  Spirit.  But  what  John  seeks  to  give 
is  the  teaching  of  Jesus  and  not  his  own  theory  of 
Jesus. 

We  give  next  an  outline  of  the  teachings  in  the 
great  chapters  from  14  to  17,  the  farewell  discourse 
of  Jesus.  In  14  16  .Jesus  says,  "I  will  pray  the 
Father,  and  he  shall  give  you  another  Comforter" 
(7rapd/c\7?Tos,  pardkletos;  see  Paraclete).  Next 
Jesus  describes  this  Comforter  as  one  whom  the 
world  cannot  receive.  Disciples  know  Him  because 
He  abides  in  them.  The  truth  of  Christianity  is 
spiritually  discerned,  i.e.  it  is  discerned  by  the 
power  and  indwelling  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  In  the 
name  of  "reality,"  science  sometimes  repudiates 
these  inner  experiences  as  "mystical."  But  Chris- 
tians cling  to  them  as  most  real,  data  of  experience 
as  true  and  reliable  as  any  other  forms  of  human 
experience.  To  repudiate  them  would  be  for  them 
to  repudiate  reality  itself.  The  Father  and  Son 
shall  make  their  abode  in  Christians  (14  23). 
This  is  probably  another  form  of  assertion  of  the 
Spirit's  presence,  and  not  a  distinct  line  of  mystical 
teaching.  (Cf  Woods,  Tfie  Spirit  of  God  in  Bib. 
Literature,  243.)  For  in  ver  26  the  promise;  of 
the  Spirit  is  repeated.  The  Father  is  to  send  the 
Spirit  in  the  name  of  Christ ,  and  He  is  to  teach  the 
disciples  all  things,  quickening  also  their  memories. 
In  the  NT  generally,  and  esp.  in  John's  and  Paul's 
writings,  there  is  no  sense  of  conflict  between 
Father,  Son  and  Spirit  in  their  work  in  the  Chris- 
tian. All  proceeds  from  the  Father,  through  the 
Son,  and  is  accomplished  in  the  Christian  by  the 
Holy  Spirit.  As  will  appear,  Christ  in  the  believer 
is  represented  as  being  practically  all  that  the 
Spirit  does  without  identifying  Christ  with  the 
Spirit.  So  far  then"  are  several  notes  suggesting 
the  personality  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  The  designa- 
tion "another  Comforter,"  taken  in  connection  with 
the  description  of  his  work,  is  one.  The  fact  thai 
He  is  sent  or  given  is  another.  And  another  is  seen 
in  the  specific  work  which  the  Spirit  is  to  do. 
Another  is  the  masculine  pronoun  employed  here 
(ineivos,  ekeinos).  In  ver  26  the  function  of  the 
Spirit  is  indicated.  He  is  to  bring  to  "remembrance 
all  that  I  said  unto  you."  In  15  26  this  is  made 
even  more  comprehensive:  "He  shall  bear  witness 
of  me,"  and  yet  more  emphatically  in  16  14,  "He 
shall  glorify  me:  for  he  shall  take  of  mine,  and  shall 
declare  it  unto  you."  The  sphere  of  the  Spirit's 
activity  is  the  heart  of  the  individual  believer  and 
of  the  church.  His  chief  function  is  to  illumine  the 
teaching  and  glorify  the  person  of  Jesus.  Jn  15 
26  is  the  passage  which  has  been  used  in  support 
of  the  doctrine  of  the  procession  of  the  Spirit.  Jesus 
says,  "I  will  send"  (•n-^i/'O),  pempso),  future  tense, 
referring  to  the  "Spirit  of  truth  which  proceedeth 
from  the  Father"  (iKTropeverat,  ekporeiietai) ,  present 
tense.  The  present  tense  here  suggests  timeless 
action  and  has  been  taken  to  indicate  an  essential 
relation  of  the  Spirit  to  God  the  Father  (cf  Godet, 
Comm.  on  John,  in  loc).  The  hazard  of  such 
an  interpretation  lies  chiefly  in  the  absence  of  other 


Holy  Spirit 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1414 


confirmatory  Scriptures  and  in  the  possibility  of 
another  and  simpler  meaning  of  the  word.  How- 
ever, the  language  is  unusual,  and  the  change  of 
tense  in  the  course  of  the  sentence  is  suggestive. 
Perhaps  it  is  one  of  the  many  instances  where  we 
must  admit  we  do  not  know  the  precise  import  of 
the  language  of  Scripture. 

In  16  7-15  we  have  a  very  important  passage. 
Jesus  declares  to  the  anxious  disciples  that  it  is 
expedient  for  Him  to  go  away,  because  otherwise 
the  Spirit,  will  not  come.  "He,  when  he  is  come, 
will  convict  the  world  in  respect  of  sin,  and  of 
righteousness,  and  of  judgment"  (16  8).  The 
term  trd  "convict"  (iXty&i,  elegksci)  involves  a 
cognitive  along  with  a  moral  process.  The  Spirit 
who  deals  in  truth,  and  makes  His  appeal  through 
the  truth,  shall  convict,  shall  bring  the  mind  on 
which  He  is  working  into  a  sense  of  self-condemna- 
tion on  account  of  sin.  The  word  means  more  than 
reprove,  or  refute,  or  convince.  It  signifies  up  to  a 
certain  point  a  moral  conquest  of  the  mind:  "of 
sin,  because  they  believe  not  on  me"  (16  9).  Un- 
belief is  the  root  sin.  The  revelation  of  Cod  in 
Christ  is,  broadly  speaking,  His  condemnation  of  all 
sin.  The  Spirit  may  convict  of  particular  sins,  but 
they  will  all  be  shown  to  consist  essentially  in  the 
rejection  of  Cod's  love  and  righteousness  in  Christ, 
i.e.  in  unbelief.  "Of  righteousness,  because  I  go  to 
the  Father,  and  ye  behold  me  no  more"  (16  10). 
What  does  this  mean?  Does  Jesus  mean  that  His 
going  to  the  Father  will  be  the  proof  of  His  right- 
eousness to  those  who  put  Him  to  death,  or  that  this 
going  to  the  Father  will  be  the  consummating  or 
crowning  act  of  His  righteousness  which  the  Spirit 
is  to  carry  home  to  the  hearts  of  men?  Or  does  He 
mean  that  because  He  goes  away  the  Spirit  will  take 
His  place  in  convicting  men  of  righteousness?  The 
latter  meaning  seems  implied  in  the  words,  "and  ye 
behold  me  no  more."  Probably,  however,  the  mean- 
ings are  not  mutually  exclusive.  "Of  judgment 
because  the  prince  of  this  world  hath  been  judged" 
(16  11).  In  His  incarnation  and  death  the  prince 
of  this  world,  the  usurper,  is  conquered  and  cast  out. 

We  may  sum  up  the  teachings  as  to  the  Spirit  in 
these  four  chapters  as  follows:  He  is  the  Spirit  of 
truth;  He  guides  into  all  truth;  He  brings  to 
memory  Christ's  teachings;  He  shows  things  to 
come;  He  glorifies  Christ;  He  speaks  not  of  Him- 
self but  of  Christ;  He,  like  believers,  bears  witness 
to  Christ;  He  enables  Christians  to  do  greater  works 
than  those  of  Christ;  He  convicts  the  world  of  sin, 
of  righteousness,  and  of  judgment;  He  conies 
because  Christ  goes  away;  He  is  "another  Com- 
forter";   He  is  to  abide  with  disciples  forever. 

These  teachings  cover  a  very  wide'  range1  of  needs. 
The  Holy  Spirit  is  the  subject  of  the  entire  discourse. 
In  a  sense  it  is  the  counterpart  of  the  Sermon  on 
the  Mount.  There  the  laws  of  the  kingdom  are 
expounded.  Here  the  means  of  realization  of  all 
the  ends  of  that  kingdom  are  presented.  The  king- 
dom now  becomes  the  kingdom  of  the  Spirit.  The 
historical  revelation  of  truth  in  the  life,  death,  resur- 
rection and  glorification  of  Jesus  being  completed, 
the  Spirit  of  truth  comes  in  fulness.  The  gospel 
as  history  is  now  to  become  the  gospel  as  experience. 
The  Messiah  as  a  fact  is  now  to  become  the  Messiah 
as  a  life  through  the  Spirit's  action.  All  the  ele- 
ments of  the  Spirit's  action  are  embraced:  the 
charismatic  for  mighty  works;  the  intellectual  for 
guidance  into  truth;  the  moral  and  spiritual  for 
producing  holy  lives.  This  discourse  transfers 
the  kingdom,  so  to  speak,  from  the  shoulders  of  the 
Master  to  those  of  the  disciples,  but  the  latter 
are  empowered  for  their  tasks  by  the  might  of  the 
indwelling  and  abiding  Spirit.  The  method  of  the 
kingdom's  growth  and  advance  is  clearly  indicated 
as  spiritual,  conviction  of  sin,  righteousness   and 


judgment,  and  obedient  and  holy  lives  of  Christ's 
disciples. 

Before  passing  to  the  next  topic,  one  remark 
should  be  made  as  to  the  Trinitarian  suggestions 
of  these  chapters  in  Jn.  The  personality  of  the 
Spirit  is  clearly  implied  in  much  of  the  language 
here.  It  is  true  we  have  no  formal  teaching  on  the 
metaphysical  side,  no  ontology  in  the  strict  sense 
of  the  word.  This  fact  is  made  much  of  by  writers 
who  are  slow  to  recognize  the  personality  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  in  the  light  of  the  teachings  of  John 
and  Paid.  These  writers  have  no  difficulty, 
however,  in  asserting  that  the  NT  writers  hold  that 
God  is  a  personal  being  (see  I.  F.  Woods,  The 
Spirit  of  God  in  Bib.  Literature,  256,  208).  It 
must  be  insisted,  however,  that  in  the  NT,  as  in  the 
OT,  there  is  little  metaphysics,  little  ontological 
teaching  as  to  God.  His  personality  is  deduced 
from  the  same  kind  of  sayings  as  those  relating  to 
the  Spirit.  From  the  ontological  point  of  view, 
therefore,  we  should  also  have  to  reject  the  per- 
sonality of  God  on  the  basis  of  the  Bib.  teach- 
ings. The  Trinitarian  formulations  may  not  be 
correct  at  all  points,  but  the  NT  warrants  the 
Trinitarian  doctrine,  just  as  it  warrants  belief  in 
the  personality  of  God.  We  are  not  insisting  on 
finding  metaphysics  in  Scripture  where  it  is  absent, 
but  we  do  insist  upon  consistency  in  construing 
the  popular  and  practical  language  of  Scripture  as 
t  o  the  second  and  third  as  well  as  the  first  Person  of 
the  Trinity. 

We  add  a  few  lines  as  to  John's  teachings  in  the 
Epp.  and  Revelation.  In  general  they  are  in 
close  harmony  with  the  teachings  in  his  Gospel 
and  do  not  require  extended  treatment.  The 
Spirit  imparts  assurance  (1  Jn  3  24);  incites  to 
confession  of  Christ  (4  2);  bears  witness  to  Christ 
(5  6  ff).  In  Rev  1  4  the  "seven  Spirits"  is  an 
expression  for  the  completeness  of  the  Spirit.  The 
Spirit  speaks  to  the  churches  (2  7.11;  3  6).  The 
seer  is  "in  the  Spirit"  (4  2).  The  Spirit  joins  the 
church  in  the  invitation  of  the  gospel  (22  17). 

(3)  The  Holy  Spirit  in  the  Book  of  Arts. — The 
Book  of  Acts  contains  the  record  of  the  beginning 
of  the  Dispensation  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  There  is  at 
the  outset  the  closest  connection  with  the  recorded 
predictions  of  the  Holy  Spirit  in  the  Gospels. 
Particularly  does  Luke  make  clear  the  continuity 
of  his  own  thought  regarding  the  Spirit  in  his 
earlier  and  later  writing.  Jesus  in  the  first  chapter 
of  Acts  gives  commandment  through  the  Holy 
Spirit  and  predicts  the  reception  of  power  as  the 
result  of  the  baptism  in  the  Holy  Spirit  which  the 
disciples  are  soon  to  receive. 

The  form  of  the  Spirit's  activities  in  Acts  is 
chiefly  charismatic,  that  is,  the  miraculous  endow- 
ment of  disciples  with  power  or  wisdom  for  their 
work  in  extending  the  Messianic  kingdom.  As  yet 
the  work  of  the  Spirit  within  disciples  as  the  chief 
sanctifying  agency  is  not  fully  developed,  and  is 
later  described  with  great  fulness  in  Paul's  writings. 
Some  recent  writers  have  overemphasized  the  con- 
trast between  the  earlier  and  the  more  developed 
view  of  the  Spirit  with  regard  to  the  moral  life. 
In  Acts  the  ethical  import  of  the  Spirit's  action 
appears  at  several  points  (see  Acts  5  3.9;  7  51; 
8  18  f;  13  9;  15  28).  The  chief  interest  in  Acts 
is  naturally  the  Spirit's  agency  in  founding  the 
Messianic  kingdom,  since  here  is  recorded  the  early 
history  of  the  expansion  of  that  kingdom.  The 
phenomenal  rather  than  the  inner  moral  aspects  of 
that  great  movement  naturally  come  chiefly  into 
view.  But  everywhere  the  ethical  implications  are 
present.  Gunkel  is  no  doubt  correct  in  the  state- 
ment that  Paul's  conception  of  the  Spirit  as  inward 
and  moral  and  acting  in  the  daily  life  of  the  Chris- 
tian opens  the  way  for  the  activity  of  the  Spirit  as 


1415 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Holy  Spirit 


a  historical  principle  in  subsequent  uses.  After 
all,  this  is  the  fundamental  and  universal  import  of 
the  Spirit  (see  Gunkel,  Die  Wirkungen  des  heiligen 
Geistes,  etc,  76;  cf  Pfleiderer,  Paulinismus,  200). 

We  now  proceed  to  give  a  brief  summary  of  the 
Holy  Spirit's  activities  as  recorded  in  Acts,  and 
follow  this  with  a  discussion  of  one  or  two  special 
points.  The  great  event  is  of  course  the  outpouring 
or  baptism  of  the  Holy  Spirit  at  Pentecost  followed 
by  the  completion  of  the  baptism  in  the  Holy  Spirit 
by  the  baptism  of  the  household  of  Cornelius 
(2  1  ff;  10  17-48).  Speaking  with  tongues,  and 
other  striking  manifestations  attended  this  baptism, 
as  also  witnessing  to  the  gospel  with  power  by  the 
apostles.  See  Baptism  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  This 
outpouring  is  declared  to  be  in  fulfilment  of  OT 
prophecy,  and  the  assertion  is  also  made  that  it  is 
the  gift  of  the  exalted  Lord  Jesus  Christ  (2  17.33). 
Following  this  baptism  of  the  Holy  Spirit  the  dis- 
ciples are  endued  with  miraculous  power  for  their 
work.  Miracles  are  wrought  (Acts  2  43  ff),  and  all 
necessary  gifts  of  wisdom  and  Divine  guidance  are 
bestowed.  A  frequent  form  of  expression  describ- 
ing the  actors  in  the  history  is,  "filled  with  the  Holy 
Spirit."  It  is  applied  to  Peter  (4  8);  to  disciples 
(4  31);  to  the  seven  deacons  (6  3);  to  Stephen 
(6  5;    7  55);    to  Saul  who  becomes  Paul  (13  9). 

The  presence  of  the  Spirit  and  His  immediate 
and  direct  superintendence  of  affairs  arc  seen  in  the 
fact  that  Ananias  and  Sapphira  are  represented  as 
lying  to  the  Holy  Spirit  (5  3.0);  the  Jews  are 
charged  by  Stephen  with  resisting  the  Holy  Spirit 
(7  51);  and  Simon  Magus  is  rebuked  for  attempt- 
ing to  purchase  the  Spirit  with  money  (8  ISf). 

The  Holy  Spirit  is  connected  with  the  act  of 
baptism,  but  there  does  not  seem  to  be  any  fixed 
order  as  between  the  two.  In  Acts  9  17  the  Spirit 
comes  before  baptism;  and  after  baptism  in  8  17 
and  19  6.  In  these  cases  the  coming  of  the  Spirit 
was  in  connection  with  the  laying  on  of  hands  also. 
But  in  10  44  the  Holy  Spirit  falls  upon  the  hearers 
while  Peter  is  speaking  prior  to  baptism  and  with 
no  laying  on  of  hands.  These  instances  in  which 
the  order  of  baptism,  the  laying  on  of  hands  and  the 
gift  of  the  Spirit  seem  to  be  a  matter  of  indifference, 
are  a  striking  indication  of  the  non-sacramentarian 
character  of  the  teaching  of  the  Book  of  Acts,  and 
indeed  in  the  NT  generally.  Certainly  no  par- 
ticular efficacy  seems  to  be  at  t  ached  to  the  laying  on 
of  hands  or  baptism  except  as  symbolic  representa- 
tions of  spiritual  facts.  Gunkel,  in  his  excellent 
work  on  the  Holy  Spirit,  claims  Acts  2  38  as  an 
instance  when  the  Spirit  is  bestowed  during  bap- 
tism (Die  Wirkungen  des  heiligen  Geistes,  etc,  7). 
The  words  of  Peter,  however,  may  refer  to  a  recep- 
tion of  the  Spirit  subsequent  to  baptism,  although 
evidently  in  immediate  connection  with  it.  The 
baptism  of  the  Holy  Spirit  clearly  then  was  not 
meant  to  supplant  water  baptism.  Moreover,  in  the 
strict  sense  the  baptism  of  the  Holy  Spirit  was  a 
historical  event  or  events  completed  at  the  outset 
when  the  extension  of  the  kingdom  of  God,  begin- 
ning at  Pentecost,  began  to  reach  out  to  the  gentile 
world.     See  Baptism  op  the  Holy  Spirit. 

In  Acts  the  entire  historical  movement  is  repre- 
sented by  Luke  as  being  under  the  direction  of  the 
Spirit.  He  guides  Philip  to  the  Ethiopian  and  then 
"catches  away"  Philip  (8  20.39).  He  guides  Peter 
at  Joppa  through  the  vision  and  then  leads  him  to 
Cornelius  at  Caesarea  (10  19  f;  11  12  f).  The 
Spirit  commands  the  church  at  Antioch  to  separate 
Saul  and  Barnabas  for  missionary  work  (13  2  ff). 
He  guides  the  church  at  Jerus  (15  28).  He  forbids 
the  apostle  to  go  to  Asia  (16  6f).  The  Spirit 
enables  Agabus  to  prophesy  that  Paul  will  be  bound 
by  the  Jews  at  Jerus  (21  11;  cf  also  20  23).  The 
Spirit  appointed  the  elders  at  Ephesus  (20  28). 


One  or  two  points  require  notice  before  passing 
from  Acts.  The  impression  we  get  of  the  Spirit's 
action  here  very  strongly  suggests  a  Divine  purpose 
moving  on  the  stage  of  history  in  a  large  and  com- 
prehensive way.  In  Jesus  that  purpose  was 
individualized.  Here  the  supplementary  thought 
of  a  vast  historic  movement  is  powerfully  suggested. 
Gunkel  asserts  that  usually  the  Spirit's  action  is 
not  conceived  by  the  subjects  of  it  in  terms  of 
means  (Mittel)  and  end  (Zweck),  but  rather  as 
cause  (Ursache)  and  activity  (Wirkung)  (see  Die 
Wirkungen  des  heiligen  Geistes,  etc,  20).  There  is 
an  element  of  truth  in  this,  but  the  idea  of  purpose 
is  by  no  means  confined  to  the  historian  who  later 
recorded  the  Spirit's  action.  The  actors  in  the 
spiritual  drama  were  everywhere  conscious  of  the 
great  movement  of  which  they  as  individuals 
were  a  part.  In  some  passages  the  existence  of 
purpose  in  the  Spirit's  action  is  clearly  recognized, 
as  in  His  restraining  of  Paul  at  certain  points  and  in 
the  appointment  of  Saul  and  Barnabas  as  mission- 
aries. Divine  purpose  is  indeed  implied  at  all 
points,  and  while  the  particular  end  in  view  was 
not  always  clear  in  a  given  instance,  the  subjects  of 
the  Spirit's  working  were  scarcely  so  naive  in  their 
apprehension  of  the  matter  as  to  think  of  their  expe- 
riences merely  as  so  many  extraordinary  phe- 
nomena caused  in  a  particular  way. 

We  note  next  the  glossolalia,  or  speaking  with 
tongues,  recorded  in  Acts  2,  as  well  as  in  later 
chapters  and  in  Paul's  Epp.  The  prevailing  view 
at  present  is  that  "speaking  with  tongues"  does  not 
mean  speaking  actual  intelligible  words  in  a  foreign 
language,  but  rather  the  utterance  of  meaningless 
sounds,  as  was  customary  among  the  heathen  and 
as  is  sometimes  witnessed  today  where  religious 
life  becomes  highly  emotional  in  its  manifestation. 
To  support  this  view  the  account  in  Acts  2  is 
questioned,  and  Paul's  instructions  in  1  Cor  14 
are  cited.  Of  course  a  man's  world-view  will  be 
likely  to  influence  his  interpretation  in  this  as  in 
other  matters.  Philosophically  an  antisupernatural 
world-view  makes  it  easy  to  question  the  glossolalia 
of  the  NT.  Candid  exegesis,  however,  rather 
requires  the  recognition  of  the  presence  in  the 
apostolic  church  of  a  speaking  in  foreign  tongues, 
even  if  alongside  of  it  there  existed  (which  is  open 
to  serious  doubt)  the  other  phenomenon  mentioned 
above.  Acts  2  3  ff  is  absolutely  conclusive  taken 
by  itself,  and  no  valid  critical  grounds  have  been 
found  for  rejecting  the  passage.  1  Cor  14  con- 
firms this  view  when  its  most  natural  meaning  is 
sought.  Paul  is  here  insisting  upon  the  orderly 
conduct  of  worship  and  upon  edification  as  the 
important  thing.  To  this  end  he  insists  that  they 
who  speak  with  tongues  pray  that  they  may  also 
interpret  (1  Cor  14  5;  ch  13).  It  is  difficult  to 
conceive  what  he  means  by  "interpret"  if  the 
speaking  with  tongues  was  a  meaningless  jargon 
of  sounds  uttered  under  emotional  excitement, 
and  nothing  more.  Paul's  whole  exposition  in  this 
chapter  implies  that  "tongues"  may  be  used  for 
edification.  He  ranks  it  below  prophecy  simply 
because  without  an  interpreter  "tongues"  would  not 
edify  the  hearer.  Paul  himself  spoke  with  tongues 
more  than  they  all  (14  18).  It  seems  scarcely  in 
keeping  with  Paul's  character  to  suppose  that  he 
refers  here  to  a  merely  emotional  volubility  in 
meaningless  and  disconnected  sounds.  See  Tongues, 
Gift  of. 

(4)  The  Holy  Spirit  in  Patd's  writings. — The 
teachings  of  Paul  on  the  Holy  Spirit  are  so  rich  and 
abundant  that  space  forbids  an  exhaustive  presenta- 
tion. In  his  writ  ings  the  Bib.  representations  reach 
their  climax.  Mr.  Wood  says  correctly  that  Paul 
grasped  the  idea  of  the  unity  of  the  Christian  life. 
All  the  parts  exist  in  a  living  whole  and  the  Holy 


Holy  Spirit 
Home 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1410 


Spirit  ('(institutes  iiml  maintains  il  (Wood,  The 
Spirit,  of  (lod  in  Bib.  Literature,  268).  In  fact  a 
careful  study  of  Paul's  teachings  discloses  three  || 
lines,  one  relating  to  faith,  another  to  Christ,  and 
the  third  to  the  Holy  Spirit.  That  is  to  say,  his 
teachings  coalesce,  as  it  were,  point  by  point,  in 
reference  to  these  three  subjects.  Faith  is  the 
human  side  of  the  Divine  activity  carried  on  by 
the  Holy  Spirit.  Faith  is  therefore  implied  in 
the  Spirit's  action  and  is  the  result  of  or  response 
to  it  in  its  various  tonus.  But  faith  is  primarily 
and  essentially  faith  in  Jesus  Christ.  Hence  we 
find  in  Paul  that  Christ  is  represented  as  doing  sub- 
stantially everything  that  the  Spirit  does.  Now 
we  are  not  to  see  in  this  any  conflicting  conceptions 
as  to  Christ  and  the  Spirit,  but  rather  Paul's  intense 
feeling  of  the  unity  of  the  work  of  Christ  and  the 
Spirit.  The  "law"  of  the  Spirit's  action  is  the 
revelation  and  glorification  of  Christ.  In  his  Cos- 
pel,  which  came  later,  John,  as  we  have  seen,  defined 
the  Spirit's  function  in  precisely  these  terms. 
Whether  or  not  John  was  influenced  by  Paul  in  the 
matter  we  need  not  here;  consider. 

(a)  We  begin  with  a  brief  reference  to  the  con- 
nection in  Paul's  thought  between  the  Spirit  and 
Jesus.  The  Holy  Spirit  is  described  as  the  Spirit,  of 
Cod's  Son  (Rom' 8  14  f'f;  Gal  4  6),  as  the  Spirit  of 
Christ  (Horn  8  9).  He  who  confesses  Jesus  does 
so  by  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  no  one  can  say  that  Jesus 
is  anathema  in  the  Holy  Spirit  (1  Cor  12  3). 
Christ  is  called  a  life-giving  Spirit  (15  45);  and  in 
2  Cor  3  17  the  statement  appears,  "Now  the 
Lord  is  the  Spirit."  All  of  this  shows  how  com- 
pletely one  Paul  regarded  the  work  of  Christ  and 
the  Spirit,  not  because  they  were  identical  in  the 
sense  in  which  Beyschlag  has  contended,  but 
because  their  task  and  aim  being  identical,  there 
was  no  sense  of  discord  in  Paul's  mind  in  explaining 
their  activities  in  similar  terms. 

(b)  The  Spirit  appears  in  Paul  as  in  Acts  impart- 
ing all  kinds  of  charismatic  gifts  for  the  ends  of 
the  Messianic;  kingdom.  He  enumerates  a  long 
list  of  spiritual  gifts  which  cannot  receive  separate 
treatment  here,  such  as  prophecy  (1  Thess  5  19  f); 
tongues  (1  Cor  12-14);  wisdom  (2  Off);  knowl- 
edge (12  8);  power  to  work  miracles  (12  9f); 
discerning  of  spirits  (12  10);  interpretation  of 
tongues  (12  10);  faith  (12  9);  boldness  in  Chris- 
tian testimony  (2  Cor  3  17  f ) ;  charismata  gen- 
erally (1  Thess  1  5;  4  8,  etc).  See  Spiritual 
Gifts.  In  addition  to  the  above  list,  Paul  esp. 
emphasizes  the  Spirit's  action  in  revealing  to  himself 
and  to  Christians  the  mind  of  God  (1  Cor  2  10-12; 
Eph  3  5).  He  speaks  in  words  taught  by  the 
Spirit  (1  Cor  2  13).  He  preaches  in  demonstra- 
tion of  the  Spirit  and  of  power  (1  Cor  2  4;  1  Thess 
1  5). 

In  the  above  manifestations  of  the  Spirit,  as 
enumerated  in  Paul's  writings,  we  have  presented 
in  very  large  measure  what  we  have  already  seen  in 
Acts,  but  with  some  additions.  In  1  Cor  14  and 
elsewhere  Paul  gives  a  new  view  as  to  the  charis- 
matic gifts  which  was  greatly  needed  in  view  of  the 
tendency  to  extravagant  and  intemperate  indul- 
gence in  emotional  excitement,  due  to  the  mighty 
action  of  Cod's  Spirit  in  the  Corinthian  church. 
He  insists  that  all  things  be  done  unto  edification, 
that  spiritual  growth  is  the  true  aim  of  all  spiritual 
endowments.  This  may  be  regarded  as  the  con- 
necting link  between  the  earlier  and  later  NT 
teaching  as  to  the  Holy  Spirit,  between  the  charis- 
matic and  moral-religious  significance  of  the  Spirit. 
To  the  latter  we  now  direct  attention. 

(c)  We  note  the  Spirit  in  the  beginnings  of  the 
Christian  life.  From  beginning  to  end  the  Chris- 
tian life  is  regarded  by  Paul  as  under  the  power 
of  the  Holy  Spirit,  in  its  inner  moral  and  religious 


aspects  as  well  as  in  its  charismatic  forms.  It  is  a 
singular  fact  that  Paul  does  not  anywhere  expressly 
declare  that  the  Holy  Spirit  originates  the  Chris- 
tian life.  Gunkel  is  correct  in  this  so  far  as  specific 
and  direct,  teaching  is  concerned.  But  Wood  who 
asserts  the  contrary  is  also  right,  if  regard  is  had  to 
clear  implications  and  legitimate  inferences  from 
Paul's  statements  (op.  cit.,  202).  Rom  8  2  does  not 
perhaps  refer  to  the  act  of  regeneration,  and  yet 
if  is  hard  to  conceive  of  the  Christian  life  as  t litis 
constituted  by  the  "law  of  the  Spirit  of  life"  apart 
from  its  origin  through  the  Spirit.  There  are  other 
passages  which  seem  to  imply  very  clearly,  if  they 
do  not  directly  assert,  that  the  Christian  life  is 
originated  by  the  Holy  Spirit  (1  Thess  1  0;  Rom 
5  5;   8  9;    1  Cor  2  4;   6  11;   Tit  3  5). 

The  Holy  Spirit  in  the  beginnings  of  the  Christian 
life  itself  is  set  forth  in  many  forms  of  statement. 
They  who  have  the  Spirit  belong  to  Christ  (Rom 
8  9).  We  received  not  the  Spirit  of  bondage  but 
of  adoption,  "whereby  we  cry,  Abba,  Father"  (Rom 
8  15).  "The  Spirit  himself  beareth  witness  with 
our  spirit,  that  we  arc;  children  of  God"  (Rom 
8  10).  The  Spirit  is  received  by  the  hearing  of 
faith  (Gal  3  2).  See  also  Rom  5  5;  8  2;  1  Cor 
16  11;  Gal  3  3.14;  Eph  2  IS.  There  are  two 
or  three  expressions  employed  by  Paul  which  express 
some  particular  aspect  of  the  Spirit's  work  in  be- 
lievers. One  of  these  is  "first-fruits"  (Rom  8  2;], 
dirapxv,  aparche),  which  means  that  the  present 
possession  of  the  Spirit  by  the  believer  is  t  he 
guarantee  of  the  full  redemption  which  is  to  come, 
as  the  first-fruits  were  the  guarantee  of  the  full 
harvest.  Another  of  these  words  is  "earnest"  (2 
Cor  1  22;  5  5,  appafiwv,  arrabdn),  which  also  means 
a  pledge  or  guarantee.  Paul  also  speaks  of  the 
"sealing"  of  the  Christians  with  the  Holy  Spirit  of 
promise,  as  in  Eph  1  13  (^(ppayiad^re,  esphragis- 
thete,  "ye  were  sealed").  This  refers  to  the  seal 
by  which  a  king  stamped  his  mark  of  authorization 
or  ownership  upon  a  document. 

((/)  Paul  gives  a  great  variety  of  expressions  indi- 
cating the  presence  and  activity  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
in  the  religious  and  moral  life  of  the  Christian.  In 
fact  at  every  point  that  life  is  under  the  guidance  and 
sustaining  energy  of  the  Spirit.  If  we  live  after  the 
flesh,  we  die;  if  after  the  Spirit,  we  live  (Rom  8  G). 
The  Spirit  helps  the  Christian  to  pray  (Rom  8 
26  f).  The  kingdom  of  God  is  righteousness  and 
peace  and  joy  in  the  Holy  Spirit  (Rom  14  17). 
Christians  are  to  abound  in  hope  through  the 
Holy  Spirit  (Rom  15  13).  "The  fruit  of  the 
Spirit  is  love,  joy,  peace,  longsuffering,  kindness, 
goodness,  faithfulness,  meekness,  self-control"  (Gal 
5  22).  Christians  are  warned  to  grieve  not  the 
Holy  Spirit  (Eph  4  30),  and  are  urged  to  take  the 
sword  of  the  Spirit  (6  17).  The  flesh  is  contrasted 
with  the  Spirit  at  a  number  of  points  in  Raid's 
writings  (e.g.  Rom  8  5f;  Gal  5  17  ff).  The  Spirit 
in  these  passages  probably  means  either  the  Spirit 
of  God  or  man's  spirit  as  under  the  influence  of  the 
Spirit  of  God.  Flesh  is  a  difficult  word  to  define, 
as  it  seems  to  be  used  in  several  somewhat  different 
senses.  When  the  flesh  is  represented  as  lusting 
against  the  Spirit,  however,  it  seems  equivalent  to 
the  "carnal  mind,"  i.e.  the  mind  of  the  sinful  natural 
man  as  distinct  from  the  mind  of  the  spiritual  man. 
This  carnal  or  fleshly  mind  is  thus  described  because 
the  flesh  is  thought  of  as  the  sphere  in  which  the 
sinful  impulses  in  large  part,  though  not  altogether 
(Gal  5  19  ff),  take  their  rise. 

Paul  contrasts  the  Spirit  with  the  letter  (2  Cor  3 
6)  and  puts  strong  emphasis  on  the  Spirit  as  the 
source  of  Christian  liberty.  As  Gunkel  points  out, 
spirit  and  freedom  with  Paul  are  correlatives,  like 
spirit  and  life.  Freedom  must  needs  come  of  the 
Spirit's  presence  because  He  is  superior  to  all  other 


141' 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Holy  Spirit 
Home 


authorities  and  powers  (Die  Wirkungen  des  heiligen 
Geistes,  etc,  95).  See  also  an  excellent  passage 
on  the  freedom  of  the  Christian  from  statutory 
religious  requirements  in  DCG,  art.  "Holy  Spirit" 
by  Dr.  James  Denney,  I,  739. 

(e)  The  Holy  Spirit  in  the  church.  Toward  the  end 
of  his  ministry  and  in  his  later  group  of  epp.,  Paul 
devoted  much  thought  to  the  subject  of  the  church, 
ami  one  of  his  favorite  figures  was  of  the  church  as 
the  body  of  Christ.  The  Holy  Spirit  is  represented 
as  animating  this  body,  as  communicating  to  it  life, 
and  directing  all  its  affairs.  As  in  the  case  of  the 
individual  believer,  so  also  in  the  body  of  believers 
the  Spirit  is  the  sovereign  energy  which  rules  com- 
pletely. By  one  Spirit  all  are  baptized  into  one 
body  and  made;  to  drink  of  one  Spirit  (1  Cor  12 
13).  All  the  gifts  of  the  church,  charismatic  and 
otherwise,  are  from  the  Spirit  (12  4.8-11).  All 
spiritual  gifts  in  the  church  are  for  edification  (14 
12).  Prayer  is  to  be  in  the  Spirit  (14  15).  The 
church  is  to  preserve  the  unity  of  the  Spirit  in  the 
bond  of  peace  (Eph  4  3).  Love  (Col  1  8);  fellow- 
ship (Phil  2  1);  worship  (3  3)  are  in  the  Spirit. 
The  church  is  the  habitation  of  the  Spirit  (Eph  2 
22).  The  church  is  an  epistle  of  Christ  written  by 
the  Spirit  (2  Cor  3  3).  Thus  the  whole  life  of  the 
church  falls  under  the  operation  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

(/)  The  Spirit  also  carries  on  His  work  in  believers 
in  raising  the  body  from  the  dead.  In  Rom  8  11 
Paul  asserts  that  the  present  indwelling  in  believers 
of  the  Spirit  that  raised  up  Jesus  from  the  dead  is 
the  guarantee  of  the  quickening  of  their  mortal 
bodies  by  the  power  of  the  same  Spirit.  See  also 
1  Cor  15  44  f;  Gal  5  5. 

We  have  thus  exhibited  Paul's  teachings  as  to 
the  Holy  Spirit  in  some  detail  in  order  to  make 
clear  their  scope  and  comprehensiveness.  And 
we  have  not  exhausted  the  material  supplied  by 
his  writings.  It  will  be  observed  that  Paul  nowhere 
elaborates  a  doctrine  of  the  Spirit,  as  he  does  in  a 
number  of  instances  his  doctrine  of  the  person  of 
Christ.  The  references  to  the  Spirit  are  in  con- 
nection with  other  subjects  usually.  This,  however, 
only  serves  to  indicate  how  very  fundamental  the 
work  of  the  Spirit  was  in  Paul's  assumptions  as  to 
the  Christian  life.  The  Spirit  is  the  Christian  life, 
just  as  Christ  is  that  life. 

The  personality  of  the  Spirit  appears  in  Paul  as 
in  John.  The  benediction  in  2  Cor  13  14  distin- 
guishes clearly  Father,  Son  and  Spirit  (cf  also  Eph 
4  4).  In  many  connections  the  Spirit  is  distin- 
guished from  the  Son  and  Father,  and  the  work  of 
the  Spirit  is  set  forth  in  personal  terms.  It  is  true, 
references  are  often  math;  to  the  Holy  Spirit  by  Paul 
as  if  the  Spirit  were  an  impersonal  influence,  or  at 
least  without  clearly  personal  attributes.  This  dis- 
tinguishes his  usage  as  to  the  Spirit  from  that  as  to 
Christ  and  Cod,  who  are  always  personal.  It  is  a 
natural  explanation  of  this  fact  if  we  hold  that 
in  the  case  of  the  impersonal  references  we  have  a 
survival  of  the  current  OT  conception  of  the  Spirit, 
while  in  those  which  are  personal  we  have  the 
developed  conception  as  found  in  both  Paul  and 
John.  Personal  attributes  are  ascribed  to  the 
Spirit  in  so  many  instances,  it  would  seem  unwar- 
ranted in  us  to  make  the  earlier  and  lower  con- 
ception determinative  of  the  later  and  higher. 

In  Paul's  writings  we  have  the  crowning  factor 
in  the  Bib.  doctrine  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  He  gathers 
up  most  of  the  preceding  elements,  and  adds  to 
them  his  own  distinctive  teaching  or  emphasis. 
Some  of  the  earlier  OT  elements  are  lacking,  but  all 
those  which  came  earlier  in  the  NT  are  found  in 
Paul.  The  three  points  which  Paul  esp.  brought 
into  full  expression  were  first,  the  law  of  edification 
in  the  use  of  spiritual  gifts,  second,  the  Holy  Spirit 
in  the  moral  life  of  the  believer,  and  third,   the 


Holy  Spirit  in  tin;  church.  Thus  Paul  enables  us 
to  make  an  important  distinction  as  to  the  work  of 
the  Spirit  in  founding  the  kingdom  of  Cod,  viz. 
the  distinction  between  means  arid  ends.  Charis- 
matic gifts  of  the  Spirit  were,  alter  all,  means  to 
ethical  ends.  God's  kingdom  is  moral  in  its  pur- 
pose, "righteousness  and  peace  and  joy  in  the  Holy 
Spirit."  Christianity  is,  according  to  Paul,  inher- 
ently and  essentially  supernatural.  But  its  per- 
manent and  abiding  significance  is  to  be  found,  not 
in  extraordinary  phenomena  in  the  form  of  "mighty 
works,"  "wonders,"  "tongues"  and  other  miracles 
in  the  ordinary  sense,  but  in  the  creation  of  a  new 
moral  order  in  time  and  eternity.  The  super- 
natural is  to  become  normal  and  "natural"  in  human 
history,  therefore,  in  the  building  up  of  this  ethical 
kingdom  on  the  basis  of  a  redemption  that  is  in  and 
through  Jesus  Christ,  and  wrought  out  in  all  its 
details  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

(5)  The  Holy  Spirit  in  otlwr  NT  ivritings. — 
There  is  little  to  add  to  the  NT  teaching  as  to  the 
Holy  Spirit.  Paul  and  John  practically  cover  all 
the  aspects  of  His  work  which  are  presented.  There 
are  a  few  passages,  however,  we  may  note  in  con- 
eluding  our  general  survey.  In  lb;  the  Holy  Spirit 
is  referred  to  a  number  of  times  as  inspiring  the 
OT  Scriptures  (He  3  7;  9  S;  10  15).  We  have 
already  referred  to  the  remarkable  statement  in 
He  9  14  to  the  effect  that  the  blood  of  Christ  was 
offered  through  the  eternal  Spirit.  In  10  29 
doing  "despite  unto  the  Spirit  of  grace"  seems  to  be 
closely  akin  to  the  sin  against  the  Holy  Spirit  in  the 
Gospels.  In  He  4  12  there  is  a  very  remarkable 
description  of  the  "word  of  God"  in  personal 
terms,  as  having  all  the  energy  and  activity  of  an 
actual  personal  presence  of  the  Spirit,  and  recalls 
Paul's  language  in  Eph  6  17.  In  1  Pet  we  need 
only  refer  to  1  11  in  which  Peter  declares  that  the 
"Spirit  of  Christ"  was  in  the  OT  prophets,  pointing 
forward  to  the  sufferings  and  glories  of  Christ. 

Literature. — I.  F.  Wood,  The  Spirit  of  God  in  Bib. 
Literature;  art.  "Spiritual  (lifts"  in  KB;  Gunkel,  Die 
Wirkungen  ties  heiligen  Geistes;  Gloel,  I)<  r  heilige  Geist 
in  der  Heilsverkiindigung  des  Paulus;  Wendt,  Die  Be- 
griffe  Fleisch  und  Geist  im  biblischen  Sprachgebrauch; 
Woinel,  Die  Wirkungen  den  Geist,*  und  der  Geister;  Dick- 
son, St.  Paul's  Use  of  the  Terms  Flesh  anil  Spirit;  Smea- 
ton,  Doctrine  of  the  Holy  Spirit;  Walker,  The  Spirit  and 
the  Incarnation;  Denio,  The  Supreme  Leader;  Moberly, 
Ad  ministration  of  the  Holy  Spirit  in  the  Body  of  Christ; 
Hatchings,  J'erson  and  Work  of  the  Holy  Spirit;  Owen, 
Pneumatologia;  Webb,  J'erson  and  Office  of  the  Holy 
Spirit;  Hare,  The.  Mission  of  the  Comforter;  Candlish, 
The  Work  of  the  Holy  Spirit;  Wirgman,  The  Sevenfold 
Gifts;  Heber,  Personality  and  Offices  of  the  Holy  Spirit; 
Swete,  The  Holy  Spirit  in  the  NT;  Moule,  Veni  Creator; 
Johnson,  The  Holy  Spirit  Then  and  Now;  Kuyper,  The 
Work  of  the  Holy  Spirit;  Bib.  Theologies  of  Schultz, 
Davidson,  Weiss,  Beyschlag,  Stevens;  list  appended 
to  art.  on  "Holy  Spirit"  in  HUB  and  DCG;  extensive 
bibliography  in  Denio's  The  Supreme  Leader,  239  ff. 

E.  Y.  Mullins 
HOMAM,   ho'mam    (COlH ,    homam,    "destruc- 
tion"):   A.  Horite  descendant  of  Esau  (1  Ch  1  39). 
The  name  appears  in  Gen  36  22  as  "Heman." 

HOME,  hom  (Ira,  bayilh,  "house,"  EipU , 
makom,  "place,"  briK ,  'dhel,  "tent"  [Jgs  19  9], 
SJllE  ,  shubh,  "to  cause  to  turn  back,"  ^T*F1 ,  tawekh, 
•pn,  tokh,  "middle,"  "midst"  [Dt  21*12];  oIkos, 
oikos,  "house,"  "household,"  £v8t||j.€cd,  endemeo, 
"to  be  among  one's  people,"  oikos  idios,  "one's  own 
proper  [house]"):  This  term  in  Scripture  does  not 
stand  for  a  single  specific  word  of  the  original,  but 
for  a  variety  of  phrases.  Most  commonly  it  is  a 
tr  of  the  Heb  bayith,  Gr  ohos,  "house,"  which  means 
either  the  building  or  the  persons  occupying  it.  In 
Gen  43  26  "home"  and  "into  the  house"  represent 
the  same  phrase,  "to  the  house"  (ha-bayethah) . 
In  Ruth  1  21,  "hath  brought  me  home  again" 
means  "has  caused  me  to  return."     In  2  Ch  25  10 


Home-born 
Hope 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1418 


"homo  again"  means  "to  their  place."  In  Eccl  12 
5  "long  home,"  RV  "everlasting  home,"  means 
"eternal  house."  In  .Jn  19  27  "unto  his  own 
home"  means  "unto  his  own  things"  (so  Jn  1  11). 
In  2  Cor  5  6  (and  RV  vs  8.9)  "be  at  home"  is  a 
tr  of  endemeo,  "to  he  among  one's  own  people,"  as 
opposed  to  ekdemeo,  "to  he  or  live  abroad." 

Benjamin  Reno  Downer 
HOME-BORN,  hom'born  (rHTX,  'ezrdh):  A 
native-born  Heb,  as  contrasted  with  a  foreigner  of 
different  blood.  The  same  Heb  word  is  found  in 
Lev  16  29;  18  26  ami  elsewhere,  but  is  tr'1  differ- 
ently. Home-born  in  Jer  2  14  is  a  tr  of  the  phrase 
I"P3  "Pb"},  yllrfh  bnyilh,  where  it  means  a  person 
free-born  as  contrasted  with  a  slave. 


HOMER,  ho'mer  O'En  ,  homer):  A  dry  measure 
containing  about  11  bushels.  It  was  equal  to  10 
ephas.     See  Weights  and  Measures. 

HOMICIDE,  hom'i-sld  (D51 ,  rd<;c«h) :  Heb  has 
no  word  for  killing  or  murder;  rorP'li  is  the  word 
for  manslayer.  The  Or  for  murder  is  <povos, 
phonos.  Homicide  was  every  conscious  violent 
action  against  a  human  being  with  the  immediate 
result  of  death.  It  was  always  to  be  punished  by 
death,  being  considered  a  crime  against  the  image 
of  ( }od.  Killing  is  definitely  forbidden  in  the  sixth 
commandment  (Gen  9  5f;  Ex  20  13;  21  12; 
Lev  24  17.21;  Nu  35  16-21;  Dt  19  11-13).  The 
penalty  of  death  was  not  inflicted  when  the  killing 
was  unintentional  or  unpremeditated  (Ex  21  13; 
Nu  35  22-25;  Josh  20  3-5;  cf  Mish,  Makkoth,  xi. 
5).  Cities  of  Refuge  were  founded  to  which  the 
manslayer  could  escape  from  the  "avenger  of  blood." 
There  he  had  to  abide  till  after  the  death  of  the 
officiating  high  priest.  If  he  left  the  city  before 
that  event,  the  avenger  who  should  kill  him  was 
free  from  punishment  (Ex  21  13;  Nu  35  10-15. 
25-28.32;  Dt  19  1-13;  Josh  20  2ff).  See  Cities 
of  Refuge.  Killing  a  thief  who  broke  in  during 
the  night  was  not  accounted  murder  (Ex  22  2). 
Unintentional  killing  of  tin;  pregnant  woman  in  a 
fray  was  punished  according  to  the  lex  talionis,  i.e. 
the  husband  of  the  woman  killed  could  kill  the  wife 
of  the  man  who  committed  the  offence  without  being 
punished  (Ex  21  22  f).  This  was  not  usually 
carried  out,  but  it  gave  the  judge  a  standard  by 
which  to  fine,  the  offender.  If  a  man  failed  to  build 
a  battlement  to  his  house,  and  anyone  fell  over  and 
was  killed,  blood-guiltiness  came  upon  that  man's 
house  (Dt  22  8).  He  who  killed  a  thief  in  the 
daytime  was  guilty  in  the  same  way  (Ex  22  3;  cf 
AV).  Where  a  body  was  found,  but  the  murderer 
was  unknown,  the  elders  of  the  city  nearest  to  the 
place  where  it  was  found  were  ordered  by  a  pre- 
scribed ceremony  to  declare  that  they  were  not 
guilty  of  neglecting  their  duties,  and  were  therefore 
innocent  of  the  man's  blood  (Dt  21  1-9).  Two 
witnesses  were  necessary  for  a  conviction  of  murder 
(Nu  35  30).  If  a  slave  died  under  chastisement, 
the  master  was  to  be  punished  according  to  the 
principle  that  "he  that  smiteth  a  man,  so  that  he 
dieth,  shall  surely  be  put  to  death"  (Ex  21  20;  cf 
Ex  21  12).  According  to  the  rabbis  the  master 
was  to  be  killed  by  the  sword.  Since  in  this  pas- 
sage the  phrase  "he  shall  die"  is  not  used,  some 
have  supposed  that  punishment  by  death  is  not 
indicated.  If  the  slave  punished  by  the  master 
died  after  one  or  two  days,  the  master  was  not 
liable  to  punishment  (Ex  21  21).  Because  of  the 
words,  "for  he  is  his  money,"  the  rabbis  held  that 
non-Israelitish  slaves  were  meant.  In  ancient 
times  the  avenger  of  blood  was  himself  to  be  the 
executioner  of  the  murderer  (Nu  35  19.21).  Ac- 
cording to  Sanficdhrlii  9  1  the   murderer  was   to 


be  beheaded.  Nothing  is  said  in  the  law  about 
suicide.  Paul  Leveiitoff 

HONEST,  on'est,  HONESTY,  on'es-ti:  The 
word  "honest"  in  the  NT  in  AV  generally  represents 
the  adj.  Ka\6s,  kalos,  "good,"  "excellent,"  "hon- 
orable," and,  with  the  exception  of  Lk  8  15, 
"honest  and  good  heart,"  is  changed  in  RV  into 
the  more  correct  "honorable"  (Rom   12   17;    2  Cor 

8  21;  13  7;  Phil  4  S);  in  1  Pet  2  12,  into  "seem- 
ly." In  ARV  "honestly"  in  He  13  IS  is  rendered 
"honorably,"  and  in  1  Tkcss  4  12  (here  eusche- 
monds)  is  rendered  "becomingly."  The  noun 
"honesty"  occurs  but  once  in  AV  as  the  tr  of  aefj.- 
v6tt]s,  semnotes  (1  Tim  2  2),  and  in  RV  is  more 
appropriately  rendered  "gravity."        James  Orr 

HONEY,  hun'i  (TBl1^ ,  debhash;  |iAi,  meli):  One 
familiar  with  life  in  Pal  will  recognize  in  debhash 
the  Arab,  dibs,  which  is  the  usual  term  for  a  sweet 
syrup  made  by  boiling  down  the  juice  of  grapes, 
raisins,  carob  beans,  or  dates.  Dibs  is  seldom,  if 
ever,  used  as  a  name  for  honey  (cf  Arab,  'asal), 
whereas  in  the  OT  d'bhash  probably  had  only  that 
meaning.  The  honey  referred  to  was  in  most  cases 
wild  honey  (Dt  32  13;  Jgs  14  8.9;  1  S  14  25. 
20.29.43),  although  the  offering  of  honey  with  the 
first-fruits  would  seem  to  indicate  that  the  bees 
were  also  domesticated  (2  Ch  31  5).  The  bees 
constructed  their  honeycomb  and  deposited  their 
honey  in  holes  in  the  ground  (1  S  14  25);  under 
rocks  or  in  crevices  between  the  rocks  (Dt  32  13; 
Ps  81  10).  They  do  the  same  today.  When  do- 
mesticated they  are  kept  in  cylindrical  basket  hives 
which  are  plastered  on  the  oulside  with  mud.  The 
Syrian  bee  is  an  esp.  hardy  type  and  a  good  honey 
producer.  It  is  carried  to  Europe  and  America  for 
breeding  purposes. 

In  OT  times,  as  at  present,  honey  was  rare  enough 
to  be  considered  a  luxury  (Gen  43  11;  1  K  14  3). 
Honey  was  used  in  baking  sweets  (Ex  16  31).  It 
was  forbidden  to  be  offered  with  the  meal  offering 
(Lev  2  11),  perhaps  because  it  was  fermentable, 
but  was  presented  with  the  fruit  offering  (2  Ch  31 
5).  Honey  was  offered  to  David's  army  (2  S  17 
29).  It  was  sometimes  stored  in  the  fields  (Jer  41 
8).  It  was  also  exchanged  as  merchandise  (Ezk 
27  17).  In  NT  times  wild  honey  was  an  article  of 
food  among  the  lowly  (Mt  3  4;  Mk  1  0). 

Figurative:  "A  land  flowing  with  milk  and 
honey"  suggested  a  land  filled  with  abundance  of 
good  things  (Ex  3  8.17;  Lev  20  24;  Nu  13  27; 
Dt  6  3;  Josh  5  6;  Jer  11  5;  Ezk  20  0.15).  "A 
land  of  olive  trees  and  honey"  had  the  same  mean- 
ing (Dt  8  8;  2  K  18  32),  and  similarly  "streams of 
honey  and  butter"  (Job  20  17).  Honey  was  a 
standard  of  sweetness  (Cant  4  11;  Ezk  3  3;  Rev 
10  9.10).  It  typified  sumptuous  fare  (Cant  5  1; 
Isa  7  15.22;  Ezk  16  13.19).  The  ordinances  of 
Jeh  were  "sweeter  than  honey  and  the  droppings  of 
the  honeycomb"  (Ps  19  10;  119  103).  "Thou 
didst  eat  ....  honey"  (Ezk  16  13)  expressed 
Jeh's  goodness  to  Jerusalem.       James  A.  Patch 

HONORABLE,  on'er-a-b'l  (""Q?,  kabhedh;  ti- 
o-xti(awv,  euschhnon)'.  In  the  OT  "honorable"  is  for 
the  most  part  the  tr  of  kabhedh,  properly,  "to  be 
heavy,"  "weighty"  (Gen  34  19,  RV  "honored"; 
Nu  22  15;  1  S  9  6;  Isa  3  5,  etc);  kabhodh, 
"weight,"  "heaviness,"  etc,  occurs  in  Isa  5  13; 
hodh  "beauty,"  "majesty,"  "honor"  (Ps  111  3, 
RV  "honor");  'ddhar,  "to  make  honorable,"  "illus- 
trious" (Isa  42  21,  "magnify  the  law,  and  make  it 
honorable,"  RVm  "make  the  teaching  great  and 
glorious");  ydkdr,  "precious"  (Ps  45  9);  ?idsa' 
panim,    "lifted   up  of  face"    (2  K  5  1;     Isa  3  3; 

9  15);   ncsu  phdnim  (Job  22  8,  RVm   "he  whose 


1419 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Home-born 
Hope 


person  is  accepted");  euschemon,  lit.  "well  fash- 
ioned," is  trd  Mk  15  43,  AV  "honorable,"  RV  "of 
honorable  estate";  cf  Acts  13  50;  17  12;  endoxos, 
"in  glory,"  occurs  1  Cor  4  10,  RV  "glory";  timios, 
"weighty"  (He  13  4,  RV  "had  in  honor");  dtimos, 
"without  weight  or  honor"  (1  Cor  12  23,  "less 
honorable");  entimos,  "in  honor"  (Lk  14  8), 
"more  honorable." 

RV  gives  for  "  honorable  "  (1  S  9  6) ,  "  held  in  honor  " ; 
for  "Yet  shall  I  be  glorious"  (Isa  49  5),  "I  am  honor- 
able"; "honorable"  for  "honest"  (Horn  12  17;  2  Cor 
13  7;  Phil  4  S,  m  "reverend");  for  "honestly"  (He 
13   18)  ARV  has  "honorably." 

In  Apoc  we  have  endoxos  trd  "honorable"  (Tob  12  7, 
RV  "gloriouslv");  endoxos  (,1th  16  21),  timios  (Wisd  4 
8),  doxdzo  (Keel us  24  12,  RV  "glorified"),  doxa  (29 
27,  RV  "honor"),  etc. 

YV    L.  Walker 

HOOD,  hood  (rfiS^T,  zeniphoth):  The  ladies' 
"hoods"  of  Isa  3  23  AV  appear  as  "turbans"  RV; 
and  "mitre"  of  Zee  3  5  is  "turban,  or  diadem" 
ERVm.  The  word  is  from  the  vb.  zanaph,  "to  wrap 
round."  It  connotes  a  head-covering,  not  a  per- 
manent article  of  dress.     See  Dress,  5;    Hat. 

HOOF,  hoof.     See  Chew;  Cloven. 

HOOK,  hook:  (1)  H2n ,  hakkah,  is  rendered 
"fishhook"  in  Job  41  1  RV  (AV  "hook").  RV  is 
correct  here  and  should  have  used  the  same  tr  for 
the  same  word  in  Isa  19  8;  Hab  1  15,  instead  of 
retaining  AV's  "angle.;'  Similarly  in  Am  4  2, 
H3S ,  ginnah,  and  HJi^  T)^D ,  sirdth  dughah,  appear 
to' be  synonyms  for  "fishhook,"  although  the  former 
may  mean  the  barb  of  a  fisher's  spear.  In  the  NT 
"fishhook"  occurs  in  Mt  17  27  (dyKLarpof,  dgkis- 
tron).  (2)  The  "flesh-hook"  (5*p3 1  mazlegh, 
n^rn ,  mizUghah)  of  Ex  27  3,  etc,  was  probably 
a  small  pitchfork,  with  two  or  three  tines.  (3)  The 
"pruning-hook"  (rniQT'52 ,  mazmerah),  used  in  the 
culture  of  the  vine  (Isa  18  5),  was  a  sickle-shaped 
knife,  small  enough  to  be  made  from  the  metal  of  a 
spear-point  (Isa  2  4;  Joel  3  10;  Mic  4  3).  (4) 
T1 ,  waw,  is  the  name  given  the  supports  of  certain 
hangings  of  the  tabernacle  (Ex  26  32,  etc).  Their 
form  is  entirely  obscure.  (5)  nn  ,  hah,  is  rendered 
"hook"  in  2  K  19  28  =  Isa  37  29;  Ezk  29  4; 
38  4,  and  Ezk  19  4.9  RV  (AV  "chain").  A  ring 
(cf  Ex  35  22),  put  in  the  nose  of  a  tamed  beast  and 
through  which  a  rope  is  passed  to  lead  him,  is 
probably  meant.  (G)  fV0!Si$ ,  'aghmon,  is  rendered 
"hook"  in  Job  41  2  AV,  but  should  be  "a  rope"  of 
rushes  or  rush-fiber  as  in  RV,  or,  simply,  "a  rush" 
(on  which  small  fish  are  strung).  (7)  Wrl  ,  hd"h,  is 
"hook"  in  Job  41  2  RV  (AV  "thorn,"  perhaps 
right)  and  2  Ch  33  11  RVm  (text  "chains,"  AV 
"thorns").  On  both  vs  see  the  comms.  (8)  D1I??Tp, 
shephatlayim,  is  "hooks"  in  Ezk  40  43  (RVm 
"ledges"),  but  the  meaning  of  this  word  is  com- 
pletely unknown,  and  "hook"  is  a  mere  guess. 

Burton  Scott  Easton 

HOOPOE,  hcjo'po;  -poo  (riE"1?^,  dukhiphath; 
i-noty,  epops;  Lat ■  V pupa  epops) :  One  of  the  pecul- 
iar and  famous  birds  of  Pal,  having  a  curved  bdl 
and  beautiful  plumage.  It  is  about  the  size  of  a 
thrush.  Its  back  is  a  rich  cinnamon  color,  its  head 
golden  buff  with  a  crest  of  feathers  of  gold,  banded 
with  white  and  tipped  with  black,  that  gradually 
lengthen  as  they  cover  the  head  until,  when 
folded,  they  lie  in  lines  of  black  and  white,  and, 
when  erect,  each  feather  shows  its  exquisite  mark- 
ing. Its  wings  and  tail  are  black  banded  with 
white  and  buff.  It  nests  in  holes  and  hollow  trees. 
All  ornithologists  agree  that  it  is  a  "nasty,  filthy 
bird"  in  its  feeding  and  breeding  habits.  The 
nest,  being  paid  no  attention  by  the  elders,  soon  be- 


comes soiled  and  evil  smelling.  The  bird  is  men- 
tioned only  in  the  lists  of  abomination  (Lev  11  19; 
and  Dt  14  IS).  One  reason  why  Moses  thought 
it  unfit  for  food  was  on  account  of  its  habits.  Quite 
as  strong  a  one  lay  in  the  fact  that  it  was  one  of  the 


zm^ 


Hoopoe  (  U pupa  epops). 

sacred  birds  of  Egypt.  There  the  belief  was  preva- 
lent that  it  could  detect  water  and  indicate  where  to 
dig  a  well;  that  it  could  hear  secrets  and  (aire  dis- 
eases. Its  head  was  a  part  of  the  charms  used  by 
witches.  The  hoopoe  was  believed  to  have  wonder- 
ful medicinal  powers  and  was  called  the  "Doctor 
Bird"  by  the  Arabs.  Because  it  is  almost,  the 
size  of  a  hoopoe  and  somewhat  suggest  ive  of  it.  in  its 
golden  plumage,  the  lapwing  was  used  in  the  early 
translations  of  the  Bible  instead  of  hoopoe.  But 
when  it  was  remembered  that  the  lapwing  is  a 
plover,  its  flesh  and  eggs  esp.  dainty  food,  that  it 
was  eaten  everywhere  it  was  known,  modern  com- 
mentators rightly  decided  that  the  hoopoe  was  the 
bird  intended  by  the  Mosaic  law.  It  must  be  put 
on  record,  however,  that  where  no  superstition 
attaches  to  the  hoopoe  and  when;  its  nesting  habits 
are  unknown  and  its  feeding  propensities  little 
understood,  as  it  passes  in  migration  if  is  killed, 
eaten  and  considered  delicious,  esp.  by  residents  of 
Southern  Europe.  Gene  Stratton-Porter 

HOPE,  hop:  In  RV  the  NT  "hope"  represents  the 
noun  iXiris,  elp'ts  (52  t),  and  the  vb.  eX-rrifa,  elpizo 

(31  t).  AV,  however,  renders  the 
1.  In  the  noun  in  He  10  23  by  "faith,"  and  for 
OT  the    vb.    gives    "trust"    in    IS    cases 

(apparently  without  much  system,  e.g. 
in  Phil  2  cf  vs  19  and  23;  sec;  Trust),  while  in 
Lk  6  35  it  translates  dTreXTrifw,  apelpizo,  by  "hoping 
for  nothing  again"  (RV  "never  despairing").  But 
in  the  OT  there  is  no  Heb  word  that  has  the  exact 
force  of  "expectation  of  some  good  thing,"  so  that 
in  AV  "hope"  (noun  and  vb.)  stands  for  some  15 
Heb  words,  nearly  all  of  which  in  other  places  are 
given  other  tra  (e.g.  nUnE,  mibhtah,  is  rendered 
"hope"  in  Jer  17  17,  "trust"  in  Ps  40  4,  "con- 
fidence" in  Ps  65  5).  RV  has  attempted  to  be 
more  systematic  and  has,  for  the  most  part,  kept 
"hope"  for  the  noun  """Ppi? ,  tikwdh,  and  the  vb. 
blT,  yahal,  but  complete  consistency  was  not 
possible  '(e.g.  Prov  10  28;  11  23;  23  18).  This 
lack  of  a  specific  word  for  hope  has  nothing  to  do 
with  any  undervaluation  of  the  virtue  among  the 
Hebrews.  For  the  religion  of  the  OT  is  of  all  t  hings 
a  religion  of  hope,  centered  in  Cod,  from  whom  all 
deliverance  and  blessings  are  confidently  expected 
(Jer  17  17;    Joel  3  16;    Ps  31  24;    33  1S.22;     39 


Hope 

Horite,  Horim 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1420 


7,  etc).  The  varieties  of  this  hope  are  countless 
(see  Israel,  Religion  of;  Salvation,  etc),  bul 
the  form  most  perfected  and  with  fundamental  sig- 
nificance for  the  XT  is  the  firm  trust  that  at  a  lime 
appointed  God,  in  person  or  through  1 1  is  repre- 
sentative (see  Messiah),  will  establish  a  kingdom  of 
righteousness. 

(1)  The  proclamation  of  this  coming  kingdom  of 
God   was  the  central   element    in   the   teaching  of 

Jesus,  and  the  message  of  its  near  ad- 
2.  In  the  vent  (Mk  1  15,  etc),  with  the  cer- 
NT  tainty  of  admission  to  it  for  those  who 

accepted  His  teaching  (Lk  12  32,  etc), 
is  the  substance  of  His  teaching  as  to  hope.  This 
teaching,  though,  is  delivered  in  the  language  of 
One  to  whom  the  realities  of  the  next  world  and  of 
the  future  are  perfectly  familiar;  the  tone  is  not 
that  of  prediction  so  much  as  it  is  that  of  the  state- 
ment of  obvious  facts.  In  other  words,  "hope;"  to 
Christ  is  "certainly,"  and  the;  word  "hope"  is  never 
on  His  lips  (Lk  6  34  and  Jn  5  45  are  naturally  not 
exceptions).  For  the  details  see  Kingdom  ok 
(Ion;  Faith;  Forgiveness,  etc;.  And  however 
far  He  may  have  taught  that  the  kingdom  was 
present  in  His  lifetime,  none  the  less  the  full  con- 
summation of  that  kingdom,  with  Himself  as  Mes- 
siah, was  made  by  Him  a  matter  of  the  future  (see 
ESCHATOLOGY   OF   THE    NT;     PAROUSIA). 

(2)  Hence  after  the  ascension  the  early  church 
was  left,  with  an  eschatological  expectation  that  was 
primarily  and  almost  technically  the;  "hope"  of  the 
NT — ''looking  for  the  blessed  hope  and  appearing 
of  the  glory  of  the  great  God  and  our  Saviour  Jesus 
Christ"  (Tit  2  13),  "unto  a  living  hope  .  .  .  .  , 
unto  an  inheritance  incorruptible,  and  undefiled, 
....  reserved  in  heaven  for  you,  who  by  the 
power  of  God  are  guarded  through  faith  unto  a  sal- 
vation ready  to  be  revealed  in  the  last  time"  (1  Pet 
1  3-5;  cf  Rom  5  2;  8  20-24;  2  Cor  3  12;  Eph 
1  18-21;  Col  1  5.23.27;  Tit  12;  3  7;  1  Jn  3 
2.3).  The  foundations  of  this  hope  were  many: 
(a)  Primarily,  of  course,  the  promises  of  the  OT, 
which  were  the  basis  of  Christ's  teaching.  Such 
are  often  quoted  at  length  (Acts  2  10,  etc),  while 
they  underlie  countless  other  passages.  These 
promises  are  the  "anchor  of  hope"  that  holds  the 
soul  fast  (He  6  18-20).  In  part,  then,  the  earliest 
Christian  expectations  coincided  with  the  Jewish, 
and  the  "hope  of  Israel"  (Acts  28  20;  cf  26  6.7; 
Eph  2  12,  and  esp.  Rom  11  25-32)  was  a  common 
ground  on  which  Jew  and  Christian  might  meet. 
Still,  through  the  confidence  of  forgiveness  and 
purification  given  in  the  atonement  (He  9  14,  etc), 
the  Christian  felt  himself  to  have  a  "better  hope" 
(He  7  19),  which  the  Jew  could  not  know,  (b) 
Specifically  Christian,  however,  was  the  pledge 
given  in  the  resurrection  of  Christ.  This  sealed 
His  Messiahship  and  proved  His  lordship  (Rom  1 
4;  Eph  1  18-20;  1  Pet  3  21,  etc),  so  sending  forth 
His  followers  with  the  certainty  of  victory.  In 
addition,  Christ's  resurrection  was  felt  to  be  the 
first  step  in  the  general  resurrection,  and  hence  a 
proof  that  the  consummation  of  all  things  had 
begun  (1  Cor  15  23;  cf  Acts  23  G;  24  15;  26 
0.7;  1  Thess  4  13.14,  etc),  (c)  But  more  than  all, 
devotion  to  Christ  produced  a  religious  experience 
that  gave  certainty  to  hope.  "Hope  putteth  not 
to  shame;  because  the  love  of  God  hath  been  shed 
abroad  in  our  hearts  through  the  Holy  Spirit  which 
was  given  unto  us"  (Rom  5  5;  cf  8  10.17;  2  Cor 
1  22;  5  5;  Eph  1  14,  etc,  and  see  Holy  Spirit). 
Even  visible  miracles  were  wrought  by  the  Spirit 
that  were  signs  of  the  end  (Acts  2  17)  as  well  as 
of  the  individual's  certainty  of  partaking  in  the 
final  happiness  (Acts  10  47;    19  6,  etc). 

(3)  Yet,   certain  though  the  hope  might  be,   it 
was  not  vet  attained,  and  the  interim  was  an  oppor- 


tunity to  develop  faith,  "the  substance  of  the  things 
hoped  for"  (He  11  1).  Indeed,  hope  is  simply 
faith  directed  toward  the  future,  and  no  sharp  dis- 
tinction between  faith  and  hope  is  attainable.  It 
is  easy  enough  to  see  how  the  AV  felt,  "confession 
of  our  faith"  clearer  than  "confession  of  our  hope" 
in  He  10  23,  although  the  rendition  of  clpis  by 
"faith"  was  arbitrary.  So  in  Rom  8  20-24,  "hope 
is  scarcely  more  than  "faith"  in  this  specialized 
aspect.  In  particular,  in  ver  24  we  have  as  the  most 
natural  tr  (cf  Eph  2  5.8),  "By  hope  we  were  saved" 
(so  AV,  ERV,  ARVm),  and  only  a  pedantic  in- 
sistence on  words  can  find  in  this  any  departure 
from  the  strictest,  Pauline  theology  (cf  the  essen- 
tial outlook  on  the  future  of  the  classic  example  of 
"saving  faith"  in  Rom  4  18-22,  esp.  ver  18).  Still, 
the  combination  is  unusual,  and  the  Gr  may  be 
rendered  equally  wtdl  "For  hope  we  wen;  saved" 
("in  hope"  of  the  ARV  is  not  so  good) ;  i.e.  our  sal- 
vat  ion,  in  so  far  as  it  is  past,  is  but  to  prepare  us  for 
what  is  to  come  (cf  Eph  4  4;  1  Pet,  1  3).  But 
this  postponement  of  the  full  attainment,  through 
developing  faith,  gives  stedfastness  (Rom  8  25; 
cf  1  Thess  1  3;  5  8;  He  3  0;  6  11),  which  could 
be  gained  in  no  other  way.  On  the  other  hand  this 
stedfastness,  produced  by  hope,  reacts  again  on 
hope  and  increase's  it  (Rom  5  4;  15  4).  And  so 
on.  .But  no  attempt  is  made;  in  the  NT  to  give  a 
catalogue  of  the  "fruits  of  hope,"  and,  indeed,  such 
lists  are  inevitably  artificial. 

(4)  One  passage  that  deserves  special  attention 
is  1  Cor  13  13,  "Now  abideth  faith,  hope,  love, 
these  three."  "Abideth"  is  in  contrast  to  "shall 
be  done  away"  in  vs  8.9,  and  the  time  of  the  abiding 
is  consequently  after  the  Parousia;  i.e.  while  many 
gifts  are  for  the  present  world  only,  faith,  hope  and 
love  are  eternal  and  endure  in  the  next  world. 
1  Cor  13  is  evidently  a  very  carefully  written  sec- 
tion, and  the  permanence  of  faith  and  hope  cannot 
be  set  down  to  any  mere  carelessness  on  St.  Paul's 
part,  but  the  meaning  is  not  very  clear.  Probably 
he  felt  that  the  triad  of  virtues  was  so  essentially 
a  part  of  the  Christian's  character  that  the  existence 
of  the  individual  without,  them  was  unthinkable, 
without  trying  to  define  what  the  object  of  faith 
and  hope  would  be  in  the  glorified  state.  If  any 
answer  is  to  be  given,  it  must  be  found  in  the  doc- 
trine that,  even  in  heaven  life  will  not  be  static  but 
will  have  opportunities  of  unlimited  growth.  Never 
will  the  finite  soul  be  able  to  dispense  entirely  with 
faith,  while  at  each  stage  the  growth  into  the  next 
can  be  anticipated  through  hope. 

Only  Adventist  bodies  can  use  all  the  NT  prom- 
ises literally,  and  the  tr  of  the  eschatological  lan- 
guage into  modern  practical  terms  is 
3.  Practical  not  always  easy.  The  simplest  method 
is  that  already  well  developed  in  the 
Fourth  Gospel,  where  the  phrase  "kingdom  of  God" 
is  usually  replaced  by  the  words  "eternal  life,"  i.e. 
for  a  temporal  relation  between  this  world  and  the 
next  is  substituted  a  local,  so  that  the  accent  is  laid 
on  the  hope  that  awaits  the  individual  beyond  the 
grave.  On  the  other  hand,  the  cataclysmic  im- 
agery of  the  NT  may  be  interpreted  in  evolutionary 
form.  God,  by  sending  into  the  world  the  super- 
natural power  seen  in  the  Christian  church,  is  work- 
ing for  the  race  as  well  as  for  the  individual,  and  has 
for  His  whole  creation,  as  well  as  for  individual 
souls,  a  goal  in  store.  The  individual  has  for  his 
support  the  motives  of  the  early  church  and,  in 
particular,  learns  through  the  cross  that  even  his 
own  sins  shall  not  disappoint  him  of  his  hope.  But 
both  of  the  above  interpretations  are  needed  if 
religion  is  fairly  to  represent  the  spirit  of  the  NT. 
A  pure  individualism  that  looks  only  beyond  the 
grave  for  its  hope  empties  the  phrase  "kingdom  of 
God"  of  its  meaning  and  tends  inevitably  to  asceti- 


1421 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA      gjg^  Horim 


cism.  And,  in  contrast,  the  religion  of  Jesus  cannot 
be  reduced  to  a  mere  hope  of  ethical  advance  for 
the  present  world.  A  Christianity  thai  loses  a 
transcendent,  eschatological  hope;  ceases  to  be 
Christianity.  Burton  Scott  Easton 

HOPHNI,  hof'ni,  and  PHINEHAS,  fm'c-as,  -az 
P?Dn,  hophnl,  ''pugilist"  [?],  Dni"1?  ,  pin' has,  proh. 
"face  of  brass"):  Sons  of  Eli,  priests  of  the  sanc- 
tuary at  Shiloh.  Their  character  was  wicked 
enough  to  merit  the  double  designation  "sons  of 
Eli"  and  (AV)  "sons  of  Belial"  (RVm  "basemen," 
1  S  2  12).  Their  evil  practices  are  described  (vs 
12-17).  Twice  is  Eli  warned  concerning  them, 
once  by  an  unknown  prophet  (I  S  2  27  ff )  and  again 
by  the  lips  of  the  young  Samuel  (1  S  3  11-18). 
The  curse  fell  at  the  battle  of  Aphek  (1  S  4  1-18) 
at  which  the  brothers  were  slain,  the  ark  was  taken 
and  the  disaster  occurred  which  caused  Eli's  death. 
Phinehas  was  father  of  the  posthumous  Ichabod, 
whose  name  marks  the  calamity  (see  Ichabod). 
A  remoter  sequel  to  the  prophetic  warnings  is  seen 
in  the  deposition  of  Abiathar,  of  the  house  of  Eli, 
from  the  priestly  office  (1  K  2  26.27.35). 

Henry  Wallace 

HOPHRA,  hof'ra.     See  Pharaoh-hophra. 

HOR,  hor,  MOUNT  pnn  lh ,  hor  hu-har;  lit, 
"Hor,  the  mountain"): 

(1)  A  tradition  identifying  this  mountain  with 

Jebel  Neby  Haruu  may  be  traced  from  the  time  of 

Jos  {Ant,  IV,  iv,  7)  downward.    Onom 

1.  Not  (s.v.  "S2p,  Hor)  favors  this  identifica- 
Jebel  Neby  tion,  which  has  been  accepted  by  many 
Harun            travelers     and     scholars.     In      HDB, 

while  noting  the  fact  that  it  has  been 
questioned,  Professor  Hull  devotes  all  the  space  at 
his  disposal  to  a  description  of  Jebel  Neby  Haruu. 
It  is  now  recognized,  however,  that  this  identifica- 
tion is  impossible.  Niebuhr  {Rem:  ?iach  Arab., 
238),  Pocoke  (Description  of  the  East,  I,  157), 
Robinson  (BR,  1,  185),  Ewald  (Hist,  of  Israel, 
II,  201,  n.),  and  others  had  pointed  out  difficulties 
in  the  way,  but  (he  careful  discussion  of  Dr.  II. 
Clay  Trumbull  (  Kadesh  Barnea,  127  ff)  finally 
disposed  of  the  claims  of  Jebel  Neby  Harun. 

From  Nu  20  22;  33  37  we  may  perhaps  infer 
that  Mt.  Hor,  "in  the  edge  of  the  land  of  Edom," 

was     about     a     day's     journey    from 

2.  Suggest-  Kadesh.  The  name  "Hoi1  the  moun- 
ed  Identifi-  tain"  suggests  a  prominent  feature 
cation  of   the   landscape.     Aaron  was  buried 

there  (Nu  20  28;  Dt  32  50).  It  was 
therefore  not  inMt.  Seir  (Dt  2  5),  of  which  not  even 
a  foot-breadth  was  given  to  Israel.  Jebel  Neby 
Harun  is  certainly  a  prominent  feature  of  the  land- 
scape, towering  over  the  tumbled  hills  that  form  the 
western  edges  of  the  Edom  plateau  to  a  height  of 
4,800  ft.  But  it  is  much  more  than  a  day's  journey 
from  Kadesh,  while  it  is  well  within  the  boundary 
of  Mt.  Seir.  The  king  of  Arad  was  alarmed  at  the 
march  to  Mt.  Hor.  Had  Israel  marched  toward 
Jebel  Neby  Harun,  away  to  the  S.E.,  it  could  have 
caused  him  no  anxiety,  as  he  dwelt  in  the  north. 
This  points  to  some  eminence  to  the  N.  or  N.E.  of 
Kadesh.  A  hill  meeting  sufficiently  all  these  condi- 
tions is  Jebel  Maderah  (see  Halak,  Mount),  which 

rises  to  the  N.E.  of  Winka/lls  (Kadesh- 

3.  Jebel  barnea).  It  stands  at  the  extreme 
Maderah        N.W.  boundary  of  the  land  of  Edom, 

yet  not  within  that  boundary.  Above 
the  barrenness  of  the  surrounding  plain  this  "large, 
singular-looking,  isolated  chalk  hill"  rises  "alone 
like  a  lofty  citadel,"  "steep-sided"  and  "quite 
naked."  Here  the  solemn  transactions  described 
in  Nu  20  22  ff  could  have  been  carried  out  lit,  "in 
the  sight  of  all  the  congregation."     While  certainty 


is  impossible,  no  more  likely  suggestion  has  been 
made. 

(2)  A  mountain  named  only  in  Nu  34  7  f  as  on 
the  N.  boundary  of  the  land  of  Israel.  No  success 
has  attended  the  various  attempts  made  to  identify 
this  particular  height.  Some  would  make-  it  Mt. 
Hermon  (Hull,  HDB,  s.v.);  others  Jebel  Wkkar, 
an  out  runner  on  the  N.E.  of  Lebanon  (Furrer,  ZDPV, 
VIII,  27),  and  others  the  mountain  at  the  "knee  of" 
Nahr  el-Kdsimlyeh  (van  Kasteren,  Rev.  Bib.,  1895, 
30  f).  In  Ezk  47  15  ?J"HrL  ha-derekh,  should  cer- 
tainly be  amended  to  ff"1~n  ,  hadhrakh,  a  proper 
name,  instead  of  "the  way."  Possibly  then  Alt, 
Hor  should  disappear  from  Nu  34  7  f,  and  we 
should  read,  with  slight  emendation,  "From  the 
great  sea  ye  shall  draw  a  line  for  you  as  far  as  Ilad- 
racli,  and  from  Hadrach  .  .  .  ."  W.  Ewing 

HORAM,  ho'ram  (D^H,  horam,  "height"):  A 
king  of  Gezer  defeated  by  .Joshua  when  he  came  to 
the  help  of  Lachish,  which  .Joshua  was  besieging 
(Josh   10  33). 

HOREB,  ho'reb.     See  Sinai. 

HOREM,  ho'rem  (D"}n ,  horem,  "consecrated"): 
One  of  the  fenced  cities  in  the  territory  of  Naphtali 
(Josh  19  38),  named  with  Iron  and  Migdal-el.  It 
may  possibly  be  identified  with  the  modern  Hurah, 
which  lies  on  a  mound  at  the  S.  end  of  Wddy  el-^Ain, 
to  the  W.  of  Kedes. 

HORESH,  ho'resh  (mp")h ,  hor*shah,  1  S  23 
15.18,  m  only;  LNX  iv  rfj  Kcuvfj,  en  te  Kaint, 
"in  the  New";  EV  "in  the  wood"  [nthhs ,  ba- 
horeshdh],  the  particle  "in"  being  combined  with  the 
article):  Horesh  in  other  passages  is  trd  "forest" 
(cf  2  Ch  27  4;  Isa  17  9;  Ezk  31  3)  and  it  is  most 
probable  that  it  should  be  so  trd  here. 

HOR-HAGGIDGAD,  hAr-ha-gid'gad  ("I3*t3n  nh  , 
hor  ha-gidhgadh):  A  desert  camp  of  the  Israelites 
between  Beeroth  Bene-jaakan  and  Jotbathah  (Nu 
33  32f).  In  Dt  10  7  it  is  called  Gudgodah.  See 
Wanderings  of  Israel. 

HORI,  ho'ri  plh,  "nin,  hdrl,  "cave-dweller"): 

(1)  A  Ilorite  descendant  of  Esau  (Gen  36  22; 
1  Ch  1  39). 

(2)  A  Simeonite,  father  of  Shaphat,  one  of  the 
twelve  spies  (Nu  13  5). 

HORITE,  ho'rit,  HORIM,  hd'rim  pTJ,  hdrl, 
D"1"!^ ,  horim;  Xoppaioi,  Chorraioi):  Denoted  the 
inhabitants  of  Mt.  Seir  before  its  occupation  by 
the  Edomites  (Dt  2  12).  Seir  is  accordingly  called 
Ilorite  in  Gen  36  20.30,  when;  a  list  of  his  de- 
scendants is  given,  who  afterward  mixed  with  the 
invading  Edomites.  Esau  himself  married  the 
daughter  of  the  Horite  chieftain  Anah  (Gen  36  25; 
see  ver  2,  where  "Hivite"  must  be  corrected  into 
'Ilorite").  The  "Ilorites"  in  their  "Mt.Seir"  were 
among  the  nations  defeated  by  the  army  of  Chedor- 
laomer  in  the  age  of  Abraham  (Gen  14  6).  The 
Heb  Ilorite,  however,  is  the  Khar  of  the  Egyp 
inscriptions,  a  name  given  to  the  whole  of  Southern 
Palestine  and  Edom  as  well  as  to  the  adjacent  sea. 
In  accordance  with  this  we  find  in  the  OT  also  traces 
of  the  existence  of  the  Ilorites  in  other  parts  of  the 
country  besides  Mt.  Seir.  In  Gen  34  2;  Josh  9 
7,  the  LXX  (Cod.  A)  more  correctly  reads  "Horite" 
instead  of  "Hivite"  for  tin;  inhabitants  of  Shechem 
and  Gibeon,  and  Caleb  is  said  to  be  "the  son  of  Hur, 
the  first-born  of  Ephratah"  or  Bethlehem  (1  Ch  2 
50;  4  4).  Hor  or  Horite  has  sometimes  been  ex- 
plained to  mean  "cave-dweller";  it  more  probably, 


Hormah 
Horse,  Red 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1122 


however,  denotes  the  "white"  nice.  The  Horites 
were  Semites,  ami  consequently  arc  distinguished 
in  l)t  2  12  from  the  tall  race  of  Ilcphaim. 

A.  II.  Saycb 
HORMAH,  hor'nia  (TVQTm  ,  hormah):  A  city  first 
mentioned  in  connection  with  the  defeat  of  the 
Israelites  by  the  Amalekites  and  the  Canaanites, 
when,  after  t  he  ten  spies  who  brought  an  evil  report 
of  the  land  had  died  of  plague,  the  people  persisted, 
against  the  will  of  Moses,  in  ^oin<i  "up  unto  the 
place  which  Jehovah  hath  promised"  (Nu  14  45; 
Dt  1  44).  After  the  injury  done  them  by  the  king 
of  Arad,  Israel  took  the  city,  utterly  destroyed  it, 
and  called  it  Hormah,  i.e.  "accursed"  (Nu  21  3). 
To  this  event  probably  the  reference  is  in  Jgs  1  17, 
where'  Judah  and  Simeon  are  credited  with  t  he  work. 
In  Josh  12  14  it  is  named  between  Geder  and  Arad; 
in  Josh  15  30  between  Chesil  and  Ziklag,  among 
the  uttermost  cities  toward  the  border  of  Edom  in 
the  S.;  and  in  Josh  19  4  between  Bethul  and  Zik- 
lag (cf  1  Ch  4  30).  To  it  David  sent  a  share  of 
t  he  spoil  taken  from  the  Amalekites  who  had  raided 
Ziklag  (1  S  30  30).  The  city  must  have  lain  not 
far  from  Kadesh,  probably  to  the  N.E.  No  name 
resembling  Hormah  has  been  recovered  in  that  dis- 
trict. The  ancient  name  was  Zephath  (Jgs  1  17). 
It  is  not  unlikely  that  in  popular  use  this  name  out- 
lived Hormah:  and  in  some  form  if  may  survive 
to  this  day.  In  that  case  it  may  be  represented  by 
the  modern  es-Sabaitd  between  el-Khalasa  in  the 
N.  and  W  in  Kadis  in  the  S.,  about-  2)}  miles  from  the 
latter.  If  we  may  identify  Ziklag  with  lAsluj, 
about,  14  miles  N.  of  es-Sabaitd,  the  probability  is 
heightened.  Robinson  (BR,  III,  150)  compares 
the  name  Zephath  with  that  of  Nakb  es-Safd,  to  the 
N.  of  Wddy  el-Fikrah;  but  this  appears  to  be  too 
far — about  40  miles — from  Kadesh.       W.  Ewing 

HORN,  horn  (TTeb  and  Aram.  **]£; ,  keren;  Kt'pas, 
kerns;  for  the  "ram's  horn"  [53T1 ,  yobhel]  of  Josh 
6  see  Music,  and  for  the  "inkhorn"  of  Ezk  9  [r.C£  , 
keseth]  see  separate  art.): 

(1)  Keren  and  keras  represent  the  Eng.  "horn" 
exactly,  whether  on  the  animal  (Gen  22  13),  or 
used  for  musical  purposes  (Josh  6  5;  1  Ch  25  5), 
or  for  containing  a  liquid  (1  S  16  1.13;  1  K  1  39), 
but  in  Ezk  27  15  the  "horns  of  ivory"  are  of  course; 
tusks  and  the  "horns"  of  ebony  are  small  (pointed?) 
logs.  Consequently  most  of  the  usages  require 
no  explanation. 

(2)  Both  the  altar  of  burnt  offering  (Ex  27  2; 
38  2;  cf  Ezk  43  15)  and  the  incense  altar  (Ex  30 
2;  37  25.26;  cf  Rev  9  13)  had  "horns,"  which  are 
explained  to  be  projections  "of  one  piece  with"  the 
wooden  framework  and  covered  with  the  brass  (or 
gold)  that  covered  the  altar.  They  formed  tin1 
most  sacred  part  of  the  altar  and  were  anointed 
with  the  blood  of  the  most-  solemn  sacrifices  (only) 
(Ex  30  10;  Lev  4  7.18.25.30.34;  16  IS;  cf  Ezk 
43  20),  and  according  to  Lev  8  15;  9  0,  the  first 
official  sacrifices  began  by  anointing  them.  Con- 
sequently cutting  off  the  horns  effectually  dese- 
crated the  altar  (Am  3  14),  while  "sin  graven  on 
them"  (Jer  17  1)  took  all  efficacy  from  the  sacri- 
fice'. On  the  other  hand  they  offered  the  highest 
sanctuary  (1  K  1  50.51;  2  28).  Of  their  symbol- 
ism nothing  whatever  is  said,  and  the  eventual 
origin  is  quite;  obscure.  "Remnants  of  a  bull-cult" 
and  "miniature  saea-e'd  towers"  have  been  suggest e>d, 
but  are  wholly  uncertain.  A  more  like'ly  origin  is 
from  an  e>lel  custom  of  draping  the  altar  with  skins 
of  sacrificed  animals  (RS,  436).  That,  however,  the 
"horns"  were  me're  conveniences  for  binding  the; 
sacrificial  animals  (Bs  118  27,  a  custom  re-fe-rred  to 
nowhere  else  in  the  OT),  is  most  unlikely.  See 
Altar. 


(3)  The  common  figurative  use  of  "horn"  is  lake'n 
from  the  image'  of  battling  animals  (literal  use;  in 
Did  8  7,  etc)  to  denote;  aggressive  strength.  So 
Zede'kiah  ben  Chenaanah  illustrates  the  predicted 
defeat  of  the'  enemies  by  pushing  with  iron  horns 
(1  K  22  11;  2  Ch  18  10),  while  "horns  of  the  wild- 
ox"  (Of  33  17;  Bs  22  21;  92  10,  AV  "unicorn") 
represent  the'  magnitude  of  power,  and  in  Zen;  1 
18-21  "horns"  stanel  for  pernor  in  general.  In  I  lab 
3  4  the>  "horns  earning  out  of  his  hand"  denote' 
the  potency  of  Je-h's  gesture  (RV  "rays"  maybe 
smoother,  but  is  weak).    So  to  "exalt  the  horn"  (1  S 

2  1.10;  Bs  75  4,  etc)  is  to  clothe  with  strength,  and 
to  "cut  off  the  horn"  (not  te>  be  explained  by  Am 

3  1  1)  is  to  rob  of  pernor  (Bs  75  10;  Jer  48  25). 
Hence  the;  "horn  e>f  salvation"  in  2  S  22  3;  Bs  18 
2;  Lk  1  69  is  a  means  e>f  active  defence  and  not. 
a  place  e>f  sanctuary  as  in  1  K  1  50.  When,  in 
Did  7  7-21 ;  8  3.8.9.20.21;  Rev  13  1;  17  3.7.12. 
10,  many  horns  are  given  te>  the  same;  animal,  they 
figure;  successive  nations  or  rulers.  But  the  seven 
horns  in  Rev  5  6;  12  3  denote  the  completeness  of 
the  malevolent  or  righteous  power.  In  Rev  13  11, 
however,  the'  two  horns  point  only  to  the;  external 
imitation  e»f  the  harmless  lamb,  the  "horns"  being 
mere' stubs.  Burton  Scott  Easton 

HORNS  OF  THE  ALTAR  (nsrsn  Tiinp. ,  kar*- 

nulh   hti-inizbe"h):    These   projections   at   the   four 

corners  of  the  altar  of  burnt  offering 

1.  The  we're  of  erne'  piece  with  the  altar,  and 
Brazen  we're  made;  of  acacia  wood  overlaid 
Altar  with  brass   (Ex  27  2,    "bronze'").     In 

Ezekiel's  altar-specifications  their  peti- 
tion is  described  as  being  on  a  level  with  the'  altar 
hearth  (43  15).  Fugitive's  seeking  asylum  might 
eiing  to  the;  horns  of  the  altar,  as  did  Adonijah 
(1  K  1  50),  which  is  one;  proof  among  many  that 
worshippers  had  at  all  time's  ae-ce'ss  te>  the;  neighbor- 
hood e>f  the>  altar.  On  certain  occasions,  as  at  the 
consecration  of  Aaron  and  his  sons  (Ex  29  12), 
anel  a  sin  offering  for  one  e>f  the'  pe'ople'  of  the  land 
(Lev  4  30),  the  horns  were  touched  with  sacrificial 
blood. 

The  altar  of  incense,  standing  in  the  outer 
chamber  of  the  sanctuary,   had   alse>  four  horns, 

whie;h  we're  covered  with  golel  (Ex  37 

2.  The  25).  These  we>re'  touched  with  blood 
Golden  in  the  e'ase'  of  a  sin  offering  for  a  high 
Altar  priest,  or  for  the  whole  congregation, 

if  they  had  sinned  unwittingly   (Lev 

4  7. IS).     Se><;  Altar;    Horn. 

W.  Shaw  Caldecott 

HORNS,  RAMS'.     See  Music. 

HORNET,  hor'net  (PlinS ,  ejr\lh;  cf  M"^  ( 
cor'a/t,  "Zorah"  [Jgs  13  2,  etc];  also  cf  fl?"!?, 
gara*alh,  "leprosy"  [Lev  13  2,  etc];  from  root 
3H2,  cclrei\  "to  smite";  LXX  o-cj^Kia,  sphekla, 
lit.  "wasp's  nest"):  Hornets  are;  mentioned  only 
in  Ex  23  28;  Dt  7  20;  Josh  24  12.  All  three 
references  are;  to  the  miraculous  interposition  of 
(ie>el  in  driving  out  be>fe>re  the  Israelite's  the  original 
inhabitants  of  the  promised  land.  There  has  been 
much  speculation  as  te>  whether  hornets  are  1  i t  — 
erally  meant.  The  following  seems  to  throw  some 
light  on  this  question  (Ex  23  20.27.28):  "Behold, 
1  send  an  angel  before  thee,  te>  keep  the'e  by  the 
way,  anel  to  bring  the-e;  into  the'  place'  which  I  have 

prepared I  will  send  my  terror  before  t  lice, 

anel  will  discomfit  all  the  people  te>  whom  them 
shall  come,  and  I  will  make  all  thine  enemies  turn 
their  backs  unto  thee.  And  I  will  senel  the  hornet 
before  thee,  which  shall  drive  out  the  Hivite,  the 
Canaanite,  and  the  Hittite,  from  befe>re  the>e>." 
The  "terror"  of  ver  27  may  well  be  considered  to  be 


1423 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Hormah 
Horse,  Red 


typified  by  the  "hornet"  of  ver  28,  the  care  for  the 
Israelites  (ver  20)  being  thrown  into  marked  con- 
trast with  the  confusion  of  their  enemies.  Cf  Isa 
7  IS,  where  the  fly  and  the  bee  symbolize  the  mili- 
tary forces  of  Egypt  and  Assyria:  "And  it  shall 
come  to  pass  in  that  day,  that  Jeh  will  hiss  for  the 
fly  that  is  in  the  uttermost  part  of  the  rivers  of 
Egypt,  and  for  the  bee  that  is  in  the  land  of  Assyria." 
Hornets  and  wasps  belong  to  the  family  Vespidae 
of  the  order  Hymenoptera.  Both  belong  to  the 
genus  Vespa,  the  hornets  being  distinguished  by 
their  large  size.  Both  hornets  and  wasps  are 
abundant  in  Pal  (cf  Zorah,  which  may  mean  "town 
of  hornets").  A  large  kind  is  called  in  Arab,  debbur, 
which  recalls  the  lleb  d'blwrdh,  "bee."  They  sting 
fiercely,  but  not  unless  molested. 

Alfred  Ely  Day 

HORONAIM,  hor-6-na'im  (ITpn ,  D^lh,  ho- 
ronayim;  ' ApwvieC|A,  Aronielm;  in  Jer  'Opwvaip., 
Oronaim,  "the  two  hollows"):  An  unidentified 
place  in  the  S.  of  Moab.  It  is  named  in  Jer  48  5. 
Isaiah  (15  5)  and  Jeremiah  (48  3)  speak  of  "the 
way  to  Horonaim";  and  Jeremiah  (48  5)  of  the 
"descent,"  or  "going  down"  of  Horonaim.  Mesha 
(MS)  says  he  was  bidden  by  Chemosh  to  "go  down" 
and  fight  against  Eloronem.  Probably,  therefore, 
it  lay  on  one  of  the  roads  leading  down  from  the 
Moabite  plateau  to  theArabah.  It  is  mentioned  by 
Jos  as  having  been  taken  by  Alexander  Jannaeus 
{Ant,  XIII,  xv,  4).  Hyrcanus promised  to  restore  it 
and  the  rest  to  Aretas  (XIV,  i,  4).  There  is  no 
indication  thai  in  early  times  it  was  ever  possessed 
by  Israel.  Buhl  {GAP,  272  f)  thinks  it  may  be 
represented  by  some  significant  ruins  near  Wady 
ed-Dcrd'a   {Wady  Kerak).  W.  Ewing 

HORONITE,  hor'6-nit,  ho'ro-nit  PPHn , 
ha-horoni):  An  appellation  of  Sanballat  (Neh  2  10. 
19;'  13  28),  as  an  inhabitant  of  Beth-horon  (q.v.). 

HORRIBLE,  hor'i-b'l  0^1712?,  sha'drur,  ^"fftf  , 
sha'aruri):  In  Jer  5  30  sha'drur,  "vile,"  "horrible," 
is  tr'1  "horrible,"  "a  wonderful  and  horrible  thing," 
RVm  "astonishment  and  horror";  also  23  14;  in 
18  13;  Hos  6  10  it  is  sha^&rurl;  in  Ps  11  G  we 
have  ziVaphah,  "heat,"  RV  "burning  wind";  in 
Ps  40  2  sha'dn,  "noise,"  "tumult,"  "He  brought 
me  up  ....  out  of  a  horrible  pit,"  RVm  "a  pit  of 
tumult"  (or  destruction).  Horribly  is  the  tr  of 
sdfar,  "to  shudder,"  "to  be  whirled  away,"  in  Jer 

2  12,  and  of  saKar,  "fear,"  "trembling,"  in  Ezk 
32  10;  in  Ezk  27  35  RV  has  "horribly  afraid" 
{sa*ar)  for  "sore  afraid."  "Horrible"  occurs  fre- 
quently in   Apoc    (2  Esd  11  45;    15  28.34;    Wisd 

3  19,  "For  horrible  [chalepos]  is  the  end  of  the  un- 
righteous generation,"  RV  "grievous,"  etc). 

\Y.  L.  Walker 

HORROR,  hor'er  {TVQ^,  'emah,  rflS]»,  palld- 
guth):  In  Gen  15  12' emah  (of ten  rendered  "terror") 

is  tr'1  "horror,"  "a  horror  of  great  darkness";  pal- 
laguth,  "trembling,"  "horror"  (Ps  55  5;  Ezk  7  18); 
zaTaphah,  "glow,"  "heat"  (Ps  119  53,  RV  "hot  in- 
dignation," m  "horror");  cf  Ps  11  6;  Lam  5  10. 
For  "trembling"  (Job  21  0)  and  for  "fearfulness" 
(Isa  21  4)  RV  has  "horror."  "Horror"  does  not 
occur  in  the,  NT,  but  in  2  Mace  3  17  we  have  "The 
man  was  so  compassed  with  horror"  (phrikasmos) , 
RV  "shuddering." 

HORSE,  hors:  The  common  names  are  (1)  010  , 
§u§,   and   (2)  iim-os,  hippos.     (3)  The  word  ttHB , 
parash,  "horseman,"  occurs  often,  and 
1.   Names      in  several  cases  is  tr<J  "horse"  or  "war- 
horse"    (Isa  28  28;    Ezk  27   14;    Joel 
2  4  RVm);  also  in  2  S  1  G,  where  the  "horsemen" 


of  EV  is  D^TP^Sn  *bySL ,  handle  ha-parashim,  "own- 
ers of  horses";  cf  Arab.  j^.Li  ,/aris,  "horseman," 

and  (j«vi  ,  faras,  "horse."    (4)  The  fern,  form  HCIO  , 

susdh,  occurs  in  Cant  1  9,  and  is  rendered  as 
follows:  LXX  tj  ittttos,  he  hippos;  Vulg  equitatum; 
AV  "company  of  horses,"  RV  "steed."  It  is  not 
clear  why  EV  does  not  have  "mare."  (5)  The  word 
D"H3X,  'abbirim,  "strong  ones,"  is  used  for  horses 
in  Jgs  5  22;  Jer  8  16;  47  3;  50  11  (AV  "bulls"). 
In   l's  22  12  the  same  word  is  tr'1  "strong  bulls" 

(of  Bashan).    (G)  For  tkn ,  rekhesh  (cf  Arab,  yiij  , 

rakad,  "to  run"),  in  1  K  4  28;  Est  8  10.14;  Mic 
1  13,  RV  has  "swift  steeds,"  while  AV  gives 
"dromedaries"  in  1  K  and  "nudes"  in  Est.  (7) 
For  nrD"G  ,  kirkaroth  (Isa  66  20),  AV  and  ERV 
have  "swift  beasts";  ERVm  and  ARV  "drome- 
daries"; LXX  o-Kid8i.a,  skiddia,  perhaps  "covered 
carriages."  In  Est.  8  10.14  we  find  the  doubtful 
words  (8)  D'OTRTPHS,  'dhashfrdnim,  and  (9) 
D"C"£^n  M5,  bene  hd-rammdkhim,  which  have 
been  variously  tr'1.  AV  has  respectively  "camels" 
and  "young  dromedaries,"  RV  "used  in  the  king's 
service"  and  "bred  of  the  stud,"  RVm  "mules"  and 
"young  dromedaries."     See  Camel. 

The  lleb  and  Egyp  names  for  the  horse  are  alike 

akin  to  the  Assyr.     The  Jews  may  have  obtained 

horses   from    Egypt    (Dt  17  1G),    but 

2.  Origin       the  Canaanites  before  them  had  horses 

(Josh  17  16),  and  in  looking  toward 
the  X.E.  for  the  origin  of  the  horse,  philologists 
are  in  agreement  with  zoologists  who  consider  that 
the  plains  of  Central  Asia,  and  also  of  Europe,  were 
the  original  home  of  the  horse.  At  least  one  species 
of  wild  horse  is  still  found  in  Central  Asia. 

The  horses  of  the  Bible  are  almost  exclusively 
war-horses,  or  at  least  the  property  of  kings  and 

not  of  the  common  people.     A  doubt- 

3.  Uses  ful  reference  to  the  use  of  horses  in 

threshing  grain  is  found  in  Isa  28  28. 
Horses  are  among  the  property  which  the  Egyp- 
tians gave  to  Joseph  in  exchange  for  grain  (Gen  47 
17).  In  Dt  17  16  it  is  enjoined  that  the  king 
"shall  not  multiply  horses  to  himself,  nor  cause  the 
people  to  return  to  Egypt,  to  the  end  that  he  may 
multiply  horses."  This  and  other  injunctions  failed 
to  prevent  the  Jews  from  borrowing  from  the 
neighboring  civilizations  their  customs,  idolatries, 
and  vices.  Solomon's  horses  are  enumerated  in 
1  K  4,  and  the  s'^irvm  and  tebhen  of  1  K  4  28 
(5  S)  are  identical  with  the  sha'ir  ("barley")  and 
tibn  ("straw")  with  which  the  Arab  feeds  his  horse 
today.  In  war,  horses  were  ridden  and  were  driven 
in  chariots  (Ex  14  9;  Josh  11  4;  2  S  15  1,  etc). 
The  horse  is  referred  to  figuratively  chiefly  in  Zee 
and  Rev.  A  chariot  and  horses  of  fire  take  Elijah 
up    to    heaven    (2  K  2  11  f).     In    Ps 

4.  Figura-  20  7;  33  17;  and  76  G,  the  great 
tive  and  strength  of  the  horse  is  recalled  as  a 
Descriptive   reminder   of   the   greater   strength   of 

God.  In  Jas  3  3,  the  small  bridle  by 
which  the  horse  can  be  managed  is  compared  to  the 
tongue  (cf  Ps  32  9).  In  Job  39  19-25  we  have 
a  niagnificent  description  of  a  spirited  war-horse. 

Alfred  Ely  Day 
HORSE,   BLACK    (IVn-os    (ie'\as,   hippos    melas): 
Symbolic,    of    famine   ("balance   ....  measure  of 
wheat  for  a  shilling,"  etc,  Rev  6  5.0;  cf  Zee  6  2.6). 
See  Revelation,  Book  of. 

HORSE  GATE.     See  Jerusalem. 

HORSE,   RED    (IViros    irvppos,    hippos    purros): 
Symbolic  of  war,  bloodshed   ("slay  one  another," 


Horse,  White 
Hosea 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1424 


etc,  Rev  6  4;  cf  Zee  1  S;  6  2).  Sec  Revela- 
tion, Look  of. 

HORSE,  WHITE  (tiriros  Xewos,  hippos  leukos): 
Symbolic!  of  victory,  conquest  ("how  ....  con- 
quering and  to  conquer,"  Rev  6  2;  19  11.11;  cf 
Zee  1  S;   6  3.6).     See  Revelation,  Book  of. 

HORSELEACH,   hors'lech    (JlJJlby ,  *dhlkdh;  cf 

Arab.  «jf.Jl£  ,  hdukah,  "ghoul,"  ami  &.sXs.  ,  Kalakah, 

"leech,"  from  root.  U^Lc. ,  *alik,  "to  cling";  LXX 

P8e'X\a,  bdclln,  "leech"):  The  word  occurs  only 
once,  in  Prov  30  15,  HVm  "vampire."  In  Arah. 
*alakah  is  a  leech  of  any  kind,  not  only  a  horse-leech. 
The  Arah.  Kalukah,  which,  ii  may  be  noted,  is  almost 
identical  with  the  Ileh  form,  is  a  ghoul  (Arab,  ghui), 
an  evil  spirit  which  seeks  to  injur*1  men  and  which 
preys  upon  the  dead.  The  mythical  vampire  is 
similar  to  the  ghoul.  In  zoology  the  name  "vam- 
pire" is  applied  to  a  family  of  bats  inhabiting 
tropical  America,  some,  but  not  all,  of  which  suck 
blood.  In  the  passage  cited  the  Arab.  Bible,  has 
\ilukah,  "ghoul."  If  leech  is  meant,  there  can  be 
no  good  reason  for  specifying  "horseleach."  At 
least  six  species  of  leech  are  known  in  Pal  and 
Syria,  and  doubtless  others  exist.  They  are.  com- 
mon in  streams,  pools,  and  fountains  where  animals 
drink.  They  enter  the  mouth,  attach  themselves 
to  the  interior  of  the  mouth  or  pharynx,  and  are 
removed  only  with  difficulty. 

Alfred  Ely  Day 
HORSEMAN,  hors'man.     See  Army. 

HORSES  OF  THE  SUN  (2  K  23  11):  In  con- 
nection with  the  sun-worship  practised  by  idola- 
trous kings  in  the  temple  at  Jerus  (2  K  23  5;  cf 
Ezk  8  16),  horses  dedicated  to  the  sun,  with  char- 
iots, had  been  placed  at  the  entrance  of  the  sacred 
edifice.  These  Josiah,  in  his  great  reformation, 
"took  away,"  and  burned  the  chariots  with  fin1. 
Horses  sacred  to  the  sun  were  common  among 
oriental  peoples  (Bochart,  Heiroz.,  I,  2,  10). 

HOSAH,  ho'sa  (HCH,  hosdh):  A  city  on  the 
border  of  Asher,  in  the  neighborhood  of  Tyre  (Josh 
19  20).  LXX  reads  laseiph,  which  might  suggest 
identification  with  Kefr  Yaslf,  to  the  N.E.  of  Acre. 
Possibly,  however,  as  Sayce  {IICM,  429)  and 
Moore  {.fudges,  51)  suggest,  Hosah  may  represent 
the  Assy r  Usu.  Some  scholars  think  that  Usu  was 
the  Assyr  name  for  Palaetyrus.  If  "the  fenced  city 
of  Tyre"  were  that  on  the  island,  while  the  city  on 
the  mainland  lay  at  Ras  el- Ain,  30  stadia  to  the  S. 
(Strabo  xvi.758),  this  identification  is  not  im- 
probable. 

HOSANNA,  ho-zan'a  (dxrawd,  hosanna):  This 
(ir  transliteration  of  a  Heb  word  occurs  6  t  in  the 
Gospels  as  the  cry  of  the  people  when  Our  Lord 
entered  Jerus  as  the  Messiah  represented  by  Zee 
(9  9),  and  of  "the  children"  when  He  cleansed  the 
temple  (Mt  21  9  bis.\5;  Mk  11  9  f ;  Jn  12  13). 
In  Mt  21  9  it  is  "Hosanna  to  the  son  of  David!" 
followed  by  "Blessed  is  he  that  cometh  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord;  Hosanna  in  the  highest !";  in  ver  15  it 
is  also  "Hosanna  to  the  Son  of  David!";  in  Mk  11 
9f  it,  is  "Hosanna;  Blessed  is  he  that  cometh  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord;  Blessed  is  the  kingdom  that 
cometh,  the  kingdom  of  our  father  David:  Ho- 
sanna in  the  highest";  and  in  Jn  12  13  it  is  "Ho- 
sanna: I  Messed  is  hi'  that  cometh  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord,  even  the  King  of  Israel."  Thus  in  all  the 
evangelists  it  is  an  acclamation  or  ascription  of 
praise.  This  has  raised  the  question  whether  the 
supposed  derivation  from  Ps  118  25,  beginning  with 


'dnndh  J 7/ 117/  hoshVdh  una  ,  "Save  now,  pray" 
(which  is  followed  [ver  26]  by  "Blessed  be  he  that 
cometh  [RVm  "or  entereth"]  in  the  name  of  Jen") 
is  correct.  (See  Thayer,  HDli;  Cheyne,  EB; 
Dalman,  Words  of  Jesus.)  Various  other  explana- 
tions have  been  suggested.  Thayer  remarks,  "It, 
is  most,  natural  to  regard  the  word  Hosanna,  as 
respects  its  form,  as  neither  syncopated  nor  con- 
tracted, but  the  shorter  Hiphil  imperative  with 
the  appended  enclitic"  (hosfia^rtd';  cf  Ps  86  2;  Jer 
31  7),  for  which  there  is  Talmudic  warrant.  "As 
respects  its  force,  we  must  for  ....  contextual 
reasons,  assume  that  it  had  already  lost,  its  pri- 
mary supplicatory  sense  and  become  an  ejaculation 
of  joy  or  shout,  of  welcome."  It  is  said  to  have 
been  so  used  in  this  sense  at  the  joyous  Feast  of 
Tabernacles,  the  7th  day  of  which  came  to  be;  called 
"the  Great  Hosanna,"  or  "Hosanna  Day."  But, 
while  the  word  is  certainly  an  ejaculation  of  praise 
and  not  one  of  supplication,  the  idea  of  salmi  inn 
need  not,  be  excluded.  AsinRev  7  10  (cf  19  l),we 
have  the  acclamation,  "Salvation  unto  God  .... 
and  unto  the  Lamb,"  so  we  might  have  the  cry, 
"Salvation  to  the  son  of  David";  and  "Hosanna  in 
the  Highest,"  might  be  the  equivalent  of  "Salvation 
unto  our  God!"  He  who  was  "coming  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord"  was  the  king  who  was  bringing  salva- 
tion from  God  to  the  people.  W.  L.  Walker 

HOSEA,ho-zc'a: 

I.     Til  e  Pkophet 

1.  Name 

2.  Native  Place 
:',.   Date 

4.   Personal  History  (Marriage) 

(1)  Allegorical  View 

(2)  Literal  View 
II.     The    Book 

1.  Style  and  Scope 

2.  Historical  Background 

3.  Contents  and  Divisions 

(1)  (Mis  1-3 

(2)  (Mis  4-14 

4.  Testimony  to  Earlier  History 

5.  Testimony  to  Law 

(i.  Affinity  with  Deuteronomy 
Literature 

/.    77ie   Prophet. — The    name    (yTL'"^ ,    hoshea<; 

LXX  'fl,<rr\i,  Osee;  for  other  forms  vide  note  in  DB), 

probably    meaning    "help,"    seems    to 

1.  Name        have  been  not  uncommon,  being  derived 

from  the  auspicious  vb.  from  which  we 
have  the  frequently  recurring  word  "salvation." 
It  may  be  a  contraction  of  a  larger  form  of  which 
the  Divine  name  or  its  abbreviation  formed  a  part, 
so  as  to  signify  "God  is  help,"  or  "Help,  God." 
According  to  Nu  13  8.16  that  was  the  original 
name  of  Joshua  son  of  Nun,  till  Moses  gave  him  the 
longer  name  (compounded  with  the  name  of  Jeh1 
which  he  continued  to  bear  (7T^irP ,  yehdshua%) , 
"Jeh  is  salvation."  The  last  king  of  the  Northern 
Kingdom  was  also  named  Hosea  (2  K  15  30),  and 
we  find  the  same  name  borne  by  a  chief  of  the 
tribe  of  Ephraim  under  David  (1  Ch  27  20)  and  by 
a  chief  under  Nehemiah  (Neh  10  23). 

Although  it  is  not  directly  stated  in  the  book, 
there  can  be  little  doubt  that  he  exercised  his  min- 
istry   in    the     kingdom    of     the    Ten 

2.  Native  Tribes.  Whereas  his  references  to 
Place  Judah  are  of  a  general  kind,  Ephraim 

or  Samaria  being  sometimes  men- 
tioned in  the  same  connection  or  more  frequently 
alone,  the  situation  implied  throughout  and  the 
whole  tone  of  the  addresses  agree  with  what  we 
know  of  the  Northern  Kingdom  at  the  time,  and  his 
references  to  places  and  events  in  that  kingdom  are 
so  numerous  and  minute  as  to  lead  to  the  conclusion 
that  he  not  only  prophesied  there,  but  that,  he  was 
a  native  of  that  part  of  the  country.  Gilead,  e.g. 
a  district  little  named  in  the  prophets,  is  twice  men- 


1425 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Horse,  White 
Hosea 


tioned  (6  S;  12  11)  and  in  such  a  manner  as  to 
suggest  that  he  knew  it  by  personal  observation; 
and  Mizpah  (mentioned  in  5  1)  is  no  doubt  the 
Mizpah  in  Gilead  (Jgs  10  17).  Then  we  find 
Tabor  (5  1),  Shechem  (6  9  RV),  Gilgal  and  Bethel 
(4  15;  9  15;  10  5.8.15;  12  11).  Even  Lebanon 
in  the  distant  N.  is  spoken  of  with  a  minuteness  of 
detail  which  could  be  expected  only  from  one  very 
familiar  with  Northern  Pal  (14  5-8).  In  a  stricter 
sense,  therefore,  than  Amos  who,  though  a  native  of 
Tekoah,  had  a  prophetic  mission  to  the  N.,  Hosea 
may  be  called  the  prophet  of  Northern  Israel,  and 
his  book,  as  Ewald  has  said,  is  the  prophetic  voice 
wrung  from  the  bosom  of  the  kingdom  itself. 

All  that  we  are  told  directly  as  to  the  time  when 
Hosea  prophesied  is  the  statement  in  the  first  verse 
that  the  word  of  the   Lord  came  to 
3.  Date  him  ''in  the  days  of  Uzziah,  Jot  ham, 

Ahaz,  and  Hezekiah,  kings  of  Judah, 
and  in  the  days  of  Jeroboam  the  son  of  Joash,  king 
of  Israel."  It  is  quite  evident  that  his  ministry 
did  not  extend  over  the  combined  reigns  of  all  these 
kings;  for,  from  the  beginning  of  the  reign  of  Uzziah 
to  the  beginning  of  that  of  Hezekiah,  according  to 
the  now  usually  received  chronology  (Kautzsch, 
Literature  of  the  OT,  ET),  there  is  a  period  of  52 
years,  and  Jeroboam  came  to  his  throne  a  few  years 
before  the  accession  of  Uzziah. 

When  we  examine  the  book  itself  for  more  precise  indi- 
cations of  dale,  we  find  that  the  prophet  threatens  in 
God's  name  that  in  "a  little  while"  He  will  "avenge  the 
blood  of  Jezreel  upon  the  house  of  .Jehu."  Now  Jero- 
boam was  the  great-grandson  of  Jehu,  and  his  son  Zech- 
ariah.who  succeeded  him, reigned  only  six  months  and 
was  the  last  of  the  line  of  Jehu.  We  may,  therefore, 
place  the  beginning  of  Hosea's  ministry  a  short  time 
before  the  death  of  Jeroboam  which  took  place  743  BC. 
As  to  the  other  limit,  it  is  to  be  observed  that,  though 
the  downfall  of  "the  kingdom  of  the  house  of  Israel"  is 
threatened  (1  4),  the  catastrophe  had  not  occurred  when 
the  prophet  ceased  his  ministry.  The  date  of  that 
event  is  fixed  in  the  year  722  BC,  and  it  is  said  to  have 
happened  in  the  6th  year  of  King  Hezekiah.  This  does 
not  give  too  long  a  time  for  Hosea's  activity,  and  it 
leaves  the  accuracy  of  the  superscription  unchallenged, 
whoever  may  have  written  it.  If  it  is  t  he  work  of  a  later 
editor,  it  may  be  that  Hosea's  ministry  ceased  before 
the  reign  of  'Hezekiah,  though  he  may  have  lived  on 
into  that  king's  reign.  It  should  be  added,  however, 
that  there  seems  to  be  no  reference  to  another  event 
which  might  'nave,  been  expected  to  find  an  echo  in  the 
book,  viz.  the  conspiracy  in  the,  reign  of  Ahaz  (7:55  BC) 
by  Pekah  of  Israel  and  Rezin  of  Damascus  against  the 
kingdom  of  Judah  (2  K  16  5;   lsa  7   1). 

Briefly  we  may  say  that,  though  there  is  uncer- 
tainty as  to  the  precise  dates  of  the  beginning  and 
end  of  his  activity,  he  began  his  work  before  the 
middle  of  the;  8th  cent.,  and  that  he  saw  the  rise 
and  fall  of  several  kings.  He  would  thus  be  a 
younger  contemporary  of  Amos  whose  activity 
seems  to  have  been  confined  to  the  reign  of  Jero- 
boam. 

Hosea  is  described  as  the  son  of  Beeri,  who  is 
otherwise  unknown.  Of  his  personal  history  we 
are  told  either  absolutely  nothing  or 
4.  Personal  else  a  very  great  deal,  according  as  we 
History  interpret  chs  1  and  3  of  his  book.     In 

(Marriage)  ancient  and  in  modern  times,  opinions 
have  been  divided  as  to  whether  in 
these  chapters  we  have  a  recital  of  actual  facts,  or 
the  presentation  of  prophetic  teaching  in  the  form 
of  parable  or  allegory. 

(1)  Allegorical  view. — The  Jewish  interpreters 
as  a  rule  took  the  allegorical  view,  and  Jerome,  in  t  he 
early  Christian  church,  no  doubt  following  Origen 
the  great  allegorizer,  states  it  at  length,  and  sees 
an  intimation  of  the  view  in  the  closing  words  of 
Hosea's  book:  ''Who  is  wise,  that  he  may  under- 
stand these  things?  prudent,  that  he  may  know 
them?"  (14  9). 

It  is  a  mystery,  he  says;  for  it  is  a  scandal  to  think  of 
Hosea  being  commanded  to  take  an  unchaste  wife  and 
without    any  reluctance   obeying    the   command.      It    is 


a  figure,  like  that  of  Jeremiah  going  to  the  Euphrates 
(when  Jerus  was  closely  besieged)  and  hiding  a  girdle 
in  the  bed  of  the  river  (Jer  13).  So  Ezekiel  is  com- 
manded to  represent,  by  means  of  a  tile,  the  siege  of 
Jerus,  and  to  lie  390  days  on  his  side  to  indicate  the 
years  of  their  iniquity  (Ezk  4) ;  and  there  are  other  sym- 
bolical acts.  Jerome;  then  proceeds  to  apply  the  allegory 
first  to  Israel,  which  is  the  Comer  of  ch  1,  and  then  to 
Judah,  the  wife  in  ch  3,  and  finally  to  Christ  and  the 
church,  the  representations  being  types  from  beginning 
to  end. 

Calvin  took  the  same  view.  Among  modern 
commentators  we  find  holding  the  allegorical  view 
not  only  Hengstenberg,  Havernick  and  Keil,  but 
also  Eichhorn,  Rosenmuller  and  Hitzig.  Reuss 
also  {Das  AT,  11,  88  IT)  protests  against  the  literal 
interpretation  as  impossible,  and  that  on  no  moral 
or  reverential  considerations,  but  entirely  on  exe- 
getical  grounds.  He  thinks  it  enough  to  say  that, 
when  the  prophet  calls  his  children  "children  of 
whoredom,"  he  indicates  quite  clearly  that  lie  uses 
the  words  in  a  figurative  sense;  and  he  explains  the 
allegory  as  follows:  The  prophet  is  the  representa- 
tive of  Jeh;  Israel  is  the  wife  of  Jeh,  but  faithless 
to  her  husband,  going  after  other  gods;  the  children 
are  the  Israelites,  who  are  therefore  called  children 
of  whoredoms  because  they  practise  the  idolatry 
of  the  nation.  So  they  receive  names  which  denote 
the  consequences  of  their  sin.  In  accordance  with 
the  allegory,  the  children  are  called  the  children  of 
the  prophet  (for  Israel  is  tiod's  own)  but  this  is 
not  the  main  point ;  the  essential  thing  is  the  naming 
of  the  children  as  they  are  named.  In  the  third 
chapter,  according  to  this  interpretation,  allegory 
again  appears,  but  with  a  modification  and  for 
another  purpose.  Idolatrous  Israel  is  again  the 
unfaithful  wife  of  the  prophet  as  the  representative 
of  Jeh.  This  relation  can  again  be  understood  only 
as  figurative;  for,  if  the  prophet  stands  for  Jeh,  the 
marriage  of  Israel  to  the  prophet  cannot  indicate 
infidelity  to  Jeh.  The  sense  is  evident:  the  mar- 
riage still  subsists;  Cod  does  not  give  His  people 
up,  but  they  are  for  the  present  divorced  "from  bed 
and  board";  it  is  a  prophecy  of  the  time  when  Jeh 
will  leave  the  people  to  their  fate,  till  the  day  of 
reconciliation  conies. 

(2)  Literal  view. — The  literal  interpretation, 
adopted  by  Theodore  of  Mopsuestia  in  the  ancient 
church,  was  followed,  after  the  Reformation,  by 
the  chief  theologians  of  the  Lutheran  church,  and 
has  been  held,  in  modern  times,  by  many  leading 
expositors,  including  Delitzsch,  Kurtz,  Hofmann, 
Wellhausen,  Cheyne,  Robertson  Smith,  G.  A.  Smith 
and  others.  In  this  view,  as  generally  held,  chs  1 
and  3  go  together  and  refer  to  the  same  person. 
The  idea  is  that  Hosea  married  a  woman  named 
Comer,  who  had  the  three  children  here  named. 
Whether  it  was  that  she  was  known  to  be  a  worth- 
less woman  before  t  he  marriage  and  that  the  prophet 
hoped  to  reclaim  her,  or  that  she  proved  faithless 
after  the  marriage,  she  finally  left  him  and  sank 
deeper  and  deeper  into  sin,  until,  at  some  future 
time,  the  prophet  bought  her  from  her  paramour 
and  brought  her  to  his  own  house,  keeping  her  se- 
cluded, however,  and  deprived  of  all  the  privileges 
of  a  wife.  In  support  of  this  view  it  is  urged  that 
the  details  are  related  in  so  matter-of-fact  a  manner 
that  they  must  be  matters  of  fact.  Though  the 
children  receive  symbolical  names  (as  Isaiah  gave 
such  names  to  his  children),  the  meanings  of  these 
are  clear  and  are  explained,  whereas  the  name  of  the 
wife  cannot  thus  be  explained.  Then  there  are 
details,  such  as  the  weaning  of  one  child  before  the 
conception  of  another  (1  8)  and  the  precise  price 
paid  for  the  erring  wife  (3  2),  which  are  not  needed 
to  keep  up  the  allegory,  and  are  not  invested  with 
symbolical  meaning  by  the  prophet.  What  is  con- 
sidered a  still  stronger  argument  is  relied  on  by 
modern  advocates  of  this  view,  the  psychological 


Hosea 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1426 


argument  thai  there  is  always  a  proportion  between 
a  revelation  vouchsafed  and  the  mental  state  of  the 
person  receiving  it.  Hosea  dates  the  beginning  of 
his  prophetic  work  from  the  time  of  his  marriage; 
it,  was  the  unfaithfulness  of  his  wife  that  brought 
home  to  him  1  he  apostasy  of  Israel;  and,  as  his  heart, 
went  after  his  wayward  wife,  so  the  Divine  love  was 
(  stronger  than  Israel's  sin;  and  thus  through  his 
own  domestic  experience  lie  was  prepared  to  be  a 
prophet  to  his  people. 

The  great  difficulty  in  the  way  of  accepting  the 
literal  interpretation  lies,  as  Reuss  has  pointed  out, 
in  the  statement  at  the  beginning,  that  the  prophet 
was  commanded  to  take  a  wife  of  whoredoms  and 
children  of  whoredoms.  And  the  advocates  of  the 
view  meet  the  difficulties  in  some  way  like  this: 
The  narrative"  as  it  stands  is  manifestly  later  than 
the  events.  ( >n  looking  back,  t  he  prophet  describes 
his  wife  as  she  turned  out  to  be,  not  as  she  was  at 
the  beginning  of  the  history.  It  is  urged  with  some 
force  that  it  was  necessary  to  the  analogy  (even 
if  the  story  is  only  a  parable)  that  the  wife  should 
have  been  first  of  all  chaste;  for,  in  Hosea's  repre- 
sentation, Israel  at  the  time  of  its  election  in  the 
wilderness  was  faithful  and  fell  away  only  after- 
ward (2  15;  9  10;  11  1).  The  narrative  does  not, 
require  us  to  assume  that  Comer  was  an  immoral 
person  or  that  she  was  1  he  mot  her  of  children  before 
her  marriage.  The  children  receive  symbolic 
names,  but  these  names  do  not  reflect  upon  Gomer 
but  upon  Israel.  Why,  then,  is  she  described  as  a 
woman  of  whoredoms?  it  is  answered  that  the  ex- 
pression 'eshcth  z'tiunlin  is  a  class-descriptive,  and 
is  different  from  the  expression  "a  woman  who  is  a 
harlot"  ('ishshah  zOnah).  A  Jewish  interpreter 
quoted  by  Aben  Ezra  says:  "Hosea  was  commanded 
to  take  a  wife  of  whoredoms  because1  an  honest, 
woman  was  not  to  be  had.  The  whole  people  had 
gone  astray — was  an  "adulterous  generation';  and 
she  as  one  of  them  was  a  typical  example,  and  the 
children  were  involved  in  the  common  declension 
(see  4  1  f)."  The  comment  of  Umbreit  is  worthy  of 
notice:  "As  the  covenant  of  Jeh  with  Israel  is  viewed 
as  a  marriage  bond,  so  is  the  prophetic  bond  with 
Israel  a  marriage,  for  he  is  1  he  messenger  and  medi- 
ator. Therefore,  if  he  feels  an  irresistible  impulse 
to  enter  into  the  marriage-bond  with  Israel,  he  is 
bound  to  unite  himself  with  a  bride  of  an  unchaste 
character.  Yea,  his  own  wife  Comer  is  involved 
in  the  universal  guilt"  (J'nik.  Comm.  ilber  die 
Propheten,  Hamburg,  1844).  It  is  considered,  then, 
on  this  view,  that  Comer,  after  her  marriage,  being 
in  heart  addicted  to  the  prevailing  idolatry,  which 
we  know  was  often  associated  with  gross  immoral- 
ity (see4  13), felt  the  irksomeness  of  restraint  in  the 
prophet's  house,  left  him  and  sank  into  open  profli- 
gacy, from  which  (ch  3)  the  prophet  reclaimed  her 
so  far  as  to  bring  her  back  and  keep  her  secluded  in 
his  own  house. 

Quite  recently  this  view  has  been  advocated  by  Riedel 
(Alttest.  Untersuchu/ifjcn,  Leipzig,  1902),  who  endeavors 
to  enforce  it  by  giving  a  symbolic  meaning  to  Corner's 
name,  Bath-Di'blaim.  The  word  is  the  dual  (or  might 
be  pointed  as  a  pi.)  of  a  word.  d>hh<lah,  meaning  a  fruit- 
cake, i.e.  raisins  or  figs  pressed  together.  It  is  the  word 
used  in  the  story  of  Hezekiah's  illness  (2  K  20  7),  and 
is  found  in  the  list  of  things  furnished  by  Abigail  to 
David  (1  S  25  18).  Sec  also  1  S  30  12;  1  Ch  12 
40.  Another  name  for  the  same  thing,  'dshishdh,  occurs 
in  Hos  3  1.  rendered  in  AV  "flagons  of  wine,"  but  in  KV 
"cakes  of  raisins."  It  seems  clear  that  this  word,  at 
least  here,  denotes  fruit-cakes  offered  to  the  heathen 
deities,  as  was  t  lie  custom  in  Jeremiah's  time  (Jer  7  18; 
44  17).  So  Riedel  argues  that  CJomer  may  have  been 
described  as  a  "daughter  of  fruit-cakes"  according  to 
the  Hob  idiom  in  such  expressions  as  "daughters  of 
song,"  etc  (Eccl  12  4;  Prov  31  2;  2  S  7  10;  Gen  37 
;j,  etc). 

It  will  be  perceived  that  the  literal  interpretation 
as  thus  stated  does  not  involve  the  supposition  that 
Hosea  became  aware  of  his  wife's  infidelity  before 


the  birth  of  the  second  child,  as  Robertson  Smith 
and  C.  A.  Smith  suppose.  The  names  given  to  the 
children  all  refer  to  the  infidelity  of  Israel  as  a 
people;  and  the  renderings  of  Lo'-ruhdmdh,  "she 
that  never  knew  a  father's  love,"  and  of  Lo-fammi, 
"no  kin  of  mine,"  are  too  violent  in  this  connection. 
Nor  does  1  he  interpretation  demand  that  it  was 
first  through  his  marriage  and  subsequent  experience 
that,  the  prophet  received  his  call;  although  no 
doubt  the  experience  through  which  he  passed 
deepened  the  conviction  of  Israel's  apostasy  in  his 
mind. 

//.    The  Book. — Scarcely  any  book  in  the  OT  is 
more  difficult  of  exposition  than  the  Book  of  Hos. 
This  does  not  seem  to  be  owing  to  any 
1.  Style  exceptional  defect  in   the  transmitted 

and  Scope  text,  but  rather  to  tin1  peculiarity  of 
the  style;  and  partly  also,  no  doubt,  to 
the  fact  that  the  historical  situation  of  the  prophet 
was  one  of  bewildering  and  sudden  change  of  a 
violent  kind,  which  seems  to  reflect  itself  in  the 
book.  The  style  here  is  preeminently  the  man. 
Whatever  view  we  may  take  of  his  personal  history, 
it  is  evident  that  he  is  deeply  affected  by  the  situa- 
tion in  which  he  is  placed.  He  is  controlled  by  his 
subject,  instead  of  controlling  it.  It  is  his  heart 
that,  speaks;  he  is  not  careful  to  concentrate  his 
thoughts  or  to  mark  his  transitions;  the  sentences 
fall  from  him  like  the  sobs  of  a  broken  heart. 
Mournful  as  Jeremiah,  he  does  not  indulge  in  the 
pleasure  of  melancholy  as  that  prophet  seems  to  do. 
Jeremiah  broods  over  his  sorrow,  nurses  it.  and 
tells  us  he  is  weeping.  Hosea  does  not  say  he  is 
weeping,  but  we  hear  it  in  his  broken  utterances. 
Instead  of  laying  out  his  plaint  in  measured  form, 
he  ejaculates  it  in  short,  sharp  sentences,  as  the 
stabs  of  his  people's  sin  pierce  his  heart. 

The  result  is  the  absence  of  that  rhythmic  flow  and 
studied  parallelism  which  are  such  common  features  of 
Hob  oratory,  and  are  often  so  helpful  to  the  expositor. 
His  imagery,  while  highly  poetical,  is  not  elaborated;  his 
figures  are 'not  so  much  carried  out  as  thrown  out;  nor 
does  he  dwell  long  on  the  same  figure.  His  sentences  are 
like  utterances  of  an  oracle,  and  he  forgets  himself  in 
identifying  himself  with  the  God  in  whose  name  ho 
speaks— a  feature  which  is  not  without  significance  in 
its  bearing  on  the  question  of  his  personal  history.  The 
standing  expression  "Thus  saith  the  Lord"  ("It  is  the 
utterance  of  Jeh"  RV),  so  characteristic  of  the  prophetic 
style,  very  rarely  occurs  (only  in  2  13.16.21;  11  11); 
whereas  the  words  that  he  speaks  are  the  very  words  of 
the  Lord;  and  without  any  formal  indication  of  the  fact, 
he  passes  from  speaking  in  his  own  name  to  speaking  in 
the  name  of  Jeh  (see,  e.g.  6  4;  7  12;  8  13;  9  9.10.14- 
17,  etc).  Never  was  speaker  so  absorbed  in  his  theme, 
or  more  identified  with  Him  for  whom  he  speaks.  He 
seems  to  be  oblivious  of  his  hearers,  if  indeed  his  chapters 
are  the  transcript  or  summary  of  spoken  addresses. 
They  certainly  want  to  a  great  extent  the  directness  and 
point  which  are  so  marked  a  feature  of  prophetic  diction, 
so  much  so  that  some,  (e.g.  Reuss  and  Marti)  suppose 
they  are  the  production  of  one  who  had  nadirs  and  not 
hearers  in  view. 

But,  though  the  style  appears  in  this  abrupt 
form,  there  is  one  clear  note  on  divers  strings  sound- 
ing through  the  whole.  The  theme  is  twofold :  t  he 
love  of  Jehovah,  and  the  indifference  of  Israel  to 
that  love;  and  it  would  be  hard  to  say  which  of  the 
two  is  more  vividly  conceived  and  more  forcibly 
expressed.  Under  the  figures  of  the  tenderest  affec- 
tion, sometimes  that  of  the  pitying,  solicitous  care 
of  the  parent  (11  1.3.8;  14  3),  but  more  promi- 
nently as  the  affection  of  the  husband  (chs  1,  3),  the 
Divine  love  is  represented  as  ever  enduring  in  spite 
of  all  indifference  and  opposition;  and,  on  the  other 
hand,  the  waywardness,  unblushing  faithlessness  of 
the  loved  one  is  painted  in  colors  so  repulsive  as 
almost  to  shock  the  moral  sense,  but  giving  thereby 
evidence  of  the  painful  abhorrence  it  had  produced 
on  the  prophet's  mind.  Thus  early  does  he  take 
the  sacred  bond  of  husband  and  wife  as  the  type  of 
the  Divine  electing  love — a  similitude  found  else- 


1427 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Hosea 


where  in  prophetic  literature,  and  most  fully  elab- 
orated by  Ezekiel  (Ezk  16;  cf  Jer  3).  Hosea  is 
the  prophet  of  love,  and  not  without  propriety  has 
been  called  the  St.  John  of  the  OT. 

For  the  reasons  just  stated,  it  is  very  difficult  to 

give  a  systematic  analysis  of  the  Book  of  Hos.     It 

may,  however,  be  helpful  to  that  end 

2.  Historical  to  recall  the  situation  of  the  time  as 

Background  furnishing  a  historical  setting  for  the 

several  sections  of  the  book. 

At  the  commencement  of  the  prophet's  ministry, 
the  Northern  Kingdom  was  enjoying  the  prosperity 
and  running  into  the  excesses  consequent  on  the 
victories  of  Jeroboam  II.  The  glaring  social  cor- 
ruptions of  the  times  are  exhibited  and  castigated 
by  Amos,  as  they  would  most  impress  a  stranger 
from  the  S.;  but  Hosea,  a  native,  as  we  arc  led  to 
suppose,  of  the  Northern  Kingdom,  saw  more  deeply 
into  the  malady,  and  traced  all  the  crime  and  vice 
of  the  nation  to  the  fundamental  evil  of  idolatry 
and  apostasy  from  the  true  Cod.  What  he  describes 
under  the  repulsive  figure  of  whoredom  was  the 
rampant  worship  of  the  beKallm,  which  had  practi- 
cally obscured  the  recognition  of  the  sole  claims  to 
worship  of  the  national  Jeh.  This  worship  of  the 
b'^Cdim  is  to  be  distinguished  from  that  of  which 
we  read  at  the  earlier  time  of  Elijah.  Ahab's 
Tyrian  wife  Jezebel  had  introduced  the  worship  of 
her  native  country,  that  of  the  Sidonian  Baal, 
which  amounted  to  the  setting  up  of  a  foreign  deity; 
and  Elijah's  contention  that  it  must  be  a  choice 
between  Jeh  and  Baal  appealed  to  the  sense  of  pa- 
triotism and  the  sentiment  of  national  existence. 
The  worship  of  the  bcfals,  however,  was  an  older 
and  more  insidious  form  of  idolatry.  The  worship 
of  the  Can  tribes,  among  whom  the  Israelites  found 
themselves  on  the  occupation  of  Pal,  was  a  reverence; 
of  local  divinities,  known  by  the  names  of  the  places 
where  each  had  his  shrine  or  influence.  The  generic 
name  of  ba'al  or  "lord"  was  applied  naturally  as  a 
common  word  to  each  of  these,  with  the  addition 
of  the  name  of  place  or  potency  to  distinguish  them. 
Thus  we  have  Baal-hermon,  Baal-gad,  Haal-berith, 
etc.  The  insidiousness  of  this  kind  of  worship  is 
proved  by  its  wide  prevalence,  esp.  among  people  at  a 
low  stage  of  intelligence,  when  the  untutored  mind  is 
brought  face  to  face  with  <  he  mysterious  and  unseen 
forces  of  Nature.  And  the  tenacity  of  the  feeling  is 
proved  by  the  prevalence  of  such  worship,  even 
among  people  whose  professed  religion  condemns 
idolatry  of  every  kind.  The  veneration  of  local 
shrines  among  Christians  of  the  East  and  in  many 
parts  of  Europe  is  well  known ;  and  Mohammedans 
make  pilgrimages  to  the  tombs  of  saints  who,  though 
not  formally  worshipped  as  deities,  are  believed  to 
have  the  power  to  confer  such  benefits  as  the 
Canaanites  expected  from  the  befah.  The  very 
name  ba'al,  originally  meaning  simply  lord  and 
master,  as  in  such  expressions  as  "master  of  a 
house,"  "lord  of  a  wife,"  "owner  of  an  ox,"  would 
be  misleading;  for  the  Israelites  could  quite  inno- 
cently call  Jeh  their  ba'al  or  Lord,  as  we  can  see 
they  did  in  the  formation  of  proper  names.  We 
can,  without  much  difficulty,  conceive  what  would 
happen  among  a  people  like  the  Israelite  tribes,  of 
no  high  grade  of  religious  intelligence,  and  with 
the  prevailing  superstitions  in  their  blood,  when 
they  found  themselves  in  Pal.  From  a  nomad  and 
pastoral  people  they  became,  and  had  to  become, 
agriculturists;  the  natives  of  the  land  would  be  their 
instructors,  in  many  or  in  most  cases  the  actual 
labor  would  be  done  by  them.  The  Book  of  Jgs 
tells  us  emphatically  that  several  of  the  Israelite 
tribes  "did  not  drive  out"  the  native  inhabitants; 
the  northern  tribes  in  particular,  where  the  land 
was  most  fertile,  tolerated  a  large  native  admixture. 
We  are  also  told  (Jgs  2  7)  that  the  people  served 


the  Lord  all  the  days  of  Joshua  and  of  the  elders 
who  outlived  Joshua;  and  this  hint  of  a  gradual 
declension  no  doubt  points  to  what  actually  took 
place.  For  a  time  they  remembered  and  thought 
of  Jeh  as  the  Cod  who  had  done  for  them  great 
things  in  Egypt  and  in  the  wilderness;  and  then, 
as  time  went  on,  they  had  to  think  of  Him  as  the 
giver  of  the  land  in  which  they  found  themselves, 
with  all  its  varied  produce.  But  this  was  the  very 
thing  the  Canaanites  ascribed  to  their  ba'als.  And 
so,  imperceptibly,  by  naming  places  as  the  natives 
named  them,  by  observing  the  customs  which  the 
natives  followed,  and  celebrating  the  festivals  of  the 
agricultural  year,  they  were  gliding  into  conformity 
with  the  religion  of  their  neighbors;  for,  in  such  a 
state  of  society,  custom  is  more  or  less  based  on 
religion  and  passes  for  religion.  Almost  before 
they  were  aware,  they  were  doing  homage  to  the 
various  ba'ala  in  celebrating  their  festival  days  and 
offering  to  them  the  produce  of  the  ground. 

Such  was  the  condition  which  Hosea  describes 
as  an  absence  of  the  knowledge  of  God  (4  1).  And 
the  consequence  cannot  be  better  described  than  in 
the  words  of  St.  Paul:  "As  they  refused  to  have 
God  in  their  knowledge,  God  gave  them  up  unto  a 
reprobate  mind,  to  do  those  tilings  which  are  not 
fitting"  (Rom  1  28).  Both  Hosea  and  Amos  tell 
us  in  no  ambiguous  terms  how  the  devotees  of  the 
impure  worship  gave  themselves  up  "to  work  all 
uncleanness  with  greediness"  (Eph  4  19;  cf  Am  2 
7f;  Hos  4  14);  and  how  deeply  the  canker  had 
worked  into  the  body  politic  is  proved  by  the  rapid 
collapse;  and  irretrievable  ruin  which  followed  soon 
after  the  strong  hand  of  Jeroboam  was  removed. 
The  21  years  that  followed  his  death  in  743  BC  saw 
no  fewer  than  six  successive  occupants  of  the  throne, 
and  the  final  disappearance  of  the  kingdom  of  the 
ten  tribes.  Zechariah,  his  son,  had  reigned  only 
six  months  when  "Shallum  the  son  of  Jabesh  con- 
spired against  him  ....  and  slew  him,  and  reigned 
in  his  stead"  (2  K  16  10).  Shallum  himself 
reigned  only  a  month  when  he  was  in  the  same 
bloody  manner  removed  by  Menahem.  After  a 
reign  of  10  years,  according  to  2  K  15  17  (although 
the  chronology  here  is  uncertain),  he  was  succeeded 
by  his  son  Pekahiah  (2  K  15  22),  and  after  two 
years  Pekah  "his  captain"  conspired  against  him 
and  reigned  in  his  stead  (2  K  15  25).  This  king 
also  was  assassinated,  and  was  succeeded  by  Hoshea 
(2  K  15  30),  the  last  king  of  the  ten  tribes,  for  the 
kingdom  came  to  an  end  in  722  BC.  Hosea  must 
have  lived  during  a  great  part  of  those  troublous 
times;  and  we  may  expect  to  hear  echoes  of  the 
events  in  his  book. 

(1)  Chs  1-3. — We  should  naturally  expect  that 
the  order  of  the  chapters  would  correspond  in  the 

main  with  the  progress  of  events;  and 
3.  Contents  there  is  at  least  a  general  agreement 
and  among  expositors  that  chs  1-3  refer 

Divisions       to  an  earlier  period  than  those  that 

follow.  In  favor  of  this  is  the  reference 
in  1  2  to  the  commencement  of  the  prophet's  min- 
istry, as  also  the  threatening  of  the  impending 
extirpation  of  the  house  of  Jehu  (1  4),  implying 
that  it  was  still  in  existence;  and  finally  the  hints 
of  the  abundance  amounting  to  luxury  which 
marked  the  prosperous  time  of  Jeroboam's  reign. 
These  three  chapters  are  to  be  regarded  as  going 
together;  and,  however  they  may  be  viewed  as 
reflecting  the  prophet's  personal  experience,  they 
leave  no  room  for  doubt  in  regard  to  the  national 
apostasy  that  weighed  so  heavily  on  his  heart. 
And  this,  in  effect,  is  what  he  says:  Just  as  the  wife, 
espoused  to  a  loving  husband,  enjoys  the  pro- 
tection of  home  and  owes  all  her  provision  to  her 
husband,  so  Israel,  chosen  by  Jeh  and  brought  by 
I  Him  into  a  fertile  land,  has  received  all  she  has  from 


Hosea 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1428 


Him  alone.  The  giving  of  recognition  to  the  balals 
for  material  prosperity  was  taut  amount  to  a  wife's 
bestowing  her  affection  on  another;  the  accepting 
of  these  blessings  as  bestowed  on  condition  of 
homage  rendered  to  the  ba*als  was  tantamount  to 
t  he  receiving  of  hire  by  an  abandoned  woman. 
This  being  so,  the  prophet,  speaking  in  Cod's  name, 
declares  what  He  will  do,  in  a  series  of  a  thrice 
repeated  "therefore"  (2  6.9.14),  marking  three 
stages  of  His  discipline.  First  of  all,  changing  the 
metaphor  to  that  of  a  straying  heifer,  the  prophet 
in  Cod's  name  declares  (vs  (iff)  that  lb;  will  hedge 
up  her  way  with  thorns,  so  that  she  will  not  be  able 
to  reach  her  lovers  -meaning,  no  doubt,  that 
whether  by  drought  or  blight,  or  some  national 
misfortune,  there  would  be  such  a  disturbance  of 
the  processes  of  Nature  that  the  usual  rites  of  hom- 
age to  the  basils  would  prove  ineffectual.  The; 
people  would  fail  to  find  the  "law  of  the  god  of  the 
land"  (2  K  17  26).  In  their  perplexity  they 
would  bethink  themselves,  begin  to  doubt  the 
power  of  the  ba*als,  and  resolve  to  pay  to  Jeh  the 
homage  they  had  been  giving  to  the  local  gods. 
But  this  is  still  the  same  low  conception  of  Jeh  that 
had  led  them  astray.  To  exchange  one  God  for 
another  simply  in  the  hope  of  enjoying  material 
prosperity  is  not  the  service  which  He  requires. 
And  then  comes  the  second  "therefore"  (vs  9ff). 
Instead  of  allowing  them  to  enjoy  their  corn  and 
wine  and  oil  on  the  terms  of  a  mere  lip  allegiance 
or  ritual  service,  Jeh  will  take  these  away,  will 
reduce  Israel  to  her  original  poverty,  causing  all  the 
mirth  of  her  festival  days  to  cease,  and  giving  gar- 
ments of  mourning  for  festal  attire.  Her  lovers 
will  no  longer  own  her,  her  own  husband's  hand  is 
heavy  upon  her,  and  what  remains?  The  third 
"therefore"  tells  us  (vs  14  ff).  Israel,  now  bereft 
of  all,  helpless,  homeless,  is  at  last  convinced  that, 
as  her  Cod  could  take  away  all,  so  it  was  from  Him 
she  had  received  all:  she  is  shut  up  to  His  love  and 
His  mercy  alone.  And  here  the  prophet's  thoughts 
clothe  themselves  in  language  referring  to  the  early 
betrothal  period  of  national  life.  A  new  beginning 
will  be  made,  she  will  again  lead  the  wilderness  lib; 
of  daily  dependence  on  Cod,  cheerfully  and  joyfully 
she  will  begin  a  new  journey,  out  of  trouble  will 
come  a  new  hope,  and  the  very  recollection  of  the 
past  will  be  a  pain  to  her.  As  all  the  associations  of 
the  name  befal  have  been  degrading,  she  shall  think 
of  her  Lord  in  a  different  relation,  not  as  the  mere 
giver  of  material  blessing,  but  as  the  husband  and 
desire  of  her  heart,  the  One  Source  of  all  good,  as 
distinguished  from  one  of  many  benefactors.  In  all 
this  Hosea  does  not  make  it  clear  how  he  expected 
these  chang<  s  to  be  brought  about,  nor  do  we  detect- 
any  references  to  the  political  history  of  the  time. 
He  mentions  no  foreign  enemy  at  this  stage,  or,  at 
most,  hints  at  war  in  a  vague  manner  (1  4  f).  In 
the  second  chapter  the  thing  that  is  emphasized  is 
the  heavy  hand  of  Cod  laid  on  the  things  through 
which  Israel  had  been  led  astray,  the  paralyzing  of 
Nature's  operations,  so  as  to  cut  at  the  root  of 
Nature-worship;  but  the  closing  stage  of  the  Di- 
vine discipline  (ch  3),  when  Israel,  like  the  wife  kept 
in  seclusion,  neither  enjoying  the  privileges  of  the 
lawful  spouse  nor  able  to  follow  after  idols,  seems 
to  point  to,  and  certainly  was  not  reached  till,  the 
captivity  when  the  people,  on  a  foreign  soil,  could 
not  exercise  their  ancestral  worship,  but  yet  were 
finally  cured  of  idolatry. 

The  references  to  Judah  in  these  chapters  are  not 
to  be  overlooked.  Having  said  (1  6)  that  Israel 
would  be  utterly  taken  away  (which  seems  to  point 
to  exile),  the  prophet  adds  that  Judah  would  be 
saved  from  that  fate,  though  not  by  warlike  means. 
Farther  down  (ver  11)  he  predicts  the  union  of 
Israel   and   Judah   under  one  head,   and  finally  in 


ch  3  it  is  said  that  in  the  latter  day  the  children 
of  Israel  would  seek  the  Lord  their  Cod  and  David 
their  king.  Many  critics  suppose  that  1  10  f  are 
out  of  place  (though  they  cannot  find  a  better  place 
for  them);  and  not  a  few  declare  that  all  the  refer- 
ences to  Judah  must  be  taken  as  from  a  later  hand, 
the  usual  reason  for  this  conclusion  being  that  the 
words  "disturb  the  connection."  In  the  case  of 
a  writer  like  Hosea,  however,  whose  transitions  are 
so  sharp  and  sudden,  we  are  not  safe  in  speaking  of 
disturbing  the  connection:  what  may  to  us  appear 
abrupt,  because;  we  are  not  expecting  it,  may  have 
flashed  across  the  mind  of  the  original  writer;  and 
Hosea,  in  forecasting  the;  future  of  his  people,  can 
scarcely  be  debarred  from  having  thought  of  the 
whole  nation.  It  was  Israel  as  a  whole  that  was 
tin;  original  bride  of  Jeh,  and  surely  therefore  the 
united  Israel  would  be  the  partaker  of  the  final 
glory.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  Judah  was  at  the  time 
in  better  case  than  Israel,  and  the  old  promise  to 
the;  Davidic  house;  (2  S  7  16)  was  deeply  cherished 
to  the  end. 

(2)  Chs  4-14. — If  it  is  admissible  to  consider 
clis  1-3  as  one  related  piece  (though  possibly  the 
written  deposit  of  several  addresses)  it  is  (mite 
otherwise  with  chs  4-14.  These  are,  in  a  manner, 
a  counterpart  of  the  history.  When  the  strong 
hand  of  Jeroboam  was  relaxed,  the  kingdom  rapidly 
fell  to  pieces;  a  series  of  military  usurpers  follows 
with  bewildering  rapidity;  but  who  can  tell  how 
much  political  disorder  and  social  disintegration  lie 
behind  those  brief  and  grim  notices:  So  and  So 
"conspired  against  him  and  slew  him  and  reigned 
in  his  stead"?  So  with  these  chapters.  The  wail 
of  grief,  the  echo  of  violence  and  excess,  is  heard 
through  all,  but  it  is  very  difficult  to  assign  each 
lament,  each  reproof,  each  denunciation  to  the  pri- 
mary occasion  that  called  it  forth.  The  chapters 
seem  like  the  recital  of  the  confused,  hideous 
dream  through  which  the  nation  passed  till  its  rude 
awakening  by  the  sharp  shock  of  the  Assyr  invasion 
and  the  exile  that  followed.  The  political  condition 
of  the  time  was  one  of  party  strife  and  national 
impotence.  Sometimes  Assyria  or  Egvpt  is  men- 
tioned alone  (5  13;  8  9.13:  9  6;  10  6;  14  3),  at 
other  times  Assyria  and  Egypt  together  (7  11; 
9  3;  11  5.11;  12  1);  but  in  such  a  way  as  to  show 
too  plainly  that  the  spirit  of  self-reliance — not  to 
speak  of  reliance  on  Jeh — had  departed  from  a  race 
that  was  worm-eaten  with  social  sins  and  rendered 
selfish  and  callous  by  the  indulgence  of  every  vice. 
These  foreign  powers,  which  figure  as  false  refuges, 
are  also  in  the  view  of  the  prophet  destined  to  be 
future  scourges  (see  5  13;  8  9  f;  7  11 ;  12  l);and 
we  know,  from  the  Book  of  K  and  also  from  the 
Assyr  monuments,  how  much  the  kings  of  Israel 
at  this  time  were  at  the  mercy  of  the  great  conquer- 
ing empires  of  the  East.  Such  passages  as  speak 
of  Assyria  and  Egypt  in  the  same  breath  may  point 
to  the  rival  policies  which  were  in  vogue  in  the 
Northern  Kingdom  (as  they  appeared  also  somewhat 
later  in  Judah)  of  making  alliances  with  one  or 
other  of  these  great  rival  powers.  It  was  in  fact 
the  Egyptianizing  policy  of  Hoshea  that  finally 
occasioned  the  ruin  of  the  kingdom  (2  K  17  4). 
Thus  it  is  that,  in  the  last  chapt  er,  when  the  prophet 
indulges  in  hope  no  more  mixed  with  boding  fear, 
he  puts  into  the  mouth  of  repentant  Ephraim  the 
words:  "Assyria  shall  not  save  us;  we  will  not  ride 
upon  horses"  (14  3),  thus  alluding  to  the  two  for- 
eign powers  between  which  Israel  had  lost  its 
independence. 

It  is  not  possible  to  give  a  satisfactory  analysis 
of  the  chapters  under  consideration.  They  are  not 
marked  off,  as  certain  sections  of  other  prophetical 
books  are,  by  headings  or  refrains,  nor  are  the  refer- 
ences to  current  events  sufficiently  clear  to  enable 


1429 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Hosea 


us  to  assign  different  parts  to  different  times,  nor, 
in  fine,  is  the  matter  so  distinctly  laid  out  that  we 
can  arrange  the  book  under  subjects  treated.  Most 
expositors  accordingly  content  themselves  with 
indicating  the  chief  topics  or  lines  of  thought,  and 
arranging  the  chapters  according  to  the  tone  per- 
vading them. 

Keil,  e.g.,  would  divide  all  those  chapters  into  three 
great  sections,  each  forming  a  kind  of  prophetical  cycle, 
in  which  the  three  great  prophetic  tones  of  reproof, 
threatening,  and  promise,  are  heard  in  succession.  His 
first  section  embraces  cli  4  to  6  :5,  ending  with  the  gra- 
cious promise:  "Come,  and  let  us  return  unto  Jeh," 
etc.  The  second  section,  6  4  to  11  11,  ends  with  the 
promise:  "They  shall  come  trembling  as  a  bird  .... 
and  I  will  make  them  to  dwell  in  their  houses,  saith  Jeh." 
The  third  section,  11  12  to  14  9,  ends:  "Take  with  you 
words,  and  return  unto  Jeh."  etc.  Ewald's  arrangement 
proceeds  on  the  idea  that  the  whole  book  consists  of  one 
narrative  piece  (chs  1-3)  and  one  long  address  (chs  4- 
14).  which,  however,  is  marked  off  by  resting  points  into 
smaller  sections  or  addresses.  The  progress  of  thought 
is  marked  by  the  three  great  items  of  arraignment, 
punishment,  and  consolation.  Thus:  from  4  1 — 6  11 
there  is  arraignment ;  from  6  11  to  9  9  punishment,  and 
from  9  10 — 14  10  exhortation  and  comfort.  Driversays 
of  chs  4-14:  "These  chapters  consist  of  a  series  of  dis- 
courses, a  summary  arranged  probably  by  the  prophet 
himself  at  the  close  of  his  ministry,  of  the  prophecies  de- 
livered by  him  in  the  years  following  the  death  of  Jero- 
boam II.  Though  the  argument  is  not  continuous,  or 
systematically  developed,  they  may  be  divided  into  three 
sections:  (a)  chs  4-8,  in  which  the  thought  of  Israel's 
guilt  predominates;  (b)  eh  9-11  11,  in  which  the  pre- 
vailing[thought  is  that  of  Israel's  punishment;  (<■)  11  12- 
ch  14  in  which  these  two  lines  of  thought  are  both  con- 
tinued (chs  12,  13),  but  are  followed  (in  ch  14)  by  a 
glance  at  the  brighter  future  which  may  ensue  provided 
Israel  repents."  A.  B.  Davidson,  after  mentioning  the 
proposed  analyses  of  Ewald  and  Driver,  adds:  "But  in 
truth  the  passage  is  scarcely  divisible;  it  consists  of  a 
multitude  of  variations  all  executed  on  one  theme, 
Israel's  apostasy  or  unfaithfulness  to  her  God.  This 
unfaithfulness  is  a  condition  of  the  mind,  a  'spirit-  of 
whoredoms,'  and  is  revealed  in  all  the  aspects  of  Israel's 
life,  though  particularly  in  three  things:  (1)  the  cultus, 
which,  though  ostensibly  service  of  Jeh,  is  in  truth  wor- 
ship of  a  being  altogether  different  from  Him;  (2)  the 
internal  political  disorders,  tin;  changes  of  dynasty,  all  of 
which  have  been  effected  with  no  thought  "of  Jeh  in  the 
people's  minds;  and  (3)  the  foreign  politics,  the  making 
of  covenants  with  F^gypt  and  Assyria,  in  the  hope 
that  they  might  heal  the  internal  hurt  of  the  people, 
instead  of  relying  on  Jeh  their  God.  The  three  things." 
he  adds,  "are  not  independent;  the  one  leads  to  the 
other.  The  fundamental  evil  is  that  there  is  no  knowl- 
edge of  Cod  in  the  land,  no  true  conception  of  Deity. 
He  is  thought  of  as  a  Nature-god,  and  His  conception 
exercises  no  restraint  on  t  lie  passions  or  life  of  the  people: 
hence  the  social  immoralities,  and  the  furious  struggles 
of  rival  factions,  and  these  again  lead  to  the  appeal  for 
foreign  intervention." 

Some  expositors,  however  (e.g.  Maurer,  Hitzig, 
Delitzsch  and  Volck),  recognizing  what  they  con- 
sider as  direct  references  or  brief  allusions  to  certain 
outstanding  events  in  the  history,  perceive  a  chrono- 
logical order  in  the  chapters.  Volck,  who  has  at- 
tempted a  full  analysis  on  this  line  (PRE-)  thinks 
that  chs  4-14  arrange  themselves  into  6  consecu- 
t  ive  sections  as  follows:  (1)  ch  4  constitutes  a  section 
by  it  self,  determined  by  the  introductory  words 
"Hear  the  word  of  Jeh"  (4  1),  and  a  similar  call  at 
the  beginning  of  ch  5.  He  assigns  this  chapter  to 
the  reign  of  Zechariah,  as  a  description  of  the  low 
condition  to  which  the  nation  had  fallen,  the  priests, 
the  leaders,  being  involved  in  the  guilt  and  reproof 
(ver  6).  (2)  The  second  section  extends  from  5  1 
to  6  3,  and  is  addressed  directly  to  the  priests  and 
the  royal  house,  who  ought  to  have  been  guides  but 
were  snares.  The  prophet  in  the  spirit  sees  Divine 
judgment  already  breaking  over  the  devoted  land 
(5  8).  This  prophecy,  which  Hitzig  referred  to  the 
time  of  Zechariah,  and  Maurer  to  the  reign  of 
Pekah,  is  assigned  by  Volck  to  the  one  month's 
reign  of  Shallum,  on  the  ground  of  5  7:  "Now 
shall  a  month  [AV  and  RVm,  but  RV  "the  new 
moon"]  devour  them."  It  is  by  inference  from  this 
that  Volck  puts  ch  4  in  the  preceding  reign  of  Zech- 
ariah. (3)  The  third  section,  6  4 — 7  16,  is  marked 
off  by  the  new  beginning  made  at   8   1:    "Set   the 


trumpet  to  thy  mouth."  The  passage  which  de- 
termines its  date  is  7  7:  "All  their  kings  are  fallen," 
which,  agreeing  with  Hitzig,  he  thinks  could  not 
have  been  said  after  the  fall  of  one  king,  Zechariah, 
and  so  he  assigns  it  to  the  beginning  of  the  reign  of 
Menahem  who  killed  Shallum.  (4)  The  next  halt- 
ing place,  giving  a  fourth  section,  is  at  9  9,  at  the 
end  of  which  there  is  a  break  in  the  MT,  and  a  new 
subject  begins.  Accordingly,  the  section  embraces 
8  1  to  9  9,  and  Volck,  agreeing  with  Hitzig,  assigns 
it  to  the  reign  of  Menahem,  on  the  ground  of  8  4: 
"They  have  set  up  kings,  but  not  by  me,"  referring 
to  the  support  given  to  Menahem  by  the  king  of 
Assyria  (2  K  15  19).  (5)  The  fifth  section  extends 
from  9  10  to  11  11,  and  is  marked  by  the  peculiarity 
that  the  prophet  three  times  refers  to  the  early  his- 
tory of  Israel  (9  10;  10  1 ;  11  1).  Identifying 
Shalman  in  10  14  with  Shalmaneser,  Volck  refers 
the  section  to  the  opening  years  of  the  reign  of 
Hoshea,  against  whom  (as  stated  in  2  K  17  3) 
Shalmaneser  came  up  and  Hoshea  became  his  serv- 
ant. (G)  Lastly  there  is  a  sixth  section,  extend- 
ing from  12  1  to  the  end,  which  looks  to  the  future 
recovery  of  the  people  (13  14)  and  closes  with  words 
of  gracious  promise.  This  portion  also  Volck 
assigns  to  the  reign  of  Hoshea,  just  as  the  ruin  of 
Samaria  was  impending,  and  there  was  no  prospect 
of  any  earthly  hope.  In  this  way  Volck  thinks 
t  hat  t  he  statement  in  the  superscription  of  the  Book 
of  Hos  is  confirmed,  and  that  we  have  before  us, 
in  chronological  order  if  not  in  precisely  their  original 
oral  form,  the  utterances  of  the  prophet  (hiring  his 
ministry.  Ewald  also  was  strongly  of  opinion  that 
the  book  (in  its  second  part  at  least)  has  come  down 
to  us  substantially  in  the  form  in  which  the  prophet 
himself  left  it. 

The  impression  one  receives  from  this  whole  sec- 
tion is  one  of  sadness,  for  tin;  prevailing  tone  is  one 
of  denunciation  and  doom.  And  yet  Hosea  is  not 
a  prophet  of  despair;  and,  in  fact,  he  bursts  forth 
into  hope  just  at  the  point  where,  humanly  speak- 
ing, there  is  no  ground  of  hope.  But,  this  hope  is 
produced,  not  by  what  he  sees  in  the  condition  of 
the  people:  it  is  enkindled  and  sustained  by  his 
confident  faith  in  the  unfailing  love  of  Jeh.  And 
so  he  ends  on  the  theme  on  which  he  began,  the  love 
of  God  prevailing  over  man's  sin. 

The  references  in  Hos  to  the  earlier  period  of  his- 
tory are  valuable,  seeing  that  we  know  his  date, 
and  that  the  dales  of  the  books  record- 
4.  Testi-  ing  that  history  are  so  much  in  dispute. 
mony  to  These  references  an;  particularly  val- 
Earlier  liable   from    tin;   way   in    which    they 

History  occur;     for   it   is   the   manner   of   the 

prophet  to  introduce  them  indirectly, 
and  allusively,  without  dwelling  on  particulars. 
Thus  every  single  reference  can  be  understood  only 
by  assuming  its  implications;  and,  taken  together, 
they  do  not  merely  amount  to  a  number  of  isolated 
testimonies  to  single  events,  but  are  rather  dis- 
severed links  of  a  continuous  chain  of  history.  For 
they  do  not  occur  by  way  of  rhetorical  illustration 
of  some  theme  that  may  lie  in  hand,  they  are  of  the 
very  essence  of  the  prophet's  address.  The  events 
of  the  past  are,  in  the  prophet's  view,  so  many  ele- 
ments in  the  arraignment  or  threatening,  or  what- 
ever it  may  be  that  is  the  subject  of  address  for  the 
moment:  in  a  word,  the  whole  history  is  regarded 
by  him,  not  as  a  series  of  episodes,  strung  together 
in  a  collection  of  popular  stories,  but  a  course  of 
Divine  discipline  with  a  moral  and  religious  sig- 
nificance, and  recorded  or  referred  to  for  a  high 
purpose.  There  is  this  also  to  be  remembered :  that, 
in  referring  briefly  and  by  way  of  allusion  to  past 
events,  the  prophet  is  taking  for  granted  that  his 
hearers  understand  what  he  is  referring  to,  and  will 
not   call  in  question  the  facts  to  which  he  alludes. 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1430 


This  implies  that  the  mass  of  the  people,  even  in 
degenerate  Israel,  were  well  acquainted  with  such 
incidents  or  episodes  as  the  prophet  introduces  into 
his  discourses,  as  well  as  the  links  which  were  neces- 
sary to  bind  them  into  a  connected  whole.  It  is 
necessary  to  bear  all  this  in  mind  in  forming  an 
estimate  of  the  historical  value  of  other  books.  It 
seems  to  be  taken  by  many  modern  writers  as  certain 
that  those  parts  of  the  Pent  (JE)  which  deal  with 
the  earlier  history  were  not  written  till  a  compara- 
tively short  time  before  Hosea.  It  is  plain,  how- 
ever,' that  the  accounts  must  be  of  much  earlier 
date,  before  they  could  have  become,  in  an  age 
when  books  could  not  have  been  numerous,  the 
general  possession  of  the  national  consciousness. 
Further,  the  homiletic  manner  in  which  Hosea 
handles  these  ancient  stories  makes  one  suspicious 
of  the  modern  theory  that  a  number  of  popular 
stories  were  supplied  with  didactic  ' •frameworks" 
by  later  Deuteronomic  or  other  "redactors,"  and 
makes  it  more  probable  that  these  accounts  were 
invested  with  a  moral  and  religious  meaning  from 
the  beginning.  With  these  considerations  in  mind, 
and  particularly  in  view  of  the  use  he  makes  of  his 
references,  it  is  interesting  to  note  the  wide  range 
of  the  prophet's  historical  survey.  If  we  read  with 
RV  "Adam"  for  "men"  (AY  6  7),  we  have  a  clear 
allusion  to  the  Fall,  implying  in  its  connection  the 
view  which,  as  all  admit,  Hosea  held  of  the  reli- 
gious history  of  his  people  as  a  declension  and  not 
an  upward  "evolution.  This  view  is  more  clearly 
brought  out  in  the  reference  to  the  period  of  the 
exodus  and  the  desert  life  (2  15;  9  10;  11  1). 
Equally  suggestive  are  the  allusions  to  the  patriar- 
chal history,  as  the  references  to  Admah  and  Ze- 
boiim  (11  8),  and  the  repeated  references  to  the 
weak  and  the  strong  points  in  the  character  of 
Jacob  (12  3.12).  Repeatedly  he  declares  that  Jeh 
is  the  God  of  Israel  "from  the  land  of  Egypt"  (12 
9;  13  4),  alludes  to  the  sin  of  Achan  and  the  valley 
of  Achor  (2  15),  asserts  that  God  had  in  time  past 
"spoken  unto  the  prophets"  (12  10),  "hewed"  His 
people  by  prophets  (6  5),  and  by  a  prophet  brought 
His  people  out  of  Egypt  (12  13).  There  are  also 
references  to  incidents  nearer  to  the  prophet's 
time,  some  of  them  not  very  clear  (14;  5  1;  9  5. 
15;  10  9);  and  if,  as  seems  probable,  "the  sin  of 
Israel"  (10  8)  refers  to  the  schism  of  the  ten  tribes, 
the  prominence  given  to  the  Davidic  kingship, 
which,  along  with  the  references  to  Judah,  some 
critics  reject  on  merely  subjective  grounds,  is  quite 
intelligible  (3  5;   4  15). 

We  do  not  expect  to  find  in  a  prophetic  writing 
the  same  frequency  of  reference  to  the  law  as  to  the 

history;  for  it  is  of  the  essence  of 
5.  Testi-  prophecy  to  appeal  to  history  and  to 
mony  to  interpret  it.  Of  course,  the  moral  and 
the  Law         social  aspects  of  the  law  are  as  much 

the  province  of  the  prophet  as  of  the 
priest ;  but  the  ceremonial  part  of  the  law,  which 
was  under  the  care  of  the  priests,  though  it  was 
designed  to  be  the  expression  of  the  same  ideas  that 
lay  at  the  foundation  of  prophecy,  is  mainly  touched 
upon  by  the  prophets  when,  as  was  too  frequently 
the  case,  it  ceased  to  express  those  ideas  and  became 
an  offence.  The  words  of  the  prophets  on  this 
subject,  when  fairly  interpreted,  are  not  opposed  to 
law  in  any  of  its  authorized  forms,  but  only  to  its 
abuses;  and  there  are  expressions  and  allusions  in 
Hosea,  although  he  spoke  1  o  the  Northern  Kingdom, 
where  from  the  time  of  the  schism  there  had  been  a 
wide  departure  from  the  authorized  law,  which 
recognize  its  ancient  existence  and  its  Divine  sanc- 
tion. The  much-debated  passage  (8  12),  "Though 
I  write  for  him  my  law  in  ten  thousand  precepts" 
(RV  or  RVm  "I  wrote  for  him  the  ten  thousand 
things  of  my  law"),  on  any  understanding  of  the 


words  or  with  any  reasonable  emendation  of  the 
text  (for  which  see  the  comm.),  points  to  written 
law,  and  that  of  considerable  compass,  and  seems 
hardly  consistent-  with  the  supposition  that  in  the 
prophet's  time  the  whole  of  the  written  law  was 
confined  to  a  few  chapters  in  Ex,  the  so-called  Book 
of  the  Covenant.  And  the  very  next  verse  (8  13), 
"As  for  the  sacrifices  of  mine  offerings,  they  sacri- 
fice flesh  and  eat  it;  but  Jeh  accepteth  them  not," 
is  at  once  an  acknowledgment  of  the  Divine  insti- 
tution of  sacrifice,  and  an  illustration  of  the  kind 
of  opposition  the  prophets  entertained  to  sacrificial 
service  as  it  was  practised.  So  when  it  is  said,  "I  will 
also  cause  all  her  mirth  to  cease,  her  feasts,  her  new 
moons,  and  her  sabbaths,  and  all  her  solemn  assem- 
blies" (2  11;  cf  9  5),  the  reference,  as  the  context 
shows,  is  to  a  deprivation  of  what  were  national 
distinctive  privileges;  and  the  allusions  to  trans- 
gressions and  trespasses  against  the  law  (8  1;  cf 
Dt  17  2)  point  in  the  same  direction.  We  have 
a  plain  reference  to  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles  (12  9) : 
"I  will  yet  again  make  thee  to  dwell  in  tents,  as 
in  the  days  of  the  solemn  feast"  (cf  Ley  23  39-43); 
and  there  are  phrases  which  are  either  in  the  express 
language  of  the  law-books  or  evident  allusions  to 
them,  as  "Thy  people  are  as  they  that  strive  with 
the  priest"  (4  4;  cf  Dt  17  12);  "The  princes  of 
Judah  are  like  them  that  remove  the  landmark" 
(5  10;  cf  Dt  19  14);  "Their  sacrifices  shall  be  unto 
them  as  the  bread  of  mourners"  (9  4;  cf  Dt  26  14); 
"They  [the  priests]  feed  on  the  sin  of  my  people" 
(4  8;  cf  Lev  6  25  f;  10  17).  In  one  verse  the 
prophet  combines  the  fundamental  fact  in  the  na- 
tion's history  and  the  fundamental  principle  of  the 
law:  "I  am' Jeh  thy  God  from  the  land  of  Egypt; 
and  thou  shalt  know  no  god  but  me"  (13  4;  cf 
Ex  20  3). 

It  is,  however,  with  the  Book  of  Dt  more  than 
with  any  other  portion  of  the  Pent  that  the  Book  of 

Hos  shows  affinity;  and  the  resem- 
6.  Affinity  blanccs  here  are  so  striking,  that  the 
with  Deu-  critics  who  hold  to  the  late  date  of  Dt 
teronomy       speak  of  the  author  of   that   book  as 

"the  spiritual  heir  of  Hosea"  (Driver, 
Comm.  on  Dt,  Intro,  xxvii),  or  of  Hosea  as  "the 
great  spiritual  predecessor  of  the  Deuteronomist " 
(Cheyne,  Jeremiah,  His  Life  and  Times,  66).  The 
resemblance  is  seen,  not  only  in  the  homiletical 
manner  in  which  historical  events  are  treated,  but 
chiefly  in  the  great  underlying  principles  implied 
or  insisted  upon  in  both  books.  The  choice  of 
Israel  to  be  a  peculiar  people  is  the  fundamental 
note  in  both  (Dt  4  37;  7  6;  10  15;  14  2;  26  18; 
Hos  12  9;  13  4).  God's  tender  care  and  fatherly 
discipline  are  central  ideas  in  both  (Dt  8  2.3.5.16; 
Hos  9  15;  11  1-4;  14  4);  and,  conversely,  the 
supreme  duty  of  love  to  God,  or  reproof  of  the  want 
of  it,  is  everywhere  emphasized  (Dt  6  5;  10  12; 
11  1.13.22;  13  3;  19  9;  30  6.16.20;  Hos  4  1; 
6  4.6).  Now,  when  points  of  resemblance  are 
found  in  two  different  books,  it  is  not  always  easy 
to  say  on  merely  literary  grounds  which  has  the 
claim  to  priority.  But  it  docs  seem  remarkable, 
on  the  one  hand,  that  a  writer  so  late  as  the  time  of 
Josiah  should  take  his  keynote  from  one  of  the 
very  earliest  of  the  writing  prophets  two  centuries 
before  him;  and,  on  the  other  hand,  that  these 
so-called  "prophetic  ideas,"  so  suitable  to  the  time 
of  'the  kindness  of  youth  and  love  of  espousals' 
(Jer  2  2),  should  have  found  no  place  in  the  mind 
of  that  "prophet"  by  whom  the  Lord  brought  Israel 
out  of  Egypt  (Hos  12  13).  The  ministry  of  Moses 
was  to  enforce  the  duty  of  whole-hearted  allegiance 
to  the  God  who  had  made  special  choice  of  Israel 
and  claimed  them  as  His  own.  Nor  was  Hosea  the 
first,  as  it  is  sometimes  alleged,  to  represent  the 
religious  history  of  Israel  as  a  defection.     Moses 


1431 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Hosea 
Hoshea 


had  experience  of  their  apostasy  under  the  very 
shadow  of  Sinai,  and  all  his  life  long  had  to  bear  with 
a  stiff-necked  and  rebellious  people.  Then,  again, 
if  these  "Deuteronomic"  ideas  are  found  so  clearly 
expressed  in  Hosea,  why  should  it  be  necessary 
to  postulate  a  late  Deuteronomist  going  back  upon 
older  books,  and  editing  and  supplementing  them 
with  Deuteronomic  matter?  If  Moses  sustained 
anything  like  the  function  which  all  tradition  as- 
signed to  him,  and  if,  as  all  confess,  he  was  the  in- 
strument of  molding  the  tribes  into  one  people, 
those  addresses  contained  in  the  Book  of  Dt  are 
precisely  in  the  tone  which  would  be  adopted  by  a 
great  leader  in  taking  farewell  of  the  people.  And, 
if  he  did  so,  it  is  quite  conceivable  that  his  words 
would  be  treasured  by  the  Cod-fearing  men  among 
his  followers  and  successors,  in  that  unbroken  line 
of  prophetic  men  to  whose  existence  both  Amos 
and  Hosea  appealed,  and  that  they  should  be  found 
coming  to  expression  at  tin;  very  dawn  of  written 
prophecy.  Undoubtedly  these  two  prophets  took 
such  a  view,  and  regarded  Moses  as  the  first  and 
greatest  Deuteronomist. 

Literature. — Harper,  "Minor  Prophets,"  in  ICC; 
Keil,  "Minor  Prophets,"  in  Clark's  For.  Theol.  Library; 
Huxtable,  "Hosea,"  in  Speaker's  Comm.;  Cheyne,  "Ho- 
sea," in  Cambridge  Bible;  Pusey,  Minor  Prophet*;  Robert- 
son Smith,  Prophets  of  Israel;  G.  A.  Smith,  "The  Book  of 
the  Twelve,"  in  Expositor's  Bible;  Horton,  "Hosea,"  in 
Century  Bible;  Farrar,  "Minor  Prophets,"  in  Men  of  the 
Bible;  A.  B.  Davidson,  art.  "Hosea"  in  HDB;  Cornill, 
The  Prophets  of  Israel,  ET,  Chicago,  1S97;  Valeton,  Amos 
en  Hosea;  Nowack,  "Die  kleinen  Propheten,"  in  Hand- 
Comm.  z.  AT;  Marti,  Dodekapropheton  in  Kurz.  Hand- 
Co  mm. 

James  Robertson 
HOSEN,  ho'z'n.     See  Breeches. 

HOSHAIAH,  ho-sha'ya  (H^lpin,  hSsha'yah, 
"whom  Jeh  helpeth"): 

(1)  Father  of  Jezaniah  (probably  =  Azariah,  so 
LXX;  cf  Jer  42  1  and  43  2  with  2  K  25  23  and 
note  similar  letters  in  names  in  Heb),  who  with 
other  leaders  antagonized  the  policy  and  counsel 
of  Jeremiah  after  the  fall  of  Jerus  (Jer  42  1 — 43  7). 

(2)  A  man,  probably  of  Judah,  who  led  half  of 
the  princes  of  Judah  in  procession  at  the  dedication 
of  the  wall  of  Jerus  (Neh  12  32). 

HOSHAMA,  hosh'a-ma,  ho-sha'ma  (yattJin, 
hos}tama\  abbreviated  from  ""C'lIHrP ,  yehoshamaK, 
"whom  Jeh  heareth"):  One  of  the  sons  or  descend- 
ants of  Jeconiah,  the  captive  king  of  Judah  (1  Ch 
3  18). 

HOSHEA,  h5-she'a  (WH,  hoshea\  "salvation"; 

'fto-f^  Ilosie,  2  K  17  1-9) :   Son  of  Elah,  the  19th 

and  last  king  of  Israel.     The  time  was 

1.  A  Satrap  one  of  social  revolution  and  dynastic 
of  Assyria      change.     Of    the    last    five    kings    of 

Israel,  four  had  met  their  deaths  by 
violence.  Hoshea  himself  was  one  of  these  assassins 
(2  K  15  30J,  and  the  nominee  of  Tiglath-pileser 
111,  whose  annals  read,  "Pekah  I  slew,  Hoshea  I 
appointed  over  them."  Though  called  king, 
Hoshea  was  thus  really  a  satrap  of  Assyria  and  held 
his  appointment  only  during  good  behavior.  The 
realm  which  he  administered  was  but  the  shadow 
of  its  former  self.  Tiglath-pileser  had  already 
carried  into  captivity  the  northern  tribes  of  Zebulun, 
Naphtali,  Asher  and  Dan;  as  also  the  two  and  a 
half  tribes  E.  of  the  Jordan  (2  K  15  29).     Apart 

from  those   forming   the   kingdom   of 

2.  The  Judah,  there  remained  only  Ephraim, 
Reduced  Issachar,  and  the  half-tribe  of  Manas- 
Kingdom  seh.  Isaiah  refers  to  the  fall  of  Syria 
of  Israel         in    the    words,    "Damascus    is    taken 

away  from  being  a  city"  (Isa  17  1), 
and  to  the  foreign  occupations  of  Northern  Israel 


in  the  words,  "He  brought  into  contempt  the  land 
of  Zebulun  and  the  land  of  Naphtali  ....  by  the 
way  of  the  sea,  beyond  the  Jordan,  Galilee  of  the 
nations"  (Isa  9  1). 

But  Hosea  is  the  prophet  in  whose  writings  we 

see  most  clearly  the  reflection  of  the  politics  of  the 

day,  and  the  altered  condition  of  things 

3.  Hosea       in   Israel.     In   the  2d   division   of  his 
and  book,   chs  4-14,   Hosea  deals  with   a 
Ephraim        state  of  things  which  can  only  be  sub- 
sequent to  the  first  great  deportation 

of  Israelites,  and  therefore  belongs  to  the  reigns  of 
Pekah  and  Hoshea.  Tin;  larger  part  of  the  nation 
being  removed,  he  addresses  his  utterances  no  longer 
to  all  Israel,  but  to  Ephraim,  the  chief  of  the  remain- 
ing tribes.  This  name  he  uses  no  less  than  35  t, 
though  not  to  the  total  exclusion  of  the  term 
"Israel,"  as  in  11  1,  "When  Israel  was  a  child,  then 
I  loved  him,"  the  whole  nation  in  such  cases  being 
meant.  Of  the  35  uses  of  "Ephraim,"  the  first  is, 
"Ephraim  is  joined  to  idols;  let  him  alone"  (4  17), 
and  the  last,  "Ephraim  shall  say,  What  have  I  to 
do  any  more  with  idols?"  (14  8),  showing  that,  in 
the  prophet's  estimation,  the  idolatrous  worship  of 
Jeh,  as  associated  with  tin;  golden  calves  of  Dan  and 
Bethel,  lay  at  the  root  of  the  nation's  calamities. 

Over  tliis  shrunken   and   weakened   kingdom — 
corresponding   generally  with   the   Samaritan   dis- 
trict of  the  NT — Hoshea  was  placed 

4.  Hoshea's  as  the  viceroy  of  a  foreign  power.  The 
Dependent  first  official  year  of  his  governorship 
Position         was  72<),   though  he  may  have  been 

appointed  a  few  months  earlier. 
Tiglath-pileser  III  died  in  727,  so  that  three  years' 
tribute  was  probably  paid  to  Nineveh.  There  was, 
however,  a  political  party  in  Samaria,  which,  ground 
down  by  cruel  exactions,  was  for  making  an  alliance 
with  Egypt,  hoping  that,  in  the  jealousy  and  antip- 
athies of  the  two  world-powers,  if  might  find  some 
relief  or  even  a  measure  of  independence.  Hosea, 
himself  a  prophet  of  the  north,  allows  us  to  see 
beneat  h  the  surface  of  court  life  in  Samaria.  "They 
call  unto  Egypt,  they  go  to  Assyria"  (7  11),  and 
again,  "They  make  a  covenant  with  Assyria,  and 
oil  is  carried  into  Egypt"  (12  1).  This  political 
duplicity  from  which  it  was  the  king's  prime  duty 

to  save  his  people,  probably  took  its 

5.  His  origin     about    the    time    of    Tiglath- 
Treasonable  pileser's   death    in    727.     That    event 
Action  either  caused  or  promoted  the  treason- 
able action,  and  the  passage  of  large 

quantities  of  oil  on  the  southward  road  was  an 
object-lesson  to  be  read  of  all  men.  On  the  acces- 
sion of  Shalmaneser  IV — who  is  the  Shalmaneser  of 
the  Bible  (2  K  17  3;  18  9)— Hoshea  would  seem 
to  have  carried,  or  sent,  the  annual  tribute  for  72G 
to  the  treasury  at  Nineveh  (2  K  17  3).  The  text 
is  not  clear  as  to  who  was  the  bearer  of  this  tribute, 
but  from  the  statement  that  Shalmaneser  came  up 
against  him,  and  Hoshea  became  his  servant,  it  may 
he  presumed  that  tin;  tribute  for  the  first  year  after 
Tiglath-pileser's  death  was  at  first  refused,  then, 
when  a  military  demonstration  took  place,  was 
paid,  and  obedience  promised.  In  such  a  case  Ho- 
shea would  be  required  to  attend  at  his  suzerain's 
court  and  do  homage;  to  the  sovereign. 

This  is  what  probably  took  place,  not  without 

inquiry  into  the  past.     Grave  suspicions  were  thus 

aroused  as  to  the  loyalty  of  Hoshea, 

6.  His  and  on  these  being  confirmed  by  the 
Final  confession  or  discovery  that  messen- 
Arrest             gers  had  passed  to  "So  king  of  Egypt," 

and  the  further  withholding  of  the  trib- 
ute (2  K  17  4),  Hoshea  was  arrested  and  shut  up 
in  prison.  Here  he  disappears  from  history.  Such 
was  the  ignominious  end  of  a  line  of  kings,  not  one 
of  whom  had,  in  all  the  vicissitudes  of  two  and  a 


Hospitality 
Host  of  Heaven 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1432 


quarter  centuries,  been  in  harmony  with  the  theo- 
cratic spirit ,  or  realized  that,  the  true  welfare  and 
dignity  of  the  stale,  lav  in  the  unalloyed  worship  of 
.Mi. 

With  Floshea  in  his  hands,  Shalmaneser's  troops 

marched,  in  the  spring  or  summer  of  725,  to  the 

completion  of   Assyria's  work   in   Pal. 

7.  Battle  of  Isaiah  has  much  to  say  in  his  10th  and 
Beth-arbel      11th   chs   on    the   divinely   sanctioned 

mission  of  "the  Assyrian"  and  of  the 
ultimate  fate  that  should  befall  him  for  his  pride 
and  cruelty  in  carrying  out  his  mission.  The  cam- 
paign was  not,  a  bloodless  one.  At  Beth-arbel — at 
present  unidentified-  the  hostile  forces  met,  with 
the  result  that  might  have  been  expected.  "Shal- 
man  spoiled  Beth-arbel  in  the  day  of  battle"  (Hog 
10  14j.  The  defeated  army  took  refuge  behind  the 
walls  of  Samaria,  and  the  siege  began.  The  city 
was  well  placed  for  purposes  of  defence,  being  built 
on  the  summit  of  a  lonely  hill,  which  was  Omri's 
reason  for  moving  the  capital  from  Tirzah  (1  K  16 
24).  It  was  probably  during  the  continuance  of  the 
siege  that  Isaiah  wrote  his  prophecy,  "Woe  to  the 
crown  of  pride  of  the  drunkards  of  Ephraim,"  etc 
(Isa  28),  in  which  the  hill  of  Samaria  with  its 
coronet  of  walls  is  compared  to  a  diadem  of  flowers 
worn  in  a  scene  of  revelry,  which  should  fade  and 
die.  Micah's elegy  on  the  fall  of  Samaria  (eh  1)  has 
the  same  topographical  note,  "1  will  pour  down 
the  stones  thereof  into  the  valley,  and  I  will  uncover 
the  foundations  thereof"  (ver  0). 

Shalmaneser's  reign  was  one  of  exactly  five  years, 
December,  727  to  December,  722,  and  the  city  fell 

in    the    1st   month   of   his   successor's 

8.  Fall  of  reign.  The  history  of  its  fall  is  sum- 
Samaria  marized  in  Sargon's  great  Khorsabad 
in  721  inscription   in  these  words,   "Samaria 

I  besieged,  I  captured.  27,290  of  her 
inhabitants  1  carried  away.  50  chariots  I  collected 
from  their  midst.  The  rest  of  their  property  I 
caused  to  be  taken." 

lloshea's  character  is  summed  up  in  the  qualified 
phrase,  "He  did  evil  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord,  yet  not 

as  the  kings  of  Israel  that  were  before 

9.  Hoshea's  him."  The  meaning  may  be  that, 
Character      while  not  a  high-principled  man  or  of 

irreproachable  life,  he  did  not  give  to 
the  idolatry  of  Bethel  the  official  sanction  and 
prominence  which  each  of  his  18  predecessors  had 
done.  According  to  Hos  10  6  the  golden  calf  of 
Samaria  was  to  be  taken  to  Assyria,  to  the  shame 
of  its  erstwhile  worshippers. 

W.  Shaw  Caldecott 
HOSPITALITY,     hos-pi-tal'i-ti,     HOST,     host 
(4>i\o£ev£a,   philoxenia,  "love  of   strangers,"    £«vos, 

xenos,  "guest,"  "friend";  -rrav8ox«vs, 
1.  Among  pandochetis,  "innkeeper"):  When  the 
Nomads         civilization  of  a  people  has  advanced 

so  far  that  some  traveling  has  become 
necessary,  but  not  yet  so  far  that  traveling  by  in- 
dividuals is  a  usual  thing,  then  hospitality  is  a 
virtue  indispensable  to  the  life  of  the  people.  This 
stage  of  culture  was  that  represented  in  ancient  Pal 
and  the  stage  whose  customs  are  still  preserved 
among  the  present-day  Arabs  of  the  desert.  Hospi- 
tality is  regarded  as  a  right  by  the  traveler,  to  whom 
it  never  occurs  to  thank  his  host  as  if  for  a  favor. 
And  hospit  ality  is  granted  as  a  duty  by  the  host,  who 
himself  may  very  soon  be  dependent  on  some  one 
else's  hospitality.  But  none  the  less,  both  in  OT 
times  and  today,  the  granting  of  that  right  is  sur- 
rounded by  an  etiquette  that  has  made  Arabian 
hospitality  so  justly  celebrated.  The  traveler  is 
made  the  literal  master  of  the  house  during  his  stay; 
his  host  will  perform  for  him  the  most  servile  offices, 
and  will  not  even  sit  in  his  presence  without  express 
request.     To  the  use  of  the  guest  is  given  over  all 


that  his  host  possesses,  stopping  not  even  short  of 
the  honor  of  wife  or  daughter.  "  'Be  we  not  all,' 
say  the  poor  nomads,  'guests  of  Ullah?  Has  God 
given  unto  them,  God's  guest  shall  partake  with 
them  thereof:  if  they  will  not  for  God  render  his 
own,  it  should  not  go  well  with  them'"  (Doughty, 
Arabia  Dcscrta,  I,  228).  The  host  is  in  duty  bound 
to  defend  his  guest  against,  all  comers  and  to  lay 
aside  any  personal  hatred-  the  murderer  of  a 
father  is  safe  as  the  guest  of  the  son. 

An  exquisite  example  of  the  etiquette  of  hospi- 
tality is  found  in  Gen  18  1-8.    The  very  fact  that  the 
three  strangers  have  passed  by  Abra- 

2.  In  the  ham's  door  gives  him  the  privilege 
OT  of  entertaining  them.     When  he  sees 

them  approaching  he  runs  to  beg  the 
honor  of  their  turning  in  to  him,  with  oriental  cour- 
tesy depreciates  the  feast  that  he  is  about  to  lay 
before  them  as  "a  morsel  of  bread,"  and  stands  by 
them  while  they  eat.  Manoah  (Jgs  13  15)  is 
equally  pressing  although  more  matter-of-fact, 
while  Jethro  (Ex  2  20)  sends  out  that  the  stranger 
may  be  brought  in.  And  Job  (31  32)  repels  the 
very  thought  that  he  could  let  the  sojourner  be 
unprovided  for.  The  one  ease;  where  a  breach  of 
hospitality  receives  praise  is  that  of  Jael  (Jgs  4-5), 
perhaps  to  be  referred  to  degeneration  of  customs 
in  the  conflicts  with  the  Canaanites  or  (perhaps 
more  plausibly)  to  literary-critical  considerations, 
according  to  which  in  Jgs  5  Sisera  is  not  represented 
as  entering  Jael's  tent  or  possibly  not  as  actually 
tasting  the  food,  a  state  of  affairs  misunderstood  in 
Jgs  4,  written  under  later  circumstances  of  city  life. 
(For  contrasting  opinions  see  "Jael"  in  EB  and 
HDB.) 

It  is  well  to  understand  that  to  secure  the  right 
to  hospitality  it  is  not  necessary,  even  in  modern 

times,   for  the  guest  to  eat  with  his 

3.  The  host,  still  less  to  eat  salt  specifically. 
Table-Bond  Indeed,    guests   arriving    after   sunset 

and  departing  the  next  morning  do 
not ,  as  a  rule,  eat  at  all  in  the  tent  of  the  host.  It  is 
sufficient  to  enter  the  tent,  to  grasp  a  tent-pin,  or 
even,  under  certain  circumstances,  to  invoke  the 
name  of  a  man  as  host.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
bond  of  hospitality  is  certainly  strengthened  by 
eating  with  one's  host,  or  the  bond  may  actually  be 
created  by  eating  food  belonging  to  him,  even  by 
stealth  or  in  an  act  of  theft.  Here  a  quite  different 
set  of  motives  is  at  work.  The  idea  here  is  that  of 
kinship  arising  from  participation  in  a  common 
sacrificial  meal,  and  the  modern  Arab  still  terms 
the  animal  killed  for  his  guest  the  dhabihah  or  "sac- 
rifice" (cf  HDB,  II,  428).  This  concept  finds  its 
rather  materialistic  expression  in  the  theory  that 
after  the  processes  of  digestion  are  completed  (a 
time  estimated  as  two  nights  and  the  included  day), 
the  bond  lapses  if  it  is  not  renewed.  There  seem  to 
be  various  references  in  the  Bible  to  some  such  idea 
of  a  "table-bond"  (Ps  41  9,  e.g.),  but  hardly  in  con- 
nection directly  with  hospitality.  For  a  discussion 
of  them  see  Bread;  Guest;  Sacrifice. 

In  the  city,  naturally,  the  exercise  of  hospitality 
was    more    restricted.     Where    travel    was    great, 

doubtless  commercial  provision  for  t  he 

4.  In  the  travelers  was  made  from  a  very  early 
City  day  (cf  Lk  10  34  and  see  Inn),  and 

at  all  events  free  hospitality  to  all 
comers  would  have  been  unbearably  abused.  Lot 
in  Sodom  (Gen  19)  is  the  nomad  who  has  preserved 
his  old  ideas,  although  settled  in  the  city,  and  who 
thinks  of  the  "shadow  of  his  roof"  (ver  8)  as  his 
tent.  The  same  is  true  of  the  old  man  in  Gibeah 
of  Jgs  19  16  ff.  And  the  sin  of  Sodom  and  of 
Gibeah  is  not  that  wanderers  cannot  find  hospi- 
tality so  much  as  it  is  that  they  are  unsafe  in  the 
streets  at   night.     Both   Lot  and   "the  old  man," 


1433 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Hospitality 
Host  of  Heaven 


however,  are  firm  in  their  duty  and  willing  to 
sacrifice  their  daughters  for  the  safety  of  their 
guests.  (Later  ideas  as  to  the  position  of  woman 
should  not  be  read  back  into  these  narratives.) 
However,  when  the  city-dweller  Rahab  refuses  to 
surrender  her  guests  (Josh  2),  her  reason  is  not 
the  breach  of  hospitality  involved  but  her  fear  of 
Jeh  (ver  9).  "When  Abraham's  old  slave  is  in 
Nahor,  and  begs  a  night's  lodging  for  himself  and 
his  camels,  he  accompanies  the  request  with  a 
substantial  present,  evidently  conceived  of  as  pay 
for  the  same  (Gen  24  22 f).  Such  also  are  the 
modern  conditions;  cf  Benzinger-Socin  in  Baede- 
ker's Palestine*,  xxxv,  who  observe  that  "in- 
mates" of  private  houses  "are  aware  that  Franks 
always  pay,  and  therefore  receive  them  gladly." 
None  the  less,  in  NT  times,  if  not  earlier,  and  even 
at  present,  a  room  was  set  apart  in  each  village  for 
the  use  of  strangers,  whose  expenses  were  borne  by 
the  entire  community.  Most  interpreters  consider 
that  the  katahimaoi  Lk  2  7  was  a  room  of  this  sort, 
but  this  opinion  cannot  be  regarded  as  quite  certain. 
But  many  of  the  wealthier  city-dwellers  still  strive 
to  attain  a  reputation  for  hospitality,  a  zeal  that 
naturally  was  found  in  the  ancient  world  as  well. 

Christ's  directions  to  the  apostles  to  "take  nothing 
for  their  journey"  (Mk  6  8,  etc)  presupposes  that 
they  were  sure  of  always  finding  hos- 
6.  Christ  pitality.  Indeed,  it  is  assumed  that 
and  Hos-  they  may  even  make  their  own  choice 
pitality  of  hosts    (Mt  10  11)   and    may  stay 

as  long  as  they  choose  (Lk  10  7).  In 
this  case,  however,  the  claims  of  the  travelers  to 
hospitality  are  accentuated  by  the  fact  that  they  are 
bearers  of  good  tidings  for  the  people,  and  it  is  in 
view  of  this  latter  fact  that  hospitality  to  them 
becomes  so  great  a  virtue — the  "cup  of  cold  water" 
becomes  so  highly  meritorious  because  it  is  given 
"in  the  name  of  a  disciple"  (Mt  10  42;  cf  ver  41, 
and  Mk  9  41).  Rejection  of  hospitality  to  one  of 
Christ's  "least  brethren"  (almost  certainly  to  be 
understood  as  disciples)  is  equivalent  to  the"  rejection 
of  Christ  Himself  (Mt  25  43;  cf  ver  35).  It  is 
not  quite  clear  whether  in  Mt  10  14  and  s,  simple 
refusal  of  hospitality  is  the  sin  in  point  or  refusal 
to  hear  the  message  or  both. 

In  the  Dispersion,  the  Jewr  who  was  traveling 
seemed  always  to  be  sure  of  finding  entertainment 
from   the  Jews   resident   in  whatever 
6.  First  city  he  might  happen  to  be  passing 

Mission-  through.  The  importance  of  this 
aries  fact  for  the  spread  of  early  Christian- 

ity is  incalculable.  To  be  sure,  some 
of  the  first  missionaries  may  have  been  men  who 
were  able  to  bear  their  own  traveling  expenses  or 
who  were  merchants  that  taught  the  new  religion 
when  on  business  tours.  In  the  case  of  soldiers  or 
slaves  their  opportunity  to  carry  the  gospel  into 
new  fields  came  often  through  the  movements  of  the 
army  or  of  their  masters.  And  it  was  by  an  "infil- 
tration"  of  this  sort,  probably,  rather  than  by  any 
specific;  missionary  effort  that  the  church  of  Rome, 
at  least,  was  founded.  See  Romans,  Epistle  to 
the.  But  the  ordinary  missionary,  whether  apostle 
(in  any  sense  of  the  word)  or  evangelist,  would  have 
been  helpless  if  it  had  not  been  that  he  could  count 
so  confidently  on  the  hospitality  everywhere.  From 
this  fact  comes  one  reason  why  St.  Paul,  for  in- 
stance, could  plan  tours  of  such  magnitude  with 
such  assurance:  he  knew  that  he  would  not  have 
to  face  anv  problem  of  sustenance  in  a  strange  city 
(Rom  16  23). 

As  the  first  Christian  churches  were  founded,  the 
exercise  of  hospitality  took  on  a  new  aspect,  esp. 
after  the  breach  with  the  Jews  had  begun.  Not 
only  did  the  traveling  Christian  look  naturally  to 
his    brethren    for    hospitality,    but    the   individual 


churches  looked  to  the  traveler  for  fostering   the 
sense  of  the  unity  of  the  church  throughout,  the 

world.  Hospitality  became  a  virt  ue  in- 
7.  In  the  dispensable  to  the  well-being  of  the 
Churches       church — one  reason  for  the  emphasis 

laid  on  it  (Rom  12  13;  16  If;  He  13 
2) .  As  the  organization  of  the  churches  became  more 
perfected,  the  exercise  of  hospitality  grew  to  be  an 
official  duty  of  the  ministry  and  a  reputation  for 
hospitality  was  a  prerequisite  in  some  cases  (1  Tim 
3  2;  5  10;  Tit  1  8).  The  exercise  of  such  hos- 
pitality must  have  become  burdensome  at  times 
(1  Pet  4  9),  and  as  false  teachers  began  to  appear 
in  the  church  a  new  set  of  problems  was  created  in 
discriminating  among  applicants  for  hospitality. 
2  and  3  Jn  reflect  some  of  the  difficulties.  For  the 
later  history  of  hospitality  in  the  church  interesting 
matter  will  be  found  in  the  Didache,  chs  xi,  xii, 
Apology  of  Arislides,  ch  xv,  and  Lucian's  Death  of 
Peregrinus,  ch  xvi.  The  church  certainly  preferred 
to  err  by  excess  of  the  virtue. 

An  evaluation  of  the  Bib.  directions  regarding 
hospitality  for  modern  times  is  extremely  difficult 
on  account  of  the  utterly  changed  conditions.  Be 
it  said  at  once,  esp.,  that  certain  well-meant  criticism 
of  modern  missionary  methods,  with  their  boards, 
organized  finance,  etc,  on  the  basis  of  Christ's  di- 
rections to  the  Twelve,  is  a  woeful  misapplication  of 
Bib.  teaching.  The  hospitality  that  an  apostle 
could  count  on  in  his  own  day  is  something  that  the 
modern  missionary  simply  cannot  expect  and  some- 
thing that  it  would  be  arrant  folly  for  him  to  expect 
(Weinel,  Die  urchristliche  und  die.  heutige  Mission, 
should  be  read  by  everyone  desiring  to  compare 
modern  missions  with  the  apostolic).  In  general, 
the  basis  for  hospitality  has  become  so  altered  that 
the  special  virtue  has  become  merged  in  the  larger 
field  of  charitable  enterprise  of  various  sorts.  The 
modern  problem  nearest  related  to  the  old  virtue 
is  the  question  of  providing  for  the  necessities  of  the 
indigent  traveler,  a  distinctly  minor  problem, 
although  a  very  real  one,  in  the  general  field  of 
social  problems  that  the  modern  church  has  to 
study.  In  so  far  as  tin;  NT  exhortations  are  based 
on  missionary  motives  there  has  been  again  a  merg- 
ing into  general  appeals  for  missions,  perhaps  spe- 
cialized occasionally  as  appeals  for  t  raveling  expense. 
The  "hospitality"  of  today,  by  which  is  meant  the 
entertainment  of  friends  or  relatives,  hardly  comes 
within  the  Bib.  use  of  the  term  as  denoting  a  special 
virtue. 

Literature. — For  hospitality  in  the  church,  Harnack, 
Mission  and  Expansion  of  Christianity,  II,  ch  iv  (10). 

Burton  Scott  Easton 
HOSTAGE,  hos'taj.     See  W ah. 

HOST  OF  HEAVEN  (D^fH  S32 ,  sebha'  ha- 
shdmayini):  The  expression  is  employed  in  the  OT 
to  denote  (1)  the  stars,  frequently  as  objects  of 
idolatry  (Dt  4  19;  17  3;  2  K  17  16;  21  3.5; 
23  4f;  Jer  8  2;  19  13;  Zeph  1  5),  but  also  as 
witnesses  in  their  number,  order  and  splendor,  to  the 
majesty  and  providential  rule  and  care  of  Jeh  (Isa 
34  4;  40  26,  "calleth  them  all  by  name";  45  12; 
Jer  33  22);  and  (2)  the  angels  (1  K  22  19;  2  Ch 
18  18;   Neh  9  6;   cf  Ps  103  21). 

(1)  Star-worship  seems  to  have  been  an  entice- 
ment to  Israel  from  the  first  (Dt  4  19;  17  3;  Am 
5  26;  cf  Acts  7  42.43),  but  attained  special  promi- 
nence in  the  days  of  the  later  kings  of  Judah.  The 
name  of  Manasseh  is  particularly  connected  with  it. 
This  king  built  altars  for  "all  the  host  of  heaven" 
in  the  courts  of  the  temple  (2  K  21  3.5).  Josiah 
destroyed  these  altars,  and  cleansed  the  temple  from 
the  idolatry  by  putting  down  the  priests  and  burn- 
ing the  vessels  associated  with  it  (2  K  23  4.5.12). 

(2)  In  the  other  meaning  of  the  expression,  the 


Hosts,  Lord  of 
House 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1434 


angels  arc  regarded  as  forming  Jeh's  "host"  or 
army,  and  He  himself  is  the  leader  of  them — "Jeh 
of  hosts"  (Isa  31  t,  ete) — though  Ihis  designation 
has  a  much  wider  reference.  Sec  Angels;  As- 
tronomy; Loud  ok  Hosts;  cf  Oehler,  Theol  of  OT, 
II,  270  IT  (ET).  James  Ohh 

HOSTS,  lulsts,  LORD  OF.     See  Loud  ok  Hosts. 

HOTHAM,  ho'tham,  HOTHAN,  ho'than  (™.n , 
hotham,  "seal") : 

(1)  An  Asherite,  son  of  Hcber,  family  of  Beriah 
(1  Ch  7  32). 

(2)  An  Aroerite,  father  of  two  of  the  mighty 
men  of  David  (1  Ch  11  44).  AV,  following  LXX 
XwOdv,  Chothdn,  has,  incorrectly,  Hothan. 

HOTHIR,  ho'thir  (Tr^H  ,  hothlr,  "abundance"): 
Mentioned  in  1  Ch  25  4.28  among  the  sons  of 
Heman,  and  one  of  those  set  apart  by  David  for  the 

musical  service,  of  the  house  of  Cod  (cf  ver  6). 

HOUGH,  hok.     See  Hock. 

HOUR,  our  (X!T"Tp,  shefathd',  ^yttJ,  she*a';  wpa, 
hora):  Hour  as  a  division  of  the  day  does  not  occur 
in  the  OT;  the  term  sheXa'  (sha'atha')  found  in  Did, 
is  Aram.,  and  as  used  there  denotes  a  short  period 
or  point  of  time  of  no  definite  length  (Dan  3  6.15; 
4  33  [Heb  3()j;  5  5).  The  Gr  hora  is  commonly 
used  in  the  NT  in  the  same  way,  as  "that  same 
hour,"  "from  that  hour,"  etc,  but  it  also  occurs  as 
a  division  of  the  day,  as,  "the  third  hour,"  "the 
ninth  hour,"  etc.  The  Hebrews  would  seem  to  have 
become  acquainted  with  this  division  of  time  through 
the  Babylonians,  but  whether  before  the  captivity 
we  are  not  certain.  The  mention  of  the  sun  dial  of 
Ahaz  would  seem  to  indicate  some  such  reckoning 
of  time  during  the  monarchy.     See  Time. 

II.  Porter 

HOURS  OF  PRAYER:  The  Mosaic  law  did  not 
regulate  the  offering  of  prayer,  but  fully  recognized 
its  spontaneous  character.  In  what  manner  or  how 
far  back  in  Jewish  history  the  sacrificial  prayer, 
mentioned  in  Lk  1  10,  originated  no  one  knows. 
In  the  days  of  Christ  it  had  evidently  become  an 
institution.  But  ages  before  that,  stated  hours  of 
prayer  were  known  and  religiously  observed  by  all 
devout  Jews.  It  evidently  belonged  to  the  evolu- 
tionary process  of  Jewish  worship,  in  connec- 
tion with  the  temple-ritual.  Devout  Jews,  living 
at  Jerus,  went  to  the  temple  to  pray  (Lk  18  10; 
Acts  3  1).  The  pious  Jews  of  the  Diaspora 
opened  their  windows  "toward  Jerus"  and  prayed 
"toward"  the  place  of  God's  presence  (I  K  8  48; 
Did  6  10;  Ps  5  7).  The  regular  hours  of  prayer, 
as  we  may  infer  from  Ps  55  17  and  Dnl  6  10,  were 
three  in  number.  The  first  coincided  with  the 
morning  sacrifice,  at  the  3d  hour  of  the  morning, 
at  9  AM  therefore  (Acts  2  15).  The  second  was 
at  the  0th  hour,  or  at  noon,  and  may  have  coin- 
cided with  the  thanksgiving  for  the  chief  meal  of 
the  day,  a  religious  custom  apparently  universally 
observed  (Mt  15  30;  Acts  27  35).  The  3d  hour 
of  prayer  coincided  with  the  evening  sacrifice,  at 
the  ninth  hour  (Acts  3  1;  10  30).  Thus  every  day, 
as  belonging  to  God,  was  religiously  subdivided,  and 
regular  seasons  of  prayer  were  assigned  to  the  devout 
believer.  Its  influence  on  the  development  of  the 
religious  spirit  must  have  been  incalculable,  and  it 
undoubtedly  is,  at  least  in  part,  the  solution  of  the 
riddle  of  the  preservation  of  the  Jewish  faith  in  the 
cruel  centuries  of  its  bitter  persecution.  Moham- 
medanism borrowed  this  feat  ure of  worship  from  the 
Jews  and  early  Christians,  and  made  it  one  of  the 
chief  pillars  of  its  faith.  Henry  E.  Dosker 


HOUSE,  hous  (I"P3 ,  baylth;  oIkos,  oikos,  in  classi- 
cal Gr  generally  "an  estate,"  oikio.,  oikia,  o^K^a, 
oikema  [lit.  "habitation"],  in  Acts  12  1,  "prison"): 

I.     Cave    Dwellings 

II.     Stone-  and  Mud-Brick-built  Houses 

1.  Details  of  Plan  and  Construction 

(1)  Corner-Stone 

(2)  Floor 
(:i)   Cutter 

(4)  Door 

(5)  Hinge 

((>)   Lock  and  Key 
(7)  Threshold 
(S)   Hearth 
(!))   Window 
(10)    Koof 

2.  Houses  of  More  than  One  Story 

(1)  Upper  Chambers  and  Stairs 

(2)  Palaces  and  Castles 

3.  Internal  Appearance 

(1)  Plaster 

(2)  Paint 

(3)  Decoration 

(4)  Cupboards 
III.  Other  Meanings 
Literature 

/.  Cave  Dwellings. — The  earliest  permanent  habi- 
tations of  the  prehistoric  inhabitants  of  Pal  were  the 
natural  caves  which  abound  throughout  the  country. 
As  the  people  increased  and  grouped  themselves 
into  communities,  these  abodes  were  supplemented 
by  systems  of  artificial  caves  which,  in  some  eases, 
developed  into  extensive  burrowings  of  many  ad- 
joining compartments,  having  in  each  system  several 
entrances.  These  entrances  were  usually  cut  through 
the  roof  down  a  few  steps,  or  simply  dropped  to  t  he 
floor  from  the  rock  surface.  The  sinking  was  shallow 
and  the  headroom  low  but  sufficient  for  the  under- 
sized troglodites  who  were  the  occupiers.  Fig.  1  is 
the  plan  of  an  elaborate  system  of  cave  dwellings 
from  Gezer,  all  adjoining  and  approached  by  9  sep- 
arate entrances  (PEFS,  October,  1905). 

//.  Stone-  and  Mud-Brick-built  Houses. — There 
are  many  references  to  the  use  of  eaves  as  dwellings 
in  the  OT.  Lot  dwelt  with  his  two  daughters  in  a 
cave  (Gen  19  30).  Elijah,  fleeing  from  Jezebel, 
lodged  in  a  cave  (1  K  19  9).  The  natural  suc- 
cessor to  the  cave  was  the  stone-built  hut,  and  just 
as  the  loose  field-bowlders  and  the  stones,  quarried 
from  the  caves,  served  their  first  and  most  vital 
uses  in  the  building  of  defence  walls,  so  did  they 
later  become  material  for  the  first  hut.  Caves, 
(hiring  the  rainy  season,  were  faulty  dwellings,  as 
at  the  time  when  protection  was  most  needed,  they 
were  being  flooded  through  the  surface  openings 
which  formed  their  entrances.  The  rudest  cell 
built  of  rough  stones  in  mud  and  covered  with  a 
roof  of  brushwood  and  mud  was  at  first  sufficient. 
More  elaborate  plans  of  several  apartments,  enter- 
ing from  what  may  be  called  a  living-room,  followed 
as  a  matter  of  course,  and  these,  huddled  together, 
constituted  the  homes  of  the  people.  Mud-brick 
buildings  (Job  4  19)  of  similar  plan  occur,  and  to 
protect  this  friable  material  from  the  weather,  the 
walls  were  sometimes  covered  with  a  casing  of 
stone  slabs,  as  at  Lachish.  (See  Bliss,  A  Mound 
of  Many  Cities.)  Generally  speaking,  this  rude 
type  of  building  prevailed,  although,  in  some  of  the 
larger  buildings,  square  dressed  and  jointed  stones 
were  used.  There  is  little  or  no  sign  of  improve- 
ment until  the  period  of  the  Hellenistic  influence, 
and  even  then  the  improvement  was  slight,  so  far 
as  the  homes  of  the  common  people  were  concerned. 
Figs.  2  and  3  are  the  isometric  sketch  and  plan 
showing  construction  of  a  typical  small  house  from 

Gezer.  The  house  is  protected  and 
1.  Details  approached  from  the  street  by  an  open 
of  Plan  and  court,  on  one  side  of  which  is  a  cov- 
Con-  ered    way.     The   doors    enter    into    a 

struction        living-room  from  which  the  two  very 

small  inner  private  rooms,  bedcham- 
bers, are  reached.     Builders  varied  the  plan  to  suit 


1435 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Hosts,  Lord  of 
House 


requirements,  but  in  the  main,  this  plan  may  be 
taken  as  typical.  When  members  of  a  family  mar- 
ried, ext  ra  accommodation  was  required.  Additions 
were  made  as  well  as  could  be  arranged  on  the 
cramped  site,  and  in  consequence,  plans  often  be- 
came such  a  meaningless  jumble  that  it  is  impossible 
to  identify  the  respective  limits  of  adjoining  houses. 
The  forecourt  was  absorbed  and  crushed  out  of 
existence,  so  that  in  many  of  the  plans  recovered 
the  arrangement  shown  in  Figs.  2  and  3  is  lost. 
Fig.  4  shows  the  elevation  of  the  house  from  the 
court . 

(1)  Corner-stone  (H3S ,  pinndh,  Isa  28  16; 
Jer  51  20;  \i0os  oi.Kpo-ytovi.aios,  Mhos  akrogo- 
nialos,  1  Pet  2  6). — In  the  construction  of 
rude  bowlder  walls,  more  esp.  on  a  sloping 
site,  as  can  be  seen  today  in  the  highlands 
of  Scotland  and  Wales,  a  large  projecting 
bowlder  was  built  into  the  lower  angle-course. 


to  find  floors  of  beaten  clay  similar  to  the  native 
floor  of  the  present  day.  Stone  slabs  were  sparingly 
used,  and  only  appear  in  the  houses  of  the  great. 


It  tied  together  the 
return  angles  and  was 
one  of  the  few  bond- 
stones  used  in  the 
building.  This  most 
necessary  support  claimed 
chief  importance  and  as 
such  assumed  a  figurative 
meaning  frequently  used  (Isa  28  16;  1  Pet  2  6; 
see  Corner-stone).  The  importance  given  to  the 
laying  of  a  sure  toundation  is  further  emphasized 
by  the  dedication  rites  in  common  practice,  evi- 
dence of  which  has  been  found  on  various  sites 
in  Pal  (see  Excavations  of  Gezer).  The  discovery 
of  human  remains  placed  diagonally  below  the 
foundations  of  the  returning  angle  of  the  house 
gives  proof  of  the  exercise  of  dedication  rites  both 
before  and  after  the  conquest.  Hiel  sacrificed  his 
firstborn  to  the  foundations  of  Jericho  and  his 
youngest  son  to  the  gates  thereof  (1  K  16  34). 
But  this  was  in  a  great  cause  compared  with  a  simi- 
lar sacrifice  to  a  private  dwelling.  The  latter  mani- 
fests a  respect  scarcely  borne  out  by  the  miserable 
nature  of  the  houses  so  dedicated.  At  the  same 
time,  it  gives  proof  of  the  frequent  collapse  of 
structures  which  the  winter  rains  made  inevitable 
and  at  which  superstition  trembled.  The  fear  of 
pending  disaster  to  the  man  who  failed  to  make 
his  sacrifice  is  recorded  in  Dt  20  5:  "What  man 
is  there  that  hath  built  a  new  house,  and  hath  not 
dedicated  it?  let  him  go  and  return  to  his  house,  lest 
he  die  in  the  battle."     See  illustration,  p.  550. 

(2)  Floor  P"p~!]2 ,  karka*). — -When  houses  were 
built  on  the  rock  outcrop,  the  floor  was  roughly 
leveled  on  the  rock  surface,  but  it  is  more  common 


It  is  unlikely 
that  wood  was 
much  used  as  a 
flooring  to  houses,  al- 
though Solomon  used 
it  for  his  temple  floor 
(1  K  6  15). 

(3)  Gutter  (113?, 
cinnor). — The  "gutter" 
in  2  S  5  8  AV  is  ob- 
viously difficult  to  as- 
sociate with  the  gutter 
of  a  house,  except  in  so 
far  as  it  may  have  a 
similar  meaning  to  the 
water  duct  or  "water 
course"  (RV)  leading  to  the  private  cistern,  which 
formed  part  of  the  plan.  Remains  of  open  channels 
for  this  purpose  have  been  found  of  rough  stones  set 
in  clay,  sometimes  leading  through  a  silt  pit  into 
the  cistern. 

(4)  Door  (r*"!  ,  deleth,  nr*3  ,  pethah;  Gvpa,  thura). 
— Doorways  were  simple,  square,  entering  openings 
in  the  wall  with  a  stone  or  wood  lintel  (mashkoph, 
Ex  12  22.23;  'ayil,  1  K  6  31)  and  a  stone  thresh- 
old raised  slightly  above  the  floor.     It  is  easy  to 


Plan  of  the  Cave   Dwellings   at  Gezer. 


Fig.  2. — Isometric  Sketch  of  a  House  at  Gezer. 

imagine  the  earliest  wooden  door  as  a  simple  mov- 
able boarded  cover  with  back  bars,  fixed  vertically 
by  a  movable  bar  slipped  into  sockets  in  the  stone 
jambs.  Doorposts  (saph,  Ezk  41  16)  appear  to 
have  been  in  use,  but,  until  locks  were  introduced, 
it  is  difficult  to  imagine  a  reason  for  them.  Posts, 
when  introduced,  were  probably  let  into  the  stone 


House 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1436 


at  top  and  bottom,  and,  unlike  our  present  door 
frame,  had  no  head-piece.  When  no  wood  was 
used,  the  stone  jambs  of  the  opening  constituted 


Fig.  3. — Plan  of  House. 


the  doorposts.  To  the  present  day  the  post  retains 
its  function  as  commanded  in  Dt  6  9;  11  20,  and 
in  it  is  fitted  a  small  case  containing  a  parchment 
on  which  is  written  the  exhortation  to  obedience. 

(5)  Hinge  (PS ,  poth,  1  K  7  50;  T$ ,  cir, 
Prov  26  14). — Specimens  of  sill  and  head  sockets 
of  stone  have  been  discovered  which  suggest  the 


Fig.  4. — Elevation  of  House  from  Court. 

use  of  the  pivot  hinge,  the  elongated  swinging  stile 
of  the  door  being  let  into  the  sockets  at  top  and 
bottom.  A  more  advanced  form  of  construction 
was  necessary  to  this  type  of  door  than  in  the  pre- 
vious instance,  and  some  little  skill  was  required  to 
brace  it  so  that  it  would  hold  together.  The  con- 
struction of  doors  and  windows  is  an  interesting 
question,  as  it  is  in  these  two  details  that  the  joinery 


Window. 


craft  first  claimed  development.  There  is  no  indi- 
cation, however,  of  anything  of  the  nature  of  ad- 
vancement, and  it  seems  probable  that  there  was 
none. 

((i)  Lock  and  key 
("lock,"  man* ul,  Neh 
3  3  ff;  Cant  5  5; 
"key,"  maphteah,  Jga 
3  25;  fig.  Isa  22  22; 
k\€iS,  kleis,  Mt  16 
19,  etc).— In  later 
Hellenic  times  a  sort, 
of  primit  ive  lock 
and  key  appeared, 
similar  to  the  Arab. 
type.  See  Excava- 
tions of  Gezer,  I,  197, 
and  illustration  in  art.  Key. 

(7)  Threshold  (CO  ,  saph,  1  K  14  17;  Ezk  40  Off; 
■p,?")?,  miphlan,  1  S  5  4.5;  Ezk  9  3,  etc).— Next 
to  the  corner-stone,  the  threshold  was  specially 
sacred,  and  in  many  instances  foundation-sacrifices 
have  been  found  buried  under  the  threshold.  In 
later  times,  when  the  Hebrews  became  weaned  of 
this  unholy  practice,  the  rite  remained  with  the 
substitution  of  a  lamp  inclosed  between  two  bowls 
as  a  symbol  of  tin;  life.     See  Gezer. 

(8)  Hearth  (FIX  ,  'ah,  Jer  36  22.23,  RV  "brazier"; 
ITS,  kiyyor). — The  references  in  the  OT  and  the 
frequent  discovery  of  hearths  make  it  clear  that  so 
much  provision  for  heating  had  been  made.  It  is  un- 
likely, however,  that  chimneys  were  provided.  The 
smoke  from  the  wood  or  charcoal  fuel  was  allowed 
to  find  its  way  through  the  door  and  windows  and 
the  many  interstices  occurring  in  workmanship  of 
the  worst  possible  description.  The  "chimney" 
referred  to  (Hos  13  3)  is  a  doubtful  tr.  The  "fire 
in  the  brazier"  (Jer  36  22  RV)  which  burned  before 
the  king  of  Judah  in  his  "winter  house"  was  prob- 
ably of  charcoal.  The  modern  natives,  during  the 
cold  season,  huddle  around  and  warm  their  hands 
at  a  tiny  glow  in  much  the  same  way  as  their  an- 
cient predecessors.  The  use  of  cow  and  camel 
dung  for  baking-oven  (tannur)  fires  appears  to  have 
continued  from  the  earliest  time  to  the  present  day 
(Ezk  4  15).     See  also  Hearth. 


Living-Room  of  House. 


(9)  Window  (6vp(s,  (hurls,  Acts  20  9;  2  Cor 
11  33). — It  would  appear  that  windows  were  often 
simple  openings  in  the  wall  which  were  furnished 
with  some  method  of  closing,  such  as  is  suggested 


1437 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


House 


in  Fig.  5,  which,  it  may  be  conjectured,  was  some- 
what the  same  as  the  primitive  door  previously 
mentioned.  The  window  of  t he  ark  (halloa,  Gen  8 
G),  the  references  in  Gen  26  8;  Josh  2  15,  and  the 
window  from  which  Jezebel  looked  (2  K  9  30), 
were  presumably  of  the  casement  class.  Ahaziah 
fell  through  a  lattice  (s'bhukhah)  in  the  same  palace, 
and  the  same  word  is  used  for  the  "networks"  (1  K 
7  41)  "covering  the  bowls  of  the  capitals,"  and 
in  Cant  2  9,  "through  the  lattice"  (harakkim).  It 
would  appear,  therefore,  that  some  variety  of  treat- 
ment existed,  and  that  the  simple  window  opening 
with  casement  and  the  opening  filled  in  with  a 
hit  l  ice  or  grill  were  distinct.  Windows  were  small, 
and,  according  to  the  Mish,  were  kept  not  less  than 


the  country;  see  Excavations  of  Gezer,  I,  190; 
PEFS,  Warren's  letters,  40.  "They  let  him  down 
through  the  tiles  |Ke'pa(ios,  keramos]  with  his 
couch  into  the  midst  before  Jesus"  (Lk  5  19)  refers 
to  the  breaking  through  of  a  roof  similar  to  this. 
The  roof  ("housetop,"  gagli;  8<S(xa,  doma)  was  an 
important  part  of  every  house;  and  was  subjected 
to  many  uses.  It  was  used  for  worship  (2  K  23  12; 
Jer  19  13;  32  29;  Zeph  1  5;  Acts  10  9).  Ab- 
salom spread  his  tent  on  the  "top  of  the  house" 
(2  S  16  22).  In  the  Feast  of  the  Tabernacles 
temporary  booths  (sukkah)  were  erected  on  the 
housetops.  The  people,  as  is  their  habit  today, 
gathered  together  on  the  roof  as  a  common  meeting- 
place  on  high  days  and  holidays  (Jgs  16  27).     The 


Modern  Akab  Village. 


6  ft.  from  floor  to  sill.  The  lattice  was  open,  with- 
out glass  filling,  and  in  this  connection  there  is  the 
interesting  figurative  reference  in  Isa  54  12  AV, 
"windows  of  agates,"  tr'1  in  RV  "pinnacles  of 
rubies."  Heaven  is  spoken  of  as  having  "windows" 
Ctiruhbah)  for  rain  (Gen  7  11;  8  2;  2  K  7  2,  etc). 
(10)  Roofs  (33,  gagh;  <rriyr],  siege). — These  were 
flat,  and  their  construction  is  illustrated  in  Figs.  2 
and  G.  Cf  "The  beams  of  our  house  arc  cedars,  and 
our  rafters  are  firs"  (Cant  1  17).  To  get  over  the 
difficulty  of  the  larger  spans,  a  common  practice 
was  to  introduce  a  main  beam  (kurtlh)  carried  on  the 
walls  and  strengthened  by  one  or  more  interme- 
diate fjosts  let  into  stone  sockets  laid  on  the  floor. 
Smaller  timbers  as  joists  ("rafters,"  raJnt)  were 
spaced  out  and  covered  in  turn  with  brushwood; 
the  final  covering,  being  of  mud  mixed  with  chopped 
straw,  was  beaten  and  rolled.  A  tiny  stone  roller 
is  found  on  every  modern  native  roof,  and  is  used 
to  roll  the  mud  into  greater  solidity  every  year 
on  t  he  advent  of  the  first  rains.  Similar  rollers  have 
been  found  among  the  ancient  remains  throughout 


wild  wranglings  which  can  be  heard  in  any  modern 
native  village,  resulting  in  vile  accusations  and  ex- 
posure of  family  secrets  hurled  from  the  housetops 
of  the  conflicting  parties,  illustrate  the  passage, 
"And  what  ye  have  spoken  in  the  ear  in  flu;  inner 
chambers  shall  be  proclaimed  upon  the  housetops" 
(Lk  12  3). 

(1)   Upper  chambers  and  stairs. — It  is  certain  that 
there    were     upper     chambers    Qallyah;     vireptoov, 
huperoon,  Acts  9  37,  etc)   to  some  of 
2.  Houses     the  houses.     Ahaziah  was  fatally  in- 
of  More  jured  by  falling  from  the  window  of 

than  One  his  palace,  and  a  somewhat  similar  fate 
Story  befell   his   mother,  Jezebel    (2  K  1  2; 

9  33).  The  escape  of  tin;  spies  from 
the  house  on  the  wall  at  Jericho  (Josh  2  15)  and 
that  of  Paul  from  Damascus  (2  Cor  11  33)  give  sub- 
stantial evidence  of  window  openings  at  a  consider- 
able height.  Elijah  carried  the  son  of  the  widow  of 
Zarephath  "up  into  the  chamber."  The  Last  Supper 
was  held  in  an  upper  chamber  (Mk  14  15).  Some 
sort  of  stairs  (mcf&lah)  of  stone  or  wood  must  have 


House,  Father's    Tm,;  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 

Humility  


1438 


existed,  ami  the  lack  of  the  remains  of  stone  si eps 
surest s  that  1  hey  were  wood  steps,  probably  in  the 
form  of  ladders. 

(2)  Palaces  and  castles  ('armon,  blrah,  hekhal; 
o.vXt|,  ault,  iraptu-PoXfi,  parcmbolt). — These  were 
pari  of  every  city  and  were  more  elaborate  in  plan, 
raised  in  all  probability  to  some  considerable  height . 
The  Can.  castle  discovered  by  Maealister  at  Gezer 
shows  a  building  of  enormously  thick  walls  and 
small  rooms.  Keisner  has  unearthed  Ahab's  palace 
at  Samaria,  revealing  a  plan  of  considerable  area. 
Solomon's  palace  is  detailed  in  1  K  7  (see  Temple). 
In  this  class  may  also  be  included  the  megalithic 
fortified  residences  with  the  beehive  guard  towers  of 
an  earlier  date,  described  by  Dr.  Mackenzie  (PEF,  I). 

Walls  were  plastered  (Lev  14  43.48),  and  small 
fragments  of  painted  (Jer  22   14)  plaster  discovered 
from  time  to  lime  show  that  some  at- 
3.  Internal    tempt   at   mural  decoration  was  made, 
Appear-  usually  in  the  form  of  crudely  painted 

ance  line   ornament.     Walls   were   recessed 

here  and  there  into  various  forms  of 
cupboards  (q.v.)  at  various  levels.  The  smaller 
(ait tings  in  the  wall  were  probably  for  lamps,  and 
in  the  larger  and  deeper  recesses  bedmats  may  have 
been  kept  and  garments  stored.  Fig.  6  shows  the 
living-room  of  an  ordinary  house,  as  previously 
described. 

///.  Other  Meanings. — The  word  has  often  the 
sense  of  "household,"  and  this  term  is  frequently 
substituted  in  RV  for  "house"  of  AV  (e.g.  Ex  12  3; 
2  K  7  11;  10  5;  15  5;  Isa  36  3;  1  Cor  111; 
1  Tim  5  14);  in  certain  cases  for  phrases  with 
"house-"  RV  has  "at  home"  (Acts  2  40;  5  42). 
See  House  of  Cod;   Household. 

Literature. — Maealister,  Excavations  at  Gezer;  PEFS; 
Sellin,  Excavations  at  Taanach;  Schumacher,  Excavations 
at  Till  Mutesellim;  Bliss,  Mound  of  Many  Cities;  arts,  in 
Dictionaries  and  Encyclopaedias. 

Aiich.  C.  Dickie 

HOUSE,  FATHER'S.     See  Father's  House. 

HOUSE,  GARDEN.     See  Garden  House. 

HOUSE  OF  GOD:  In  Gen  28  17.22  =  Bethel 
(q.v.).  In  Jgs,  1  and  2  Ch,  Ezr,  Neh,  Bs,  etc  {beth 
ha-elohlm),  a  designation  of  the  sanctuary  =  "house 
of  Jeh"  (of  the  tabernacle,  Jgs  18  31;  20  1S.26  AV; 
of  the  temple,  1  Ch  9  11;  24  5AV;2  Ch  5  14;  Ps 
42  4;  Isa  2  3,  etc;  of  the  2d  temple,  Ezr  5  8.15; 
Neh  6  10;  13  11;  ef  Mt  12  4).  Spiritually,  in 
the  NT,  the  "house  of  Cod"  (oikos  theou)  is 
the  church  or  community  of  believers  (1  Tim  3 
1.1;  lie  10  21;  1  Pet  4 'l7;  cf  1  Cor  3  9.1(1.17; 
1   Pet  2  5). 

HOUSEHOLD,  hous'hold:  Three  words  are 
usually  found  in  the  Bible  where  the  family  is  indi- 
cated. These  three  are  the  Heb  word  bayith  and 
the  Gr  words  oikia  and  oikos.  The  unit  of  the  na- 
tional lib-  of  Israel,  from  the  very  beginning,  was 
found  in  the  family.  In  the  old  patriarchal  days 
each  family  was  complete  within  itself,  the  oldest 
living  sire  being  the  unquestioned  head  of  the  whole, 
possessed  of  almost  arbitrary  powers.  The  house 
and  the  household  are  practically  synonymous. 
Cod  had  called  Abraham  "that  he  might  command 
his  children  and  household  after  him"  (Gen  18  19). 
The  Passover-lamb  was  to  be  eaten  by  the  "house- 
hold" (Ex  12  3).  The  "households"  of  the  rebels 
in  the  camp  of  Israel  shared  their  doom  (Nu  16  31- 
33;  Dt  116).  David's  household  shares  his  humil- 
iation (2  S  15  10);  the  children  everywhere  in  the 
OT  an-  the  bearers  of  the  sins  of  the  fathers.  Hu- 
man life  is  not  a  conglomerate  of  individuals;  the 
family  is  its  center  and  unit. 

Nor  is  it  different  in  the  NT.  The  curse  and  the 
blessing  of  the  apostles  are  to  abide  on  a  house, 


according  to  its  attitude  (Mt  10  13).  A  divided 
house  falls  (Mk  3  25).  The  household  believes 
with  the  head  thereof  (.In  4  53;  Acts  16  15.34). 
Thus  the  households  became  the  nuclei  for  the  early 
life  of  the  church,  e.g.  the  house  of  Prisca  and 
Aquila  at  Koine  (Rom  16  5),  of  Stephanas  (1  Cor 
16  15),  of  Onesiphorus  (2  Tim  1  16),  etc.  No 
wonder  that  the  early  church  made  so  much  of  the 
family  life.  And  in  the  midst  of  all  our  modern, 
rampant  individualism,  the  family  is  still  the;  throb- 
bing heart  of  the  church  as  well  as  of  the  nation. 

Henry  E.  Dosker 
HOUSEHOLD,    CAESAR'S.     See  Caesar's 
Household. 

HOUSEHOLDER,  hous'hol-der  (olKoSea-Tro-r^s, 
oikodespotcs):  The  word  occurs  in  Mt  13  27.52; 
20  1 ;  21  33,  for  the  master  or  owner  of  a  "house- 
hold," i.e.  of  servants  (douloi).  The  Gr  word 
emphasizes  the  authority  of  the  master. 

HOUSETOP,  hous'top.     See  House. 

HOW:  Represents  various  Heb  and  Gr  words, 
interrogative,  interject ional  and  relative.  Its  dif- 
ferent uses  refer  to  (1)  the  manner  or  way,  e.g.  Gen 
44  34,  "How  shall  I  go  up  to  my  father?"  {'ekh);  Mt 

6  28,  "how  they  grow"  (pos);  1  Cor  15  35,  "How 
are  the  dead  raised?";  (2)  degree,  extent,  frequently, 
"how  great"  (Did  4  3,  mah;  Mk  5  19,  hdsos,  "how 
much");  "how  many"  (Alt  27  13,  posos);  "how 
much"  (Acts  9  13,  hosos);   "how  much  more"  (Mt 

7  11,  posos;  1  S  14  30,  'aph  kl);  "how  oft"  (Ps  78 
40,  kavvmdh;  Mt  18  21,  posakis);  "how  long"  (Job 
7  19,  kammah;  Mt  17  17,  hcos  pole),  etc;  (3)  the 
reason,  wherefore,  etc  (Mt  18  12;  Lk  2  49,  tis); 
(4)  means — by  what  means?  (Jn  3  4.9,  pos) ;  (5)  cause 
(Jn  12  34;  Acts  2  8;  4  21,  pos);  (6)  condition,  in 
what  state,  etc  (Lk  23  55,  hos;  Acts  15  30,  pos; 
Eph  6  21,  tis);  "how"  is  sometimes  used  to  empha- 
size a  statement  or  exclamation  (2  S  1  19.25.27, 
"How  are  the  mighty  fallen!");  "how"  is  also  used 
for  "that"  (Gen  30  29,  'eth  'dsher,  frequently  "how 
that";  Ex  9  29,  kl  most  frequently,  in  the  NT, 
hdti,  Mt  12  5;  16  12.21;  Acts  7  25;  Rom  7  1,  etc, 
in  AV). 

RV  has  "wherefore"  for  "how"  (Gen  38  29,  m 
"how");  has  "what"  (Jgs  13  12;  1  K  12  <i;  Jot)  22 
13;  1  Cor  14  2(i),  omits  (2  Cor  13  5);  has  "how  that" 
(1  S  2  22);  "that"  (1  Ch  18  9;  Lk  1  58;  (ial  4  13; 
Jas  2  22;  Rev  2  2);  has  "that  even"  for  "how  that" 
(He  12  17);  "What  is  this?"  for  "How  is  it  that?" 
(Lk  16  2);  omits  "How  is  it?"  (Mk  2  16,  different  text) ; 
has  "  Do  ye  not  yet,"  for  "How  is  it  that  ?"  (Mk  8  21); 
"Have  ye  not  yet"  (Mk  4  40,  different  text);  "what" 
for  "  how  much  "  (Lk  19  15,  different  text) ;  omits  "how 
that"  (Lk  7  22) ;  "then  how"  (Jas  2  24);  has  "cannot" 
for  "How  can  he"  (1  Jn  4  20);  omits  "How  hast  thou" 
(Job  26  3),  "how  is"  (Jer  51  41);  has  "how"  for 
"the  fashion  which"  (('.en  6  15),  for  "and"  (Ex  18  1). 
for  "what"  (Jgs  18  24;  1  S  4  16;  1  Cor  7  Hi),  for 
"why"  (Job  19  28;  31  1;  Jer  2  33;  Gal  2  14),  for 
"when"  (Job  37  15),  for  "for"  (Ps  42  4),  for  "but 
God"  (Prov  21  12),  for  "whereunto"  (Mk  4  30);  for 
"by  what  means"  (Lk  8  30;  Jn  9  21),  for  "how  great- 
ly" (Phil  1  8);  "how  that"  for  "because"  (Kzk  6  9; 
1  Thess  1  5),  for  "and  how"  (Acts  20  20);  "know  how 
to"  for  "can"  (Mt  16  3);  "how"  for  "by  whom"  (Am 
7  2.5). 

"How"  in  compounds  gives  us  Howbeit  (how  be 
it).  It  is  the  tr  of  'uldni,  "but,"  "truly,"  "vet" 
(Jgs  18  29);  of  'akh,  "certainly,"  "only"  (IS  8 
9);  of  'ephes,  "moreover,"  etc  (2  S  12  14);  of 
ken,  "so,"  "thus"  (2  Ch  32  31);  of  rak,  "only," 
"surely,"  "nevertheless"  (1  K  11  13);  of  alia, 
"but,'"'  etc  (Jn  7  27;  Acts  7  48;  1  Cor  8  7,  etc); 
of  de,  "but,"  etc  (Jn  6  23);  of  mentoi  (Jn  7  13 
AV);  many  other  instances. 

For  "howbeit,"  RV  has  frequently  "but"  (2  K  12  13, 
etc),  "and"  (2  Ch  21  20;  Mk  5  19),  "surely"  (ERV) 
(Job  30  24),  "now"  (Jn  11  13),  "yet"  (2  Tor  11  21), 
"nay,    did"     (He  3   1<>);     omits    (Mt  17  21,    different 


1439 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


House,  Father's 
Humility 


text);  it  has  "howbeit"  for  "but"  (2  K  12  3;  Lk  19 
27-  Jn  5  34,  etc),  for  "also"  (Lev  23  27.39),  for 
"nevertheless"  (Nu  13  28;  1  K  22  43;  Mk  14  36; 
Lk  13  33  ERV;  18  8;  2  Tim  2  19),  for  "notwith- 
standing" (Josh  22  19;  Lk  10  20  ERV,  "nevertheless 
ARV;  Phil  4  14),  for  "nay"  (Rom  7  7). 

Howsoever  (in  what  manner  soever,  although, 
however)  is  the  tr  of  kol  'asher,  "all  that  which,"  etc 
(Zcph  3  7,  "howsoever  I  punished  them,"  RV  "ac- 
cording to  all  that  I  have  appointed  concerning 
her,"  m  "howsoever  I  have  punished  her";  ERV 
omits  "have");  of  rak,  "only,"  "surely,"  "never- 
theless" (Jgs  19  20);  of  ifhi-mah,  "let  be  what" 
(2  S  18  22.23,  RV  "but  come  what  may");  in  2  S 
24  3  "how"  and  "soever"  are  separated  (kahem), 
"how  many  soever  they  may  be,"  lit.  "as  they  and 
as  they."  W.  L.  Walker 

HOZAI,  ho'za-I  Clin  ,  hozay,  or  as  it  stands  at  the 
close  of  the  verse  in  question,  2  Ch  33  19,  ""Jin, 
hozay;  LXX  tcov  optovrwv,  ton  horonton;  Vulg 
"Hozai";  AV  the  seers;  AVm  "Hosai";  ARV 
"Hozai,"  ARVm  "the  seers."  LXX  not  improb- 
ably reads  n^thn  ,  ha-hozim, , as  in  ver  IS;  an  easy 
error,  since  there  we  find  C^lhn  "HIT] ,  w*-dhibhere 
hn-huzlm,  "the  words  of  the  seers,"  and  here  "'"111 
^Tln  ,  dibh're  hozay,  "the  words  of  Hozai."  Kittel, 
following  Budde,  conjectures  as  the  original  read- 
ing V"n  ,  hozayw,  "his  [Manasseh's]  seers"):  A  his- 
toriographer of  Manasseh,  king  of  Judah.  Thought 
by  many  of  the  Jews,  incorrectly,  to  be  the  prophet 
Isaiah,  who,  as  we  learn  from  2  Ch  26  22,  was  his- 
toriographer of  a  preceding  king,  Uzziah.  This 
"History  of  Hozai"  has  not  come  down  to  us.  The 
prayer  of  Manasseh,  mentioned  in  33  12  f.18  f  and 
included  in  this  history,  suggested  the  apocryphal 
book,  "The  Prayer  of  Manasses,"  written,  probably, 
in  the  1st  cent.  BC.     See  Apocrypha. 

J.  Cray  McAllister 

HUCKSTER,  huk'ster:  A  retailer  of  small  wares, 
provisions,  or  the  like;  a  peddler.  "A  huckster 
shall  not  be  acquitted  of  sin"  (Sir  26  29).  Neither 
a  merchant  nor  a  huckster  is  without  sin. 

HUKKOK,  huk'ok  (p'ptj,  hukkok):  A  town  on 
the  border  of  Naphtali  named  with  Aznoth-tabor 
(Josh  19  34).  It  is  usually  identified  with  the 
village  of  yakuk,  which  stands  on  the  W.  of  Wady 
el-'Amud,  to  the  N.W.  of  Gennesaret,  about  4  miles 
from  the  sea.  This  would  fall  on  the  boundary  of 
Zebulun  and  Naphtali,  between  Tabor  and  Han- 
nathon  (Josh  19  14).  The  identification  may  be 
correct ;   but  it  seems  too  far  from  Tabor. 

HUKOK,  hu'kok.     See  Helkath. 

HUL,  hul  (b^H,  /(/7/):  The  name  of  one  of  the 
"sons  of  Aram"  in' the  list  of  nations  descended 
from  Noah,  but  a  people  of  uncertain  identity  and 
location  (Gen  10  23;    1  Ch  1  17). 

HULDAH,  hul'da  (pr\bn ,  huldah,  "weasel"; 
'OXSa,  Holda):  A  prophetess  who  lived  in  Jerus 
during  the  reign  of  Josiah.  She  was  the  wife  of 
Shallum,  keeper  of  the  wardrobe,  and  resided  in  the 
"Mishneh"  or  second  part  or  quarter  of  Jerus  (lo- 
cation unknown).  Cheyne  says  it  should  read, 
"She  was  sit  t  ing  in  the  upper  part  of  the  gate  of  the 
Old  City,"  i.e.  in  a  public  central  place  ready  to 
receive  any  who  wished  to  inquire  of  Jeh.  He  gives 
no  reason  for  such  a  change  of  text.  The  standing 
and  reputation  of  Huldah  in  the  city  are  attested 
by  the  fact  that  she;  was  consulted  when  the  Book 
of  the  Law  was  discovered.  The  king,  high  priest, 
counsellors,  etc,  appealed  to  her  rather  than  to 
Jeremiah,  and  her  word  was  accepted  by  all  as  the 
word  of  Jeh  (2  K  22  14-20;  2  Ch  34  22  -29). 

J.  ,J.  Reeve 


HUMAN  SACRIFICE.     See  Sacrifice,  Human. 

HUMILIATION,  hu-mil-i-a'shun,  OF  CHRIST 
(Acts  8  33;  Phil  2  8).  Sec  Kenosis;  Person  of 
Christ. 

HUMILITY,  hu-mil'i-ti  (JTi:?,   'anawah;    Taim- 

vo^poo-vvT],  tapeinophrosune) : 

(1)  The  noun  occurs  in  the  OT  only  in  Prov  15  33; 
18  12;  22  4,  but  the  adj.  "humble"  appears  frequently 
as  the  tr  of  'dni,  'anaw,  shaphdl,  meaning  also  "poor," 
"afflicted";  the  vb.,  as  the  tr  of  'Cindh,  "to  afflict,"  "to 
humble,"  and  of  kdna',  "to  be  or  become  humbled"; 
Sana,  "to  be  lowly,"  occurs  in  Mic  6  8.  For  "  humble" 
(Ps  9  12;  10  12)  RV  has  "poor";  Ps  10  17;  34  2; 
69  32,  "meek";  for  "humbled"  (Ps  35  13),  "afflicted" 
(Isa  2  11;  10  33),  "brought  low";  for  "He  humbleth 
himself"  (Isa  2  9)  "is  brought  low,"  m  "humbleth 
himself";  Ps  10  10,  "boweth  down";  tapeinophrosune 
is  tr<i  "humility"  (Col  2  18.23;  1  Pet  5  5);  in  several 
ot  her  places  it  is  tr<* "  lowliness ' '  and  ' '  lowliness  of  mind ' ' ; 
tapeinos  is  tr<>  "humble"  (.his  4  (>;  1  Pet  5  5;  else- 
where "lowly,"  etc;  1  Pet  3  8,  tapeinophron),  RV 
"humble-minded";  tapeinoo,  "to  humble,"  occurs  fre- 
quently (Mt  18  4;  23  12,  etc);  tapeindsis  is  "humil- 
iation" (Acts  8  33);  for  "vile  body"  (Phil  3  21)  RV 
gives  "body  of  our  humiliation." 

(2)  (a)  In  the  OT  as  well  as  in  the  NT,  humility 
is  an  essential  characteristic  of  true  piety,  or  of  the 
man  who  is  right  with  God.  God  humbles  men  in 
order  to  bring  them  to  Himself  (Dt  8  2.3,  etc),  and 
it  is  when  men  humble  themselves  before  Him  that 
they  are  accepted  (1  K  21  29;  2  Ch  7  14,  etc); 
to  "walk  humbly  with  thy  God"  completes  the  Di- 
vine requirements  (Mic  6  8).  In  Ps  18  35  (2  S 
22  36)  the  quality  is  ascribed  to  God  Himself, 
"Thy  gentleness  [or  condescension]  hath  made  me 
great."  Of  "him  that  hath  his  seat  on  high"  it  is 
said,  "[He]  humbleth  [shaphel]  himself  to  behold  the 
things  that  are  in  heaven  and  in  the  earth"  (Ps  113 
6).  It  is  in  the  humble  heart  that  "the  high  and 
lofty  One,  ....  whose  name  is  Holy"  dwells  (Isa 
57  15;  cf  66  2). 

(?>)  The  word  tapeinophrosune  is  not  found  in 
classical  Gr  (Light  foot ) ;  in  the  NT  (with  the  ex- 
ception of  1  Pet  5  5)  it  is  Pauline.  In  Gr  pre- 
Christian  writers  tapeinos  is,  with  a  few  exceptions 
in  Plato  and  Platonic  writers,  used  in  a  bad  or 
inferior  sense — as  denoting  something_  evil  or  un- 
worthy. The  prominence  it  gained  in  Christian 
thought  indicates  the  new  conception  of  man  in 
relation  to  God,  to  himself,  and  to  his  fellows,  which 
is  due  to  Christianity.  It  by  no  means  implies 
slavishness  or  servility;  nor  is  it  inconsistent  with 
a  right  estimate  of  oneself,  one's  gifts  and  calling  of 
Cod,  or  with  proper  self-assertion  when  called  for. 
But  the  habitual  frame  of  mind  of  a  child  of  Cod 
is  that  of  one  who  feels  not  only  that  he  owes  all 
his  natural  gifts,  etc,  to  God,  but  that  he  has  been 
the  object  of  undeserved  redeeming  love,  and  who 
regards  himself  as  being  not  his  own,  but  God's  in 
Christ.  He  cannot  exalt  himself,  for  he  knows  that 
he  has  nothing  of  himself.  The  humble  mind  is 
thus  at  the  root  of  all  other  graces  and  virtues. 
Self-exaltation  spoils  everything.  There  can  be  no 
real  love  without  humility.  "Love,"  said  Paul, 
"vaunteth  not  itself,  is  not  puffed  up"  (1  Cor  13 
4).  As  Augustine  said,  humility  is  first,  second  and 
third  in  Christianity.  _  . 

(c)  Jesus  not  only  strongly  impressed  His  disci- 
ples with  the  need  of  humility,  but  was  in  Himsell 
its  supreme  example.  He  described  Himself  as 
"meek  and  lowly  [tapeinos]  in  heart"  (Mt  11  29). 
The  first  of  the  Beatitudes  was  to  "the  poor  in 
spirit"  (Mt  5  3),  and  it  was  "the  meek"  who 
should  "inherit  the  earth."  Humility  is  the  way 
to  true  greatness:  he  who  should  "humble  himself 
as  this  little  child"  should  be  "the  greatest  in  the 
kingdom  of  heaven";  "Whosoever  shall  exalt  him- 
self shall  be  humbled;  and  whosoever  shall  humble 
himself   shall   be   exalted"    (Mt  18  4;    23   12;     Lk 


Humps 
Hur 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1440 


14  11;  18  14).  To  the  humble  mind  (ruth  is  re- 
vealed (Ml  11  25;  Lk  10  21).  Jesus  set  a  touch- 
ing example  of  humility  in  I  lis  washing  His  disci- 
ples' feet    (.In    13    1    17)'. 

(if)  St.  Paul,  therefore,  makes  an  earnest  appeal 
to  Christians  (Phil  2  1-11)  thai  they  should  cherish 
and  manifest  the  Spirit  of  their  Lord's  humility — 
"in  lowliness  of  mind  each  counting  oilier  better 
than  himself,"  and  adduces  the  supreme  example  of 
the  self-emptying  (kenusis)  of  Christ:  "Have  this 
mind  in  you,  which  was  also  in  Christ  Jesus,"  etc. 
The  rendering  of  hea uton  ckenosen  (Phil  2  7  AV)  by 
"he  humbled  himself"  has  given  rise  to  the  desig- 
nation of  the  Incarnation  as  "the  Humiliation  of 
Christ." 

(c)  There  is  a  false  humility  which  Paul  warns 
against,  a  self-sought,  "voluntary  humility"  (Col 
2  18.23).  This  still  exists  in  many  forms,  and  has 
to  lie  guarded  against.  It  is  not  genuine  humility 
when  we  humble  ourselves  with  the  feeling  that  we 
are  greater  than  others,  hut  only  when  we  do  not: 
think  of  self  at  all.  It  is  not  alone  the  sense  of  sin 
that  should  create  the  humble  spirit:  Jesus  had  no 
sin.  It  belongs  not  merely  to  the  creature,  but  even 
to  a  son  in  relation  to  Cod.  There  may  be  much 
self-satisfaction  where  sinfulness  is  confessed.  We 
may  be  proud  of  our  humility.  It  is  necessary  also 
always  to  beware  of  "the  pride  that  apes  humility." 

\Y.  L.  Walker 

HUMPS,  humps:  Appears  in  Isa  30  0  in  ARV 
for  "hunches"  in  AV. 

HUMTAH,  hum'ta  (HCjpn ,  humtah):  An  un- 
identified place  mentioned  between  Aphekah  and 
Hebron  in  the  mountain  of  Judah  (Josh  15  54). 

HUNDRED,  hun'dred  (HX'Q ,  me'ah;  €ko.t6v, 
hckaton).     See  Number. 

HUNGER,  hun'ger  (2^~\ ,  ra'abh;  Xtjios,  limos 
(subs.),  Tmvdto,  pcinad  (vb.):  (1)  The  desire  for 
food,  a  physiological  sensation  associated  with 
emptiness  of  the  stomach,  and  dependent  on  some 
state  of  the  mucous  membrane;  (2)  starvation  as 
the  effect  of  want  of  food,  as  Ex  16  3;  Isa  49  10; 
(3)  to  feel  the  craving  for  food  as  Dt  8  3;  when 
used  to  indicate  the  condition  due  to  general  scarcity 
of  food  as  Jer  38  0;  Ezk  34  29  it  is  replaced  in  RV 
by  "famine."  The  word  is  used  to  express  the 
poverty  which  follows  idleness  and  sloth  (Prov  19 
15).  The  absence  of  this  condition  is  given  as  one 
of  the  characteristics  of  the  future  state  of  happi- 
ness (Isa  49  10;  Ezk  34  29;  Rev  7  16).  Meta- 
phorically the  passionate  striving  for  moral  and 
spiritual  rectitude  is  called  hungering  and  thirsting 
after  righteousness  (Mt  5  (»);  and  the  satisfaction 
of  the  soul  which  receives  Christ  is  described  as  a 
state  in  which  "he  shall  not  hunger"  (.In  6  35). 

On  two  occasions  it  is  said  of  Our  Lord  that  He 
hungered  (Mt  21  IS;  Lk  4  2);  9  t  the  old  Eng. 
expression  "an  hungred"  is  used,  the  "an"  being  a 
prefix  which  indicates  that  the  condition  is  being 
continued  (Mt  12  1.3;  25  35.37.42.44;  Mk  2  25; 
Lk  6  3  AV).  In  Mt  4  2  AV,  "an  hungred"  has 
been  changed  to  "hungered"  in  RV.  "Hard  be- 
stead and  hungry"  in  Isa  8  21  means  bested 
(that  is,  placed)  in  a  condition  of  hardship,  "son; 
distressed,"  ARV.  The  word  occurs  in  Spenser, 
"Thus  ill  bestedd  and  fearful  more  of  shame"  (I, 
i,  24).  The  reference  of  the  aggravation  of  the 
sensation  of  hunger  when  one  who  is  starving 
awakes  from  a  dream  of  food  (Isa  29  8)  is  graphi- 
cally illustrated  by  the  experience  of  the  antarctic, 
voyager  (Shackleton,  Heart  of  the  Antarctic,  II,  9). 

Alex.  Macalister 

HUNTING,  hunt'ing  (T1*  ,  Qayidh) :  Thehunting 
of  wild  animals  for  sport,  or  for  the  defence  of  men 


and  flocks,  or  for  food,  was  common  in  Western 
Asia  and  Egypt,  esp.  in  early  times.  Some  of  the 
Egyp  and  Assyr  kings  were  great  hunters  in  the 
first  sense,  for  example  Amenhotep  111  (1411-1375 
PC),  "a  lion-hunting  and  bull-baiting  Pharaoh," 
who  boasted  of  having  slain  70  bulls  in  the  course 
of  one  expedition,  and  of  having  killed  at  one  time 
or  other  102  lions;  and  the  Assyrian  conqueror. 
Tiglath-pileser  I  (c  1100  BC),  who  claimed  4  wild 
bulls,  14  elephants  and  920  lions  as  the  trophies  of 
his  skill  and  courage. 

The   Bib.   prototype  of  these  heroes  of  war  and 

the  chase  is  Nimrod,  "a  mighty  hunter  before  Jeh" 

(Gen  10  9),  that  is  perhaps  "a  hunter 

1.  Nimrod  who  had  no  equal,"  a  figure  not  yet 
and  His  clearly  identifiable  with  any  historical 
Like                 or  mythical  character  in  the  Assyro- 

Bab  monuments,  but  possibly  the 
Gilgamesh  of  the  great  epic,  who  may  be  the  hero 
represented  on  seals  and  reliefs  as  victorious  over 
the  lion  (Skinner,  "Gen,"  ICC,  208).  We  are  re- 
minded also  of  Samson's  exploit  at  Timnah  (Jgs 
14  5  f),  but  this,  like  David's  encounter  with  the  lion 
and  the  hear  (1  S  17  34  f)  and  Benaiah's  struggle 
with  a  lion  in  a  pit  on  a  snowy  day  (2  S  23  20), 
was  an  occasional  incident  and  scarcely  comes 
under  the  category  of  hunting.  There  is  no  evi- 
dence that  hunting  for  sport  was  ever  practised  by 
the  kings  of  Judah  and  Israel.  Not  until  the  time 
of  Herod  the  Great,  who  had  a  hunting  establish- 
ment and  was  a  great  hunter  of  boars,  stags,  and  wild 
asses  (Jos,  BJ,  1,  xxi,  13),  mastering  as  many  as  40 
beasts  in  one  day,  do  we  find  a  ruler  of  Pal  indulging 
in  this  pastime. 

Hunting,   however,   for  the  two  other  purposes 
mentioned  above  was  probably  as  frequent  among 

the    Israelites,    even    after    they    had 

2.  Hunting  ceased  to  be  nomads,  as  among  their 
in  the  OT      neighbors.     We  know  indeed  of  only 

two  personal  examples,  both  in  the 
patriarchal  period  and  both  outside  the  direct  line 
of  Israelii ish  descent:  Esau  (Gen  25  27  IT)  and 
Ishmael  (Gen  21  20);  but  there  are  several  refer- 
ences and  many  figurative  allusions  to  the  pursuit 
and  its  methods  and  instruments.  Hunting  (inclu- 
sive of  fowling)  is  mentioned  in  the  Pent  in  the  regu- 
lation about  pouring  out  the  blood  and  covering  it 
with  dust  (Lev  17  13);  and  there  is  a  general 
reference  in  the  proverb  (Prov  12  27):  "The  sloth- 
ful man  roast  eth  not  that  which  he  took  in  hunting." 
The  hunting  of  the  lion  is  assumed  in  Ezekiel's 
allegory  of  the  lioness  and  her  two  whelps  (Ezk  19 
1-9;  cf  Job  10  16);  of  the  antelope  or  oryx  (Dt 
14  5;  Isa  51  20);  of  the  roe  (Prov  6  5);  "of  the 
partridge  in  the  mountains  (1  S  26  20),  and  of 
birds  in  general  in  many  passages.  Hunting  is 
probably  implied  in  the  statement  about  the  pro- 
vision of  harts,  gazelles  and  roebucks  for  Solomon's 
kitchen  (1  K  4  23),  and  to  some  extent  in  the  refer- 
ence to  the  den  of  lions  in  Babylon  (Dnl  6  7  ff). 

The  weapons  most  frequently  employed  by  hunt- 
ers seem   to  have  been  bows  and  arrows.     Isaac 

(Gen  27  3)   commands  Esau  to   take 

3.  Methods  his  how  and  quiver  and  procure  him 
of  Hunters    venison  or  game  (cf  also  Isa  7  24;  Job 

41  28).  This  method  is  amply  illus- 
trated by  the  monuments.  Ashur-nazir-pal  III  (885- 
860  BC)  and  Darius  (c  500  BC),  for  example,  are 
depict  eel  shooting  at  lions  from  the  chariot.  Use 
was  also  made  of  the  sword,  the  spear,  the  dart  or 
javelin,  the  sling  and  the  club  (Job  41  26.28  f,  where 
the  application  of  these  weapons  to  hunting  is  im- 
plied). The  larger  animals  were  sometimes  caught 
in  a  pit.  The  classical  reference  is  in  Ezekiel's 
allegory,  "He  was  taken  in  their  pit"  (shahath,  Ezk 
19  4.8;  cf  also  Isa  24  17  f;  Jer  48  43  f;  'Ps  35  7, 
etc) .    The  details  of  this  mode  of  capture  as  practised 


1441 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Humps 
Hur 


at  the  present  day,  and  probably  in  ancient  times, 
are  described  by  Tristram  in  his  Natural  History  of 
the  Bible  (118  f).  A  more  elaborate  method  is  de- 
scribed by  Maspero  in  Lectures  historiques   (2S5). 


Assyrian  Lion  Hunt. 

To  make  the  pit-capture  more  effective,  nets  were 
also  employed:  "They  spread  their  net  over  him" 
(Ezk  19  8;  cf  Ps  35  7).  When  caught,  the  lion 
was  sometimes  placed  in  a  large  wooden  cage  (Ezk 
19  9,  sughar,  the  Assyr  shigdru;  for  the  word  and 
the  thing  cf  SBOT,  ''Ezk,"  Eng.,  132;  Heb,  71). 
The  lion  (or  any  other  large  animal)  was  led  about 
by  a  ring  or  hook  {hah)  inserted  in  the  jaws  or  nose 
(2  K  19  28  =  Isa  37  29;  Ezk  19  4.9;  29  4;  38  4). 
From  wild  animals  the  brutal  Assyrians  transferred 
the  custom  to  their  human  captives,  as  the  Israel- 
ites were  well  aware  (2  Ch  33  11  RVm,  Heb  [w"h; 
for  monumental  illustrations  cf  SBOT,  "Ezk," 
Eng.,  132  f).  Nets  were  also  used  for  other  animals 
such  as  the  oryx  or  antelope  (Isa  51  20).  The 
Egyp  and  Assyr  monuments  show  that  dogs  were 
employed  in  hunting  in  the  ancient  East,  and  it  is 
not  improbable  that  they  were  put  to  this  service 
by  the  Hebrews  also,  but  there  is  no  clear  Bib. 
evidence,  as  "greyhound"  in  Prov  30  31  is  a  ques- 
tionable rendering.  Jos  indeed  {Ant,  IV,  viii,  9) 
mentions  the  hunting  dog  in  a  law  ascribed  to 
Moses,  but  the  value  of  the  allusion  is  uncertain. 

The  hunting  of  birds  or  fowling  is  so  often  referred  or 
alluded  to  that  it  must  have  been  very  widely  practised 
(cf  Ps  91  3;  124  7;  Prov  1  17;  6  5; 
Eccl  9  12;  Am  3  ">,  etc).  The  only  bird 
specifically  mentioned  is  the  partridge, 
said  to  be  hunted  on  the  mountains  (1  S 
26  '20).  The  method  of  hunting  is  sup- 
posed by  Tristram  (NHB,  225)  to  be  that 
still  prevalent — continual  pursuit  until  the 
creature  is  struck  down  by  sticks  thrown  along  the 
ground — but  the  interpretation  is  uncertain.  Birds  were 
generally  caught  by  snares  or  traps.  Two  passages  are 
peculiarly  instructive  on  this  point:  Job  18  8-10,  where 
six  words  are  used  for  such  contrivances,  represented 
respectively  by  "net,"  "toils,"  "gin,"  "snare,"  "noose," 


4.  Fowlers 
and  Their 
Snares 


Hunting  Deer  in  an  Enclosed  Field. 


"trap";  and  Am  3  5,  which  is  important  enough  to  be 
cited  in  full:  "Can  a  bird  fall  in  a  snare  upon  the 
earth,  where  no  gin  is  set  for  him  ?  shall  a  snare  spring 
up  from  the  ground,  and  have  taken  nothing  at  all?" 
The  word  for  "snare"  in  this  passage  (pah)  probably 
describes  a  net  laid  on  the  ground,  perhaps  a  circular 
net  like  the  Egvp  bird-trap  represented  in  the  Cam- 
bridge Bible,  "Amos,"  157.  The  word  for  "gin,"  usually 
tr<i  in  RV  "snare"  (mdkesh,  lit.  "fowling  instrument") 
is  supposed  to  refer  either  to  the  bait  (ib,  158)  or  to  the 


catch  connected  with  it  which  causes  the  net  to  collapse 
(Siegfried).  For  a  full  account  of  Egyp  modes  of  fowl- 
ing which  probably  illustrate  ancient  Palestinian  methods, 
cf  Wilkinson,  Popular  Account,  II,  17X-83.  The  two 
words  (mbkesh  and  pah)  mentioned  above  are  used  fig- 
uratively in  many  OT  passages,  the  former  repeatedly  of 
the;  deadly  influence  of  Canaanitish  idolatry  on  Israel,  as 
in  Ex  23  33,  "For  if  thou  serve,  their  gods,  it  will  surely 
be  a  snare  unto  thee"  (cf  Ex  34  12;  Dt  7  IB;  Josh 
23  13).  The  use  of  the  hawk  in  fowling,  which  is  at- 
tested for  Northern  Syria  by  a  bas-relief  found  in  1908 
at  Sakje-Geuzi,  is  not  mentioned  in  the  OT,  but  there 
may  perhaps  be  an  allusion  in  Apoc  (Bar  3  17,  "they 
that  had  their  pastime  with  the  fowls  of  the  air").  A 
reference  to  the  use  of  decoys  has  been  found  in  Jer  5 
27,  "a  cage  ....  full  of  birds."  but.  that  is  a  doubtful 
interpretation,  and  in  the  Gr  of  Sir  11  30,  "As  a  decoy 
partridge  in  a  cage,  so  is  the  heart  of  a  proud  man,"  but 
the  Heb  text  of  the  latter  is  less  explicit.      Seo  Fowler. 

The  NT  has  a  few  figurative  allusions  to  hunting. 
The  words  for  "catch"  in  Mk  12  13  and  Lk  11  54 

(agreud  and  thereuo)  mean  lit.  "hunt." 
5.  Allusions  The  vb.  "ensnare"  (pagideud)  occurs 
in  the  NT      once  in  the  Gospels  (Alt  22  15),  and 

the  noun  "snare"  (pagis)  is  met  with 
in  5  passages  (Lk  21  34;  Rom  11  9;  1  Tim  3  7; 
6  9;  2  Tim  2  20).  Another  word  for  "snare" 
{hrochos),  which  means  lit.  "noose"  (RVm),  is  used 
in  1  Cor  7  35.  The  words  for  "things  that  cause 
stumbling"  and  "stumble"  (skdndalon  and  skanda- 
lizo)  may  possibly  conceal  in  some  passages  an  allu- 
sion to  a  hunter's  trap  or  snare.  Skandalon  is 
closely  allied  to  skanddlethron,  "the  stick  in  a  trap 
on  which  the  bait  is  placed,"  and  is  used  in  LXX  for 
mokesh.  The  abundant  use  of  imagery  taken  from 
hunting  in  the  Bible  is  remarkable,  in  view  of  the 
comparative  rarity  of  literal  references. 

Literature. — In  addition  to  the  works  cited  in  the 
course  of  the  art.,   the  art.   "Hunting"   in   DB-,    IIDB 
large  and  small,   EB,  Jew  Enc;    and  "Jagd"  in  German 
Bible  Diets,  of  Guthe,  Kiehm-,  and  Wiener,  and  in  BE3. 
William  Taylor  Smith 

HUPHAM,  hu'fam  (DSln,  huphdm,  "coast- 
inhabitant"):  One  of  Benjamin's  sons  and  head  of 
the  Huphamite  family  (Nu  26  39).     See  Huppim. 

HUPPAH,  hup'a  (HSn,  huppah,  "protection"): 
The  priest  in  charge  of  the  13th  course  as  prescribed 
under  David  (1  Ch  24  13). 

HUPPIM,  hup'im  (S^SH ,  huppim,  "coast- 
people"):  Probably  a  variant  form  of  Hupham 
(q.v.).  From  the  only  mention  made  of  him  (Gen 
46  21;  1  Ch  7  12.15),  his  direct  descent  is  difficult 

to  establish. 

HUR,  hur  ("VTJ,  hur): 

(1)  A  prominent  official  in  Israel.  With  Aaron 
he  held  up  Moses'  hands  during  the;  battle  against 
the  Amalekites  (Ex  17  10.12)  and  assisted  him  as 
judicial  head  of  the  people  during  Moses'  stay  in 
the  mount  (Ex  24  14). 

(2)  Grandfather  of  Bezalel,  the  head  artificer 
in  the  construction  of  the  Tabernacle  (Ex  31  2; 
35  30;  38  22;  2  Ch  1  5).  He  is  here  assigned 
to  the  tribe  of  Judah,  and  in  1  Ch  is  connected  with 
the  same  by  descent  through  Caleb  (2  19.20.50; 
4  1.4).  Jos'  {A  nt,  III,  ii,  4;  vi,  1)  makes  him  identi- 
cal with  (1)  and  the  husband  of  Miriam. 

(3)  One  of  the  five  kings  of  Midian  slain  along 
with  Balaam  when  Israel  avenged  the  "matter  of 
Peor"  upon  this  people  (Nu  31  8;  cf  vs  1.2.16). 
In  Josh  13  21  these  kings  are  spoken  of  as  "chiefs 
[n'sVim]  of  Midian"  and  "princes  [n<"slkhim\  of 
Sihon,"  king  of  the  Amorites. 

(4)  According  to  11(48  AV,  the  father  of  one 
of  Solomon's  twelve  officers  who  provided  food  for 
the  king's  household,  and  whose  district  was  the 
hill  country  of  Ephraim.  Here  RV  has  "Ben-hur," 
taking  the  Heb  ben,  "son  of,"  as  part  of  the  proper 
name;    and  the  same  is  true  in  reference  to  the 


Hurai 
Hyena 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1442 


names  of  four  others  of  these  officers  (cf  vs  9.10. 
11.13). 

(5)  Eat  her  of  Rephaiah,  who  was  one  of  the  build- 
ers of  the  wall  under  Nehemiah,  and  ruler  of  half 
the  district  of  Jerus  (Neh  3  9). 

Benjamin  Reno  Downer 

HURAI,  hu'rl,  hu'ra-I,  hu-ra'I  ("H^n,  huray, 
"linen-weaver"):  One  of  David's  "mighty  men" 
mentioned  in  1  Ch  11  32  as  of  the  brooks  of  Gaash, 
i.e.  from  Mt.  Gaash.  In  the  2  S  23  30,  the 
orthography  is  Hiddai. 

HURAM,  hu'ram  (E"]?n,  huram,  "noble-born"): 

(1)  Grandson  of  Benjamin  (1  Ch  8  5). 

(2)  King  of  Tyre  in  alliance  with  David  and  Solo- 
mon. So  named  in  2  Ch  2  3.11.12;  8  2;  9  10.21, 
but  elsewhere  written  Hiram  (q.v.). 

(3)  The  Tyrian  artisan  who  is  so  named  in  2  Ch 

2  13;   4  11.16,  but  elsewhere  called  "Hiram." 

HURI,  hu'rl  CTUI,  hurl,  "linen  weaver"):  One 
of  the  immediate  descendants  of  (lad,  and  father  of 
Abihail,  a  chief  man  of  his  family  (1  Ch  5  14). 

HURT,  hurt:  The  term  (noun  and  vb.)  represents 
a  large1  number  of  Heb  words,  of  which  the  chief  an; 
3>-\,  rax  (vb.  373n,  raV),  "evil"  (Gen  26  29;  1  S 
24  9;  Ps  35  4,  etc),  and  ~\2ti  or  nniE ,  shebher  or 
shebher  (from  "CEJ ,  shdbhar),  "a  fracture"  or  ''break- 
ing" (Jer  6  14;  8  11.21;  10  19;  cf  Ex  22  10.14). 
In  Gr  a  principal  vb.  is  dcu/^w,  adiked,  "to  do  in- 
justice" (Lk  10  19;  Rev  2  11;  6  6,  etc);  once 
the  word  "hurt"  is  used  in  AV  (Acts  27  10,  story 
of  Paul's  shipwreck)  for  #/3pts,  hubris,  "injury" 
(thus  RV).  In  RV  "hurt"  sometimes  takes  the 
place  of  other  words  in  AV,  as  "sick"  (Prov  23  35), 
"breach"    (Isa  30  26),   "bruise"    (Jer  30  12;    Nah 

3  19);  sometimes,  on  the  other  hand,  the  word  in 
AV  is  exchanged  in  RV  for  "evil"  (Josh  24  20), 
"harm"  (Acts  18  10),  or,  as  above,  "injury"  (Acts 
27  10).  These  references  sufficiently  show  the 
meaning  of  the  word — harm,  bruise,  breaking,  etc. 
In  Jer  (at  supra)  the  word  is  used  figuratively  for 
moral  disease  or  corruption.  James  Our 

HUSBAND,  huz'band  (TZTtf,  'Ish;  dW)P,  aner): 
In  the  Ileb  household  the  husband  and  father  was 
the  chief  personage  of  an  institution  which  was  re- 
garded as  more  than  a  social  organism,  inasmuch 
as  the  family  in  primitive  Sem  society  had  a 
distinctively  religious  character  and  significance. 
It  was  through  it  that  the  cult  of  the  household 
and  tribal  deities  was  practised  and  perpetuated. 
The  house-father,  by  virtue  of  being  the  family 
head,  was  priest  of  the  household,  and  as  such, 
responsible  for  the  religious  life  of  the  family  and 
the  maintenance  of  the  family  altar.  As  priest  he 
offered  sacrifices  to  the  family  gods,  as  at  first, 
before  the  centralization  of  worship,  he  did  to  Jeh 
as  the  tribal  or  national  Deity.  We  see  this  re- 
flected in  the  stories  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob, 
and  in  the  Book  of  Job.  This  goes  far  to  explain 
such  records  as  we  have  in  Gen  31  53;  32  9,  and 
the  exceptional  reverence  that  was  paid  the  paternal 
sepulchers  (1  S  20  6).  Abraham  was  regarded 
as  being  the  father  of  a  nation.  It  was  customary, 
it  would  seem,  to  assign  a  "father"  to  every  known 
tribe  and  nation  (Gen  10).  So  the  family  came  to 
play  an  important  and  constructive  part  in  Heb 
thought  and  life,  forming  the  base  upon  which  the 
social  structure  was  built,  merging  gradually  into 
the  wider  organism  of  the  clan  or  tribe,  and  vitally 
affecting  at  last  the  political  and  religious  life  of  the 
nation  itself. 

The  husband  from  the  first  had  supreme  author- 
ity over  his  wife,  or  wives,  and  children.     In  his 


own  domain  his  rule  was  well-nigh  absolute.  The 
wife,  or  wives,  looked  up  to  him  as  their  lord  (Gen 
18  12).  He  was  chief  (cf  Arab,  sheik),  and  to  dis- 
honor him  was  a  crime  to  be  punished  by  death 
(Ex  21  15.17).  He  was  permitted  to  divorce  his 
wife  with  little  reason,  and  divorces  were  all  too 
common  (Dt  22  13.19.28.29;  Isa  60  1;  Jer  3  8; 
5  8;  Mai  2  16,  etc).  The;  wife  seems  to  have  had 
no  redress  if  wronged  by  him.  Absolute  faithful- 
ness, though  required  of  the  wife,  was  apparently 
not  expected  or  exacted  of  the  husband,  so  long  as 
he  did  not  violate  the  rights  of  another  husband. 
In  general  among  Eastern  people  women  were 
lightly  esteemed,  as  in  the  Japhetic  nations  they 
came  to  be.  Plato  counted  a  state  "disorganized" 
"where  slaves  are  disobedient  to  their  masters,  and 
wives  are  on  equality  with  their  husbands."  "Is 
there  a  human  being,"  asks  Socrates,  "with  whom 
you  talk  less  than  with  your  wife?"  But,  from  the 
first,  among  the  Hebrews  the  ideal  husband  trained 
his  household  in  the  way  they  should  go  religiously, 
as  well  as  instructed  them  in  the  traditions  of  the 
family,  the  tribe,  and  the  nation  (Gen  18  19;  Ex 
12  26;  13  8;  Dt  6  7,  etc).  It  was  due  to  this,  in 
part  at  least,  that,  in  spite  of  the  discords  and  evils 
incident  to  polygamy,  the  Heb  household  was  a 
nursery  of  virtue  and  piety  to  an  unusual  degree, 
and  became  a  genuine  anticipation  of  the  ideal  real- 
ized later  in  the  Christian  home  (1  Cor  7  2  if; 
Eph  5  25;    1  Pet  3  7). 

Used  figuratively  of  the  relation  (1)  between  Jeh 
and  His  people  (Isa  54  5;  Jer  3  14;  Hos  2  19  f); 
(2)  bet  ween  Christ  and  His  church  (Mt  9  15;  2  Cor 
11  2;  Eph  5  25;  Rev  19  7;  21  2). 

Geo.  B.  Eager 

HUSBANDMAN,  huz'band-man,  HUSBANDRY, 
huz'band-ri:  Husbandman,  originally  a  "house- 
holder" or  "master  of  the  house,"  is  now  limited 
in  its  meaning  to  "farmer"  or  "tiller  of  the  soil." 
In  this  sense  it  is  the  correct  tr  of  the  various  Bib. 
words:  np~X  EPS  ,  'Ish  'ddhamah,  lit.  "man  of  the 
soil"  (Gen  9  20);  13S ,  Hkkar,  lit.  "digger,"  "a 
farmer"  (2  Ch  26  10;  Jer  31  24;  51  23;  Am 
5  16;  Joel  1  11);  213 ,  giibh,  "to  dig"  (2  K  25 
12);  2r0,  ydghabh,  "to  dig"  (Jer  52  16);  -yeojpYos, 
georgos,  "cultivator"  (Mt  21  33  ff;  Jn  15  1;  Jas 
5  7).     See  Agriculture. 

It  is  a  common  practice  in  Pal  and  Syria  today 
for  a  rich  man  to  own  lands  in  many  different  parts 
of  the  country.  He  sets  farmers  over  these  differ- 
ent tracts  who,  with  the  helpers,  do  the  plowing, 
planting,  reaping,  etc;  or  he  lets  out  his  lands  to 
farmers  who  pay  him  an  annual  rental  or  return  to 
him  a  certain  percentage  of  the  crop.  Much  of  the 
plain  of  Esdraelon,  for  example,  was  until  recently 
owned  by  Beirut  proprietors  and  farmed  in  this 
way.  The  writer  while  riding  on  the  plain  near 
ancient  Dan,  was  surprised  to  overtake  an  acquaint- 
ance from  Beirut  (3  days'  journey  away),  who  had 
just  dismounted  at  one  of  his  farms  to  inspect  it 
and  to  receive  the  annual  account  of  his  farmer. 
The  pride  with  which  the  husbandman  pointed  out 
the  abundant  harvest  will  not  be  forgotten.  All 
the  difficulties  of  the  owner  with  his  husbandmen 
described  by  Jesus  are  often  repeated  today. 

Figurative:  Jesus  said  "I  am  the  true  vine,  and 
my  father  is  the  husbandman"  (Jn  15  1).  He  sows, 
cultivates,  prunes  and  expects  fruits  from  His  church. 
In  the  parable  of  the  Householder  (Mt  21  33  ff), 
the  wicked  husbandmen  were  the  Jews.  The  church 
is  referred  to  as  "God's  husbandry"  in  1  Cor  3  9 
(m  "tilled  land").  James  A.  Patch 

HUSBAND'S  BROTHER  (D2?,  yabhdm, 
"brother-in-law";  €m-ya|A|3p£va>,  epigumbrcuu;  Late 
Lat  levir):    He  was  required  (Dt  25  5-10;  Mt  22 


1443 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Hurai 
Hyena 


24)  "to  perform  the  duty  of  a  husband's  brother" 
(yibbemah) ;  that  is,  if  his  brother,  living  with  him 
on  the  paternal  estate,  died  without  male  issue,  he 
should  take  the  widow  to  wife,  and  "raise  up  seed 
unto  his  brother,"  the  firstborn  of  the  new  marriage 
inheriting  the  deceased  brother's  estate.  Refusal 
of  the  duty  was  possible,  but  entailed  public  ceremo- 
nial disgrace  and  lasting  reproach.  This  provision 
for  a  specific  case  modified  the  general  law  which 
forbade  the  marriage  of  a  sister-in-law  (Lev  18  16. 
18).  It  was  a  patriarchal  custom  (Gen  38;  Judah 
and  Tamar),  and  is  alluded  to  in  Ruth  1  11-13.  A 
related  custom  is  found  in  Ruth  4  1,  Boaz  playing, 
however,  the  part,  not  of  levir  ("brother-in-law"), 
but  of  go* el  ("redeemer").  It  was  at  least  theoreti- 
cally in  force  in  Our  Lord's  time  (Mt  22  23-28;  the 
question  of  the  Sadducees  concerning  the  resurrec- 
tion). For  the  origin  and  object  of  this  custom  see 
Family;    Marriage. 

Philip  Wendell  Crannell 
HUSHAH,    hu'sha    (HTL^n ,    hushah,    "haste"): 
Mentioned  in  1  Ch  4  4  as  probably  an  individual, 
a  Judahite,  or  a  family  name;  but  may  possibly  be 
a  place. 

HUSHAI,  hu'shl,  hu'sha-I  ptflJI,  hushay, 
XowiL,  Chousei;  Jos,  Chousi):  An  Archite, 
native  of  Archi  or  Erech(?),  W.  of  Bethel  on  the 
northern  border  of  Benjamin  and  southern  border 
of  Joseph  (Josh  16  2).  Hushai  was  one  of  David's 
most  faithful  and  wise  counsellors.  When  David 
was  fleeing  from  Jems  and  Absalom,  Hushai  met 
him,  having  his  coat  rent  and  earth  on  his  head. 
The  king  persuaded  him  to  return  to  Jerus,  feign 
submission  to  Absalom,  and  try  to  defeat  the  counsel 
of  Ahithophel  (2  S  15  32  f).  Whatever  Absalom 
decided  on,  Hushai  was  to  send  word  to  David 
through  two  young  men,  sons  of  the  priests  Zadok 
and  Abiathar  (15  34-36).  Hushai  obeyed,  and  suc- 
ceeded in  persuading  Absalom  to  adopt  his  counsel 
rather  than  that  of  Ahithophel  (2  S  16  16—17  14). 
He  sent  word  to  David  of  the  nature  of  Ahithophel's 
counsel,  and  the  king  made  good  his  escape  that 
night  across  the  Jordan.  The  result  was  the  suicide 
of  Ahithophel  and  the  ultimate  defeat  and  death 
of  Absalom.  J.  J.  Reeve 

HUSHAM,  hu'sham  (C1OT,  husham,  Gen  36  34; 
OTBin,  husham,  1  Ch  1  45-46,  "alert"):  Accord- 
ing to  the  former  reference,  Husham  was  one  of  the 
kings  of  Edom,  and  according  to  the  latter  he  was 
"of  the  land  of  the  Temanites"  and  (1  Ch  1  35  f) 
descended  from  Esau. 

HTJSHATHITE,  hu'shath-it  (T^n,  hushathl, 
"a  dweller  in  Hushah"?):  The  patronymic  given 
in  two  forms,  but  probably  of  the  same  man,  Sib- 
beccai,  one  of  David's  thirty  heroes  (2  S  21  18; 
1  Ch  11  29;  20  4;  27  11 ),  or  Mebunnai  as  named 
in  the  [j  passage  (2  S  23  27). 

HUSHIM,  hu'shim  (Dipt!,  Q^lpn,  W^P/n,  hushlm, 
"hasters"): 

(1)  Family  name  of  the  children  of  Dan  (Gen  46 
23),  but  of  form  "Shuham"  in  Nu  26  42. 

(2)  The  sons  of  Aher,  of  the  lineage  of  Benjamin 
(1  Ch  7  12). 

(3)  One  of  the  wives  of  Shaharaim,  of  the  family 
of  Benjamin  (1  Ch  8  8.11). 

HUSHSHATHITE,  hush'shath-It  (TllBrj,  hush- 
shathl).  Same  as  Hushathite  (q.v.),  except  in 
reduplicated  form  (1  Ch  27  11;  cf  11  29,  Heb 
pronunciation). 

HUSKS,  husks  (Kepd-na,,  kerdtia,  i.e.  "little 
horns,"    Lk  15  16):     These   are   the  pods   of    the 


%^ 

/"f  I       *  **>.";"* 

I 

i  \  I  ■ ' 

'<jjn     IT              '       ■■*■■ 

Carol)  Treo  {Ceratonia 
siliqua) . 


carob  tree  (RVm),  also  called  the  locust  tree  {Cera- 
tonia siliqua).  This  tree  flourishes  all  over  Pal, 
esp.  on  the  western  mountain  slopes  toward  the  sea; 
by  the  Arabs  it  is  called  kharrub.  It  is  dioecious, 
has  dense,  dark,  evergreen 
foliage,  glossy  leaves  and 
long,  curved  pods,  like 
small  horns  (hence  the 
name).  These  pods  which 
are  from  4  to  9  in.  in 
length,  have  a  leathery 
case  containing  a  pulpy 
substance  in  which  the 
beans  are  imbedded;  this 
pulp  _  is  of  a  pleasant, 
sweetish  flavor  and  has  a 
characteristic  odor,  and  is 
much  loved  by  children. 
The  pods  are  sold  in  the 
markets,  both  as  cattle 
food  and  for  the  poor, 
who  extract  by  boiling 
them  a  sweetish  substance  like  molasses.  The  tra- 
dition that  the  "locusts"  of  Mt  3  4;  Mk  1  6  were 
carob  pods  is  preserved  in  the  name  given  to  them, 
"St.  John's  bread,"  but  it  has  little  to  be  said  for  it. 
E.  W.  G.  Masterman 
HUZ,  huz   (Gen  22  21  AV).     See  Uz. 

HUZZAB,  huz'ab  P?n,  hucgabh,  only  in  Nah  2 
7  AV  and  RVm):  Its  meaning  is  doubtful.  Accord- 
ing to  Gesenius,  it  is  a  vb.,  Hoph.  of  25?,  gabhabh, 
"flow,"  hence  to  be  rendered  with  preceding  ver, 
"The  palace  is  dissolved  and  made  to  flow  down." 
Wordsworth  made  it  Pual  of  3.21,  nagabh,  "fix": 
"The  palace  is  dissolved,  though  established." 
LXX  renders  with  the  next  word,  he  hupostasis 
apokaluphthe,  "The  foundation  [or  treasure]  is  un- 
covered." AV,  RVm  and  ARV  text  make  it  Hoph. 
of  nagabh,  "fix,"  hence  "It  is  decreed."  Perhaps 
more  probably,  with  AV  and  RV  text  and  ARVm, 
it  is  a  name,  or  noun  with  the  article  (or  the  cor- 
ruption of  such  a  word),  referring  either  to  the 
Assyr  queen,  or  personifying  Nineveh.  No  such 
queen  is  now  known,  but  Assyriology  may  throw 
light.  The  "name"  interpretation  accords  best 
with  the  general  trend  of  the  passage,  which  de- 
scribes the  discomfiture  of  a  royal  personage. 
BDB  calls  it  "perhaps  textual  error."  The 
Massoretic  vocalization  may  be  at  fault. 

Pin lii>  Wendell  Crannell 

HYACINTH,  hl'a-sinth  (vaKivGos,  hudkinthos): 
RV  uses  this  word  in  Rev  9  17  for  AV  "jacinth," 
with  reference,  not  to  stone,  but  to  dark-purple 
color.  In  Rev  21  20,  where  stone  is  meant, 
RV  trs  "sapphire." 

HYADES,  hl'a-dez.     See  Astrology,  II,  4. 

HYDASPES,  hl-das'pez  (YSdo-ir^s,  Huddspes): 
A  river  mentioned  in  Jth  1  0  in  connection  with 
the  Euphrates  and  Tigris,  but  otherwise  unknown. 
It  is  possible  then;  may  be  a  confusion  with  the 
Hydaspes  of  India.  Some  have  conjectured  an 
identity  with  the  Choaspes. 

HYENA,  hl-e'na  (7132,  gdbhti"'  [Jer  12  9]; 
LXX    vaivi],    huaine    [Jer  12  9;     Ecclus  13  18J; 

cf  Arab.   *jy£  or  *jyO  ,  dab*  or  dabu\  "hyaena";  cf 

D^h:?,  fbhoHm,  Zeboim  [1  S  13  IS;  Neh  11  34]; 
also  cf  "jiy^X,  gibWon,  Zibeon  [Gen  36  2.14.20; 
1  Ch  1  38];'  but  not  D^aS,  fbhoylm,  Zeboiim 
[Gen  10  19;  14  2,  etc]):  EV  does  not,  contain  the 
word  "hyena,"  except  in  Ecclus  13  18,  "What 
peace  is  then:  between  the  hyena  and  the  dog?  and 


Hymenaeus 
Hyssop 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1444 


what  peace  between  the  rich  man  and  (lie  poor?" 
In  Jer  12  9,  where  the  J  lei)  has  ha-'aijit  cabhua% 
(RV  "a  speckled  bird  of  prey"),  LXX  has  air^aioy 
valvrjs,  sptiaion  huaines,  "a  hyena's  den,"  as  if 
from  a  Heb  original  having  me*ardh,  "cave,"  instead 
of  ha-ai/il,  "bird."  The  root,  cdhha"  may  mean  "to 
seize  as  prey"  (cf  Arab.  seb\  "lion"  or  "rapacious 
animal"),  or  "to  dip"  or  "to  dye"  (cf  Arab.  sabagh, 
"to  dye"),  hence  the  two  tr8  of  gabhu^  as  "hyena" 
and  as  "speckled"  (Vulg  versicolor). 

The  hyena  of  Pal  is  the  striped  hyena  {Hyaena 
striata)  which  ranges  from  India  to  North  Africa. 
The  striped,  the  spotted,  and  the  brown  hyenas 
constitute  a  distinct  family  of  the  order  of  Car- 
nivora,  having  certain  peculiarities  of  dentition 
and  having  four  toes  on  each  foot,  instead  of  four 
behind  and  five  in  front,  as  in  most  of  the  order. 
The  hyena  is  a  nod  urnal  animal,  rarely  seen  though 
fairly  abundant,  powerful  but  cowardly,  a  feeder 
on  carrion  and  addicted  to  grave-robbing.  The 
last  habit  in  particular  has  won  it  t lie  abhorrence 
of  the  natives  of  the  countries  which  it  inhabits. 
In  the  passage  cited  in  Ecclus,  it  is  to  be  noted  that 
it  is  to  the  hyena  that  the  rich  man  is  compared. 
The  jaws  and  teeth  of  the  hyena  are  exceedingly 
strong  and  fitted  for  crushing  bones  which  have 
resisted  the  efforts  of  dogs  and  jackals.  Its  dens 
are  in  desolate  places  and  are  littered  with  frag- 
ments of  skeletons.  "Is  my  heritage  unto  me  as  a 
speckled  bird  of  prey?"  (Jer  12  9)  becomes  a  more 
striking  passage  if  the  LXX  is  followed,  "Is  my 
heritage  unto  me  as  a  hyena's  den?" 

Shakk-ud-Diba\  "Cleft  of  the  hyenas,"  is  the 
name  of  a  valley  north  of  Wddi-ul-Kelt,  and  W&di- 
Abu-DitxV  (of  similar  meaning)  is  the  name  of  an 
affluent  of  Wddi-ul-Kelt.  Either  of  these,  or  possi- 
bly Wddi-ul-Kelt  itself,  maybe  the  valley  of  Zeboim 
(valley  of  hyenas)  of  1  S  i3  18. 

The  name  of  Zibeon  the  Horite  (Gen  36  2,  etc) 
is  more  doubtfully  connected  with  "hyena." 

Alfred  Ely  Day 

HYMENAEUS,  hi-men-c'us  ('Yp.evcuos,  Humen- 
aios,  so  named  from  Hymen,  the  god  of  marriage, 
1  Tim  1  20;  2  Tim  2  17):  A  heretical  teacher 
in  Ephesus,  an  opponent  of  the  apostle  Paul,  who 
in  the  former  reference  associates  him  with  Alex- 
ander (see  Alexander),  and  in  the  latter,  with 
Philctus  (see  Philetus). 

It  is  worthy  of  notice  that  in  both  passages  where 
these  persons  are  mentioned,  the  name  of  Hymen- 
aeus occurs  first ,  showing,  perhaps,  that 

1.  His  he  was  the  leader.  In  the  passage  in 
Career  1    Tim    Hymenaeus    is    included    in 

the  "some1"  who  had  put  away  faith 
and  a  good  conscience  and  who  had  made  shipwreck 
concerning  faith.  The  apostle  adds  that  he  had 
delivered  Hymenaeus  and  Alexander  unto  Satan, 
that  they  might  learn  not  to  blaspheme. 

In  the  passage  in  2  Tim,  Hymenaeus  and  Philetus 
are  included  among  persons  whose  profane  and  vain 

babblings  will  increase  unto  more  un- 

2.  His  godliness,  and  whose  word  "will  eat 
Denial  of  as  doth  a  gangrene."  The  apostle 
the  Resur-  declares  that  Hymenaeus  and  Philetus 
rection  are  of  the  number  of  such  people  as 

those  just  described,  and  he  adds  that 
those  two  persons  "concerning  the  truth  have  erred, 
saying  that  the  resurrection  is  past  already,  and 
overthrow  the  faith  of  some."  Then,  for  the 
guidance  of  Timothy,  he  goes  on  to  say  the  seal 
upon  the  foundation  of  Cod  is,  "The  Lord  knoweth 
them  that  are  his:  and,  Let  every  one  that  nameth 
the  name  of  the  Lord  depart  from  unrighteousness." 
The  inference;  intended  is,  that  though  Hymenaeus 
and  Philetus  had  named  the  name  of  Christ,  they 
did  not  depart  from  iniquity.  There  is  no  doubt  in 
regard  to  the  identity  of  this  Hymenaeus  with  the 


person  of  the  same  name  in  1  Tim.  Accordingly, 
the  facts  mentioned  in  the  two  epistles  must  be 
placed  together,  viz.  that  though  he  had  made  a 
Christian  profession  by  naming  the  name  of  Christ, 
yet  he  had  not  departed  from  iniquity,  but  by  his 
profane  teaching  he  proceeded  unto  more  ungodli- 
ness, and  that  he  had  put  away  faith  and  a  good 
conscience  and  had  made  shipwreck  of  faith. 

The  error,  therefore,  of  Hymenaeus  and  his  two 
companions  would  amount  to  this:  They  taught 
that  "tin;  resurrection  is  past  already,"  that  there 
shall  be  no  bodily  resurrection  at  all,  but  that  all 
that  resurrect  ion  means  is  t  hat,  the  sold  awakes  from 
sin.  This  awakening  from  sin  had  already  taken 
place  with  themselves,  so  they  held,  and  therefore 
there  could  be  no  day  in  the  future  when  the  dead 
shall  hear  the  voice  of  the  Son  of  Cod  and  shall 
come  forth  from  the  grave  (Jn  5  2<S). 

This  teaching  of  Hymenaeus  had  been  so  far  success- 
ful:   it  had  "overthrown  the  faith  of  some"   (2  Tim  2 

IS).  It  is  impossible  to  define  exactly 
1  Tnrinipnt  tlu>  full  nature  of  this  heresy,  but  what 
o.  mupicui  paul  sayg  regarding  it  makes  it  evident 
(jnosticism    that  it  was  a  form  of  incipient  Gnosticism. 

This  spiritualizing  of  the  resurrection 
sprang  from  the  idea  of  the  necessarily  evil  nature  of  all 
material  substance.  This  idea  immediately  led  to  the 
conclusion  of  the  essentially  evil  nature  of  the  human 
body,  and  that  if  man  is  to  rise  to  his  true  nature,  lie 
must  rid  himself  of  the  thraldom,  not  of  sin,  but  of  tin; 
body.  This  contempt  for  the  body  led  to  the  denial  of 
the  resurrection  in  its  literal  sense;  and  all  that  Christ 
had  taught  on  the  subject  was  explained  only,  in  an  al- 
legorical sense,  of  the  resurrection  of  the  soul  from  sin. 

Teaching  of  this  kind  is  described  by  Paul  as  having 
effects  similar  to  the  "eating"  caused  by  a  gangrene. 

It  is  deadly;  it  overthrows  Christian  faith. 

4.  Over-  H  not  destroyed,  it  would  corrupt  the 
,/  community,  for  if  there  is  no  literal  resur- 
inrows  rection  of  the  dead,  then,  as  Paul  shows 
Faith                 in    1   ('or  15,  Christ  is  not  raised;    and  if 

the  literal  resurrection  of  Christ  is  denied, 
Christian  believers  are  yet  in  their  sins,  and  the  Christian 
religion  is  false. 

The  way  in  which  the  apostle  dealt  with  these 

teachers,  Hymenaeus  and  his  companions,  was  not 

merely    in    tin;   renewed    assertion    of 

5.  Deliv-  the  truth  which  they  denied,  but  also 
ered  unto  by  passing  sentence  upon  these  teach- 
Satan  crs — "whom   I  delivered  unto  Satan, 

that  they  might  be  taught  not  to 
blaspheme."  In  regard  to  the  meaning  of  this 
sentence  much  difficulty  of  interpretation  exists. 
Some  understand  it  to  mean  simple  excommunica- 
tion from  the  church.  But  this  seems  quite  inade- 
quate to  exhaust  the  meaning  of  the  words  employed 
by  Paul.  Others  take  it  to  signify  the  infliction  of 
some  bodily  suffering  or  disease. _  This  also  is 
quite  insufficient  as  an  explanation.  It  seems 
that  a  person  who  was  delivered  unto  Satan  was 
cut  off  from  all  Christian  privileges,  he  was  "put 
away"  from  the  body  of  Christian  believers,  and 
handed  over  to  "the  Satan,"  the  Evil  One  in  his 
most  distinct  personality  (1  Cor  5  2.5.13).  Cf  the 
cases  of  Ananias  and  Sapphira  (Acts  5),  and  of 
Elymas  (Acts  13  11). 

It  is  important  that  the  purpose  of  this  terrible 
sentence  should  not  be  overlooked.  The  intention 
of  the  punishment  was  distinctly  remedial.  Both 
in  the  case  of  Hymenaeus  and  Alexander,  and  in 
that  of  the  person  dealt  with  in  1  Cor  5,  the 
intention  was  the  attaining  of  an  ultimate  good. 
In  1  Cor  it  is  "for  the  dest  ruction  of  the  flesh,  that 
the  spirit  may  be  saved  in  the  day  of  the  Lord 
Jesus."  Similarly,  Hymenaeus  and  Alexander  are 
delivered  unto  Satan,  not  for  their  final  perdition, 
but  that  they  may  be  taught,  through  this  terrible 
discipline — for  such  is  the  signification  of  the  word 
which  is  tr'1  "taught" — not  to  blaspheme.  The 
purpose  of  this  discipline,  that  they  might  learn 
not   to   blaspheme,   shows   the   dreadful   length   of 


1445 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Hymenaeus 
Hyssop 


impiety  and  of  railing  at  Christian  truth  to  which 
Hymenaeus  had  gone. 

In  the  history  of  Hymenaeus  and  his  companions,  and 
in  their  bold  and  anti-Christian  teaching  which  had  over- 
thrown the  faith  of  some,  we  cannot  fail 
ft    Th  to  see  tne  fulfilment  of  what  Paul  had  said 

D.    ine  many  years  previously,  in  his  farewell  ad- 

"Perverse  dress  to  the  elders  of  the  church  in  Ephe- 
Thinss"  at  sus:  "I  know  that  after  my  departing 
Prv,     c  grievous  wolves  shall  enter  in  among  you, 

£/pnesus  not  Sparing  the  Hock;    and  from  among 

your  own  selves  shall  men  arise,  speaking 
perverse  things,  to  draw  away  the  disciples  after  them" 
(Acts  20  29  f).  It  was  in  the  Ephesian  church  that 
Hymenaeus  and  Alexander  and  Philctus  had  arisen. 
The  gangrene-like  nature  of  their  teaching  has  already 
been  described. 

JOHX  RUTHERFURD 

HYMN,  him  («|avos,  humnos) :  In  Col  3  16;  Eph 

5  19  St.  Paul  bids  his  readers  sing  "psalms  and 
hymns  and  spiritual  songs."  Gregory  of  Nyssa 
(4th  cent.)  distinguishes  these  as  follows:  the  Pss 
were  accompanied  by  instruments,  the  hymns 
were  mainly  vocal,  and  the  song,  ode,  was  a  general 
term  comprehending  both.  This  distinction  might 
suggest  that  the  psalm  belonged  especially  to  the 
public  worship  of  the  church,  while  the  hymn  was 
the  production,  more  or  less  spontaneous,  of  the 
individual  member.  The  inference  is,  however, 
inconsistent  with  1  Cor  14  26,  and  it  is  probable 
that  in  the  apostolic  age,  at  least,  the  terms  were 
used  indiscriminately.  Of  Christian  psalms  or 
hymns  we  have  examples  in  the  NT.  Lk  1  and 
2  contain  such  hymns  in  the  songs  of  Mary,  Zacha- 
rias  and  Simeon.  The  Apocalypse  is  studded 
with  hymns  or  odes,  many  of  them  quite  general  in 
character,  and  probably  borrowed  or  adapted  from 
Jewish  books  of  praise.  In  the  Epp.  of  Paul,  esp. 
the  later  ones,  fragments  of  hymns  seem  to  be 
quoted.  Light  foot  detects  one  in  Eph  5  14,  and 
others  readily  suggest  themselves. 

It  is  probable  that  the  hymn  mentioned  as  having 
been  sung  by  Jesus  and  the  disciples  after  the 
Passover  (Mt  26  30;  Mk  14  26)  was  the  second 
part  of  the  Hallel,  i.e.  Pss  115-18,  and  the  hymns 
of  Paul  and  Silas  were  most  likely  also  taken  from 
the  Psalter.  But  the  practice  of  interpolating  and 
altering  Jewish  non-canonical  books,  like  the 
Psalter  of  Solomon  and  the  recently  discovered 
Odes  of  Solomon,  shows  that  the;  early  Christians 
adopted  for  devotional  purposes  the  rich  store  of 
sacred  poetry  possessed  by  their  nation.  For  the 
music  to  which  these  psalms,  etc,  were  sung,  see 
Music;  Soxei.  James  Millar 

HYPOCRISY,  hi-pok'ri-si,  HYPOCRITE,  hip'6- 
krit  (Clin ,  honeph,  wl?n,  haneph;  viroKpio-is,  hupo- 
krisis, viroKpiTT|s,  hupokrites) : 

(1)  "Hypocrisy"  occurs  only  once  in  the  OT  as 
the  tr  of  honeph  (Isa  32  6,  RV  "profaneness"); 
hdncjih,  from  which  it  is  derived,  means  properly 
"to  cover,"  "to  hide,"  or  "becloud,"  hence  to  pol- 
lute, to  be  polluted  or  defiled,  to  make  profane, 
to  seduce;  as  a  subst.  it  is  tr'1  "hypocrite"  (Job 
8  13;  13  16;  15  34;  17  S;  20  5;  27  8;  34  30; 
36  13,  in  all  which  instances  RV  lias  "godless 
man,"  "godless  men,"  "godless";  Prov  11  !),  RV 
"the  godless  man";  Isa  9  17,  RV  "profane"; 
Isa  33  14,  RV  "the  godless  ones");  it  is  rendered 
"hypocritical,"  in  Ps  35  16;  Isa  10  6,  RV  "pro- 
fane." 

(2)  "Hypocrisy,"  "hypocrite"  are  frequent  in 
the  NT,  chiefly  in  Christ's  discourses  in  the  Cos- 
pels.  The  word  hupokrisis  (primarily,  "an  answer," 
"response")  meant  generally,  in  classical  Gr,  stage- 
playing,  acting,  the  histrionic  art;  hence  it  came  to 
mean  acting  a  part  in  life,  etc.  We  find  hupokrisis 
in  this  sense  in  2  Mace  6  25,  RV  "dissimulation," 
and  hupokrinomai,  "to  pretend,"  "to  feign,"  etc. 
Ecclusl  29;  32  15;  33  2,  trd  "hypocrite";  2  Mace 


5  25,  "pretending  peace,"  RV  "playing  the  man  of 
peace";  6  21,  RV  "to  make  as  if."  Hupokrites 
(lit.  "an  actor")  is  the  LXX  for  haneph  (Job 
34  30;  36  13),  equivalent  to  bad,  wicked,  godless, 
which  is  perhaps  included  in  some  of  Our  Lord's 
uses  of  the  words,  e.g.  Mt  23  27  f,  "full  of  hypoc- 
risy and  iniquity"  (cf  vs  29  f;  24  51);  but,  in 
general,  the  meaning  is  acting  a  part,  false,  de- 
ceptive and  deceived,  formally  and  outwardly 
religious  and  good,  but  inwardly  insincere  and 
unrighteous;  the  hypocrite  may  come  to  deceive 
himself  as  well  as  others,  but  "the  hypocrite's 
hope  shall  perish"  (Job  8  13  AV).  On  no  class 
did  Our  Lord  pronounce  such  severe  condemnation 
as  on  the  hypocrites  of  His  day. 

"Hypocrisy"  (hupokrisis)  occurs  in  Alt  23  28;  Mk 
12  15;  Lk  12  1;  1  Tim  4  2;  1  Pet  2  1  (in  Gal  2  13 
it  is  rendered  "dissimulation");  "hypocrite"  (hupo- 
krites), Alt  6  2.5.1(1;  7  5;  15  7;  22  18;  23  L3.15.23. 
25  If. 29;  24  51;  Alk  7  <i;  Lk  12  5(5;  13  15;  in  .las 
3  IT,  anupokritos  is  "without  hypocrisy,"  so  RV,  Mom 
12  9  ("unfeigned,"  2  Cor  6  6;  1  Tim  1  5;  2  Tim  1 
5;    1  Pet  1  22). 

W.  L.  Walker 

HYRCANUS,  her-ka'nus  ('YpKavos,  Hurkanos): 
"Son  of  Tobias,  a  man  of  great  dignity,"  who  had  a 
large  sum  of  money  deposited  in  the  Temple  of 
Jerus  when  Heliodorus  was  sent  to  confiscate  it  in 
1S7  BC  (2  Mace  3  llf'f).  Opinions  differ  as  to 
the  identity  of  this  II.  with  the  grandson  of  Tobias 
whose  birth  and  history  are  related  at  considerable 
length  by  Jos  {Ant,  XII,  iv,  6  ff),  or  with  another  of 
the  same  name  ment  ioned  in  Ant,  XIII,  viii,  4.     See 

ASMONEANS  J     M  ACCABAEUS. 

HYSSOP,  his'up  p'lTX,  'ezobh;  vo-a-coiros,  hus- 
sopos,  Ex  12  22;  Lev  14  4.6.49  ff;  Nu  19  6. IS; 
1  K  4  33;  Ps  51  7;  Jn  19  29;  He  9  19):  A 
plant  used  for  ritual  cleansing  purposes;  a  humble 
plant  springing  out,  of  the  wall  (1  K  4  33),  the 
extreme  contrast  to  the  cedar. 


Caper  (Capparis 


The  common  hyssop  (II yssopus  officinalis)  of  the 
N.O.  Labiatae,  an  aromatic  plant  with  stomal  ic 
properties,  cannot  be  the  hyssop  of  the  Bible  as  it 
is  unknown  in  Pal,  but  allied  aromatic;  plants  of  the 
same  N.O.  have  by  Maimonides  (Neg.  xiv.6)  and 
other  Jewish  writers  been  identified  with  it.  Prob- 
ably hyssop  is  identical  with  the  Arab.  zat*ar,  a 
name  applied  to  a  group  of  aromatic  plants  of  the 
genus  marjoram  and  thyme.  They  would  any  of 
them  furnish  a  bunch  suitable  for  sprinkling,  and 
they  have  the  important  recommendation  that  they 


I,  I  Am 

Idolatry 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1446 


grow  everywhere,  being  found  even  in  the  desert. 
Post  thinks  of  all  varieties  the  Origanum  muni,  a 
special  variety  of  marjoram  which  favors  terrace 
walls  and  rocks,  is  the  most  probable. 

The  proposal  (Royle,  Jour.  Royal  Asiatic  Roc, 
VII,  193-213)  to  identify  the  caper  (Capparis 
npiiiosa)  with  hyssop,  which  has  been  popularized 
by  the  works  of  Tristram,  has  not  much  to  recom- 
mend it.  It  is  true  that  the  caper  is  very  com- 
monly seen  growing  out  of  walls  all  over  Pal  (1  K 
4  33),  but  in  no  other  respect  is  it  suitable  to  the 
requirements  of  the  Bib.  references.  The  supposed 
similarity  between  the  Arab.  'a§af  ("caper")  and  the 
Heb  'ezobh  is  fanciful;  the  caper  with  its  stiff, 
prickly  stems  and  smooth,  flat  leaves  would  not 
furnish   a   bunch   for   sprinkling   as  serviceable   as 


many  species  of  zaCar.  It  has  been  specially  urged 
that  the  hyssop  suits  the  conditions  of  Jn  19  2'.), 
it  being  maintained  that  a  stem  of  caper  would 
make  a  good  object  on  which  to  raise  the  "sponge 
full  of  vinegar"  to  the  Saviour's  face,  the  equivalent 
of  the  "reed"  of  Mt  27  48;  Mk  15  36.  For  such 
a  purpose  the  flexible,  prickly  steins  of  the  hyssop 
would  be  most  unsuitable;  indeed,  it  would  be  no 
easy  matter  to  find  one  of  sufficient  length.  It  is 
necessary  to  suppose  either  that,  a  bunch  of  hyssop 
accompanied  the  sponge  with  the  vinegar  upon  the 
reed,  or,  as  has  been  proposed  by  several  writers  (for 
references  see  art.  "Hyssop,"  EB),  that  hussopo  is  a 
corruption  of  hussd,  "javelin,"  and  that  the  passage 
should  read  "They  put  a  sponge  full  of  vinegar  upon 
a  javelin."  E.  VV.  0.  Masterman 


I,  I  AM,  I  AM  THAT  I  AM.     See  Cod,  Names 

OF. 

I  WILL  BE.     See  Con,  Names  ok. 

IACIMUS,  I-as'i-mus.     See  Alcimis. 

IACUBUS,  I-ak'u-bus  (TaKoiipos,  Iakoubos;  1  Esd 
9  48):   "Akkub"  in  Neh  8  7. 

IADINUS,  i-ad'i-nus  (Tdocivos,  Iddeinos;  1  Esd 
9  48,  AV  Adinus):   Same  as  Jamin  of  Neh  8  7. 

IBHAR,  ib'har  (in?*! ,  yibhhdr,  "He  [God] 
chooses";  in  S,  B,  'EPedp,  Ebedr,  in  Ch,  B,  Badp, 
Boar,  A,  'LPadp,  Iebadr):  One  of  David's  sons, 
born  at  Jerus;  son  of  a  wife  and  not  of  a  concubine 
(1  Ch  3  6;  2  S  5  15);  otherwise;  unknown.  His 
name  in  all  three  lists  follows  Solomon's.  In 
Peshitta',  "Juchabar." 

IBIS,  i'bis.  In  Isa  34  11,  yanshoph,  which  is 
rendered  "owl,"  apparently  indicates  the  sacred 
ibis  (Ibis  religiosa).  The  LXX  gives  eibis  and 
Vulg  ibis;    RVm  "bittern."     See  Owl. 

IBLEAM,  ib'le-am  (0^3"!,  yibhVam);  A  town 
in  the  territory  of  Issachar  which  was  assigned 
to  Manasseh  (Josh  17  11).  This  tribe,  however, 
failed  to  expel  the  inhabitants,  so  the  Canaanites 
continued  to  dwell  in  that  land  (Jgs  1  27).  It  was 
on  the  route  by  which  Ahaziah  fled  from  Jehu. 
He  was  overtaken  and  mortally  wounded  "at  the 
ascent  of  Our,  which  is  by  Ibleam"  (2  K  9  27). 
The  name  appears  as  Bileam  in  1  Ch  6  70;  and 
it  probably  corresponds  to  Belmen  of  Jth.  It  is 
now  represented  by  the  ruin  of  BeVdmeh  on  the 
W.  of  the  valley  through  which  the  road  to  the  south 
runs,  about  half  a  mile  from  Jenln.  In  2  K  15 
10,  where  it  is  said  that  Zechariah  the  son  of  Jero- 
boam was  slain  by  Shallum  "before  the  people," 
this  last  phrase,  which  is  awkward  in  the  Heb, 
should  be  amended  to  read  "in  Bileam."  Possibly 
"Gath-rimmon"  in  Josh  21  25  is  a  clerical  error 
for  "Ibleam."  W.  Ewing 

IBNEIAH,  ib-ne'ya  (rPjni,  yibhn'yah,  "Jeh 
buildeth  up"):  A  Benjamite,  son  of  Jeroham  (1 
Ch  9  8). 

IBNIJAH,  ib-nl'ja  (n*?n"!  ,  yibhniydh,  or  n^p"1 , 
yibhwydh,  "Jeh  buildeth  up"):  A  Benjamite, 
father  of  Reuel  (1   Ch  9  8). 

IBRI,  ib'rl  Pin?,  Hbhrl,  "a  Hebrew"):  A 
Merarite  Levite,  son  of  Jaaziah  (1   Ch  24  27). 


IBSAM,  ib'sam  (DIIJIP,  yibhsdm,  "fragrant," 
AV  Jibsam):  Descendant  of  Issachar,  family  of 
Tolah  (1  Ch  7  2). 

IBZAN,  ib'zan  (]2?X  ,  'ibhcdn):  The  10th, judge 
of  Israel.  His  city  is  given  as  Bethlehem  (whether 
of  Judah  or  Zebulun  is  not  stated;.  He  judged 
Israel  7  years,  and  when  he  died  he  was  buried  in 
his  native  place.  The  only  personal  details  given 
about  him  in  the  Bib.  narrative  are  that  he  had  30 
sons  and  a  like  number  of  daughters,  lie  sent  all 
of  his  sons  "abroad"  for  wives  and  brought  hus- 
bands from  "abroad"  for  all  his  daughters.  The 
exact  meaning  of  ha-hug,  "abroad,"  is  mere  matter 
of  speculation,  but  the  great  social  importance  of 
the  man  and,  possibly,  alliances  among  tribes,  are 
suggested  in  the  brief  narrative  (Jgs  12  8-10). 
Jewish  tradition  identifies  Ibzan  with  Boaz  of 
Bethlehem-Judah  (Tahn,  Babhd',  Balhrd',  91a). 
Ella  Davis  Isaacs 

ICE,  Is  (!"0]2  ,  kerah):  lee  is  almost  unknown  in 
Pal  and  Syria  except  on  the  highest  mountains.  At 
moderate  heights  of  less  than  4,000  ft.  a  little  ice 
may  form  during  the  night  in  winter,  but  the  warm 
rays  of  the  sun  melt  it  the  next  day.  A  great  quan- 
tity of  snow  is  packed  away  in  eaves  in  the  moun- 
tains during  the  winter,  and  is  thus  preserved  for 
use  in  the  summer  months.  The  word  is  found  in 
the  Bible  in  three  places  where  it  describes  God's 
power.  "Out  of  whose  womb  came  the  ice?  And 
the  ...  .  frost"  (Job  38  20);  "By  the  breath  of 
God  ice  is  given"  (37  10);  "He  casteth  forth  his  ice 
like  morsels"  (Ps  147   17). 

Figurative:  Untrue  friends  are  compared  to 
streams  "which  are  black  by  reason  of  the  ice"  (Job 
6  16).  Alfred  II .  Joy 

ICHABOD,  ik'a-bod,  I'ka-bod  ("ins-^,  'i-khd- 
bhodh,  "inglorious";  B,  ovial  (3apxaPc69,  ouai  bar- 
chabolh,  A,  oval  xaP^>  ouai  chabdth,  "A-rip-os, 
Atimos):  Son  of  Phinehas,  Eli's  son,  slain  at  the 
battle  of  Aphek  when  the  ark  was  taken.  Ichabod 
was  born  after  his  father's  death.  His  mother 
gave  him  this  name  on  her  death-bed  to  indicate 
that  the  "glory  [had]  departed  from  Israel"  (1  S 
4  19  ff).  He  was  thus  important  as  a  symbol, 
though  little  is  recorded  of  him  as  an  individual. 
His  nephew  Ahijah  was  one  of  those  who  tarried 
with  Saul  and  the  six  hundred  at  Gibeah  just  before 
Jonathan's  brave  attack  upon  the  Philis  (1  S  14 
2  f).  Henry  Wallace 

ICONIUM,  I-ko'ni-um  ('Ikoviov,  Ikonion,  also 
EIkoviov,  Eikonion,  on  inscriptions):  Iconium  was 
visited  by  St.  Paid  on  his  first  and  on  his  second 
missionary   journey    (Acts  13  51  ff;    16  2ff),    and 


1447 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


I,  I  Am 
Idolatry 


1.  Topo- 
graphical 
Position 


2.  In  Apos- 
tolic 
Period 


if  the  "South  Galatian  theory"  he  correct,  probably 
also  on  his  third  journey,  His  sufferings  there  arc 
referred  to  in  2  Tim  3  11. 

The  topographical  position  of  Iconium  is  clearly 
indicated  in  Acts,  and  the  evidence  of  Acts  has  been 
confirmed  by  recent  research.  Was 
Iconium  in  Phrygia  or  in  Lycaonia, 
and  in  what  sense  can  it  be  said  to  have 
belonged  to  one  ethnical  division  or  the 
other?  The  majority  of  our  ancient 
authorities  (e.g.  Cicero,  Strabo,  Pliny),  writing 
from  the  point  of  view  of  Horn  provincial  adminis- 
tration, give  Iconium  to  Lycaonia,  of  which  geog- 
raphy makes  it  the  natural  capital.  But  Xenophon, 
who  marched  with  Cyrus'  expedition  through  Phry- 
gia into  Lycaonia,  calls  Iconium  the  last  city  of 
Phrygia.  The  writer  of  Acts  14  G  makes  the  same 
statement  when  he  represents  St.  Paul  and  St. 
Barnabas  as  fleeing  from  Iconium  to  the  cities  of 
Lycaonia — implying  that  the  border  of  Phrygia 
and  Lycaonia  passed  between  Iconium  and  Lystra, 
1<S  miles  to  the  S.  Other  ancient  authorities  who 
knew  the  local  conditions  well  speak  of  Iconium  as 
Phrygian  until  far  into  the  Rom  imperial  period. 
At  the  neighboring  city  of  Lystra  (Acts  14  11),  the 
native's  used  the  "speech  of  Lycaonia."  Two  in- 
scriptions in  the  Phrygian  language  found  at  Iconium 
in  1910  prove  that  the  Phrygian  language  was  in 
use  then'  for  2  centuries  after  St.  Paul's  visits,  and 
afford  confirmation  of  the  interesting  topographical 
detail  in  Acts  (see  Jour.  Hell.  Stud.,  1911,  189). 

In  the  apostolic  period,  Iconium  was  one  of  the 
chief  cities  in  the  southern  part  of  the  Rom  province 
Galatia,  and  it  probably  belonged  to 
the  "Phrygian  region"  mentioned  in 
Acts  16  6.  The  emperor  Claudius 
conferred  on  it  the  title  Claudiconium, 
which  appears  on  coins  of  the  city  anil 
on  inscriptions,  and  was  formerly  taken  as  a  proof 
that  Claudius  raised  the  city  to  the1  rank  of  a  Rom 
color/id.  It,  was  Hadrian  who  raised  the  city  to 
colonial  rank;  this  is  proved  by  its  new  title,  Co- 
lonia  Aelia  Hadriana  Iconiensitim,  and  by  a  re- 
cently discovered  inscription,  which  belongs  to  the 
reign  of  Hadrian,  and  which  mentions  the  first 
duumvir  who  was  appointed  in  the  new  colonia. 
Iconium  was  still  a  Hellenic  city,  but  with  a  strong 
pro-Rom  bias  (as  proved  by  its  title  "Claudian") 
when  St .  Paul  visited  it . 

About    2()o  AD,   an  enlarged  province,   Pisidia, 

was  formed,  with  Antioch  as  capital,  and  Iconium 

as  a  "sort  of  secondary  metropolis." 

3.  Later  The  Byzantine  arrangement,  familiar 
History  to   us  in  the    Notitiae   Episcopatuum, 

under  which  Iconium  was  the  capital 
of  a  province  Lycaonia,  dates  from  about  372  AD. 
Iconium,  the  modern  Konia,  has  always  been  the 
main  trading  center  of  the  Lycaonian  Plain.  Trade 
attracted  Jews  to  the  ancient  Phrygio-Hellenic  city 
(Ads  14  1),  as  it  attracts  Creeks  and  Armenians 
to  the  modern  Turkish  town. 

St.    Paul's   experiences   at    Iconium 

4.  St.  form  part  of  the  theme  of  the  semi- 
Thekla  historical    legend    of    St.    Thekla,    on 

which  see  Professor  Ramsay's  Church 
in  (he  Roman  Empire,  380  ff. 

Literature. — Ramsay,  Hist.  Comm.  on  Paul's  Ep.  to 
the  Cat,  214  fr;  Cities  of  St.  Paul.  317  ff.  To  the  lit. 
referred  to  in  the  notes  to  the  latter  book  (pp.  448  ff) 
add  Ath.  Mitlh..  1905,  324  lr;  Revue  ,le  I'htlalogie,  1912, 
48  ff;      Jour.   Hellenic  Studies,   1911,    INN  ft. 

,  W.  M.  Caldee 
IDALAH,  id'a-Ia,  i-da'la  (71 ^X"-: ,  yidh'aldh):  A 
town  in  the  territory  of  Zebulun,  named  with 
Shimron  and  Beth-lehem  (Josh  19  15).  The  Talm 
identifies  it  with  Huryeh  (Talm  Jems  on  Megh.,  I,  1). 
This,  Conder  thinks,  may  be  represented  by  the 
modern  Khirbet  el-Huwara  to  the  S.  of  Beit  Lahm. 


IDBASH,  id'bash  (tiST?. ,  yidhbash,  "honey- 
sweet"!?]):  A  man  of  Judah,  one  of  the  sons  of  the 
father  of  Etam  (1  Ch  4  3;  LXX  "sons  of  Etam"). 

IDDp,  id'o: 

(1)  ("HX,  Hddo  [?Tj&5,  'adhadh,  "to  be  strong"], 
"hap,"  "happy"!?],  Ezr  8  17):  The  "chief  at 
the  place  Casiphia,"  who  provided  Ezra  with 
Levites  and  Xethinim,  the  head  of  the  Levitical 
body  or  school,  said  to  be  one  of  the  Nethinim  or 
temple  slaves,  but  perhaps  an  "and"  has  slipped 
out,  and  it  should  read:  "his  brethren  and  the 
Xethinim."  1  Esd  8  45.40  has  "Loddeus  [AV 
"Saddeus"],  the  captain  who  was  in  the  place  of 
the  treasury,"  keseph  meaning  silver.  LXX  has 
"in  the  place  of  the;  silver  \tv  dpyvpicf)  rod  tottov,  en 
argurio  tou  topou]  ....  to  his  brethren  and  to  the 
treasurers." 

(2)  (TT,  yiddo,  "beloved,"  or  "loving,"  1  Ch 
27  21):  Son  of  Zechariah,  and  captain  of  the  half- 
tribe  of  Manasseh  in  Gilead,  under  David. 

(3)  ("I""!,  yiddo,  "beloved,"  or  "loving,"  Ezr 
10  43):  One  of  those  who  had  taken  foreign  wives. 
Another  reading  is  Jaddai,  AV  "Jadau."  In  1  Esd 
9  35  "Edos"  (AV'Edes"). 

(4)  (Si"?,  Hddo',  "timely,"  1  K  4  14):  Father  of 
Abinadab,  Solomon's  commissary  in  Mahanaim 
in  Gilead. 

(•r>)  0T,  yiddo,  "beloved,"  or  "loving,"  1  Ch 
6  21):  A  Gershomite  Levite,  son  of  Joah,  called 
Adaiah.in  ver  41;   ancestor  of  Asaph. 

(6)  0"?.?,  yexdo  [Kethlbh  "H?? ,  ye'dl],  or  W, 
Hddo,  "decked,"  "adorned"):  Seer  (hozeh)  and 
prophet  (nabhi),  the  Chronicler's  "source"  for  the 
reign  of  Solomon  (2  Ch  9  29):  "The  visions  of 
Iddo  the  seer  concerning  Jeroboam  the  son  of  Xe- 
bat";  and  for  the  reign  of  Rehoboam  (2  Ch  12  15): 
"The  histories  of  Iddo  [11?  ,  Hddo]  the  seer,  after  the 
manner  of  [or,  "in  reckoning"]  genealogies";  and 
for  the  reign  of  Abijah  (2  Ch  13  22):  "The  commen- 
tary [midhrash]  of  the  prophet  Iddo"  (11?,  Hddo). 
He  may  have  been  tin;  prophet  who  denounced 
Jeroboam  (1  K  13),  who  is  called  by  Jos  and 
Jerome  Jadon,  or  Jaddo.  Jerome  makes  Iddo  and 
Oded  the  same. 

(7)  (i-?,  Hddo,  "timely,"  Zee  1  1):  Grand- 
father (father,  according  to  Ezra)  of  the  prophet 
Zechariah.  See  also  Zee  1  7;  Ezr  5  1;  6  14 
(Sri?,  Hddo').     In  1  Esd  6  1,  "Addo." 

(5)  (SW,  Hddo,  "decked,"  "adorned,"  Neh  12 
4.16):  A  priest  who  went  up  with  Zerubbabel  (ver  4); 
one  of  the  priestly  clans  which  went  up  (ver  10); 
perhaps  same  as   (7). 

Philip  Wendell  Crannell 
IDLE,  i'd'l,  IDLENESS,  I'd'1-nes:  Both  words, 
adj.  and  noun,  render  different  Heb  words  (from 
b?y,  \lcel,  "to  be  lazy,"  flS"! ,  raphah,  "to  relax," 
and  EJ5TT ,  shakat,  "to  be  quiet").  According  to  the 
Yahwistic  narrative  Pharaoh's  retort  to  tin;  com- 
plaints of  the  Israelites  was  a  charge  of  indolence 
(Ex  5  8.17).  It  was  a  favorite  thought  of  Heb 
wisdom — practical  philosophy  of  life — that  indo- 
lence inevitably  led  to  poverty  and  want  (Prov 
19  15;  Eccl  10  18).  The  "virtuous  woman"  was 
one  who  would  not  eat  the  "bread  of  idleness" 
(Prov  31  27).  In  Ezk  16  49  for  AV  "abundance 
of  idleness,"  RV  has  "prosperous  ease."  In  the 
XT  "idle"  generally  renders  the  Gr  word  dpy6s, 
argos,  lit.  "inactive,"  "useless"  (Mt  20  3.6).  In  Lk 
24  11  "idle  talk"  corresponds  to  one  Grword  which 
means  "empty  gossip"  or  "nonsensical  talk." 

T.  Lewis 
IDOLATRY,  I-dol'a-tri  (D^FI ,  t'raphim,  "house- 
hold   idols,"     "idolatry";    €l8a)Ao\a.Tp6ia,    eidolola- 


Idolatry 
Illyricum 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1448 


treia):  There  is  ever  in  the  human  mind  a  craving 
for  visible  forms  to  express  religions  concept  ions, 
and  this  tendency  does  not  disappear  with  the 
acceptance,  or  even  with  the  constant  recognit  ion, 
of  pure  spiritual  truths  (see  Imaoes).  Idolatry 
originally  meant  the  worship  of  idols,  or  the  wor- 
ship of  false  gods  by  means  of  idols,  but  came  to 
mean  among  the  OT  Hebrews  any  worship  of  false 
gods,  whether  by  images  or  otherwise,  and  finally 
the  worship  of  Jell  through  visible  symbols  (Hos 
8  5.6;  10  5);  and  ultimately  in  the  NT  idolatry 
came  to  mean,  not  only  the  giving  to  any  creature 
or  human  creation  the  honor  or  devotion  which  be- 
longed to  God  alone,  but  the  giving  to  any  human 
desire  a  precedence  over  Cod's  will  (1  Cor  10  14; 
Gal  5  20;  Col  3  5;  1  Pet  4  3).  The  neighboring 
gods  of  Phoenicia,  Canaan,  Moab— Baal,  Melkart, 
Astarte,  Chemosh,  Moloch,  etc — were  particularly 
attractive  to  Jerus,  while  the  old  Sem  calf-worship 
seriously  affected  the  state  religion  of  the  Northern 
Kingdom  (see  Golden  Calf).  As  early  as  the  Assyr 
and  Bab  periods  (Sth  and  7th  cents.  BC),  various 
deities  from  the  Tigris  and  Euphrates  had  intruded 
themselves — the  worship  of  Tammuz  becoming  a 
little  later  the  most  popular  and  seductive  of  all 
(Ezk  8  14)— while  the  worship  of  the  sun,  moon, 
stars  and  signs  of  the  Zodiac  became  so  intensely 
fascinating  that  these  were  introduced  even  into 
the  temple  itself  (2  K  17  16;  21  3-7;  23  4.12; 
Jer  19  13;    Ezk  8  lb;    Am  5  26). 

The  special  enticements  to  idolatry  as  offered  by 
these  various  cults  were  found  in  their  deification  of 
natural  forces  and  their  appeal  to  primitive  human 
desires,  esp.  the  sexual;  also  through  associations 
produced  by  intermarriage  and  through  the  appeal 
to  patriotism,  when  the  help  of  some  cruel  deity 
was  sought  in  time  of  war.  Baal  and  Astarte  wor- 
ship, which  was  esp.  attractive,  was  closely  asso- 
ciated with  fornication  and  drunkenness  (Am  2  7.8; 
cf  1  K  14  23  f),  and  also  appealed  greatly  to  magic 
and  soothsaying  (e.g.  Lsa  2  6;    3  2;    8  19). 

Sacrifices  to  the  idols  were  offered  by  fire  (Hos  4 
13);  libations  were  poured  out  (lsa  57  6;  Jer  7 
18);  the  first -fruits  of  the  earth  and  tithes  were  pre- 
sented (Hos  2  8);  tables  of  food  were  set  before 
them  (lsa  65  11);  the  worshippers  kissed  the  idols 
or  threw  them  kisses  (1  K  19  IS;  Hos  13  2;  Job 
31  27);  stretched  out  their  hands  in  adoration 
(lsa  44  20);  knelt  or  prostrated  themselves  before 
them  and  sometimes  danced  about  the  altar,  gash- 
ing themselves  with  knives  (1  K  18  26.28;  for  a 
fuller  summary  see  EB). 

Even  earlier  than  the  Bab  exile  the  Heb  prophets 
taught:  that  Jeh  was  not  only  superior  to  all  other 
gods,  but  reigned  alone  as  God,  other  deities  being 
nonentities  (Lev  19  4;  lsa  2  8.18.20;  19  1.3;  31  7; 
44  9  20).  The  severe  satire  of  this  period  proves 
that  the  former  fear  of  living  demons  supposed  to 
inhabit  the  idols  had  disappeared.  These  prophets 
also  taught  that,  the  temple,  ark  and  sacrifices  were 
not  essential  to  true  spiritual  worship  (e.g.  Jer  3  16; 
Am  5  21-25).  These  prophecies  produced  a  strong 
reaction  against  the  previously  popular  idol- 
worship,  1  hough  later  indications  of  this  worship 
are  not  infrequent  (Ezk  14  1-8;  lsa  42  17).  The 
Maccabean  epoch  placed  national  heroism  plainly 
on  the  side  of  the  one  Cod,  Jeh;  and  although  Gr 
and  Egyp  idols  were  worshipped  in  Gaza  and  As- 
calon  and  other  half-heathen  communities  clear 
down  to  the  5th  or  6th  cent,  of  the  Christian  era, 
yet  in  orthodox  centers  like  Jerus  these  were  despised 
and  repudiated  utterly  from  the  2d  cent.  BC  on- 
ward. See  also  Golden  Calf;  Gods;  Images; 
Teraphim. 

Literature. —  \Ym.  Wake,  A  Discourse  concerning  the 
Nature  of  Idolatry,  1688;  W.  K.  Smith,  Lectures  on  the 
Religion  of  the  Semites;    K.  B.  Tylor,  Prim.  Culture;  J.   O. 


Frazer,  Golden  Bough  05  vols);    L.  R.  Farnell,  Evolution  of 
Religion,     1905;    Uaudissin,    Studien    zur    semitischen    Reli- 

gionsgesehichtc;  Baethgcil,    Der    (Jolt    Israels    u.    die    (Hitter 
dec  Ileidcn,  1888. 

Camden  M.  Cobern 
IDUEL,    id'li-el    ('KovfjXos,    Idouelos):     1    Ksd  8 
43,  EVm  "Ariel"  (q.v.). 

IDUMAEA,  id-u-me'a,  IDUMAEANS,  id-u-me'- 
anz.     See   Edom. 

IEDDIAS,  yed-I'as,  I-ed-I'as,  AV  Eddias  ('Ie65Cas, 
Ieddias):  One  who  agreed  to  put  away  his  foreign 
wife  (1   Esd  9  26);    called  also  "Jezeias." 

IEZER,  I-e'zer,  IEZERITES,  I-e'zer-Its  OjrW, 
'Vezcr,  Nu  26  30):  Contracted  from  Ahiezer  (Josh 
17  2,  etc)  (q.v.). 

IGAL,  I'gal  (*X"»7  ,  yigh'dl,  "he  [God]  redeems"; 
LXX  variously  'I\d\,  Igdl,  TadX,  Gadl,  'Ia>T|\,  [del): 

(1)  One  of  the  twelve  spies  sent  by  .Moses  from 
the  wilderness  of  Paran;  son  of  Joseph,  tribe  of  Issa- 
char  (Nu  13  7). 

(2)  One  of  David's  heroes,  son  of  Nathan  of 
Zobah  (2  S  23  36).  In  1  Ch  11  38  he  is  "Joel 
[5S5Y1 ,  yd'el],  the  brother  of  Nathan." 

(3)  Son  of  Shemaiah  of  the  royal  house  of  David, 
descendant  of  Zerubbabel  (1  Ch  3  22,  AV  "Igeal"). 

IGDALIAH,  ig-da-li'a  (TPV-T3H ,  yighdalydhu, 
"Jeh  is  great") :  Ancestor  of  certain  persons  who  had 
a  "chamber"  in  the  temple  in  Jeremiah's  time  (Jer 
35  4). 

IGEAL,  i'ge-al,  I'je-al  (bSM"? ,  yigh'dl,  "he  [i.e. 
God]  redeems"):  A  remote;  descendant  of  David 
(1  Ch  3  22,  RV  "Igal"). 

IGNORANCE,  ig'no-rans  (H^TS,  sh'ghdghdh; 
d-yvoia,  dgnoia):  "Ignorance"  is  the  tr  of  sheghd- 
ghdh,  "wandering,"  "going  astray"  (Lev  4  2,  etc, 
"if  a  soul  sin  through  ignorance,"  RV'unwittingly," 
m  "through  error";  5  15;  Nu  15  24 ff;  cf  35  11; 
Josh  20  3  ff;  Eccl  5  0;  10  5,  "an  error").  In  the 
Law  sheghdghdh  means  "innocent  error,"  such  as  had 
to  be  taken  with  consideration  in  judgment  (sec 
passages  referred  to).  "Ignorance"  is  also  expressed 
by  the  negative  Id'  with  yadha\  "to  know"  (lsa  56 
10;  63  16;  Ps  73  22);  also  by  bi-bh'il  da*ath,  lit. 
"in  want  of  knowledge"  (Dt  19  4;  cf  4  12;  Josh  20 
5,  tr'1  "unawares,"  "unwittingly"). 

In  the  NT  the  words  are  agnoia,  "absence  of 
knowledge"  (Acts  3  17;  17  30;  Eph  4  18;  1  Pet 
1  14);  agnoema,  "error"  (He  9  7,  RVm  "Gr  igno- 
rances"); agnosia,  "ignorance"  (1  Pet  2  15),  "no 
knowledge;"  (1  Cor  15  34  RV);  agnoeo,  "to  be  with- 
out knowledge,"  "ignorant"  (Rom  1  13;  10  3;  11 
25,  etc),  "not  knowing"  (Rom  2  4,  etc),  "understood 
not"  (Mk  9  32,  etc),  "ignorantly"  (Acts  17  23,  RV 
"in  ignorance";  1  Tim  1  13);  idiotes,  tra  "igno- 
rant" (Acts  4  13),  "unlearned"  (1  Cor  14  16,  RVm 
"him  that  is  without  gifts,"  and  so  in  vs  23.24), 
"rude"  (2  Cor  11  6);  agrdmmalos,  once  only  in 
connection  with  idiotes  (Acts  4  13,  "unlearned  and 
ignorant  men");  agrammatos  corresponds  to  mod- 
ern "illiterate"  (cf  Jn  7  15;  Acts  26  24);  idiotes 
originally  demoted  "the  private  man"  as  distin- 
guished from  those  with  a  knowledge  of  affairs, 
and  took  on  the  idea  of  contempt  and  scorn.  In 
Philo  it  denoted  the  whole  congregation  of  Israel 
as  distinguished  from  the  priests  (De  Vita  Mosis, 
III.  29).  With  Paul  (1  Cor  14  16.23.24)  it  seems  to 
denote  "plain  believers  as  distinguished  from  those 
with  special  spiritual  gifts."  In  Acts  4  13  it 
may  refer  to  the  want  of  Jewish  learning;  certainly 
it  does  not  mean  ignorant  in  the  modern  sense. 

Paul  in  Rom  1  18.32  attributes  the  pre-Christian 


1449 


THE  INTER  NATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Idolatry 
Illyricum 


ignorance  of  God  to  "the  ungodliness  and  un- 
righteousness of  men,  who  hinder  the  truth  in 
unrighteousness"  (but  m  has,  with  AV,  "hold  the 
truth,  of  1  Cor  7  30,  Gr");  many,  however  (Alford, 
De  Wette,  Meyer  and  others),  tr  "hold  back  the 
truth."  A  wilful  ignorance  is  also  referred  to  in 
Eph  4  17  f;  2  Pet  3  5.  But  there  is  also  a  less 
blameworthy  ignorance.  Paul  at  Athens  spoke  of 
"times  of  ignorance"  which  God  had  "overlooked" 
(Acts  17  30);  Paul  says  of  himself  that  he  "obtained 
mercy,  because  [he]  did  it  [against  Christ]  ignorant  ly 
in  unbelief "  (1  Tim  1  13);  Peter  said  to  the  Jews 
(Acts  3  17)  that  they  and  their  rulers  rejected 
Christ  "in  ignorance"  (cf  1  Cor  2  8);  and  Jesus 
Himself  prayed  for  those  who  crucified  Him :  "Father, 
forgive  them;  for  they  know  not  what  they  do"; 
(Lk  23  34) ;  in  He  5  2  the  necessary  qualification 
of  a  high  priest  is  that  he  "can  bear  gently  with 
the  ignorant  and  erring" — those1  who  sin  in  igno- 
rance or  go  astray  (cf  9  7,  "blood,  which  he  offereth 
for  himself,  and  for  the  errors  of  the  people,"  m  "Gr 
ignorances").  Growing  light,  however,  brings  with 
it  increasing  responsibility,  and  tin;  "ignorance" 
that  may  be  "overlooked"  at  one  stage  of  the  his- 
tory of  men  and  nations  may  be  blameworthy  and 
even  criminal  at  another.  W.  L.  Walker 

IIM,  I'im  (2"1fl5T ,  Hylm):  Same  as  Iyim  (q.v.). 

IJE-ABARIM,  I-je-ab'a-rim.     See  Iye-abarim. 

IJON,  I'jon  Cj^y,  "ujon;  LXX  in  K  has 
'A(v,  .1?//,  or  Ncuv,  Nain;  in  Ch  'I<£,  Id;  Ateiv, 
A  ion):  A  town  in  the  territory  of  Naphtali, 
first  mentioned  in  connection  with  the  invasion  of 
Ben-hadad,  in  the  reign  of  Baasha.  It  was  cap- 
tured along  with  Dan  and  Abel-beth-maacah  (1  K 
15  20;  2  Ch  16  4).  It  shared  with  these  cities  a 
similar  fate  at  the  hands  of  Tiglath-pileser  in  the 
reign  of  Pekah  (2  K  15  20).  The  name  survives 
in  that  of  Merj  A*yun,  "meadow  of  springs,"  a 
rich,  oval-shaped  plain  to  the  N.W.  of  Tell  el  Kady, 
where  the  Litany  turns  sharply  westward  to  the  sea. 
The  ancient  city  may  be  represented  by  Tell 
Dibbln,  an  important  site  to  the  N.  of  the  plain. 

\Y.  Ewing 

IKKESH,  ik'esh  (tD^.?,  Hffiesh,  "crooked"): 
A  Tekoite,  father  of  Ira,  one  of  David's  "thirty" 
(2  S  23  20;  1  Ch  11  28;  27  9). 

ILAI,  iTa-I,  I'll  P?"1?,  xilay):  A  mighty  man  of 
David  (1  Ch  11  29)";   called  Zalmon  in  2  S  23  28. 

ILIADUN,  i-ll'a-dun,  il'i-ad-un  ('EXiaSoOv,  Elia- 
doun,  1  Esd  5  .58;  AV  Eleadun) :  Possibly  corres- 
ponding to  Henadad  in  Ezr  3  0. 

ILL,  il,  ILL-FAVORED,  il-fa'verd.      See  Evil- 

FAVOREDXESR. 

ILLUMINATION,  i-lu-mi-na'shun :  He  10  32  AV, 
only,  "the  former  days,  in  which,  after  ye  were 
illuminated  [RV  "enlightened"],  ye  endured  a  great 
fight  of  afflictions."  The  vb.  is  (purifa,  photizo, 
rendered  in  6  4  by  "enlightened"  and  in  both  pas- 
sages (and  not  elsewhere  in  the  NT)  being  used  to 
describe  complete  conversion.  The  vb.,  indeed,  is 
used  in  such  a  technical  way  that  Syr  VSS  render 
by  "baptized,"  and  it  is  not  perhaps  impossible 
that  the  author  of  He  had  baptism  definitely  in 
mind.  (In  the  early  church  baptism  is  frequently 
described  as  "illumination,"  e.g.  Justin,  Apol.,  i.61.) 
But  this  probably  would  go  too  far;  the  most  that 
can  be  said  is  that  he  means  the  state  of  mind  of  a 
full  Christian  and  not  that  of  a  catechumen  (cf  also 
Bar  4  2  AV;  Sir  25  11). 

Burton  Scott  Easton 


ILLUSTRIOUS,  i-lus'tri-us,  THE  (6av|xao-T6s, 
thaumastds) :  A  title  of  rank  and  merit  attached  to 
the  name  of  Bartacus,  the  father  of  Apame  (1  Esd  4 
20,  AV  "the  admirable).  Instead  of  "the  illus- 
trious" we  should  possibly  read  "colonel"  (Ant,  XI, 
iii,  5;  Eli,  s.v.).     See  Bartacus;  Apame. 

ILLYRICUM,  i-lir'i-kum  ('IWvfHKov,  Illuri- 
kdn):  A  province  of  the  Rom  Empire,  lying  E. 
and  N.E.  of  the  Adriatic  Sea.  In  his  Ep.  to  the 
Rom  Paul  emphasizes  the  extent  of  his  missionary 
activities  in  the  assertion  that  "from  Jerus,  and 
round  about  even  unto  Illyricum,  I  have  fully 
{ireached  the  gospel  of  Christ"  (15  10).  An 
examination  of  this  statement  involves  three  ques- 
tions: What  is  the  force  of  the  preposition  "even 
unto"  C"^XP',  mechri)?  What  meaning  is  borne 
by  the  word  Illyricum?  and,  At  what  period  of  his 
missionary  career  did  Paul  reach  the  limit  here 
spoken  of? 

In  Gr,  as  in  Eng.,  the  preposition  "unto"  may 

either  be  exclusive  or  inclusive1.     In  other  words, 

Paul  may  mean  that  lie  has  preached 

1.  Force  of  throughout  Macedonia  as  far  as  the 
"even  unto"  Ulyrian    frontier,    or    his   words    may 

involve  a  journey  within  Illyricum 
itself,  extending  perhaps  to  Dvrrhachium  (mod. 
Durazzo)  on  the  Adriatic  seaboard,  which,  though 
belonging  politically  to  Macedonia,  lay  in  "Gr 
Illyria."  But  since1  no  word  is  said  in  the  Acts  of 
any  extension  of  Paul's  travels  beyond  tin1  confines 
of  Macedonia,  and  since  the1  phrase,  "I  have1  fully 
preached,"  precludes  a  reference  to  a  hurried  or 
cursory  tour  in  Illyricum,  we1  should  probably  take 
the  word  "unto"  in  its  exclusive  sense1,  and  under- 
stand that  Paul  claims  to  have  evangelized  Mace- 
donia as  far  as  the  frontier  of  Illyricum. 

What,  then,  eloes  the1  word  "Illyricum"  denote? 

It   is   sometimes   use'd,    like1   the1   Gr   terms   Ulyris 

and  Illyria,  to  signify  a  vast  area  lying 

2.  Meaning  between  the1  Danube1  on  the  N.  and 
of  "Illyri-  Macedonia  and  Thrace  on  the  S.,  ex- 
cum"  tending  from  the  Adriatic  and  the1  Alps 

to  the  Black  Sea,  and  inhabited  by  a 
number  of  warlike  and  semi-civilized  tribe's  known 
to  the1  Greeks  under  the1  general  title  of  Ulyrians 
(Appian,  lllyr.  1;  Suetonius,  Tiberius,  10);  it  thus 
comprised  the  provinces  of  Illyricum  (in  the1  nar- 
rower sense),  Pannonia  and  Moesia,  which  for  cer- 
tain  financial  and  military  purposes  formed  a  single1 
administrative  area,  together  with  a  strip  of  coast 
land  between  Dalmatia  and  Epirus  ami,  at  a  later 
elate1,  Dacia.  Appian  {lllyr.  0)  even  extends  the1 
term  te)  include  Raetia  and  Noricum,  but  in  this 
he1  appears  to  be  in  error.  But  Illyricum  has  also 
a  narrower  and  more  precise  meaning,  denoting  a 
single  Roman  province,  which  varied  in  extent  with 
the  advance  of  the  Roman  conquest  but  was  finally 
organized  in  10  AD  by  the1  emperor  Augustus.  At 
first  it  bore1  the1  name  superior  provincia Illyricum  or 
simply  Illyricum;  later  it  came  to  be  known  as  Dal- 
matia (Tac.  Annals,  iv.5;  Jos,  BJ,  II,  xvi;  Dio 
Cassius,  xlix.36,  e^e-).  In  ae'ce)relance  with  Paul's 
habitual  usage:  of  such  terms,  together  with  the  fact 
that  he:  employs  a  Gr  form  which  is  a  transliteration 
of  the  Lat  Illyricum  but  eleie's  not  occur  in  any 
other  e'xtant  Gr  writer,  and  the  fact  that  he  is  here1 
writing  tei  the1  church  at  Rome,  we1  may  conclude1 
that  in  Rom  15  10  Ulyrie-uni  bears  its  more  re- 
stricted meaning. 

The  Romans  wagcel  two  Ulyrian  wars:  in  229-22S 
BC  and  in  219  BC,  but  no  province  was  formed  until  1(57, 

when,  after  the  fall  e)f  the'  Macedonian 
3    Rela-  power,  Illyria  received  its  provincial  con- 

.;"       .  stitution    (Livy,    xlv.26).      At    this    time 

lion  TO  it  extended  from  the   Drilo    (mod.    Drin) 

Rome  to  Dalmatia,  which  was  gradually  setbju- 

gated  by  Rom  arms.  In  59  BC  Julius 
Caesar  received  as  his  province  Illyricum  and  Gaul,  and 


Image 


Till]  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1450 


later  Octavian  and  his  generals,  Asinius  Pollio  and  Ntati- 
lius  Taurus,  waged  war  there  with  such  success  that  in 
27  lit',  at  the  partition  of  the  provinces  between  Augustus 
and  the  Senate,  lllyricum  w;is  regarded  as  wholly  pacified 
and  was  assigned  to  the  latter.  Renewed  disturbances 
led,  however,  to  its  transference  to  the  eniperorin  1  1  BC. 
Two  years  later  the  province  was  extended  to  the  Danube, 
but  in  9  AD.  at  the  close  of  the  2d  Pannonian  War.  it. 
was  divided  into  two  separate  provinces,  Pannonia  and 
lllyricum  (Dahnatia).  The  latter  remained  an  imperial 
province,  administered  by  a  consular  Ugatus  Atigusti 
pro  prattore  residing  at  Salonae  (mod.  Spalato),  and  two 
legions  were  stationed  there,  at  Dclminium  and  at  Bur- 
num.  One  of  these  was  removed  by  Nero,  the  other  by 
Vespasian,  and  thenceforward  the  province  was  garri- 
soned only  by  auxiliary  troops.  It  fell  into  three  judicial 
circuits  (conventux),  that  of  Scardona  comprising  Li- 
burnia,  the  northern  portion  of  the  province,  while  those 
of  Salonae  and  Narona  made  up  the  district  of  Dalmatia 
in  the  narrower  sense.  The  l;md  was  rugged  and  moun- 
tainous, and  civilization  progressed  but  slowly;  the  Ro- 
mans, however,  organized  5  Rom  colonies  within  the 
province  and  a  considerable  number  of  municipia. 

The  extension  of  Paul's  preaching  to  the  Illyrian 
frontier   must    be   assigned    to   his   3d  missionary 

journey,  i.e.  to  his  2d  visit  to  Mace- 
4.  Paul's  donia.  His  movements  during  the  1st 
Relation  to  visit  (Acts  16  12—17  15)  are  too  fully 
lllyricum        recorded  to  admit  of  our  attributing  it 

to  that  period,  but  the  account  in  Acts 
20  2  of  his  second  tour  is  not  only  very  brief,  but 
the  words,  "when  ho  had  gone  through  those  parts," 
suggest  an  extensive  tour  through  the  province, 
occupying,  according  to  Ramsay,  the  summer  and 
autumn  of  56  AD.     See  also  Dalmatia. 

Literature. — A.  M.  Poinsignon,  Quid  praecipue  apud 
Romanos  adusque  Diocletiani  tempora  lllyricum  fuerit 
(Paris,  1846) ;  Zippe,  Die  romische  Herrschaft  in  Illyrien 
bis  auf  A uguslus  (Leipzig,  1877);  H.  Cons,  La  province 
romaine  de  Dalmatie  (Paris,  1882);  T.  Mommsen,  OIL, 
III,  pp.  27!)  IT;  T.  Mommsen  et  J.  Marquardt,  Manuel 
des  antiquites  romaine*  (Fr.  T),  IX,  171  if. 

M.  N.  Tod 
IMAGE,  im'aj  (D^S,  gelem;  fWv,  (ikon):  Its 
usage  falls  under  3  main  heads.  (1)  "Image"  as 
object  of  idolatrous  worship  (trR  about  a  dozen 
words,  including  nDD"Q,  massekhah,  "molten  image" 
[Dt  9  12,  etc];  rnjTp, mag gebhah, in AVtrd "image" 
or  "pillar,"  in  RV  always  "pillar"  [Ex  23  24,  etc]; 
^CS  ,  pesel,  "graven  image"  [Ex  20  4,  etc];  gelem, 
"image"  [2  K  11  18,  etc];  eikon,  "image"  [e.g. 
Rev  14  9]);  (2)  of  man  as  made  in  the  image  of 
God;  (3)  of  Christ  as  the  image  of  God.  Here 
we  are  concerned  with  the  last  two  tisages.  For 
"image"  in  connection  with  idolatrous  practices, 
see  Idolatry;  Images;  Pillar;  Teraphim, 
etc. 

/.  Man  as  Made  in  the  Divine  Image. — To  define 
man's  fundamental  relation   to   God,   the  priestly 
writer  in  Gen  uses  two  words :   "image" 
1.  In  (gelem)  and  "likeness"  (demuth);   once 

the  OT  employing  both   together    (Gen  1  26; 

cf  5  3),  but  elsewhere  one  without  the 
other,  "image"  only  in  1  27;  9  6,  and  "likeness" 
only  in  5  1.  The  priestly  writer  alone  in  the  OT 
uses  this  expression  to  describe  the  nature  of  man, 
though  the  general  meaning  of  the  passage  Gen  1 
26  f  is  echoed  in  Ps  8  5-8,  and  the  term  itself  re- 
appears in  Apoc  (Sir  17  3;  Wisd  2  23)  and  in  the 
NT  (see  below). 

The  idea  is  important  in  relation  to  the  Bib. 
doctrine  of  man,  and  has  figured  prominently  in 
theological  discussion.  The  following  are  some  of 
the  questions  that  arise: 

(1)  Is  there  any  distinction  to  be  understood  between 
"image"  and  "likeness"  ?  Most  of  the  Fathers,  and  some 
later  theologians,  attempt  to  distinguish  between  them. 
(a)  Some  have  referred  "image"  to  man's  bodily  form, 
and  "likeness"  to  his  spiritual  nature  (Justin  Martyr, 
Irenaeus).  (6)  Others,  esp.  the  Alexandrian  Fathers, 
understood  by  the  "image"  the  mental  and  moral  endow- 
ments native  to  man,  and  by  the  "likeness"  the  Divine 
perfections  which  man  can  only  gradually  acquire  by 
free  development  and  moral  conflict  (Clement  of  Alex- 
andria and  Origen),  or  which  is  conferred  on  man  as  a 


gift  of  grace,  (c)  This  became  the  basis  of  the  later 
Roman  Catholic  distinction  between  the  natural  gifts 
of  rationality  and  freedom  (=the  image),  and  the  super- 
natural endowments  of  grace  which  Cod  bestowed  on 
man  after  He  had  created  him  (the  likeness  =donum 
superadditum) .  The  former  remained  after  the  Fall, 
though  in  an  enfeebled  state;  the  latter  was  lost  through 
sin,  but  restored  by  Christ.  The  early  Protestants  re- 
jected this  distinction,  maintaining  that  supernatural 
righteousness  was  part  of  the  true  nature  and  idea  of 
man,  i.e.  was  included  in  the  "image,"  and  not  merely 
externally  superadded.  Whatever  truth  these  distinc- 
tions may  or  may  not  contain  theologically,  they  cannot 
be  exegotically  inferred  from  Gen  1  26,  where  (as  is 
now  generally  admitted)  no  real  difference!  is  intended. 
We  have  here  simply  a  "duplication  of  synonyms" 
(Driver)  for  the  sake  of  emphasis.  The  two  terms  are 
elsewhere  used  interchangeably. 

(2)  What,  then,  is  to  be  understood  by  the  Di- 
vine  imager     Various   answers   have   been    given. 

(a)  Some  of  the  Fathers  (influenced  by  Philo)  sup- 
posed that  the  "image"  here  =  the  Logos  (called 
"the  image  of  the  invisible  God"  in  Col  1  15),  on 
the  pattern  of  whom  man  was  created.  But  to 
read  the  Logos  doctrine  into  the  creation  narrative 
is  to  ignore  the  historic  order  of  doctrinal  develop- 
ment, (b)  That  it  connotes  physical  resemblance 
to  God  (see  (1),  (a)  above;  so  in  the  main  Skinner, 
ICC,  in  loc).  It  may  be  admitted  that  there  is  a 
secondary  reference  to  the  Divine  dignity  of  the 
human  body;  but  this  does  not  touch  the  essence 
of  the  matter,  inasmuch  as  God  is  not  represented 
as  having  physical  form,  (c)  That  it  consists  of 
dominion  over  the  creatures  (Socinian  view;  so 
also  Gregory  of  Nyssa,  Chrysostom,  etc).  This 
would  involve  an  unwarranted  narrowing  of  the 
idea.  It  is  true  that  such  "dominion"  is  closely 
associated  with  the  image  in  Gen  1  26  (cf  Ps  8 
6-8).  But  the  "image  of  God"  must  denote  pri- 
marily man's  relation  to  his  Creator,  rather  than 
his  relation  to  the  creation.  Man's  lordship  over 
Nature  is  not  identical  with  the  image,  but  is  an 
effect  of  it.  (d)  It  is  best  to  take  the  term  as  refer- 
ring to  the  whole  dignity  of  man,  in  virtue  of  his 
fundamental  affinity  to  God.  It  implies  the  pos- 
session by  man  of  a  free,  self-conscious,  rational 
and  moral  personality,  like  unto  that  of  God — a 
nature  capable  of  distinguishing  right  and  wrong, 
of  choosing  the  right  and  rejecting  the  wrong,  and 
of  ascending  to  the  heights  of  spiritual  attainment 
and  communion  with  God.  This  involves  a  separa- 
tion of  man  from  the  beast,  and  his  supremacy  as 
the  culmination  of  the  creative  process. 

(3)  Does  the  term  imply  man's  original  perfec- 
tion, lost  through  sin?  The  old  Protestant  divines 
maintained  that  the  first  man,  before  the  Fall, 
possessed  original  right  eousness,  not  only  in  germ 
but  in  developed  form,  and  that  this  Divine  image 
was  destroyed  by  the  Fall.  Exegetically  considered, 
this  is  certainly  not  taught  by  the  priestly  writer, 
who  makes  no  mention  of  the  Fall,  assumes  that  the 
image  was  transmitted  from  father  to  son  (cf  Gen 
5  1  with  5  3),  and  naively  speaks  of  post-diluvian 
men  as  created  in  the  image  of  God  (Gen  9  6;  cf 
1  Cor  11  7;  Jas  3  9).  Theologically  considered, 
the  idea  of  the  perfect  holiness  of  primitive  man  is 
based  on  an  abstract  conception  of  God's  work  in 
creation,  which  precludes  the  idea  of  development, 
ignores  the  progressive  method  of  the  Divine  govern- 
ment and  the  essential  place  of  effort  and  growth  in 
human  character.  It  is  more  in  harmony  with 
modern  conceptions  (a)  to  regard  man  as  originally 
endowed  with  the  power  of  right  choice,  rather  than 
with  a  complete  character  given  from  the  first;  and 

(b)  to  think  of  the  Divine  image  (though  seriously 
defaced)  as  continuing  even  in  the  sinful  state,  as 
man's  inalienable  capacity  for  goodness  and  his  true 
destination.  If  the  Divine  image  in  man  is  a  self- 
conscious,  rational  and  ethical  personality,  it  can- 
not be  a  merely  accidental  or  transitory  attribute, 
but  is  an  essential  constituent  of  his  being. 


1451 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Image 


Two  features  may  be  distinguished  in  the  NT 

doctrine  of  the  Divine  image  in  man:    (1)  man's 
first  creation  in  Adam,  (2)  his  second 
2.  In  or  new  creation  in  Christ.     As  to  (1), 

the  NT  the  doctrine  of  the  OT  is  assumed  in 

the  NT.  Paul  makes  a  special  appli- 
cation of  it  to  the  question  of  the  relation  of  husband 
and  wife,  which  is  a  relation  of  subordination  on  the 
part  of  the  wife,  based  on  the  fact  that  man  alone 
was  created  immediately  after  the  Divine  image 
(1  Cor  11  7).  Thus  Paul,  for  the  special  purpose 
of  his  argument,  confines  the  meaning  of  the  image 
to  man's  lordly  authority,  though  to  infer  that  he 
regards  this  as  exhausting  its  significance  would  be 
quite  unwarranted.  Alan's  affinity  to  God  is  im- 
plied, though  the  term  "image"  is  not  used,  in  Paul's 
sermon  to  the  Athenians  (Acts  17  28  f,  man  the 
"offspring"  of  God).  See  also  Jas  3  9  (it  is  wrong 
to  curse  men,  for  they  are  "made  after  the  likeness 
of  God"). 

(2)  More  characteristic  of  the  NT  is  the  doctrine 
of  the  new  creation,  (a)  The  redeemed  man  is 
said  to  be  in  the  image  of  God  (the  Father).  He  is 
"renewed  unto  knowledge  after  the  image  of  him 
that  created  him"  (Col  3  10),  i.e.  of  God  the  Crea- 
tor, not  here  of  Christ  or  the  Logos  (as  some)  (ef 
Eph  4  24,  "after  God").  Though  there  is  here 
ail  evident  reference  to  Gen  1  26  f ,  this  does  not 
imply  that  the  new  creation  in  Christ  is  identical 
with  the  original  creation,  but  only  that  the  two 
are  analogous.  To  Paul,  the  spirit  tial  man  in  Christ 
is  on  a  higher  level  than  the  natural  ("psychical") 
man  as  found  in  Adam  (cf  esp.  1  Cor  15  44-49), 
in  whom  the  Divine  image  consisted  (as  we  have 
seen)  in  potential  goodness,  rather  than  in  full 
perfection.  Redemption  is  infinitely  more  than 
the  restoration  of  man's  primitive  state,  (b)  The 
Christian  is  further  said  to  be  gradually  transformed 
into  the  image  of  the  Son  of  God.  This  progressive 
metamorphosis  involves  not  only  moral  and  spiritual 
likeness  to  Christ,  but  also  ultimately  the  Chris- 
tian's future  glory,  including  the  glorified  body,  the 
"passing through  a  gradual  assimilation  of  mind  and 
character  to  an  ultimate  assimilation  of  His  Sofa, 
doxa,  the  absorption  of  the  splendor  of  His  presence" 
(Sanday  and  Headlam,  Rom,  21S;  see  Rom  8  29; 
1  Cor  15  49;  2  Cor  3  IS;  and  cf  Phil  3  21;  1  Jn 
3  2). 

//.  Christ  the  Image  of  Got/.  — In  3  import  ant  pas- 
sages in  EV,  the  term  "image;"  defines  the  relation 
of  Christ  to  God  the  Father;  twice  in  Paul:  "the 
light  of  the  gospel  of  the  glory  of  Christ,  who  is  the 
image  of  God"  (2  Cor  4  4);  "who  is  the  image  of 
the  invisible  God,  the  firstborn  of  all  creation" 
(Col  1  15);  and  once  in  He:  "who  being  the  efful- 
gence of  his  glory,  and  the  very  image  of  his  sub- 
stance" (1  3).  These  statements,  taken  in  their 
contexts,  register  the  highest  reach  of  the  Christol- 
ogv  of  the  Epp. 

In  the  two  Pauline   passages,  the  word  used  is 
eikon,  which  was  generally  the  LXX  rendering  of 
celem  (Yulg  imago) ;   it  is  derived  from 
1.  The  chew,   eiko,   ioixa,   eoika,    "to   be   like," 

Terms  "resemble,"    and    means    that    which 

resembles  an  object  and  represents  it, 
as  a  copy  represents  the  original.  In  He  1  3  the 
word  used  is  xaPaKTVP  (charakttr),  which  is  found 
here  oidy  in  the  NT,  and  is  trd  in  Vulg  figura,  AV 
"express  image,"  RV  "very  image,"  RVm  "im- 
press." It  is  derived  from  xaPd(r<TU  (chardsso),  "to 
engrave,"  and  has  passed  through  the  following 
meanings:  (1)  an  engraving  instrument  (active 
sense);  (2)  the  engraved  stamp  or  mark  on  the 
instrument  (passive  sense);  (3)  the  impress  made 
by  the  instrument  on  wax  or  other  object;  (4)  hence, 
generally,  the  exact  image  or  expression  of  any  per- 
son or  thing  as  corresponding  to  the  original,  the 


distinguishing  feature,  or  traits  by  which  a  person 
or  thing  is  known  (hence  Eng.  words  "character," 
"characteristic").  The  word  conveys  practically 
the  same  meaning  as  eikon;  but  Westcott  distin- 
guishes them  by  saying  that  the  latter  "gives  a 
complete  representation,  under  conditions  of  earth, 
of  that  which  it  figures,"  while  charakter  "conveys 
representative  traits  only"  (Westcott  on  He  1  3). 
The  idea  here  expressed  is  closely  akin  to  that  of 
the  Logos  doctrine  in  Jn  (1  1-18).  Like  the  Logos, 
the  Image  in  Paul  and  in  He  is  the 

2.  Meaning  Son  of  God,  and  is  the  agent  of  creation 
as  Applied  as  well  as  the  medium  of  revelation, 
to  Christ        "What  a  word    {logos)   is  to  the  ear, 

namely  a  revelation  of  what  is  within, 
an  image  is  to  the  eye;  and  thus  in  the  expression 
there  is  only  a  translation,  as  it  were,  of  the  same 
fact  from  one  sense  to  another"  (Dorner,  System  of 
Ch.  D.,  ET,  III,  17S).  As  Image,  Christ  is  the  visible 
representation  and  manifestation  of  the  invisible 
God,  the  objective  expression  of  the  Divine  nature, 
the  face  of  God  turned  as  it  were  toward  the  world, 
the  exact  likeness  of  the  Father  in  all  things  except 
being  the  Father.  Thus  we  receive  "the  light  of 
the  knowledge  of  the  glory  of  God  in  the  face  of 
Jesus  Christ"  (2  Cor  4  6).  He  is  the  facsimile  of 
God. 

Is  Christ  described  as  the  Image  of  God  in  His 
preincarnate,    His   incarnate,   or   else   His  exalted 

state?     It  is  best  to  say  that  different 

3.  To  What  passages  refer  to  different  states,  but 
State  Does    that  if  we  take  the  whole  trend  of  NT 
It  Refer?        teaching,  Christ  is  seen  to  be  essen- 
tially, and  in  every  state,  the  Image  of 

God.  (a)  In  He  1  3  the  reference  seems  to  be  to 
the  eternal,  preincarnate  Son,  who  is  inherently  and 
essentially  the  expression  of  the  Divine  substance;. 
So  Paul  declares  that  He  subsisted  originally  in  the 
form  of  God  (iv  nop<prj  deov  inr&pxuv,  en  morpht 
theou  hupdrchon,  Phil  2  6).  (6)  In  Jn  1  18;  12 
45;  14  9,  though  the  term  image  is  not  used,  we 
have  the  idea  of  the  historical  Jesus  as  a  perfect  reve- 
lation of  the  character  and  glory  of  God.  (c)  In 
the  two  Pauline  passages  (2  Cor  4  4;  Col  1  15), 
the  reference  is  probably  to  the  glorified,  exalted 
Christ;  not  to  His  preexistent  Divine  nature,  nor 
to  His  temporal  manifestation,  but  to  His  "whole 
Person,  in  the  divine-human  state  of  His  present 
heavenly  existence"  (Meyer).  These  passages  in 
their  cumulative  impressions  convey  the  idea  that 
the  Image  is  an  inalienable  property  of  His  person- 
ality, not  to  be  limited  to  any  stage  of  His  existence. 
Does  this  involve  identity  of  essence  of  Father 
and  Son,  as  in  the  Homoousion  formula  of  the  Ni- 
cene  Creed?     Not  necessarily,  for  man 

4.  Theo-  also  bears  the  image  of  God,  even  in 
logical  his  sinful  state  (see  I  above),  a  fact 
Implications  which  the  Arians  sought  to  turn  to  their 

advantage.  Yet  in  the  light  of  the 
context,  we  must  affirm  of  Christ  an  absolutely 
unique  kinship  with  God.  In  the  Col  passage,  not 
only  are  vast  cosmic  and  redemptive  functions 
assigned  to  Him,  but  there  is  said  to  dwell  in  Him 
"all  the  fulness  of  the  Godhead  bodily"  (1  19;  2  9). 
In  He  not  only  is  the  Son  the  final  revelation  of  God 
to  men,  the  upholder  of  the  universe,  and  the  very 
image  of  the  Divine  nature,  but  also  the  effulgence 
(dvavya<x/j.a,  apaugasma)  of  God's  glory,  and  there- 
fore of  one  nature  with  Him  as  the  ray  is  of  one 
essence  with  the  sun  (1  1-3).  The  superiority  of 
the  Son  is  thus  not  merely  one  of  function  but  of 
nature.  On  the  other  hand,  the  figure  of  the 
"image"  certainly  guards  against  any  Sabellian 
identification  of  Father  and  Son,  as  if  they  were  but 
modes  of  the  one  Person;  for  we  cannot  identify 
the  pattern  with  its  copy,  nor  speak  of  anyone  as 
an  image  of  himself.     And,  finally,   we  must  not 


Image  of  God 
Images 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1452 


overlook  the  affinity  of  the  Logos  with  man;  both 
are  the  image  of  Cod,  though  the  former  in  a  unique 
sense.  The  Logos  is  at  once  the  prototype  of  hu- 
manity within  the  Godhead,  and  the  immanent 
Divine  principle  within  humanity. 

Both  in  Paul  and  in  He  we  have  an  echo  of  the 
Jewish  doctrine  of  Wisdom,  and  of  Philo's  doctrine 
of  the  Logos.     In  the  Alexandrine  Book 
5.  Relation    of  Wisd,  written  probably  under  Stoic 
to  Pre-  influence,  Divine;  Wisdom  is  pictorially 

Christian  represented  as  "an  effulgence  [apau- 
Thought  gasma]  from  everlasting  light,  and  an 
unspotted  mirror  of  the  working  of 
God,  and  an  image  [eikon]  of  His  goodness"  (7  20). 
Philo  repeatedly  calls  the  Logos  or  Divine  world- 
principle  the  image  [<  ikon,  charakter]  of  Cod,  and  also 
describes  it  as  an  effulgence  of  ( iod.  But  this  use  of 
current  Alexandrian  terminology  and  the  superficial 
resemblance  of  ideas  are  no  proof  of  conscious  bor- 
rowing on  the  pari  of  the  apostles.  There  is  this 
fundamental  distinction,  that  Philo's  Logos  is  not  a 
self-conscious  personality,  still  less  a  historical  indi- 
vidual, but  an  allegorical  hypostatizing  of  an  ab- 
stract idea;  whereas  in  Paul  and  He,  as  in  John,  the 
Divine  archetype  is  actually  realized  in  a  historical 
person,  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  and  Revealer  of  (iod. 
D.  Miall  Edwards 

IMAGE  OF  GOD.     See  God,  Image  of. 

IMAGERY,  im'aj-ri  (PPSE'D,  maskith,  "carved 
figure"):  Only  in  Ezk  8  12,  "every  man  in  his 
chambers  of  imagery,"  i.e.  dark  chambers  on  whose 
walls  were  pictures  in  relief  representing  all  kinds 
of  reptiles  and  vermin,  worshipped  by  elders  of 
Israel.  Some  maintain  that  the  cult  was  of  foreign 
origin,  either  Egyp  (Bertholet,  Comm.  on  Ezk),  or 
Bab  (Redpath,  Westminster  Comm.  on  Ezk);  others 
that  it  was  the  revival  of  ancient  superstitions  of  a 
totemistic  kind  which  had  survived  in  obscure 
circles  in  Israel  (W.  R.  Smith,  Lectures  on  the  Reli- 
gion of  the  Semites,  rev.  ed,  3o7).  The  word  here 
rendered  "imagery"  is  elsewhere  in  AV  trd  "image" 
(of  stone)  (Lev  26  1,  RV  "figured  stone"),  "pic- 
tures" (Nu  33  52,  RV  "figured  stones" ;  Prov  25  11, 
RV  "network");  twice  it  means  imagination,  con- 
ceit, i.e.  a  mental  picture  (Ps  73  20;  Prov  18  11). 
"Imagery"  occurs  once  in  Apoc  (Sir  38  27  AV, 
els  dfxoiuxrai  faypa<piav,  eis  Jiomoiosai  zographian,  RV 
"to  preserve  likeness  in  his  portraiture"). 

D.  Miall  Edwards 

IMAGES,  im'aj-iz  (D bi ,  gelem;  dxuv,  eikon) : 

1.  Definition 

2.  Origin 

li.    Early  Developments 

4.  Bible  References 
Palestinian  Customs 

5.  Some  Technical  Terras 

(1)  MacQebhah  ("pillar") 

(2)  'Asherah  ("grove") 

(3)  Hamman  ("sun-image") 

0.  Obscure  Bible  References 

(1)  Golden  Calf 
Jeroboam's  Calvos 

(2)  Brazen  Serpent 

(3)  Teraphim 

(4)  Image;  of  Jealousy 

(5)  Chambers  of  Imagery 
((>)  Ephod 

Literature 

Images,  as  used  here,  are  visible  representations 

of    supposedly    supernatural   or    divine   beings  or 

powers.    They  may  be  (1)  themselves 

1.  Defi-  objects  of   worship,    (2)  pictures,  em- 
nition             bodiments  or  dwelling-places  (temple, 

ark,  pillar,  priests)  of  deities  wor- 
shipped, (3)  empowered  instruments  (amulets, 
charms,  etc)  of  object  or  objects  worshipped,  (4) 
pictures  or  symbols  of  deities  reverenced  though 
not  worshipped.  These  images  may  be  shapeless 
blocks,  or  symmetrically  carved  figures,  or  objects 
of  Nature,  such  as  animals,  sun,  moon,  stars,  etc. 


These  visible  objects  may  sometimes  be  considered, 
esj).  by  the  uninstructed,  as  deities,  while  by  others 
in  the  small  community  they  are  thought  of  as  in- 
struments or  symbolizal  ions  of  deity.  Even  when 
they  are  thought  of  as  deities,  this  does  not  exclude 
a  sense  and  apprehension  of  a  spiritual  godhead, 
since  visible  corporeal  beings  may  have  invisible 
souls  and  spiritual  attributes,  and  even  the  stars 
may  be  thought  of  as  "seats  of  celestial  spirits." 
An  idol  is  usually  considered  as  either  the  deity  it- 
self or  his  permanent  tenement ;  afet  ish  is  an  object 
which  has  been  given  a  magical  or  divine  power, 
either  because  of  its  having  been  the  temporary 
home  of  the  deity,  or  because  it  has  been  formed  or 
handled  or  otherwise  spiritually  influenced  by  such 
deity.  The  idol  is  generally  communal,  the  fetish 
private;  the  idol  is  protective,  the  fetish  is  usually 
not  for  the  common  good.  (See  Jevons,  I<l<a  of 
God  in  Early  Religions,  1910.)  Belies  and  sym- 
bolic figures  do  not  become  "images"  in  the  objec- 
tionable sense  until  reverence  changes  to  worship. 
Lntil  comparatively  recent  times,  the  Hebrews 
seem  to  have  offered  no  religious  objection  to  "ar- 
tistic" images,  as  is  proved  not  only  from  the  de- 
scription of  Solomon's  temple,  but  also  from  the 
discoveries  of  the  highly  decorated  temple  of  Jeh 
at  Syene  dating  from  the  6th  cent.  BC,  and  from 
ruins  of  synagogues  dating  from  the  pre-Christian 
and  early" Christian  periods  {PEE,  January,  1908; 
Expos,  December,  1907;  Expos  T,  January  and 
February,  DOS).  Die  Second  Commandment  was 
not  an  attack  upon  artists  and  sculptors  but  upon 
idolaters.  Decoration  by  means  of  graven  figures 
was  not  anciently  condemned,  though,  as  Jos  shows, 
by  the  time  of  the  Seleucidae  all  plastic  art  was 
regarded  with  suspicion.  The  brazen  serpent  was 
probably  destroyed  in  Hezekiah's  time  because  it 
had  ceased  to  be  an  ancient  artistic  relic  and  had 
become  an  object  of  worship  (see  below).  So  the 
destruction  of  the  ark  and  altar  and  temple,  which 
for  so  long  a  time  had  been  the  means  of  holy 
worship,  became  at  last  a  prophetic  hope  (Isa 
6  7;  Jer  3  6;  Am  5  25;  IIos  6  G;  cf  Zee  14  20). 
While  the  temple  is  not  naturally  thought  of  as  an 
"image,"  it  was  as  truly  so  as  any  Bethel.  An 
idol  was  the  temple  in  miniature — a  dwelling-place 
of  the  god.  W7hen  an  image  became  the  object  of 
worship  or  a  means  by  which  a  false  god  was  wor- 
shipped, it  became  antagonistic  to  the  First  and 
Second  Commandments  respectively. 

The  learned  author  of  the  art.  on  "Image  Wor- 
ship" in  the  EB  (11th   ed)   disposes   too  easily  of 

this  question  when  he  suggests  that 
2.  Origin       image-worship    is   "a  continuance  by 

adults  of  their  childish  games  with 
dolls Idolatrous  cults  repose  largely  on  make- 
believe." 

Compare  the  similar  statement  made  from  a  very 
different  standpoint  by  the  author  of  Great  Is  Diana  of 
the  Ephexians,  or  the  Original  of  Idolatry  (1G95):  "All 
Superstitions  are  to  the  People  but  like  several  sports  to 
children,  which  varying  in  their  several  seasons  yield 
them  pretty  entertainment,"  etc. 

No  universal  institution  or  custom  is  founded 
wholly  on  superstition.  If  it  does  not  answer  to 
some  real  human  need,  and  "if  its  foundations  are 
not  laid  broad  and  deep  in  the  nature  of  things,  it 
must  perish"  (J.  G.  Fraser,  Psyche's  Task,  1909, 
103;  cf  Salomon  Reinach,  Revue  des  etudes  grccques, 
1906,  324).  Image-worship  is  too  widespread  and 
too  natural  to  humanity,  as  is  proved  in  modern 
centuries  as  well  as  in  the  cruder  earlier  times, 
to  have  its  basis  and  source  in  any  mere  external 
and  accidental  circumstances.  All  modern  research 
tends  to  corroborate  our  belief  that  this  is  psycho- 
logical rather  than  ecclesiastical  in  its  origin.  It 
is  not  imposed  externally;    it   comes  from  within, 


1453 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Image  of  God 
Images 


and  naturally  accompanies  the  organic  unfold- 
ment  of  the  human  animal  in  his  struggle  toward 
self-expression.  This  is  now  generally  acknowl- 
edged to  be  true  of  religious  feeling  and  instinct 
(see  esp.  Rudolf  Eucken,  Christianity  and  the 
New  Idealism,  100'.),  ch  i  ;  I.  King,  The  Develop- 
ment of  Religion,  1910);  it  ought  to  be  counted 
equally  true  of  religious  expression.  Neither  can 
the  origin  of  image-worship  or  even  of  magical  rites 
be  fully  explained,  as  Fraser  thinks,  by  the  ordi- 
nary laws  of  association.  These  associations  only 
become  significant  because  the  devoted  worshipper 
already  has  a  body  of  beliefs  and  generalizations 
which  make  him  attentive  to  the  associations  which 
seem  to  him  religiously  or  magically  important. 
(Jastrow,  Aspect*  of  Rel.  Belief  and  Practice  in  Baby- 
lonia and  Assyria;  cf  James  II.  Leuba,  Psy- 
chological Origin  and  Nature  of  Religion,  1909; 
Study  of  Religions,  1911).  Ho  animism  must  be 
regarded  as  a  philosophy  rather  than  as  an  original 
religious  faith,  since  it  is  based  on  an  "explanation 
of  phenomena  rather  than  an  altitude  of  mind 
toward  the  causeof  these  phenomena"  (EB,  11th  ed, 
art.  "Animism,"  and  cf  Hoffding,  Philosophy  of  Re- 
ligion, 1906,  138).  In  whatever  ways  the  various 
image-worshipping  cults  arose  historically — whether 
from  a  primitive  demonology  or  from  the  apotheo- 
sis of  natural  objects,  or  from  symbolism,  or  a  false 
connection  of  cause  with  effect — in  any  case  it  had 
some  human  need  behind  it  and  human  nature 
beneath  it.  The  presence  of  the  image  testifies  to 
faith  in  the  supernatural  being  represented  by  the 
image  and  to  a  desire  to  keep  the  object  of  worship 
near.  Prayer  is  easier  when  the  worshipper  can 
see  his  god  or  some  sacred  thing  the  god  has  honored 
(cf  M.  L'abbe  E.  Van  Drival,  De  Vorigine  el  des 
sources  de  Vidolatrie,  Paris,   1860). 

The  first  man  was  not  born  with  a  totem-pole  in 
his  fist,  nor  did  the  earliest  historic  men  possess 
images.  They  lacked  temples  and 
3.  Histor-  altars  and  ephods  and  idols,  as  they 
ical  Begin-  lacked  the  fire-stick  and  potter's 
nings  and  wheel.  Religion,  which  showed  itself 
Early  De-  so  strong  in  the  next  stage  of  human 
velopment  life,  must  have  had  very  firm  begin- 
nings in  the  prehistoric  period;  but 
what  were  its  external  expressions  we  do  not  yet 
certainly  know,  excepting  in  the  methods  of  burying 
and  caring  for  the  dead.  It  seems  probable  that 
primitive  historic  man  saw  in  every  thing  that  moved 
an  active  soul,  and  that  he  saw  in  every  extraordi- 
nary thing  in  earth  or  heaven  the  expression  of  a 
supernatural  power.  Vet  reflective  thinking  began 
earlier  than  Tylor  and  all  the  older  scientific  anthro- 
pologists supposed.  Those  earlier  investigators 
were  without  extended  chronological  data,  and 
although  ingenuity  was  exercised  in  systematizing 
the  beliefs  and  customs  of  modern  savages,  it  was 
necessarily  impossible  always  to  determine  in  this 
way  which  were  the  most  primitive  cults.  Exca- 
vations in  Babylonia,  Egypt  and  elsewhere  have 
enabled  us  for  the  first  time  to  trace  with  some 
chronological  certainly  the  religious  expressions  of 
earliest  historic  man.  That  primitive  man  was  so 
stupid  that  he  could  not  tell  the  difference  between 
men  and  things,  and  that  therefore  totemism  or 
fetishism  or  a  low  form  of  animism  was  necessarily 
the  first  expression  of  religious  thought  is  a  theory 
which  can  no  longer  be  held  very  buoyantly  in  the 
face  of  the  new  and  striking  knowledge,  material 
and  religious,  which  is  now  seen  to  be  incorporated 
in  some  of  the  most  ancient  myths  of  mankind. 
(See  e.g.  Winckler,  Die  jungsten  Kdmpfe  wider  den, 
Panbabylonismus,  1907;  Jeremias,  The  OT  in  the 
Light  of  the  Ancient  East,  2  vols,  1911.)  The  pan- 
Bab  theory,  which  makes  so  much  use  of  these  texts, 
is  not  certain,  but  the  facts  upon  which  the  theory 


depends  are  clear.    It  is  a  suggest  ive  fact  that  among 
the  earliest  known  deities  or  symbols  of  deities  men- 
tioned in  the  most    ancient    inscriptions  are  to  be 
found  the  sun,  moon,  stars  and  other  great,  forces 
of  Nature.     Out  of  these  conceptions  and  the  mys- 
tery   of    life — which  seems    to   have  affected   early 
mankind   even   more   powerfully    than   ourselves — 
sprang  the  earliest    known   religious   language,   the 
myth,  which  antedated  by  aeons  our  oldest  written 
texts,  since  some  of  these  myths  appear  fully  formed 
in  the  oldest  texts.     Bough  figures  of  these  solar 
and  stellar  deities  are  found  from  very  early  times 
in   Babylonia.     So  in   the  earliest    Egyp  texts  the 
sun  appears  as  divine  and  the  moon  as  "the  bull 
among  the  stars,"  and  rough  figures  of  the  gods  were 
carved  in  human  or  animal  form,  or  these  are  rep- 
resented pictorially  by  diadems  or  horns  or  ostrich 
feathers,   as   far   back   as   the    lid    Dynasty,   while 
even  earlier  than  this  stakes  and  pillars  and  heaps 
of  stones  are  sacred.     (See  further,  HDB,  5th  vol, 
176  ff;  Erman,  A  Handbook  of  Egyp  Rel.;  Steindorf, 
Rel.  of  the  Ancient  Egyptians.   1905.)     These  rude 
and  unshaped  objects  do  not   testify,  as  was  once 
supposed,  to  a  lower  form  of  religious  development 
than    when    sculptured    images    are    found.     The 
shapeless  fetish,  which  not   long  ago  was  generally 
accepted  as  the  earliest  form  of  image,  really  repre- 
sents a  more  advanced   stage  and  higher  form  of 
religious  expression  than  the  worship  of  a  beauti- 
fully or  horribly  carved  image.      It    has  been  gen- 
erally conceded  since  the  days  of  Robertson  Smith 
that    it    takes   at    least    as    much    imagination   and 
reflection  to  see  an  expression  of  deity  in  imageless 
matter  as  in  the  carved  forms.     Rude  objects  un- 
touched by  human  hand,  even  in  the  most  highly 
developed  worships,  have  been  most  prized.     The 
earliest  images  were  probably  natural  objects  which, 
because  of  their  peculiar  shapes  or  functions,  were 
thought  of   either  as  divine  or  as  made  sacred  by 
the  touch  of  deity.     Multiplied  copies  of  the.se>  ob- 
jects would  naturally  be  made  when  worshippers 
increased   or   migrations   occurred.     While   images 
may  have  been  used  in  the  most   early  cults,  yet 
the    highest     development    of    image-worship    has 
occurred  among  the  most   civilized  peoples.     Both 
deities  and  idols  are  less  numerous  in  the  early  than 
in   the  later  days  of   a   religion.     This   is   true   in 
India,  Assyria,  Babylonia,  and  Egypt,  as  all  experts 
now  agree.      Idols  are  not  found  among  uncivilized 
peoples,  such  as  the  Bushmen,  Fuegians,  Eskimos, 
etc.     (See    e.g.    Allen    Menzies,    History  of    Rel., 
1895.)     Images  of  the  gods  presuppose  a  power  of 
discrimination   that    could   only   be   the   result   of 
reflection.     The   earliest    idols   known   among   the 
Semites  were  rude  stone  pillars  or  unshapen  blocks. 
These,  as  the  fetish,  were  probably  adored,  not  for 
themselves,  but  for  the  spirit  that,  was  supposed  to 
be  in  them  or  to  have  touched  them.     Deities  and 
idols  are  multiplied  easily,  not  only  by  philological, 
geographical  and  social  causes,  but   through  inter- 
tribal   and    international    associations.     One   thing 
absolutely  proved  by  recent   excavations  has  been 
the   extent    to   which   the   representations  of   local 
deities  have  been  modified  by  the  symbolic  art  of 
surrounding     nations.     Babylonia,     for     example, 
was  influenced  by  the  Syro-I  lit  lite  religious  art  at 
least  as  much  as  by  that  of  Egypt  (William  Hayes 
Ward,   Cylinders  and  Other  Ancient  Oriented  Seals, 
1000;     Clay,    Ainurru,    1010).     Even   in   adjacent 
localities  the  same1  deity  varied  greatly  in  its  pic- 
torial   representation.     Sec-    Palestine    Explora- 
tion, and   Revue  biblique,  XIV,  315-48.     With  the 
possible  exception  of  one  reign  in  Egypt,   during 
which  Ikhnaton  refused  to  allow  any  deities  to  be 
worshipped   excepting   the   sun   disc   and   himself, 
idolat  ry  out  side  of  1  he  Heb  kingdom  was  never  made 
a  crime  against  the  state;  until  the  days  of  Con- 


Images 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1454 


atantine.  Theodosius  (392  AD)  not  only  placed 
sacrifices  and  divination  among  the  capital  crimes, 
but  placed  a  penalty  upon  anyone  who  entered  a 
heat  lien  temple. 

The  dignity  of  the  image  in  common  thought   in 

Bible  times  may  lie  seen  from  the  fact   that   man  is 

said  to  have  been  made  in  God's  image 

4.  Bible  (D5S,  gelem;  cf  1  S  6  5;  Nu  33  52), 
References  and  Christ  is  said  to  be  "the  image  of 
and  Pales-  the  invisible  Cod"  (eUuiv,  eikon; 
tinian  cf  Col  1  15  with  Horn  1  2)5).  The 
Customs         heathen  thought  of  the  sun  and  stars 

and  idols  as  being  images  of  the  gods, 
but  the  Hebrews,  though  Jeh's  temple  was  image- 
less,  thought  of  normal  humanity  as  in  some  true 
sense  possessing  a  sacred  resemblance  to  Deity, 
though  early  Christians  taught  that  only  Christ 
was  the  Father's  "image"  in  unique  and  absolute 
perfection.  See  Image.  The  ordinary  words  for 
"image"  by  a  slight  change  came  to  mean  vermin, 
carrion,  false  gods,  no  gods,  carcases,  dung,  etc. 
Heathen  gods  were  undoubtedly  accounted  real 
beings  by  the  early  Hebrews,  and  the  image's  of 
these  enemies  of  Jeh  were  doubtless  looked  upon  as 
possessing  an  evil  associated  (?)  power.  In  the 
earlier  OT  era,  images,  idols,  and  false  gods  are 
synonymous;  but  as  early  as  the  8th  cent.  BC 
Heb  prophets  begin  to  reach  the  lofty  conception 
that  heathen  gods  are  non-existent ,  or  at  least  practi- 
cally so,  when  compared  with  the  ever-living  Jeh, 
while  the  idols  are  "worthless  things"  or  "non- 
entities" (Isa  2  8.18.20;  10  10.11;  19  1  ;  31  7; 
cf  Jer  14  14;  Ezk  30  13;  note  the  satiric  term 
'Slillm,  as  contrasted  with  the  powerful  'elohlm). 
The  many  ordinary  terms  used  by  the  Hebrews  for 
an  idol  or  image  mean  "copy,"  simulacrum, 
"likeness,"  "representation."  These  are  often, 
however,  so  compounded  as  technically  to  express 
a  particular  form,  as  "graven"  or  "carved"  image 
(e.g.  Ex  20  4;  2  Ch  33  7)  of  wood  or  stone,  i.e. 
one  cut  into  shape  by  a  tool;  "molten  image"  (e.g. 
Ex  32  4;  Lev  19  4),  i.e.  one  cast  out  of  melted 
metal  (standing  image)  (Lev  26  1  AV,  and  see 
below),  etc.  However,  a  few  of  the  OT  terms  and 
modes  of  worship  are  unusual,  or  have  a  more  diffi- 
cult technical  meaning,  or  have  been  given  a  new 
interest  by  new  discoveries,  and  such  deserve  a  more 
extended  not  ice. 

rQ?213 ,   maggebhah:    These  were  upright    stone 
pillars,  often  mentioned  in  the  OT,  sometimes  as 

abodes  (Bethels)  or  symbols  of  deity — • 

5.  Most  esp.  as  used  by  the  heathen — but  also 
Important  as  vol  ive  offerings,  memorial  and  grave 
Technical  stones  (Gen  28  18:  31  45;  35  14.20; 
Terms  Josh  24  26;  1  S  7  12).  The  rever- 
ence for  these  stones  is  closely  con- 
nected with  that  found  among  all  Sem  peoples  for 
obelisks  (Gen  33  20;  35  7),  cairns  (Gen  28  IS; 
Josh  4  (')),  and  circles  (Josh  4  3.5.20).  Rough 
stone  pillars  from  time  immemorial  were  used  in 
Sem  worship  (Kit t el,  Hist  of  the  Hebrews,  II,  84). 
They  were  thought  of  primitively  as  dwelling- 
places  of  deity,  and  the  stones  and  the  spots  where 
they  stood  were  therefore  accounted  sacred.  From 
very  early  times  the  mystery  of  life  pressed  itself 
upon  human  attention,  and  these  stones  were  viewed 
as  phallic  images.  These  images  wen;  at  first  rough 
and  undifferentiated,  but  became  later  well  defined 
as  male  organs.  At  Tell  Zakariyah  the  end  of  one 
is  sculptured  to  represent  a  human  face.  Some  sort 
of  phallieism  underlies  all  early  Sem  religion,  the 
form  of  which  is  determined  by  the  attention  paid 
to  the  date  palm,  to  the  breeding  of  flocks,  to  as- 
trology, and  to  social  life.  This  phallieism  did  not 
always  represent  coarse  thought,  but  sometimes  a 
very   profound  spiritual   conception;     cf    Golden 


Calf,  and   note  Wiedemann's  statement  in  HOB, 

V,  180  that  in  Egypt  the  gods  Hu,  "Taste,"  and 
»S'«,  "Perception,"  were  created  from  the  blood  of 
the  sun-god's  phallus.  These  images  of  fertility 
and  I'eproduct  ion  were  naturally  connected  in 
Canaan  with  the  worship  of  the  Baals  or  "lords"  of 
each  locality,  upon  whose  favor  as  possessor  of  the 
land  fertility  depended.  They  were  also  naturally 
associated  .with  the  cult  of  Astarte,  the  female 
counterpart  of  all  the  Baals  (see  Astarte).  In  the 
OT  the  Baalim  and  Asherim  are  almost  invariably 
classed  together,  although  the  latter  were  wooden 
posts  dedicated  to  a  particular  goddess,  while 
"Baal"  was  merely  a  title  which  could  be  given  to 
any  male  Sem  deity,  and  sometimes  even  to  his 
female  associate.  The  maggebhoth  were  set  up  in  a 
"high  place"  (q.v.),  attracting  reverence  because 
of  its  "elevation,  isolation  and  mystery"  (Vincent). 
Originally  these  pillars  were  not  considered  as  idols, 
but  were  naturally  erected  to  Jeh  (Gen  28  IS; 
31  45;  35  14;  Ex  24  4),  and  even  Isaiah  (19  19) 
and  Hosea  (3  4)  approve  them,  though  pillars  dedi- 
cated to  idols  must  of  course  be  destroyed  (Ex  23 
24;  34  13;  Jer  43  13;  Ezk  26  11).  Only  in  late 
times  or  by  very  far-sighted  law-givers  were  the 
?naggebhulh  erected  to  Jeh  condemned;  but  after 
the  centralization  of  the  Jeh-worship  in  Jerus,  these 
pillars  were  condemned,  even  when  set  up  in  the 
name  of  Jeh,  and  the  older  places  of  worship  with 
their  indiscriminate  rituals  and  necessary  heathen 
affiliations  were  also  wisely  discarded  (Lev  26  1; 
Dt    16  22;  se<>  also  Golden  Calf). 

rntpJS!,  'dsherdh:  Perhaps  a  goddess  (see  Ashe- 
rah),  but  as  ordinarily  used  in  the  OT,  a  sacred 
tree  or  stump  of  a  tree  planted  in  the  earth  (Dt  16 
21)  or  a  pole  made  of  wood  and  set  up  near  the 
altar  (Jgs  6  26;    1  K  16  33;    Isa  17  8). 

It  has  been  supposed  that  these  were  primarily  symbols 
of  a  goddess  Asherah  or  Ashtoreth  (Kuenen,  Baethgen), 

and  they  were  certainly  in  primitive  thought  connected 
with  the  tree  cult  and  the  sacred  groves  so  univer- 
sally honored  by  the  Semites  (see  esp.  W.  R.  Smith. 
Religion  of  the  Semite's,  169,  4:57;  Stade,  Geschichte, 
160  ff;  Fraser,  Golden  Hough,  II,  56-117;  John  O'Neill, 
Night  of  the  Gods,  II,  57);  but  the  tree  of  life  is  closely 
connected  in  texts  and  pictures  with  the  human  organ  of 
generation,  and  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  there  is  a 
phallic  meaning  connected  with  this  sacred  stake  or 
pole,  as  with  the  maccebhdth  described  above.  See 
references  in  IIDH  under  "Asherah,"  and  cf  Transactions 
of  the  Victoria  Institute,  XXXIX,  2H4;  Winckler,  Keilin- 
schriftliches  Textbuch  zum  AT.  As  these  wooden  posts 
from  earliest  times  represented  the  ideas  of  fertility  and 
were  connected  with  the  mystery  of  life,  they  naturally 
became  the  signs  and  symbols  in  many  lands  of  the  local 
gods  and  goddesses  of  fertility. 

Astarte  was  by  far  the  most  popular  deity  of  ancient 
Pal.  See  Ashtohkth.  The  figures  of  Astarte  from  the 
12th  to  the  9th  cent.  BC,  as  found  at  Gezer,  have;  large 
hips,  disclosing  an  exaggerated  idea  of  fecundity.  In 
close  connection  with  the  Astarte  sanctuaries  in  Pal 
were  found  numberless  bodies  of  little  children,  none 
over  a  week  old,  undoubtedly  representing  the  sacrifice 
of  the  firstborn  by  these  Canaanites  (U.A.S.  Macalister, 
Excavation  of  Gezer,  3  vols).  These  Asherim  were  erected 
at  the  most  sacred  Heb  sanctuaries,  at  Samaria  (2  K  13 
6),  Bethel  (2  K  23  15),  and  even  in  the  Temple  of  Jerus 
(2  K  23  6).  The  crowning  act  of  King  Josiah's  reforma- 
tion was  to  break  down  these!  images  (2  K  23  14).  As 
the  astrological  symbol  of  Baal  was  the  sun.  Astarte  is 
often  thought  of  as  the  moon-goddess,  but  her  symbol 
was  really  Venus.  She  was,  however,  sometimes  called 
"Queen  of  Heaven"  (Jer  7  18;  44  17.19;  but  see  Z.  4  T  W , 

VI,  12:$-30). 

"12T\ ,  hamman,  AV  "images,"  "idols";  RV  "sun- 
images"'  (Lev  26  30;  2  Ch  14  5;  34  4.7;  Isa  17 
S;  27  9;  Ezk  6  4.6):  This  worship  may  originally 
have  come  from  Babylonia,  but  the  reverence  of 
the  sun  under  the  name  Baal-hamman  had  long 
been  common  in  Pal  before  Joshua  and  the 
Israelites  entered  the  country.  These  sun-images 
were  probably  obelisks  or  pillars  connected  with  the 
worship  of  some  local  Baal.  The  chariot  and 
horses  of  the  sun,  mentioned  (2  K  23  11)  as  having 
an  honored  place  at  the  western  entrance  of  the 


1455 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Images 


Jcrus  Temple,  represented  not  a  local  but  a  foreign 
cult.  In  Bab  temples,  sacrifices  were  made  to  the 
sun-chariot,  which  seems  to  have  had  a  special  sig- 
nificance in  time  of  war  (Pinches,  HDB,  IV,  629; 
see  also  Chariots  of  the  Sun). 

(1)  Golden  Calf  and  Jeroboam's  Calves  (see  Golden 
Calf). 

(2)  Brazen  Serpent  (Nu  21  4-9;  2  K 
6.  Obscure  18  4). — The  serpent,  because  of  its 
Bible  st  range,  lightning-like  power  of  poison- 

References  ous  attack,  its  power  to  shed  its 
skin,  and  to  paralyze  its  prey,  has  been 
the  most  universally  revered  of  all  creatures. 
Living  serpents  were  kept  in  Bab  temples.  So  the 
cobra  was  the  guardian  of  royalty  in  Egypt,  sym- 
bolizing the  kingly  power  of  life  and  death.  In  my- 
thology, the  serpent  was  not  always  considered  a  bad 
demon,  enemy  of  the  Creator,  but  oft  en  appears  as  the 
emblem  of  wisdom,  esp.  in  connection  with  health- 
giving  and  life-giving  gods,  such  as  Ea,  savior  of  man- 
kind from  the  flood,  and  special  "god  of  the  physi- 
cians" in  Babylon;Thoth,thegod  of  wisdomin  Egypt, 
who  healed  the  eye  of  Horus  and  brought  Osiris  to 
life  again;  Apollo,  the  embodiment  of  physical  per- 
fection, and  his  son,  Aesculapius,  most  famous  giver 
of  physical  and  moral  health  and  curer  of  disease 
among  the  Greeks.  Among  the  Hebrews  also  a 
seal  (1500- 1000  BC)  shows  a  worshipper  before  a 
horned  serpent  raised  on  a  pole  (Wm.  Hayes  Ward). 
In  Phoen  mythology  the  serpent  is  also  connected 
with  wisdom  and  long  life,  and  it  is  found  on  the 
oldest  Heb  seals  and  on  late  Jewish  talismans  (Revue 
biblique  Internationale,  July,  1908,  3X2-94);  at 
Gezer,  in  Pal,  a  small  "brazen  serpent''  (a  cobra) 
was  found  in  the  "cave  of  orach's,"  and  in  early 
Christian  art  Jesus  the  Lord  of  Life  is  often  repre- 
sented standing  triumphantly  upon  the  serpent  or 
holding  it  in  His  fist.  In  the  Heb  narrative  found 
in  Nu  21,  the;  serpent  evidently  appears  as  a  well- 
known  symbol  representing  the  Divine  ability  to 
cure  disease,  being  erected  before  the  eyes  of  the 
Israelites  to  encourage  faith  and  stop  the  plague. 
It  was  not  a  totem,  for  the  totem  belongs  to  a  single 
family  and  is  never  set  up  for  the  veneration  of 
other  families  (Ramsay,  Cities  of  St.  Paul,  39). 
Hezekiah  destroyed  it  because  it  was  receiving 
idolatrous  worship  (2  K  18  4),  though  there  is  no 
hint  that  such  worship  was  ever  a  part  of  the  official 
temple  cult  (Benzinger);  for  if  this  had  been  done, 
the  earlier  prophets  could  hardly  have  remained 
silent.  The  above  explanation  seems  preferable 
to  the  one  formerly  offered  that  the  serpent  was 
merely  a  copy  of  the  disease-bearer,  as  the  images 
offered  by  the  Philis  were  copies  of  the  ulcers 
that    plagued   them    (1  S  6  4).      See   furl  her   Ne- 

HUSHTAN. 

(3)  Teraphim  (S^EHP, ,  tfrdphim). — These  are 
usually  considered  household  gods,  but  this  does 
not  necessarily  include  the  idea  that  they  were 
images  of  ancestors,  though  this  is  not  improbable 
(Nowack,  Hebrew  Archaeology,  II,  23;  HDB,  II, 
190);  that  they  were  images  of  Jeh  is  a  baseless 
supposition  (see  Kautzsch,  HDB,  V,  643).  Some- 
times they  appear  in  the  house  (1  S  19  13.16); 
sometimes  in  sanctuaries  (Jgs  17  5;  18  14); 
somet  imes  as  carried  by  travelers  and  armies  (Gen 
31  30;  Ezk  21  21).  They  are  never  directly 
spoken  of  as  objects  of  worship  (yet  cf  Gen  31  30), 
but  arc  mentioned  in  connection  with  wizardry  (2  K 
23  24),  and  as  a  means  of  divination  (Ezk  21  21; 
Zee  10  2),  perhaps  not  necessarily  inconsistent 
with  Jeh-worship  (Hos  3  4).  They  wen;  some- 
times small  and  could  be  easily  hidden  (Gen  31  34) ; 
at  other  times  larger  and  in  some  way  resembling 
a  human  being  (1  S  19  13).  Jewish  commentators 
thought  the  t'rdphim  were  in  early  times  mummi- 
fied human  heads  which  were  represented  in  later 


"Household  God"  from 
Gezer. 


centuries  by  rude  images  (Moore,  Crit.  and  Exeg. 
Comm.  on  Jgs,  1895,  382;  see  esp.  Chwolsohn,  Die 
Ssabier  u.  der  Ssabismus, 
II,  19,  150).  Customs  of 
divination  by  means  of 
such  heads  were  not  un- 
known. In  Israel  the 
t'raphlm  were  somet  imes 
certainly  used  in  consult- 
ing Jeh  (Jgs  17  5;  18  14  ff), 
though  their  use  was  later 
officially  condemned  (2  K 
23  24).  The  t'rdphim  in 
the  home  doubtless  corre- 
spond in  use  to  the  Ephod 
(which  see)  in  the  sanctu- 
ary, and  therefore  these 
are  frequently  connected. 
Certain  small  rude  images 
have  lately  been  uncovered 
in  Pal  by  Bliss,  at  Tell  el- 
Hesy,  and  by  Sellin,  at 
Tell  Ta'annuk,  which  are 
supposed  to  be  teraphim. 

(4)  Image  of  jealousy  (bpp  f  sernel). — It  is  not.  cer- 
tain what  this  statue  was  which  was  set  up  by  the 
door  of  the  inner  gate  of  the  Jerus  temple  (Ezk  8  3). 
It  was  no  doubt  some  idol,  perhaps  the  image  of  the 
Asherah  (2  K  21  7;  23  6),  which  certainly  had 
previously  been  set  up  in  the  temple  and  may  have 
been  there  again  in  this  day  of  apostasy.  "Jeal- 
ousy" is  not  the  name  of  the  idol,  but  it  was  prob- 
ably called  "image  of  jealousy"  because  in  a  peculiar 
manner  this  particular  image  seems  to  have  been 
drawing  the  people  from  the  worship  of  Jeh  ami 
therefore  provoking  Him  to  jealousy. 

(5)  Chambers  of  imagery  (*.n",5Tp'53  "Tfln,  had  lire 
maskitho). — Does  Ezekiel  mean  that  in  his  heart 
every  man  in  his  chambers  of  imagery  was  an 
idol-worshipper,  or  does  this  refer  to  actual  wall 
decorations  in  the  Jerus  Temple  (Ezk  8  11.12)? 
Most  expositors  take  it  literally.  W.  R.  Smith 
has  been  followed  almost  if  not  quite  universally 
in  his  supposition  that  a  debased  form  of  vermin- 
worship  is  described  in  the  "creeping  things  and 
abominable  beasts"  (ver  10).  But  while  this  low 
and  ignorant  worship  was  an  ancient  cult,  it,  had 
been  banished  for  centuries  from  respectable  heat  lien 
worship,  and  it  seems  inconceivable  that  these 
Israelites  who  were  of  the  highest  class  could  have 
fallen  to  these  depths,  or  if  they  had  done  so  that 
the  Tammuz  and  sun-worship  should  have  been 
considered  so  much  worse  (vs  13.14).  To  t he- 
writer  it  seems  more  probable  1  hat  the  references  are 
to  Egyp  or  Gr  mysteries  which  would  be  described 
by  a  Hebrew  just  as  Ezekiel  describes  this  secret 
chamber.  It  is  now  known  that  the  Gr  mysteries 
experienced  a  revival  at  exactly  this  era,  and  it 
was  probably  this  revival  which  was  making  itself 
felt-  in  Jerus,  for  Gr  influence  was  at  this  time 
greatly  affecting  Pal  (sec  Duruy,  Hist  of  Greece,  II, 
126-80,  374;  Cobern,  Comm.  on  Ezk  and  Dnl, 
80-83,  280-82;  and  separate  arts.,  Chambers  of 
Imagery;  Imagery). 

(6)  Ephod  HISS,  'ephodh).—  There  is  no  doubt 
that  this  was  the  name  of  a  vestment  or  ritual  loin 
cloth  of  linen  worn  by  common  priests  and  temple 
servants  and  on  special  occasions  by  the  king  (1  S 
2  IS;  22  IS;  2  S  6  14).  The  ephod  of  the  high 
priest  was  an  ornamental  waist  coat  on  the  front 
of  which  was  fastened  the  holy  breastplate  con- 
taining the  pocket  in  which  were  the  Prim  and 
Thummim  (Ex  28  6.30;  29  5;  39  2-5;  Lev  8  28). 

There  are  several  passages,  however,  which  have  con- 
vinced many  scholars  that  another  ephod  is  mentioned 
which  must  bo  an  image  of  Jeh  (see  Ephod).     The  chief 


Imagination 
Immanuel 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1456 


passages  relied  upon  arc  J^s  8  26.  27,  where  Gideon 
made  an  ephod  with  1,700  shekels  of  gold  and  "set"  this 
in  Ophrah,  where  it  became  an  object  of  worship.  So 
in  Jgs  17  4;  18  11  '-'0.  Micah  provides  an  ephod  as  well 
as  an  image  and  pillar  for  his  sanctuary;  in  1  S  21  9 
the  sword  of  Goliath  is  preserved  behind  the  ephod; 
while  in  various  places  the  will  of  Jeh  is  ascertained,  not 
by  putting  on  the  ephod,  but  by  "bringing  it  near"  and 
"bearing"  and  "carrying"  it  (1  S  23  0.9;  30  7.  etc). 
On  the  basis  of  these  passages  Ivautzsch  (II DB,  V,  (ill) 
concludes  most  inconsistently  that  the  ephod  appears 
"exclusively  as  an  image  of  Jeh."  Driver,  after  an 
examination  of  each  text,  concludes  that  just  in  one 
passage  (.l«s  8  -7)  the  term  "ephod"  is  certainly  used 
of  the  gold  casing  of  an  image,  and  that  therefore  it  may 
also  have  this  meaning  in  other  passages  (IIDB,  J,  725). 
It  does  not  seem  quite  certain,  however,  that  a  cere- 
monial vestment  heavily  ornamented  with  gold  might 
not  have  been  "set"  or  "erected"  in  a  holy  place  where 
later  it  might  become  an  object  of  worship.  If  this  had 
been  an  idolatrous  image,  would  Hosea  have  deplored 
its  loss  illos  3  fi,  and  would  its  use  not  have  been  for- 
bidden in  some  Bible  passage? 

Kitut /sch's  view  that,  the  ephod  meant  primarily  the 
garment  used  to  clothe  the  Divine  image,  which  after- 
ward gave  its  name  to  the  image  itself,  is  a  guess  unsus- 
tained  by  the  Scriptures  quoted  or,  1  think,  by  any 
archaeological  parallel.  We  conclude  that  there  is  no 
certain  proof  that  this  was  an  image  of  Jeh,  though  it 
w;is  used  ritualist icallv  in  receiving  the  oracles  of  Jeh 
(cf  Kuenen,  Religion  of  Israel,  1,  100;  Kittel,  Hist  of 
the  Hebrews,  11,42;  Konig,  Die  Hauptprobleme,  59-03). 
See  also  Idolatry;  Calf,  Golden. 

Literature. — See  esp.  W.  K.  Smith.  Religion  of  the 
Semites;  E.  B.  Tylor,  Primitive  Culture;  J.  G.  Frazer, 
Golden  Bough  (3  vols);  Baethgen,  Beitraye  zur  sem. 
Rel.-Gesch.;  Kittel,  Hist  of  the  Hebrews;  Nowack,  Heb 
Arch.,  11;  Baudissin,  Studien  z.  sem.  Rel.-Gesch.^  For 
recent  excavations,  L.  P.  II.  Vincent,  Co  noun  d'apres 
Vexpl.  recente,  1907;  R.  A.  S.  Macalister,  The  Excavation 
of  Gezer  (1912);  Wm.  Haves  Ward,  Cylinders  and  Other 
Ancient  Oriental  Seals,   1909. 

Camden  M.  Cobern 

IMAGINATION,  i-maj-i-na'shun  (IS?.,  yeger, 
rflTHlE,  sh'rlnllli;  Sidvoia,  didnoia):  "Imagina- 
tion" is  the  tr  of  yeger,  properly  "a  shaping,"  hence 
"a  thought"  (Gen  6  5;  8  21;  Dt  31  21;  1  Ch  28 
9;  29  IS).  In  Isa  26  3  yeger  is  tr'1  "mind"  (AVm 
"thought"  or  "imagination"),  "whose  mind  is  stayed 
on  thee"  (RVm  "or  imagination");  in  Ps  103  14  it 
is  "frame";  of  sherirfith,  "obstinacy,"  "stubborn- 
ness" (Dt  29  19;  Jer  3  17;  7  24;  9  14;  11  8; 
13  10;  16  12;  18  12;  23  17);  in  Ps  81  12  AV  it 
is,  "lust,"  in  "hardness  or  imaginations";  3  t  of 
mahdshebheth,  "thought"  or  "purpose"  in  AV  (Prov 
6  18;  Lam  3  60.61);  once  of  dianoia,  "mind," 
"understanding"  (Lk  1  51);  of  logismos,  "reason- 
ing" (2  Cor  10  5);  and  of  dialogismos,  "reasoning 
through"    (Rom  1  21  AV). 

RV  gives  "stubbornness"  in  each  instance  where 
sherlruth  is  in  AV  trd  "imagination";  in  Prov  6  18 
A.RV  has  "purposes";  RV  has  "devices"  (Lam  3 
60.61)  and  "reasonings"  (Rom  1  21),  "imagina- 
tion" for  "conceit"  (Prov  18  11),  and  (ERV)  for 
"device"  (Lam  3  62). 

"Imagination"  is  frequent  in  Apoc,  e.g.  Ecclus 
22  18  (dianoema);  37  3  (enthumema,  "wicked imagi- 
nation"); 40  2  (dialogismos,  RV  "expectation"). 

W.  L.  AValkkr 

IMAGINE,  i-maj'in  (2T?n,  hdshabh;  jieXeTdto, 
meletdo):  The  word  most  frequently  trd  "to  im- 
agine" in  the  OT,  only  in  AV  and  ERV,  not  in  ARV, 
is  hdshabh,  "to  bind,"  "combine,"  "think"  (Job  6 
26;  Ps  10  2;  21  1 1 ;  140  2;  Hos  7  15;  Nah  1 
9.11;  Zee  7  10;  8  17);  we  have  also  hdghdh  in 
AV  and  ERV,  but  not  in  ARV,  "to  meditate," 
"mutter,"  "speak"  (Ps  2  1;  38  12);  zdmam,  "to 
devise"  (Gen  11  6AV);  hdrash,  "to  grave,"  "de- 
vise" (Prov  12  20  AV);  '  hathath,  "to  break  in 
upon,"  to  "attack  unjustly"  (Ps  62  3AV);  mele- 
t<io,  "to  meditate"  (Acts  4  25).     W.  L.  Walker 

IMALCUE,  i-mal-ku'e  ('IfAa\Kovif|,  Imalkout;  AV 
Simalcue):  An  Arabian  prince  to  whom  Alexander 
Balas  entrusted  the  upbringing  of  his  young  son 
Antiochus.  Tryphon,  who  had  formerly  been  on  the 
side  of  Alexander,  persuaded  Imalcue  to  set  up  the 


young  Antiochus  (Antiochus  VI)  against  Demetrius, 
who  had  incurred  the  enmity  of  his  men  of  war 
(1  Mace  11  39.40).  Antiochus  confirmed  Jonathan 
in  the  high-priesthood  and  appointed  him  to  be  one 
of  the  king's  friends  (ver  57).  In  Jos  (Ant,  XIII, 
v,  1)  the  name  is  given  as  Malchus. 

J.  Hutchison 
IMLA,  im'la,  IMLAH  (~}"i2^,  yimldh,  "fulness"?): 
Father  of  the  prophet  Micai'ah  (1  K  22  8.9;   2  Ch 
18  7.8). 

IMMACULATE  CONCEPTION,  i-mak'u-lat  kon- 
sep'shun,  THE: 

The  historic  designation  of  the  Roman  Catholic 

dogma  promulgated  by  Pope  Pius  IX  on  December 

8,    1S54,  "in    the    Papal    Bull    entitled 

1.  Defini-  "Ineffabilis  Deus."  The  term  is  often 
tion  incorrectly    applied,    even    by    those 

whose  intelligence;  should  make  such 
an  error  impossible,  to  the  Virgin  Birth  of  Christ 
(q.v.). 

4  he  central  affirmation  of  this  proclamation, 
which  was  read  in  St.  Peter's  in  the  presence  of  over 

two  hundred   bishops,  is  expressed  in 

2.  State-  the  following  words:  It  is  proclaimed 
ment  of  the  "by  the  authority  of  Our  Lord  Jesus 
Dogma  Christ,  and  the  blessed  Apostles  Peter 

and  Paul  and  in  our  own  authority, 
that  the  doctrine  which  holds  the  blessed  Virgin 
Mary  to  have  been,  from  the  first  instant  of  her 
conception,  by  a  singular  grace  and  privilege  of 
Almighty  God,  in  view  of  the  merits  of  Christ  Jesus 
the  Saviour  of  Mankind,  preserved  free  from  all 
stain  of  original  sin,  was  revealed  by  God,  and  is, 
therefore",  to  be  firmly  and  constantly  believed  by 
all  the  faithful"  (see  Schaff,  A  History  of  the  Creeds 
of  Christendom,  II,  211,  212). 

(1)  Drawn  from  specifically  Protestant  principles. 
— Objections  to  the  dogma   are   mainly  two:    (a) 

the  claim  to  authority  upon  which  the 

3.  Objec-  proclamation  rests.  There  is  every 
tions  to  the  reason  to  believe  that  one  of  the  major 
Dogma  motives  to  the  entire  transaction  was 

the  wish,  on  the  part  of  Pius  and  his 
advisers,  to  make  an  unmistakable  assertion  of 
absolute  doctrinal  authority  by  the  Rom  pontiff. 
To  Protestants  of  all  shades  of  opinion  there  would 
be  unbearable  offence  in  the  wording  of  the  decree, 
even  if  assent  could  be  given  to  the  doctrine  it- 
self. The  whole  vital  issue  of  the  Reformation  is 
involved  in  the  use;  by  an  ecclesiastic  of  the  words 
"in  our  own  authority"  in  addition  to  the  words 
"by  the  authority  of  Our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  the 
blessed  Apostles  Peter  and  Paul."  (/>)  The  ten- 
dency to  Mariolatry  in  the  entire  movement.  As 
we  shall  see,  the  ascription  of  Divine  honors  to 
Mary  is  avoided  in  the  public  statement,  of  the 
dogma  and  in  the  defence  of  it  by  Roman  Catholic 
writers,  but  one  has  but  to  survey  the  course  of 
discussion  leading  up  to  the  publication  of  1S54, 
and  subsequent  to  it,  to  discover  a  growing  tendency 
to  lift  Mary  out  of  the  realm  of  human  beings  and 
to  endow  her  with  Divine  attributes  and  functions. 
An  extended  discussion  of  Mariolatry  lies  beyond 
the  range  of  this  art.  (see  Mary);  it  is  only  neces- 
sary to  point  out  the  obvious  connections  (see 
Roman  Catholic  Dictionary  and  church  histories, 
sub  loc). 

(2)  Drawn  from  Roman  Catholic  principles. — It 
is  far  from  the  truth  to  suppose  that  there  are  no 
objections  to  this  modern  dogma  save  those;  which 
are  specifically  Protestant.  From  the  viewpoint 
of  the  devout  Roman  Catholic,  and  for  the  sake  of 
the  prestige  of  the  papacy,  this  particular  dogma 
seems  to  have  been  unfortunately  chosen. 

(a)  It  has  no  basis  in  Scripture.  The  only  at- 
tempt made  to  provide  a  Scriptural  argument  is 


1457 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Imagination 
Immanuel 


by  using  a  vague  and  unsatisfactory  [|  between  Mary 
and  Eve  before  the  Fall,  to  be  found  in  the  writings 
of  certain  church  Fathers  who  did  not  hold  the  papal 
dogma  but  unconsciously  provided  a  slender  and 
most  insecure  basis  for  it  (see  infra).  Most  Roman 
Catholic  writers  are  intelligent  enough  to  admit 
that  the  theory  of  inspired  tradition  alone  can  be 
appealed  to  in  support  of  the  idea.  The  ordinary 
and  only  tenable  argument  is  that  the  ecclesiastical 
promulgation  and  acceptance  of  the  doctrine  prove 
its  apostolic  origin  (see  Catholic  Dictionary,  sub  loc). 

(/;)  It  weakens  the  authority  of  the  church.  It 
would  almost  seem  as  if  the  doctrines  of  ecclesias- 
tical authority  and  particularly  of  papal  infalli- 
bility had,  in  this  unfortunat  e  proclamation,  reached 
a  rcductio  ad  absurdum  for  the  comfort  of  their  foes. 
Notice  with  care  the  historical  standing  of  this 
dogma:  (a)  The  acknowledged  absence  of  all  posi- 
tive evidence  for  apostolic  origin  and  primitive 
authority  (see  Catholic  Dictionary  ut  supra).  (/3) 
The  abundant  positive  evidence  that  the  principal 
Fathers  of  the  early  church  did  not  believe  in  the 
sinlessness  of  Mary  (see  list  of  names  and  references 
given  by  H.  C.  Sheldon,  History  of  the  Christian 
Church,  sub  loc).  (7)  The  uncertain  and  equivocal 
testimony  per  contra  drawn  from  the  early  Fathers. 
They  are  practically  confined  to  the  following: 
Ephrem  Syrus  (Carmina,  Hymn  27,  strophe  8), 
where;  he  says  "Truly  it  is  Thou  and  Thy  mother 
only  who  are  fair  altogether.  For  in  Thee  there  is 
no  stain  and  in  Thy  mother  no  spot";  St.  Augustine 
(De  Natura  et  Gratia,  cap.  2b),  ''Two  were  made 
simple,  innocent,  perfectly  like  each  other,  Mary 
and  Eve,"  etc.  To  these  may  be  added  the  words 
of  Irenaeus:  "The  knot  of  Eve's  disobedience  was 
untied  by  Mary's  obedience"  (Catholic  Dictionary, 
422).  In  regard  to  these  three  passages  it  may 
reasonably  be  contended  that  even  if  these  state- 
ments necessarily  implied  the  Immaculate  Con- 
ception of  Mary,  which  they  certainly  do  not,  they 
would  still  have  to  be  estimated  against  the  many 
weighty  statements  which  may  be  brought  forward 
on  the  other  side.  (5)  The  prolonged  controversy 
over  the  doctrine.  From  the  earliest  time  when 
the  idea  of  Mary's  miraculous  freedom  from  sin 
appears,  up  to  the  Old  Catholic  agreement  of  1S74, 
devout  and  faithful  Roman  Catholics  have  pro- 
test in  1  against  the  addition  of  this  unscriptural 
dogma  to  the  faith  of  the  church.  Bonaventura 
(Locus  Theol.,  VII,  l)says:  "All  the  saints  who  have 
made  mention  of  this  matter,  with  one  mouth  have 
asserted  that  the  blessed  Virgin  was  conceived  in 
original  sin."  With  the  statement  of  the  Old 
Catholic;  agreement  we  may  safely  sum  up  the 
ecclesiastical  situation,  even  from  the  viewpoint 
of  those  who  hold  to  the  doctrinal  validity  of  tradi- 
tion. Art.  X  reads:  "We  reject  the  New  Rom 
doctrine  of  the  Immaculate  Conception  of  the 
Blessed  Virgin  Mary,  as  being  contrary  to  the  tra- 
dition of  the  first  13  centuries,  according  to  which 
Christ  alone  is  conceived  without  sin." 

(3)  Drawn  from  general  considerations  of  Chris- 
tian doctrine. — The  most  serious  objections  to  this 
offensive  and  gratuitous  dogma  are  not  at  all 
specifically  Protestant  but,  rather,  broadly  Chris- 
tian. It  is  necessary  at  this  point  to  assure  our- 
selves that  we  understand  (as  many  Protestants 
evidently  do  not)  just  what  is  meant  by  the  doctrine 
as  a  doctrine.  According  to  the  accepted  Roman 
Catholic  explanation,  Mary,  at  the  supposed  stage 
of  her  conception  when  the  soul  was  actually  in- 
fused into  the  body  waiting  for  it,  received  tin; 
special  grace  of  God  whereby  she  was  delivered 
from  all  stain  of  original  sin.  The  point  which 
Protestants  need  esp.  to  note;  is  that,  according  to 
Roman  Catholic  ideas,  this  gracious  act  of  God  was 
performed  on  the  basis  of  the  foreseen  merits  of 


Christ's  sacrifice.  This  tones  down  the  offensive- 
ness  of  the  doctrine  in  that  it  does  not  per  se  imply 
tin;  equality  of  Mary  with  Christ,  but  rather  the 
contrary,  in  so  far  as  the  grace  betowed  upon  her 
was  gained  by  anticipation  from  Him.  Roman 
Catholic  writers  naturally  emphasize  this  fact  in 
recommending  the  doctrine  to  Protestant  minds. 
None  the  less  the  offence  remains.  The  "Immacu- 
late Conception"  necessarily  implies  the  "immacu- 
late life,"  and  on  the  same  basis  of  supernatural 
grace,  else  would  the  special  miracle  have  occurred 
in  vain  and  the  fall  of  Adam  been  repeated  in  Mary. 
Hence,  a  full  account  of  the  doctrine  would  be  that 
Mary  was  completely  and  miraculously  redeemed 
at  her  conception  and  completely  and  miraculously 
kept  from  sin  throughout  her  whole  life.  Apart 
from  all  questions  as  to  the  rightful  place  of  Alary 
in  Christian  thought,  this  idea  involves  utter  doc- 
trinal confusion.  It  means  that  Mary  never  be- 
came a  true  human  being  and  never  lived  a  true 
human  life.  Redemption  by  a  miraculous  process 
begun  at  conception  and  carried  on  throughout  the 
life  is  an  utter  impossibility,  for  the  Holy  Spirit 
does  not  work  impersonally,  and  miraculous  holiness 
which  is  holiness  of  a  purely  Divine  character,  with- 
out a  free,  cooperating  human  factor,  is  no  human 
holiness  at  all.  This  dogma  reads  Mary  out  of  the 
human  family,  reduces  her  to  an  image  and  makes 
her  life  a  phantasm.  Moreover,  the  parallels  which 
are  adduced  in  its  support  are  not  true  parallels  at 
all. 

Our  Lord's  sinlessness  was  not  mechanically 
guaranteed  by  His  miraculous  conception  (see 
Virgin  Birth)  but  was  His  own  achievement 
through  the  Holy  Spirit  granted  to  Him  and  per- 
sonally appropriated.  The  Hallowing  of  Children 
at  the  Font  (see  Catholic  Dictionary,  470«),  the 
sanctifying  of  those  "separated  from  the  womb" 
(Gal  1  15)  to  God's  service,  does  not  imply  the 
miraculous  guarantee;  of  artificial  sinlessness,  but 
such  a  gracious  influence  as  enables  the  subject 
freely  cooperating  to  obtain  victory  over  sin  as  a 
controlling  principle.  Actual  sin  and  need  of  for- 
giveness is  not  praetermitted  by  such  special  grace. 

We  can  oidy  say,  in  conclusion,  that  every  reason, 
which  usually  operates  in  a  Christian  mind  to  insure 
rejection  of  a  false  teaching,  ought  to  preclude  the 
possibility  of  accepting  this  peculiar  dogma  which 
is  Scripturally  baseless,  historically  unjustified  and 
doctrinally  unsound. 

Literature. — The  best  simple  and  reasonably  fair- 
minded  discussion  of  this  dogma  from  the  Roman 
Catholic  viewpoint  is  to  be  found  in  the  Catholic  Dic- 
tionary  already  mentioned,  where  wide  references  will  he 
found.  For  the  Protestant  view  consult  any  authori- 
tative church  history,  esp.  that  of  Professor  H.  C.  Sheldon 
where  copious  references  to  Patristic  lit.  will  be  found. 
Lotus  Matthews  Sweet 

IMMANUEL,  i-man'u-el  (bx  *?tZS ,  Hmmanu  'el) : 
The  name  occurs  but  3  t,  twice  in  the  OT  (Isa  7 
14;  8  8),  and  once  in  the  NT  (Mt  1  23).  It  is  a 
Heb  word  signifying  "God  is  with  us."  The  form 
"Emmanuel"  appears  in  LXX  (' 'E/j./j.avovrjX,  Em- 
ma no  uti). 

In  735  BC  Ahaz  was  king  of  Judah.  The  king- 
dom of  Israel  was  already  tributary  to  Assyria 
(2  K  15  19.20).  Pekah,  king  of  Is- 
1.  Isaiah  rael,  a  bold  and  ambitious  usurper, 
Rebukes  and  Rezin,  king  of  Syria,  formed  an 
Ahaz  alliance,  the  dual  object  of  which  was, 

first,  to  organize  a  resistance  against 
Assyria,  and  second,  to  force  Ahaz  to  cooperate 
in  their  designs  against  the  common  tyrant.  In  the 
event  of  Ahaz'  refusal,  they  planned  to  depose  him, 
and  to  set  the  son  of  Tabeel,  a  choice  of  their  own, 
upon  the  throne  of  David.  To  this  end  they  waged 
war  against  Judah,  advancing  as  far  as  Jerus  itself, 
but  without  complete  success  (Isa  7  1).     Ahaz,  a 


Immanuel 
Immortal 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1458 


weak  king,  and  now  panic-stricken,  determined  to 
invoke  the  aid  of  Tiglath-pileser,  king  of  Assyria 
(2  K  16  7).  This  he  actually  did  at  a  later  stage 
in  the  war  (6  9;  15  29).  Such  a  course  would  in- 
volve the  loss  of  national  independence  and  the 
payment  of  a  heavy  tribute.  At  this  period  of 
crisis,  Isaiah,  gathering  his  disciples  around  him 
(Isa  8  Hi),  is  told  to  deliver  a  message  to  the  king. 
Ahaz,  though  making  a  show  of  resistance  against 
the  coalition,  is  in  reality  neither  depending  upon 
the  help  of  Jeh  nor  upon  the  courage  of  his  people. 
Isaiah,  in  an  effort  to  calm  his  fears  and  prevent  the 
fatal  alliance  with  Assyria,  offers  him  a  sign.  This 
method  is  specially  characteristic  of  this  prophet. 
Fearing  to  commit  himself  to  the  policy  of  Divine 
dependence,  but  witli  a  pretense  at  religious  scruples, 
"Neither  will  I  tempt  Jeh,"  the  king  refuses  (Isa 
7  12).  The  prophet  then  chides  him  bitterly  for 
his  lack  of  faith,  which,  he  says,  not  only  wearies 
men,  but  Cod  also  (7  13). 

He  then  proceeds  to  give  him  a  sign  from  Cod 

Himself,  the  sign  of  "Immanuel"  (7  14).     Theinter- 

pretation  of  this  sign  is  not  clear,  even 

2.  The  apart  from  its  NT  application  to 
Sign  of  Christ.  The  Heb  word  tr'1  "virgin" 
"Imman-  in  EV  means,  more  correctly,  "bride," 
uel"  in  the  OE  sense  of  one  who  is  about 

to  become  a  wife,  or  is  still  a  young 
wife.     Ps  68  2o  EV  gives  "damsels." 

Isaiah  predicts  that  a  young  bride  shall  conceive 
and  bear  a  son.  The  miracle  of  virgin-conception, 
therefore,  is  not  implied.  The  use  of  the  definite 
article  before  "virgin"  (ha-^almah)  does  not  of  it- 
self indicate  that  the  prophet  had  any  particular 
young  woman  in  his  mind,  as  the  Heb  idiom  often 
uses  the  definite  article  indefinitely.  The  fact  that 
two  other  children  of  the  prophet,  like  Hosea's, 
bore  prophetic  and  mysterious  names,  invites  the 
conjecture  that  the  bride  referred  to  was  his  own 
wife.  The  hypothesis  of  some  critics  that  a  woman 
of  the  harem  of  Ahaz  became  the  mother  of  Heze- 
kiah,  and  that  he  was  the  Immanuel  of  the  prophet's 
thought  is  not,  feasible.  Hezekiah  was  at  least  9 
years  of  age  when  the  prophecy  was  given  (2  K 
16  2). 

Immanuel,  in  the  prophetic  economy,  evidently 
stands  on  the  same  level  with  Shear-jashub  (7  3) 
as  the  embodiment,  of  a  great  idea,  to  which  Isaiah 
again  appeals  in  Isa  8  S  (see  Isaiah,  VII). 

The  question  as  to  whether  the  sign  given  to  Ahaz 

was   favorable   or   not   presents   many   difficulties. 

Was  it  a  promise  of  good  or  a  threat  of 

3.  Was  It  a  judgment?  It  is  evident,  that  the 
Promise  or  prophet  had  first  intended  an  omen  of 
a  Threat?      deliverance  and  blessing  (7  4.7).     Did 

the  king's  lack  of  faith  alter  the  nature 
of  the  sign?  Ver  9,  "If  ye  will  not  believe,"  etc, 
implies  that  it  might  have  done  so.  The  omission 
of  ver  16,  and  esp.  the  words  "whose  two  kings  thou 
abhorrest,"  greatly  simplifies  this  theory,  as  "the 
land,"  singular,  would  more  naturally  refer  to 
Judah  than  to  Syria  and  Ephraim  collectively. 
The  omen  would  then  become  an  easily  interpreted 
threat,  referring  to  the  overthrow  of  Judah  rather 
than  that  of  her  enemies.  Immanuel  should  eat 
curdled  milk  and  honey  (ver  15),  devastation  re- 
ducing the  land  from  an  agricultural  to  a  pastoral 
one.  The  obscure  nature  of  the  passage  as  it 
stands  suggests  strongly  that  it  has  suffered  from 
interpolation.  The  contrary  theory  that  the  sign 
was  a  promise  and  not  a  prediction  of  disaster,  has 
much  to  commend  it,  though  it  necessitates  greater 
freedom  with  the  text.  The  name  "Immanuel"  im- 
plies the  faith  of  the  young  mother  of  the  child  in 
the  early  deliverance  of  her  country,  and  a  rebuke 
to  the  lack  of  that  quality  in  Ahaz.  It  is  certain 
also  that  Isaiah  looked  for  the  destruction  of  Svria 


and  Ephraim,  and  that,  subsequent  to  the  Assyr 
invasion,  salvation  should  come  to  Judah  through 
the  remnant  that  had  been  faithful  (11  11).  The 
fact  that  the  prophet  later  gave  the  name  of  Maher- 
shalal-hash-baz  to  his  new-born  son,  a  name  of  good 
omen  to  his  country,  further  strengthens  this  posi- 
tion. The  omission  of  vs  15.17  would  make  the 
sign  a  prophecy  of  the  failure  of  the  coalition.  It  is 
plain,  whichever  theory  be  accepted,  that  something 
must  be  eliminated  from  the  passage  to  insure  a 
consistent  reading. 

The  question  now  presents  itself  as  to  what  was 
the  relation  of  Immanuel  to  the  Messianic  prophe- 
cies.    Should    the    emphasis    be    laid 

4.  Its  Re-  upon  "a  virgin,"  the  son,  or  the  name 
lation  to  itself?  For  traditional  interpretation 
the  Mes-  the  sign  lay  in  the  virgin  birth,  but 
sianic  Hope  the    uncertainty   of   implied    virginity 

in  the  11(4)  noun  makes  this  interpre- 
tat ion  improbable.  The  identification  of  the  young 
mother  as  Zion  personified,  and  of  the  "son"  as  the 
future  generation,  is  suggested  by  Whitehouse  and 
other  scholars.  But  there  is  no  evidence  that  the 
term  xalmah  was  used  at,  that  time  for  personifi- 
cation. The  third  alternative  makes  Immanuel 
a  Messiah  in  the  wider  use  of  the  term,  as  antici- 
pated by  Isaiah  and  his  contemporaries.  There 
can  be  little  doubt  but  that  there  existed  in  Judah 
the  Messianic  hope  of  a  national  saviour  (2  S  7 
12).  Isaiah  is  expecting  the  arrival  of  one  whose 
character  and  work  shall  entitle  him  to  the  great 
names  of  9  6.  In  him  should  dwell  all  the  fulness 
of  God.  He  was  to  be  "of  the  stem  of  Jesse,"  the 
bringer  of  the  Colden  Age.  The  house  of  David 
is  now  beset  by  enemies,  and  its  reigning  repre- 
sentative is  weak  in  faith.  The  prophet  therefore 
announces  the  immediate  coming  of  the  deliverer. 
If  he  had  intended  the  virgin-conception  of  Christ 
in  the  distant  future,  the  sign  of  "Immanuel"  would 
have  possessed  no  immediate  significance,  nor  would 
it  have  been  an  omen  to  Ahaz.  Wilh  regard  to  the 
Messianic  idea,  Mic  5  3  ("until  the  time  that  she 
who  travaileth  hath  brought  forth")  is  of  impor- 
tance as  indicating  the  prevalent  thought  of  the  time. 
Recent  evidence  shows  that  even  in  Babylonia  and 
Egypt  there  existed  expectations  of  a  divinely  born 
and  wonderful  saviour.  To  this  popular  tradition 
the  prophet  probably  appealed,  his  hearers  being 
easily  able  to  appreciate  the  force  of  oracular  lan- 
guage that  is  to  us  obscure.  There  is  much  to  con- 
firm the  view,  therefore,  that  the  prophecy  is 
Messianic. 

The  use  of  the  word  as  it  relates  to  the  virgin 
birth  of  Christ  and  the  incarnation  cannot  be  dealt 

with   here    (see   Person   of  Christ). 

5.  The  These  facts,  however,  may  be  noted. 
Virgin  The  LXX  (which  has  parlhcnos, 
Birth  "virgin")    and    the   Alexandrian   Jews 

interpreted  the  passage  as  referring 
to  the  virgin  birth  and  the  Messianic  ministry. 
This  interpretation  does  not  seem  to  have  been 
sufficiently  prominent  to  explain  the  rise  of  the  idea 
of  miraculous  virgin  conception  and  the  large  place 
it  has  occupied  in  Christological  thought.  See 
Virgin  Birth.  Arthur  Walwyn  Evans 

IMMER,  im'er  (TEX  ,  Hmmer): 

(1)  A  priest  of  David's  time  (1  Ch  24  14),  whose 
descendants  are  mentioned  in  Ezr  2  37;  10  20; 
Neh  3  29;  7  40;  11  13. 

(2)  A  priest  of  Jeremiah's  time  (Jer  20  1). 

(3)  A  place  in  Babylonia  (Ezr  2  59;    Neh  7  61). 

IMMORTAL,  i-mor'tal,  IMMORTALITY,  im-or- 
tal'i-ti  (dGavoo-ia,  athanasia,  1  Cor  15  53;  1  Tim 
6  16,  d<j>0ap<ria,  aphtharsia,  lit.  "incorrupt ion,"  Rom 
2  7;   1  Cor  15;  2  Tim  1  10,  d<)>0apTos,  dphlharlos, 


1459 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


ImmanueJ 
Immortal 


lit.  "incorruptible,"  Rom  1  23;  1  Cor  15  52;  1  Tim 

1  17): 

1.  Preliminary — Need  of  Definition  and  Distinction 

2.  Biblical  Conception 

I.     The   Natural  Belief 

1.  Its  Origin 

2.  Philosophical  Arguments 

(1)  The  Soul  Spiritual 

Soul  not  Inherently  Indestructible 

(2)  Capacities  of  Human  Nature 
03)   The  Moral  Argument 

II.     The  Biblical  Doctrine — the  OT 

1.  Starting-Point — Alan's  Relation  to  God 
Man's  Nature 

2.  Sin  and  Death 

3.  Grace  and  Redemption — The  True  Immortality 
Deliverance  from  Sheol 

4.  Later  Jewish  Thought 
III.     The  Christian  Hope 

1.  Immortality  through  Christ 

(1)  Survival  of  the  Soul 

(2)  Union  with  Christ  in  Unseen  World 

(3)  The  Resurrection 

(4)  The  Wicked  Also  Raised 

(5)  Eternal  Life 

2.  Contrasts 
Literature 

111  hardly  any  subject  is  it  more  necessary  to  be 
careful   in   the   definition   of   terms   and   clear  dis- 
tinction of  ideas,  esp.  where  the  Bib. 

1.  Prelimi-  doctrine  is  concerned,  than  in  this  of 
nary —  "immortality."  By  ''immortality"  is 
Need  of  frequently  meant  simply  the  survival 
Definition  of  the  soul,  or  spiritual  part  of  man, 
and  Dis-  after  bodily  death.  If  is  the  assertion 
tinction           of  the  fact  that  death  does  not  end  all. 

The  soul  survives.  This  is  commonly 
what  is  meant  when  we  speak  of  "a  future  life," 
"a  future  state,"  "a  hereafter."  Not,  however,  to 
dwell  on  the  fact  that  many  peoples  have  no  clear 
conception  of  an  immaterial  "soul''  in  the  modern 
sense  (the  Egyptians,  e.g.  distinguished  several 
parts,  the  Ka,  the  Ba,  etc,  which  survived  death; 
often  the  surviving  self  is  simply  a  ghostly  resem- 
blance of  the  earthly  self,  nourished  with  food, 
offerings,  etc),  there  is  the  more  seriotis  considera- 
tion that  the  state  into  which  the  surviving  part 
is  supposed  to  enter  at  death  is  anyt hing  but  a  state 
which  can  be  described  as  "life,"  or  worthy  to  be 
dignified  with  the  name  "immortality."  It  is  a 
state  peculiar  to  "death"  (see  Death);  in  most 
cases,  shadowy,  inert,  feeble,  dependent,  joyless; 
a  state  to  be  dreaded  and  shrunk  from,  not  one  to 
be  hoped  for.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  as  in  the  hope 
of  immortality  among  the  nobler  heathen,  it  is  con- 
ceived of,  as  for  some,  a  state  of  happiness — the  clog 
of  the  body  being  shaken  off — this  yields  the  idea, 
which  has  passed  into  so  much  of  our  modern  think- 
ing, of  an  "immortality  of  the  soul,"  of  an  imperish- 
ableness  of  the  spiritual  part,  sometimes  supposed 
to  extend  backward  as  well  as  forward;  an  inherent 
indestructibility. 

It  will  be  seen  as  we  advance,  that  the  Bib.  view 
is  different  from  all  of  these.     The  soul,  indeed,  sur- 
vives the  body;   but  this  disembodied 

2.  Biblical     state  is  never  viewed  as  one  of  corn- 
Conception    plete   "life."     For  the  Bible  "immor- 
tality" is  not  merely  the  survival  of  the 

soul,  the  passing  into  "Sheol"  or  "Hades."  This 
is  not,  in  itself  considered,  "life"  or  happiness. 
The  "immortality"  the  Bible  contemplates  is  an 
immortality  of  the  whole  person — body  and  soul 
together.  It  implies,  therefore,  deliverance  from 
the  state  of  death.  It  is  not  a  condition  simply  of 
future  existence,  however  prolonged,  but  a  state  of 
blessedness,  due  to  redemption  and  the  possession 
of  the  "eternal  life"  in  the  soul;  it  includes  resur- 
rection and  perfected  life  in  both  soul  and  body. 
The  subject  must  now  be  considered  more  particu- 
larly in  its  different  aspects. 

/.    The  Natural  Belief. — In  some  sort  the  belief 
in  the  survival  of  the  spirit  or  self  at  death  is  a 


practically  universal  phenomenon.     To  what  is  it 
traceable?      A    favorite    hypothesis    with    anthro- 
pologists is  that    it    has    its   origin    in 
1.  Its  dreams  or  visions  suggesting  the  con- 

Origin  tinned    existence    of    the   dead    (cf    If. 

Spencer,  Eccles.  Instit.,  chs  i,  xiv). 
Before,  however,  a  dream  can  suggest  the  survival 
of  the  soul,  there  must  be  the  idea  of  the  soul,  and 
of  this  there  seems  a  simpler  explanation  in  the  con- 
sciousness which  even  the  savage  possesses  of  some- 
thing within  him  that  thinks,  feels  and  wills,  in 
distinction  from  his  bodily  organs.  At  death  this 
thinking,  feeling  something  disappears,  while  the 
body  remains.  What  more  natural  than  to  sup- 
pose that  it  persists  in  some  other  state  apart  from 
the  body?  (Cf  Max  Muller,  Anthrop.  Religion,  281.) 
Dreams,  etc,  may  help  this  conviction,  but  need 
not  create  it.  It  is  only  as  we  assume  such  a  deeper 
root,  for  the  belief  that  we  can  account  for  its  uni- 
versality and  persistence.  Even  this,  however, 
while  an  instinctive  presumption,  can  hardly  be 
called  a  proof  of  survival  after  death,  and  it  does  not 
yield  an  idea  of  "immortality"  in  any  worthy  sense. 
It  is  at  most,  as  already  said,  a  ghostly  redupli- 
cation of  the  earthly  life  that  is  thus  far  reached. 

(1)  The  soul  spiritual. — The  more  philosophical 
arguments  that  are  adduced  for  the  soul's  immor- 
tality (or  survival)  are  not  all  of  equal 

2.  Phil-  weight.     The  argument  based  on  the 

osophical  metaphysical  essence  of  the  soul  (see 
Arguments  Plato's  Phaedo)  is  not  in  these  days 
felt  to  be  satisfying.  On  the  other 
hand,  it  can  be  maintained  against  the  materialist 
on  irrefragable  grounds  that  the  soul,  or  thinking 
spirit,  in  man  is  immaterial  in  Nature,  and,  where 
this  is  granted,  there  is,  or  can  be,  no  proof  that 
death,  or  physical  dissolution,  destroys  this  con- 
scious spirit.  The  presumption  is  powerfully  the 
other  way.  Cicero  of  old  argued  that  death  need 
not  even  be  the  suspension  of  its  powers  (cf  Tusc. 
Disp.  i.20);  Butler  reasons  the  matter  from  analogy 
{Anal.,  I,  ch  i);  modern  scientists  like  J.  S.  Mill 
(Three  Essays,  201)  and  Professor  Huxley  (Life 
and  Letters,  I,  217  ff;  cf  William  James,  Ingersoll 
Lecture)  concede  that  immortality  cannot  be  dis- 
proved. The  denial  one  hears  from  various  sides 
more  frequently  than  formerly  is  therefore  not 
warranted.  Still  possibility  is  not  certainty,  and 
there  is  nothing  as  yet  to  show  that  even  if  the  soul 
survives  death,  its  new  state  of  existence  has  in  it 
anything  desirable. 

It  was  hinted  that  one  use  which  the  Greeks  made 
of  the  metaphysical  argument  was  to  prove  the 
indestructibility  of  the  soul — its  immortality  in  the 
sense  of  having  no  beginning  and  no  end.  This  is 
not  the  Christian  doctrine.  The  soul  has  no  such 
inherent  indestructibility.  It  is  dependent  on  God, 
as  everything  else  is,  for  its  continued  existence. 
Did  He  withdraw  His  sustaining  power,  it  would 
cease  to  exist.  That  it  does  continue  to  exist  is 
not  doubted,  but  this  must  be  argued  on  other 
grounds. 

(2)  Capacities  of  human  nature. — A  much  more 
apprehensible  argument  for  immortality — more 
strictly,  of  a  future  state  of  existence — is  drawn 
from  the  rich  capacities  and  possibilities  of  human 
nature,  for  which  the  earthly  life  affords  so  brief 
and  inadequate  a  sphere  of  exercise.  It  is  the 
characteristic  of  spirit  that  it  has  in  it  an  element 
of  infinitude,  and  aspires  to  the  infinite.  The  best 
the  world  can  give  can  never  satisfy  it.  If  has  in  it 
the  possibility  of  endless  progress,  and  ever  higher 
satisfaction.  It  was  this  consideration  which  led 
Kant,  with  all  his  theoretical  skepticism,  to  give 
immortality  a  place  among  his  "doctrinal  beliefs" 
(see  his  Critique  of  Pure  Reason,  Bohn's  tr,  590-91), 
and  moved  J.  S.  Mill  to  speak  of  it  as  the  oidy  hope 


Immortal 
Impediment 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1460 


which  gave  adequate  scope  to  the  human  faculties 
and  feelings,  ''the  loftier  aspirations  being  no  longer 
kept  down  by  a  sense  of  the  insignificance  of  human. 
life  by  the  disastrous  feeling  of  'not  worth  while'" 
(Three  Essays,  210).  Yet  when  these  arguments 
are  calmly  weighed,  they  amount  to  no  more  than 
a  proof  that  man  is  constituted  for  immortality;  they 
do  not  afford  a  guarantee  that  this  destiny  might 
not  be  forfeited,  or  if  they  yield  such  a  guarantee  for 
the  good,  they  hardly  do  so  for  the  wicked.  The 
belief,  in  their  case,  must  depend  on  other  con- 
siderations. 

(3)  The  moral  argument. — It  is,  as  Kant  also  felt, 
when  we  enter  the  moral  sphere  that  immortality, 
or  the  continued  existence  of  the  soul,  becomes  a 
practical  certainty  to  the  earnest  mind.  With 
moral  personality  is  bound  up  the  idea  of  moral  law 
and  moral  responsibility;  this,  in  turn,  necessitates 
the  thought  of  the  world  as  a  moral  system,  and  of 
God  as  moral  Ruler.  The  world,  as  we  know  it,  is 
certainly  a  scene  of  moral  administration — of  pro- 
bation, of  discipline,  of  reward  and  penalty — but 
as  obviously  a  scene  of  incomplete  moral  adminis- 
tration. The  tangled  condition_  of  things  in  this 
life  can  satisfy  no  one's  sense  of  justice.  Goodness 
is  left  to  suffer;  wickedness  outwardly  triumphs. 
The  evil-doer's  own  conscience  proclaims  him 
answerable,  and  points  to  future  judgment.  There 
is  need  for  a  final  rectification  of  what  is  wrong  here. 
But  while  a  future  state  seems  thus  called  for,  this 
docs  not  of  itself  secure  eternal  existence  for  the 
wicked,  nor  would  such  existence  be  "immortality" 
in  the  positive  sense.  In  view  of  the  mystery  of 
sin,  the  lamp  of  reason  grows  dim.  For  further 
light  we  must  look  to  revelation. 

//.    The  Biblical  Doctrine—the   07".— The  Bib. 

view  of  immortality  starts  from  man's  relation  to 

God.      Man,    as   made   in   the   image 

1.  Starting-  of  God  (Gen  1  27),  is  fitted  for  the 
Point —  knowledge  of  God,  for  fellowship  with 
Man's  Him.  This  implies  that  man  is  more 
Relation  than  an  animal;  that  he  has  a  life 
to  God           which  transcends  time.     In  it  already 

lies  the  pledge  of  immortality  if  man 
is  obedient. 

Man's  nature. — With  this  corresponds  the  ac- 
count given  of  man's  creation  and  original  state. 
Man  is  a  being  composed  of  body  and  soul;  both 
are  integral  parts  of  his  personality.  He  was 
created  for  life,  not  for  mortality.  The  warning, 
"In  the  day  that  thou  eatest  thereof  thou  shalt 
surely  die"  (Gen  2  17),  implies  that  if  man  con- 
tinued obedient  he  would  live.  But  this  is  not  an 
immortality  of  the  soul  only.  It  is  a  life  in  the 
body  (cf  Gen  3  22).  Its  tvpe  is  such  cases  as 
Enoch  and  Elijah  (Gen  5  24;  2  K2  11.12;  cf 
Ps  49  15;    73  24). 

The  frustration  of  this  original  destiny  of  man 

comes  through  sin.     Sin  entails  death  (see  Death). 

Death  in  its  physical  aspect  is  a  sepa- 

2.  Sin  and  ration  of  soul  and  body — a  breaking 
Death  up  of  the  unity  of  man's  personality. 

In  one  sense,  therefore,  it  is  the  de- 
struction of  the  immortality  which  was  man's 
original  destiny.  It  does  not,  however,  imply  the 
extinction  of  the  soul.  That  survives,  but  not  in  a 
state  that  can  be  called  "life."  It  passes  into  Sheol 
— the  sad,  gloomy  abode  of  the  dead,  in  which  there 
is  no  joy,  activity,  knowledge  of  the  affairs  of  earth, 
or  (in  the  view  of  Nature)  remembrance  of  God,  or 
praise  of  His  goodness  (on  this  subject,  and  the  Heb 
belief  in  the  future  state  generally,  see  Escha- 
tolooy  op  the  OT;  Death;  Sheol).  This  is 
not  future  "life" — not  "immortality." 

It  is  the  part  of  grace  and  redemption  to  restore 
immortality  in  the  1  rue  sense.  Had  the  world  been 
left  to  develop  in  sin,  no  further  hope  could  have 


come   to   it.     The   picture   of    Sheol    would    have 

become  ever  darker  as  the  idea  of  retribution  grew 

stronger;      it     could     never     become 

3.  Grace  brighter.  But  God's  grace  inter- 
and  Re-  vened:  "Deliver  him  from  going  down 
demption —  to  the  pit,  I  have  found  a  ransom" 
the  True  (Job  33  24).  God's  mercy  breaks  in 
Immortality  on  the  hopelessness  of  man's  lot.     He 

gives  to  man  His  promises;  makes  His 
covenant  with  man;  admits  man  to  His  fellowship 
(Gen  3  15;  4  4;  6  24;  6  8.9;  12  1-3;  15,  etc). 
In  this  fellowship  the  soul  was  raised  again  to  its 
true  life  even  on  earth.  But  this  held  in  it  also  a 
hope  for  the  future.  The  promises  placed  in  the 
forefront  as  tokens  of  God's  favors  were  indeed 
predominatingly  temporal — promises  for  this  life 
— but  within  these  (the  kernel  within  the  shell) 
was  the  supreme  possession  of  God  Himself  (Ps  4 
6f;  16  2).  This  held  in  it  the  hope  of  redemption 
and  the  principle  of  every  good. 

Deliverance  from  Sheol. — Here  we  reach  the  core 
of  the  OT  hope  of  immortality.  Such  fellowship 
as  the  believer  had  with  God  could  not  be  lost,  even 
in  Sheol;  beyond  that  was  deliverance  from  Sheol. 
In  their  highest  moments  it  was  this  hope  that 
sustained  patriarchs,  psalmists,  prophets,  in  their 
outlook  on  the  future.  Doubt  might  cloud  their 
minds;  there  might  be  seasons  of  darkness  and  even 
despair;  but  it  was  impossible  in  moments  of  strong 
faith  to  believe  that  God  would  ever  really  desert 
them.  The  eternal  God  was  their  dwelling-place; 
beneath  them  were  everlasting  arms  (Dt  33  27; 
cf  Ps  90  1).  Their  hope  of  immortality,  therefore, 
was,  in  principle,  the  hope  not  merely  of  an  "immor- 
tality of  the  soul,"  but  likewise  of  resurrection — of 
complete  deliverance  from  Sheol.  Thus  it  is  clearly 
in  the  impassioned  outburst  of  Job  (19  25-27;  cf 
14  13  ff),  and  in  many  of  the  psalms.  The  hope 
always  clothes  itself  in  the  form  of  complete  deliv- 
erance from  Sheol.  Thus  in  Ps  17  14  f,  the  wicked 
have  their  portion  "in  this  life,"  but,  "As  for  me, 
I  shall  behold  thy  face  in  righteousness;  I  shall  be 
satisfied,  when  I  awake,  with  thy  likeness"  (ARV 
"with  beholding  thy  form");  and  in  Ps  49  14  f, 
the  wicked  are  "appointed  as  a  flock  for  Sheol,"  but 
"God  will  redeem  my  soul  from  the  power  of  Sheol; 
for  he  will  receive  me"  (same  expression  as  that 
regarding  Enoch,  Gen  5  24;  cf  Ps  73  24).  It 
will  be  remembered  that  when  Jesus  expounded  the 
declaration,  "I  am  the  God  of  Abraham,"  etc,  it 
was  as  a  pledge  of  resurrection  (Mt  22  31  f).  The 
idea  comes  to  final  expression  in  the  declaration  in 
Dnl  of  a  resurrection  of  the  just  and  unjust  (12  2). 
For  further  development    and  illustration  see  Es- 

CHATOLOGY   OF  THE   OT. 

Later   Jewish   thought   carried   out  these  ideas 

of  the  OT  to  further  issues.     A  blessed  future  for 

the  righteous  was  now  accepted,  and 

4.  Later  was  definitely  connected  with  the  idea 
Jewish  of  resurrection.  The  wicked  remained 
Thought        in  Sheol,  now  conceived  of  as  a  place 

of  retribution.  The  Gentiles,  too, 
shared  this  doom.     See  Eschatology. 

///.  77ie  Christian  Hope. — In  full  consonance 
with  what  is  revealed  in  part  in  the  OT  is  the  hope 

of  immortality  discovered  in  the  NT. 
1.  Immor-  The  ring  of  this  joyful  hope  is  heard 
tality  in  every  part  of  the  apostolic  writings. 

through  "Blessed  be  the  God  and  Father  of  our 

Christ  Lord  Jesus  Christ,"  says  Peter,  "who 

according  to  his  great  mercy  begat  us 
again  unto  a  living  hope  by  the  resurrection  of  Jesus 
Christ  from  the  dead,  unto  an  inheritance  incor- 
ruptible, and  undefiled,  and  that  fadeth  not  away, 
reserved  in  heaven  for  you"  (1  Pet  1  3f).  Paul 
declares,  "Our  Saviour  Christ  Jesus,  who  .... 
brought   life    and    immortality   [incorruption]  to 


1461 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Immortal 
Impediment 


light  through  the  gospel"  (2  Tim  1  10).  In  Rom 
2  7  he  had  spoken  of  those  who  "by  patience  in 
well-doing  seek  for  glory  and  honor  and  incorrup- 
tion,  eternal  life."  This  immortality,  it  is  seen,  is 
part  of  the  eternal  life  bestowed  through  Jesus  on 
believers.  It  is  guaranteed  by  Christ's  own  resurrec- 
tion and  life  in  glory.  The  nat  ure  of  this  hope  of 
the  gospel  may  now  be  further  analyzed. 

(1)  Survival  of  the  soul. — The  soul  survives  the 
body.  A  future  state  for  both  righteous  and  wicked 
is  plainly  declared  by  Jesus  Himself.  "He  that  be- 
lieveth  on  me,"  He  said  to  Martha,  "though  he  die1, 
yet  shall  he  live;  and  whosoever  liveth  and  be- 
lieveth  on  me  shall  never  die"  (Jn  11  25  f).  To 
His  disciples  lie  said,  'Tf  I  go  and  prepare  a  place 
for  you,  I  come  again,  and  will  receive  you  unto 
myself;  that  where  I  am,  there  ye  may  be  also"  (Jn 
14  3).  Cf  His  words  to  the  penitent  thief:  "To-day 
shalt  thou  be  with  me  in  Paradise"  (Lk  23  43). 
The  survival  of  both  righteous  and  wicked  is  implied 
in  the  parable  of  the  Rich  Man  and  Lazarus  (Lk 
16  19-31).  So  in  many  other  places  (e.g.  Mt  5 
29  f;  10  28;  11  21-24;  12  41,  etc).  The  same  is 
the  teaching  of  the  epp.  The  doctrine  of  a  future 
judgment  depends  on  and  presupposes  this  truth 
(Rom  2  5-11;   2  Cor  6  10,  etc). 

(2)  Union  with  Christ  in  unseen  world. — Death 
for  the  redeemed,  though  a  result  of  sin,  does  not 
destroy  the  soul's  relation  to  Cod  and  to  Christ. 
The  eternal  life  implanted  in  the  soul  in  time  blos- 
soms in  its  fruition  into  the  life  and  blessedness  of 
eternity  (Rom  8  10 f;  Phil  1  21;  Col  1  27).  The 
soul  is,  indeed,  in  an  incomplete  state  till  the  resur- 
rect ion.  It  "waits  for  our  adoption,  to  wit,  the 
redemption  of  our  body"  (Rom  8  23).  But  its 
state,  though  incomplete,  is  still  a  happy  one. 
Hades  has  lost  its  gloom,  and  is  for  it  a  "Paradise" 
(Lk  23  43).  It  dwells  in  a  chamber  of  the  Father's 
house  (Jn  14  2f;  17  24).  It  is  to  be,  even  in  the 
unclothed  state  ("absent  from  the  body"),  "at  home 
with  the  Lord"  (2  Cor  6  8).  It  is  for  it  an  object 
of  desire  to  be  "with  Christ"  in  that  state  after 
death  (Phil  1  21).  _  The  pictures  in  Rev,  though 
highly  figurative,  indicate  a  condition  of  great 
blessedness  (Rev  7  9-17). 

(3)  The  resurrection. — The  fulness  of  the  blessed- 
ness of  immortality  implies  the  resurrection.  The 
resurrection  is  a  cardinal  article  of  Christ's  t '-aching 
(Mt  22  29-32;  Jn  5  25-29;  11  23-26).  He  Him- 
self is  the  Lord  of  life,  and  life-giver  in  the  resur- 
rection (Jn  6  21.25.26;  11  25,  "I  am  the  resurrec- 
tion, and  the  life").  The  resurrection  of  believers 
is  secured  by  His  own  resurrection.  Jesus  died; 
He  rose  again  (see  Resurrection').  His  resur- 
rection carries  with  it  the  certainty  of  the  resur- 
rection of  all  His  people.  This  is  the  great  theme 
of  1  Cor  15.  As  Christ  lives,  they  shall  live  also 
(Jn  14  19).  The  believers  who  are  alive  at  His 
Parousia  shall  be  changed  (1  Cor  15  51;  1  Thess 
4  17);  those  who  are  dead  shall  be  raised  first  of  all 
(1  Thess  4  16).  The  resurrection  body  shall  be 
a  body  like  to  Christ's  own  (Phil  3  21) — incor- 
ruptible, glorious,  powerful,  spiritual,  immortal 
(1  Cor  15  42ff.53f).  This  is  not  to  be  confused 
with  sameness  of  material  particles  (vs  37  f),  yet 
there  is  the  connection  of  a  vital  bond  between  the 
old  body  and  the  new.  This  is  the  hope  of  the  be- 
liever, without  which  his  redemption  would  not  be 
complete. 

(4)  The  wicked  also  raised. — The  wicked  also  are 
raised,  not,  however,  to  glorv,  but  for  judgment 
(Jn  5  29;  Acts  24  15;  Rev  20  12-15).  The  same 
truth  is  implied  in  all  passages  on  the  last  judgment. 
Excluded  from  the  blessedness  of  the  righteous, 
their  state  is  described  by  both  Jesus  and  His 
apostles  as  one  of  uttermost  tribulation  and  an- 
guish (e.g.  Mt  25  46;    Mk  9  43-50;   Rom  2  8f). 


This  is  not  "immortality"  or  "life,"  though  the  con- 
tinued existence  of  the  soul  is  implied  in  it  (see 
Punishment,  Everlasting;  Hell;  Retribu- 
tion). 

(5)  Eternal  life. — The  condition  of  the  blessed  in 
their  state  of  immortality  is  one  of  unspeakable 
felicity  of  both  soul  and  body  forever.  There  are, 
indeed,  degrees  of  glorv — this  is  carefully  and  con- 
sistently taught  (Mt  25  14  IT;  Lk  19  12  ff;  1  Cor 
3  10-15;  15  41;  Phil  3  10-14;  2  Tim  4  7  f ;   1  Jn 

2  28) — but  1  he  condit  ion  as  a  whole  is  one  of  perfect 
satisfaction,  holiness  and  blessedness  (cf  Mt  13  43; 
25  34;  Rom  2  7.10;  Rev  22  3  if,  etc).  The  bless- 
edness of  this  eternal  state  includes  such  elements 
as  the  following:  (1)  restoration  to  Cod's  image 
and  likeness  to  Christ  (1  Cor  15  49;  2  Cor  3  IS; 
Eph  4  24;  Col  3  10;  1  Jn  3  2);  (2)  perfect  holi- 
ness in  the  possession  of  Cod's  Spirit  (2  Cor  7  1; 
Phil  1  6;  Rev  21  27;  22  4.11);  (3)  the  unveiled 
vision  of  Cod's  glory  (Rev  22  4;  cf  Ps  17  15); 
(4)  freedom  from  all  sorrow,  pain  and  death  (Rev 
21  3f);  (5)  power  of  unwearied  service  (Rev  22  3). 

The  contrast  between  the  Bib.  view  of  immor- 
tality and  that  of  heathenism  and  of  the  schools 

will  now  be  obvious.  It  is  not  mere 
2.  Contrasts  future  existence;   not  a  bare,  abstract 

immortality  of  the  soul;  it  is  the  result 
of  redemption  and  of  renewal  by  Cod's  spirit;  it 
embraces  the  whole  personality,  soul  and  body;  it  is 
not  shared  by  the  unholy;  it  includes  the  perfec- 
tion of  rational,  moral  and  spiritual  blessedness,  in 
an  environment  suitable  to  such  glorified  existence. 
As  such  it  is  the  supreme  prize  after  which  every 
believer  is  called  to  strive  (Phil  3  13  f). 

Literatt'ke. — Intjerxolt  Lectures  on  Immortality,  by 
Professor  William  James,  Professor  Osier,  etc;  Salmond, 
Christian  Doctrine  of  I  mmortality;  ()rr,  Christian  \'iiu> 
of  God  and  the  World,  l.eets  i\ ,  v,  with  App.  to  v;  works 
specified  in  art.  on  Eschatology. 

James  Orr 

IMMUTABILITY,  i-mu-ta-bil'i-ti,  IMMUTA- 
BLE, i-mu'ta-b'l  (dfj.£Td06Tos,  ametdthetos) :  Occurs 
in  He  6  17.18  of  the  unchangeableness  of  the  Di- 
vine counsel.  It  is  the  perfection  of  Jeh  that  He 
changes  not  in  character,  will,  purpose,  aim  (Mai 

3  6;  so  of  Christ,  He  13  8).  See  Paithfulness; 
Unchangeable. 

IMNA,  im'na  (y-'QI,  yimnd*):  A  descendant  of 
Asher  (1  Ch  7  35).*  ' 

IMNAH,  im'na  ("J'Q"1 ,  yimnah) : 

(1)  Eldest  son  of  Asher  (Oen  46  17,  AV  "Jim- 
nah";  Nu  26  44,  AV  "Jimna";   1  Ch  7  30). 

(2)  A  Levite  of  Hezekiah's  time  (2  Ch  31  14). 

IMNITES,  im'mts  (?VCT> ,  yimnl):  Descendants 
of  Lmn-ah    (q.v.  [1])  (Nu  26  44,  AV  "Jinmites"). 

IMPART,  im-part'  (p.£Ta8£8a>|Ai,  metadidomi,  "to 
share"):  "They  ....  imparted  [AV  "added"] 
nothing  to  me"  (Gal  2  6);  that  is,  did  not  propose 
any  correction  or  addition  to  my  teaching.  "That 
I  may  impart  unto  you  some  spiritual  gift"  (Rom  1 
11)  expresses  the  apostle's  hope  that  the  Rom  be- 
lievers may  increase  in  faith  and  love  through  his 
teaching  and  influence. 

"To  impart  unto  you  ....  our  own  souls" 
(1  Thess  2  8)  meant  to  spend  their  utmost  strength 
and  to  expose  their  lives  in  their  service. 

IMPEDIMENT,  im-ped'i-mcn1 :  Pound  in  Mk  7 
32,  "had  an  impediment  in  his  speech,"  as  a  tr  of 
fioyiXaXos,  mogilalos,  comp.  of  /j-oyos,  mogos,  "toil" 
and  XdXos,  kilos,  "speech,"  i.e.  one  who  speaks  with 
difficulty.  In  the  LNX  the  word  is  used  as  a  tr 
of  C5X,  'illem,  "dumb"  (Isa  35  6). 


Implead 
Imputation 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1462 


IMPLEAD,  im-pled'  (Acts  19  38  AY,  "Lot  them 
implead  one  another"):  "Implead"  means  "to  sue 

at  law,"  hence  RV  "Let  them  accuse  one  another." 
Court  days  are  kept,  let  them  prosecute  the  suit  in 
court  and  not  settle  matters  in  riot.  tyxaXeiv, 
egkalein,  means  "to  call  in,"  "to  call  to  account." 

IMPORTABLE,      im-por'ta-b'l      (Suo-pda-raK-ros, 

dusbdstaktos):  An  obsolete  word,  meaning  "unbear- 
able" (Lai  im,  "not,"  portabilis,  "bearable")  found 
in  Pr  Man,  "Thine  angry  threatening  [RV  "the 
anger  of  thy  threatening"]  toward  sinners  is  im- 
portable"; cf  Rheims  version,  Ml  23  4,  "heavy 
burdens  and  importable";  Chaucer  ("Clerk's  Tale" 
C.T.),  "For  it  were  importable  though  they  wolde." 

IMPORTUNITY,    im-por-tu'ni-ti :     Occurs   only 

in  Lk  11  8,  where  it  is  the  rendering  of  dvaideia, 
auaideia  (WH,  dvatSia,  auaidia).  This  Gr  word 
implies  an  element  of  impudent  insistence  rising 
to  the  point  of  shamelessness  which  the  Eng.  word 
"importunity"  fails  to  express,  thus  weakening  the 
argument  of  the  parable,  which  is  that  if  by  shame- 
less insistence  a  favor  may  be  won,  even  from  one 
unwilling  and  ungracious,  still  more'  surely  will  God 
answer  the  earnest  prayer  of  His  people.  God's 
willingness  to  give  exceeds  our  ability  to  ask.  The 
parable  teaches  by  way  of  contrast,  not  by  parallel. 
David  Foster  Estes 
IMPOSITION,  im-po-zish'un,  OF  HANDS.  See 
Hands,  Imposition  (Laying  on)  of. 

IMPOSSIBLE,  im-pos'i-b'l  (vb.  d6vvaT€w,  adu- 
nateo;  adj  dSvvcu-os,  adunatos):  "To  be  impossi- 
ble" is  the  tr  of  adunated,  "to  be  powerless,"  "im- 
potent" (Mt  17  20;  Lk  1  37,  RV  "void  of  power"); 
adunatos,  "powerless,"  etc,  is  trd  "impossible"  (Alt 
19  26;  Mk  10  27;  Lk  18  27;  He  6  4.1S;  11  6; 
"impossible"  in  He  6  4  is  in  RV  transferred  to  ver 
6);  anendektos,  "not  to  be  received"  or  "accepted," 
is  also  trd  "impossible"  (Lk  17  1).  In  several  of 
these  passages  it  is  affirmed  that  "nothing  is  impos- 
sible with  God,"  but,  of  course,  this  means  nothing 
that  is  consistent  with  the  Divine  nature,  e.g.  (as 
He  6  18)  it  is  not  possible  for  God  to  lie.  So,  when 
it  is  said  that  nothing  is  impossible  to  faith,  the  same 
limitation  applies  and  also  that  of  the  mind  or  will 
of  God  for  us.  But  much  more  is  possible  to  a 
strong  faith  than  a  weak  faith  realizes,  or  even 
believes.  W.  L.  Walker 

IMPOTENT,  im'pS-tent  (do-fovtu),  astheneo, 
dSvvaTOs,  adunatos):  The  vb.  signifies  "to  be  with- 
out strength,"  and  derivatives  of  it  are  used  inJn 
5  3.7  AV  and  Acts  4  9  to  characterize  the  paralyzed 
man  at  Bethesda  and  the  cripple  at  the  Temple  gate. 
For  the  same  condition  of  the  Lystra  lame  man  the 
word  adunatos  is  used,  which  is  synonymous.  In 
these  cases  it  is  the  weakness  of  disease.  In  this 
sense  the  word  is  used  by  Shakespeare  (Love's  Labor 
Lost,  V,  ii,  864;  Hamlet,  I,  ii,  29).  The  impotent 
folk  referred  to  in  the  Epistle  of  Jeremy  (Bar  6  28) 
were  those  weak  and  feeble  from  age  and  want;  cf 
"impotent  and  snail-paced  beggary"  (Richard  III, 
IV,  iii,  53).  Alex.  Macalister 

IMPRISONMENT,  im-priz"n-ment.  See  Pun- 
ishments;   Prison. 

IMPURITY,  im-pu'ri-ti.     See  Uncleanness. 

IMPUTATION,  im-pu-ta'shun: 
I.     Meaning  and  Use  of  the  Term 
II.     The  Threefold  Use  of  the  Term  in  Theology 
Original  Sin,  Atonement,  Justification 
III.      The  Scriptural  Basis  of  These   Doctrines 
1.   Imputation  of  Adam's  Sin  to  His  Posterity 


2.  Imputation  of  the  Sins  of  His  People  to  Christ 

3.  Imputation   of   the    Righteousness  of   Christ  to 
His  People 

Literati:  re 

/.  Meaning  and  Use  of  the  Term. — The  word 
"imputation,"  according  to  the  Scriptural  usage, 
denotes  an  attributing  of  something  to  a  person,  or 
a  charging  of  one  with  anything,  or  a  setting  of 
something  to  one's  account .  This  1  akes  place  some- 
times in  a  judicial  manner,  so  that  the  thing  im- 
puted becomes  a  ground  of  reward  or  punishment. 
The  word  is  used  in  AV  a  number  of  times  to  trans- 
late the  Heb  vb.  hashabh  and  the  Gr  vb.  logizomai. 
These  words,  both  of  which  occur  frequently  in 
Scripture,  and  which  in  a  number  of  instances  mean 
simply  "to  think,"  express  the  above  idea.  That 
this  is  the  case  is  clear  also  from  the  other  Eng. 
words  used  in  AV  to  translate  these  Ileb  and  Gr 
words,  as,  for  example,  "to  count,"  "to  reckon,"  "to 
esteem."  Thus  hashabh  is  trd  in  AV  by  the  vb.  "to 
impute"  (Lev  7"  18;  17  4;  2  S  19  19);  by  the 
vb.  "to  reckon"  (2  S  4  2);  by  "to  count"  as  some- 
thing (Lev  25  31  EV).  The  vb.  in  1  S  22  15  is 
C1!?? ,  slm.  Similarly,  logizomai  is  tr'1  by  the  vb.  "to 
impute"  (Rom  4  6.S. 11.22.23.24;  2  Cor  5  19;  Jas 
2  23);  by  the  vb.  "to  count"  (Rom  2  26;  4  3.5); 
"to  account"  (Gal  3  6);  and  by  the  vb.  "to  reck- 
on" (Rom  4  4.9.10).-  In  RV  the  word  used  to 
render  logizomai  is  the  vb.  "to  reckon." 

These  synonyms  of  the  vb.  "to  impute"  bring 
out  the  idea  of  reckoning  or  charging  to  one's  ac- 
count. It  makes  no  difference,  so  far  as  the  meaning 
of  imputation  is  concerned,  who  it  is  that  imputes, 
whether  man  (1  S  22  15)  or  God  (Ps  32  2);  it 
makes  no  difference  what  is  imputed,  whether  a 
good  deed  for  reward  (Ps  106  30  f)  or  a  bad  deed 
for  punishment  (Lev  17  4) ;  and  it  makes  no  differ- 
ence whether  that  which  is  imputed  is  something 
which  is  personally  one's  own  prior  to  the  imputa- 
tion, as  in  the  case  above  cited,  where  his  own  good 
deed  was  imputed  to  Phinehas  (Ps  106  30 f),  or 
something  which  is  not  personally  one's  own  prior 
to  the  imputation,  as  where  Paul  asks  that  a  debt 
not  personally  his  own  be  charged  to  him  (Philem 
ver  18).  In  all  these  cases  the  act  of  imputation  is 
simply  the  charging  of  one  with  something.  It, 
denotes  just  what  we  mean  by  our  ordinary  use  of 
the  term.  It  does  not  change  the  inward  state;  or 
character  of  the  person  to  whom  something  is  im- 
puted. When,  for  example,  we  say  that  we  impute 
bad  motives  to  anyone,  we  do  not  mean  that  we 
make  such  a  one  bad;  and  just  so  in  the  Scripture 
the  phrase  "to  impute  iniquity"  does  not  mean  to 
make  one  personally  bad,  but  simply  to  lay  iniquity 
to  his  charge.  Hence  when  God  is  said  "to  impute 
sin"  to  anyone,  the  meaning  is  that  God  accounts 
such  a  one  to  be  a  sinner,  and  consequently  guilty 
and  liable  to  punishment.  Similarly,  the  non- 
imputation  of  sin  means  simply  not  to  lay  it  to  one's 
charge  as  a  ground  of  punishment  (Ps  32  2).  In 
the  same  manner,  when  Clod  is  said  "to  impute 
righteousness"  to  a  person,  the  meaning  is  that  He 
judicially  accounts  such  a  one  to  be  righteous  and 
entitled  to  all  the  rewards  of  a  righteous  person 
(Rom  4  6.11). 

//.  The  Threefold  Use  of  the  Term  in  Theology. — 
Three  acts  of  imputation  are  given  special  promi- 
nence in  the  Scripture,  and  are  implicated  in  the 
Scriptural  doctrines  of  Original  Sin,  Atonement 
and  Justification,  though  not  usually  expressed  by 
the  words  hashabh  and  logizomai.  Because,  how- 
ever, of  its  "forensic"  or  "judicial"  meaning,  and 
possibly  through  its  use  in  the  Yulg  to  translate 
logizomai  in  Rom  4  8,  the  term  "imputation"  has 
been  used  in  theology  in  a  threefold  sense  to  denote 
the  judicial  acts  of  God  by  which  the  guilt  of  Adam's 
sin  is  imputed  to  his  posterity;    by  which  the  sins 


1463 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Implead 
Imputation 


of  Christ's  people  are  imputed  to  Him;  and  by 
which  the  righteousness  of  Christ  is  imputed  to  His 
people.  The  act  of  imputation  is  precisely  the  same 
in  each  case.  It  is  not  meant  that  Adam's  sin  was 
personally  the  sin  of  his  descendants,  but  that  it 
was  set  to  their  account,  so  that  they  share  its  guilt, 
and  penalty.  It  is  not  meant  that  Christ  shares 
personally  in  the  sins  of  men,  but  that  the  guilt  of 
His  people's  sin  was  set  to  his  account,  so  that  He 
bore  its  penalty.  It  is  not  meant  that  Christ's 
people  are  made  personally  holy  or  inwardly  right- 
eous by  the  imputation  of  His  righteousness  to 
them,  but  that  His  righteousness  is  set  to  their  ac- 
count, so  that  they  are  entitled  to  all  the  rewards  of 
that  perfect  righteousness. 

These  doctrines  have  had  a  place  in  the  theology 
of  the  Christian  church  from  the  earliest  Christian 
cents.,  though  the  doctrine  of  the  imputation  of  the 
righteousness  of  Christ  was  first  fully  and  clearly 
stated  at  the  1  ime  of  and  following  the  Reformation. 
The  first  two  of  these  doctrines  have  been  the  pos- 
session of  the  entire  Christian  church,  while  the 
third  one  of  them  is  affirmed  by  both  the  Reformed 
and  Lutheran  branches  of  Protestantism. 

///.  The  Scriptural  Basis  of  These  Doctrines. — - 
Those  three  doctrines  have  a  basis  in  the  Scripture, 
and  underlie  the  Scripture  doctrines  of  Original 
Sin,  Atonement,  and  Justification. 

The  doctrine  of  the  imputation  of  Adam's  sin  to 
his  posterity  is  implied  in  the  account  of  the  Fall 
in  Gen  2  and  3,  taken  in  connection 
1.  Imputa-  with  the  subsequent  history  of  the 
tion  of  human  race  as  recorded  in  Gen  and 

Adam's  Sin  in  the  rest  of  the  OT.  Many  ancient 
to  His  and   modern   interpreters  regard   this 

Posterity  narrative  as  an  allegorical,  mythical 
or  symbolical  representation  in  his- 
torical form,  either  of  a  psychological  fact,  i.e.  of 
something  which  takes  place  in  every  individual, 
or  of  certain  general  truths  concerning  sin.  By 
some  exegetes,  following  Kant,  it  has  been  held  to 
depict  an  advance  of  the  race  in  culture  or  ethical 
knowledge  (Reuss;  against  which  view  cf  Budde, 
Clemen);  by  others  it  has  been  regarded  as  a  sym- 
bolical representation  of  certain  truths  concerning 
sin  (Oehler,  Schultz);  byothcrsit  has  been  regarded 
as  historical  (Delitzsch).  This  latter  view  is  the 
one  which  accords  with  the  narrative  itself.  It  is 
evidently  intended  as  historical  by  its  author,  and 
is  so  regarded  by  the  NT  writers.  It  is,  moreover, 
introduced  to  explain,  not  an  advance  of  the  race, 
but  the  entrance  of  sin  into  the  world,  and  the  con- 
nection of  certain  penal  evils  with  sin.  It  does  this 
by  showing  how  these  evils  came  upon  Adam  as 
a  punishment  for  his  disobedience,  and  the  sub- 
sequent history  shows  that  his  posterity  were  sub- 
jected to  the  same  evils.  It  is  true  that  the  threat 
of  punishment  to  Adam  in  case  of  disobedience  was 
made  to  him  alone,  and  that  the  penalties  threat- 
ened are  said  to  have  come  only  upon  him  and  Eve 
(Gen  3  1(3-19).  Nevertheless,  it  is  clear  from  the 
account  of  the  subsequent  history  of  the  race  that 
it  actually  shared  in  the  punishments  inflicted  upon 
Adam,  and  that  this  was  in  consequence  of  his  sin. 
This  implies  that  in  Gen  2  16  f  are  contained  the 
terms  of  a  covenant  in  which  Adam  acted  as  the 
representative  of  the  race.  If,  therefore,  the  race 
shares  in  the  penalty  of  Adam's  sin,  it  must  also 
share  in  his  guilt  or  the  judicial  obligation  to  suffer 
punishment.  And  this  is  precisely  what  the  the- 
ology of  the  entire  Christian  church  has  meant  by 
saying  that  the  guilt  of  Adam's  sin  was  imputed  to 
his  posterity.  This  is  in  accordance  with  God's 
method  of  dealing  with  men  in  other  recorded  in- 
stances (Gen  19  15;  Ex  20  5;  Dt  1  37;  3  26); 
and  the  assertion  of  the  principle  of  personal  re- 
sponsibility by  Ezekiel  and  Jeremiah   against  an 


abuse  of  the  principle  of  representative  responsi- 
bility implies  a  recognition  of  the  latter  (Ezk  18 
2.4;   33  12;   Jer  31  29). 

The  universality  of  sin  and  death  is  not  brought 
into  connection  with  the  Kail  of  Adam  by  the  other 
OT  writers.  This  is  done,  however,  by  Paul.  In 
1  Cor  15  21  f,  Paul  says  that  the  death  of  all  men 
has  its  cause  in  the  man  Adam  in  the  same  way  in 
which  the  resurrection  from  the  dead  has  its  cause 
in  the  man  Christ.  The  death  of  all  men,  accord- 
ingly, is  not  brought  about  by  their  personal  sins, 
but  has  come  upon  all  through  the  disobedience  of 
Adam.  Upon  what  ground  this  takes  place,  Paul 
states  in  the  passage  Rom  5  12-21.  He  intro- 
duces the  subject  of  Adam's  relation  to  the  race  to 
illustrate  his  doctrine  of  the  justification  of  sinners 
on  the  ground  of  a  righteousness  which  is  not  per- 
sonally their  own.  In  order  to  do  this  he  takes  the 
truth,  well  known  to  his  readers,  that  all  men  are 
under  condemnation  on  account  of  Adam's  sin. 
The  comparison  is  between  Adam  and  Christ,  and 
the  specific  point  of  the  comparison  is  imputed  sin 
and  imputed  righteousness.  Hence  in  ver  12  Paid 
does  not  mean  simply  to  affirm  that  as  Adam  sinned 
and  consequently  died,  so  men  sin  and  die.  Nor 
can  he  mean  to  say  that  just  as  God  established  a 
precedent  in  Adam's  case  that  death  should  follow 
sin,  so  He  acts  upon  this  precedent  in  the  case  of  all 
men  because  all  sin,  the  real  ground  of  the;  reign  of 
death  being  the  fact  that  all  sin,  and  the  formal 
ground  being  this  precedent  (B.  Weiss);  nor  that 
the  real  ground  is  this  precedent  and  the  subordi- 
nate ground  the  fact  that  all  sin  (Hiinefeld). 
Neither  can  Paul  intend  to  say  that  all  men  are  sub- 
ject to  death  because  they  derive  a  corrupt  nature 
from  Adam  (Fritzsche);  nor  that  men  are  con- 
demned to  die  because  all  have  sinned  (Pfleiderer). 
Raid's  purpose  is  to  illustrate  his  doctrine  of  the 
way  in  which  men  are  delivered  from  sin  and  death 
by  the  way  in  which  they  are  brought  into  con- 
demnation. The  main  thought  of  the  passage  is 
that,  just  as  men  are  condemned  on  account  of  the 
imputation  to  them  of  the  guilt  of  Adam's  sin,  so 
they  are  justified  on  account  of  the  imputation  to 
them  of  the  righteousness  of  Christ.  Paul  says 
that  it  was  by  one  man  that  sin  and  death  entered 
into  the  world,  and  it  was  by  one  man  that  death 
passed  to  all  men,  because  all  were  implicated  in 
the  guilt  of  that  one  man's  sin  (ver  12).  In  proof 
of  tins  the  apostle  cites  the  fact  that  death  as  a 
punishment  was  reigning  during  a  period  in  which 
the  only  possible  judicial  ground  of  this  fact  must 
have  been  the  imputation  of  the  guilt  of  that  one 
man's  sin  (vs  13.14).  Hence  there  is  a  precise 
parallel  between  Adam  and  Christ.  Just  as  men  are 
condemned  on  account  of  Adam's  disobedience,  so 
they  are  justified  on  account  of  the  obedience  of 
Christ  (vs  18.19).  The  thought  of  the  passage  is 
imputed  sin  and  imputed  righteousness  as  the  ground 
of  condemnation  and  of  justification  respectively. 

That  our  sins  are  imputed  to  Christ  is  not  ex- 
pressly stated  in  the  Script  ure,  but  is  implied  in  those 

passages  which  affirm  that  Christ  "bore 
2.  The  our  sins,"  and  that  our  iniquities  were 

Imputation  "laid  upon  him"  by  Jeh.  To  bear 
of  the  Sins  inquity  or  sin,  though  it  may  some- 
of  His  times  mean  to  bear  it  away  or  remove 

People  to  it,  is  an  expression  often  applied  in 
Christ  Scripture  to  persons  charged  with  guilt 

and  subjected  to  the  punishment  of 
their  own  sin  (Lev  5  17;  7  18;  19  8;  22  9). 
That  the  Heb  vb.  nasd'  has  this  meaning  is  also 
indicated  by  its  being  interchanged  with  the  vb. 
§dbhal,  which  means  "to  bear  as  a  burden"  anil  is 
used  to  denote  the  bearing  of  the  punishment  of  sin 
(Lsa  53  11).  In  the  OT  sacrificial  system,  which 
according  to  the  NT  is  typical  of  the  sacrifice  of 


Imputation 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1464 


Christ,  the  imposition  of  hands  on  the  head  of  the 
victim  signified  the  substitution  of  it  for  the  offender 
and  the  transfer  of  his  guilt  to  it.  This  idea  is 
brought  out  clearly  in  the  case  of  the  two  goats  on 
the  great  Day  of  Atonement  (Lev  16;.  When, 
therefore,  the  Servant  of  Jeh  in  lsa  53  is  said  "to 
bear  iniquity"  (ver  11),  or  that,  "the  chastisement 
of  our  peace  was  upon  him  "(ver  .r>),  or  that  ''Jeh 
hath  laid  [lit.  "caused  to  fall"]  on  him  the  iniquity 
of  us  all"  (ver  G),  the  idea  expressed  is  that  Christ 
bore  the  punishment  of  our  sin  vicariously,  its  guilt 
having  been  imputed  to  Him.  The  thought  of  the 
prophecy  is,  as  Delitzsch  says,  that  of  vicarious 
punishment,  which  implies  the  idea  of  the  imputa- 
tion of  the  guilt  of  our  sins  to  Christ . 

The  same  idea  underlies  these  expressions  when 
they  occur  in  the  NT.  When  IVter  wishes  to  hold 
up  Christ  as  an  example  of  patience  in  suffering,  he 
takes  up  the  thought  of  lsa,  and  adduces  the  fact 
that  Christ  "his  own  self  bare  our  sins  in  his  body 
upon  the  tree"  (1  Pet  2  24).  The  context  indi- 
cates that  Peter  had  the  prophecy  of  lsa  53  in 
mind,  so  that  his  meaning  is,  not  that  Christ  carried 
our  sins  even  up  to  the  cross,  but  that  in  His  death 
on  the  cross  Christ  bore  the  punishment  of  our  sin, 
its  guilt  having  been  imputed  to  Him.  The  same 
thought  is  expressed  by  the  writer  of  the  Ep.  to  the 
He,  where  the  contrast  between  the  first  and  second 
advents  of  Christ  is  made  to  hinge  upon  the  fact 
that  in  the  first  He  came  to  be  sacrificed  as  a  sin- 
bearer,  burdened  with  the  guilt  of  the  sin  of  others, 
whereas  in  His  second  coming  He  will  appear  with- 
out this  burden  of  imputed  or  vicarious  guilt  (He 
9  28).  Paul  also  gives  expression  to  the  same 
thought  when  he  says  that  Christ  was  "made  to 
be  sin  on  our  behalf"  (2  Cor  5  21),  and  that  He 
became  "a  curse  for  us"  (Gal  3  13).  In  the  former 
passage  the  idea  of  substitution,  although  not  ex- 
pressed by  the  preposition  hwp&r  which  indicates 
that  Christ's  work  was  for  our  benefit,  is  neverthe- 
less clearly  implied  in  the  thought  that  Christ, 
whose  sinlcssness  is  emphasized  in  the  ver,  is  made 
sin,  and  that  we  sinners  become  righteous  in  Him. 
Paul  means  that  Christ  was  made  to  bear  the 
penalty  of  our  sin  and  that  its  guilt  was  imputed  to 
Him  in  precisely  the  same  way  in  which  we  sinners 
become  the  righteousness  of  God  in  Him,  i.e.  by 
the  imputation  of  His  righteousness  to  us.  The 
same  thought  is  expressed  in  Gal  3  13,  where  the 
statement  that  Christ  was  made  a  curse  for  us  means 
that  He  was  made  to  endure  the  curse  or  penalty  of 
the  broken  law.  In  all  these  passages  the  under- 
lying thought  is  that  the  guilt  of  our  sin  was 
imputed  to  Christ. 

The  righteousness  upon  the  ground  of  which 
God   justifies  the   ungodly   is,    according   to   Paul, 

witnessed  to  in  the  OT  (Bom  3  21). 
3.  The  Im-  In  order  to  obtain  the  blessedness 
putation  of  which  comes  from  a  right  relation  to 
the  Right-  God,  the  pardon  or  non-imputation  of 
eousness  of  sin  is  necessary,  and  this  takes  place 
Christ  to  through  the  "covering"  of  sin  (Ps  32 
His  People    1.2).     The  nature  of  this  covering  by 

the  vicarious  bearing  of  the  penalty 
of  sin  is  made  clear  in  lsa  53.  It  is,  moreover,  the 
teaching  of  the  OT  that  the  righteousness  which 
God  demands  is  not  to  be  found  among  men  (Ps 
130  3;  143  2;  lsa  64  6).  Accordingly,  the  proph- 
ets speak  of  a  righteousness  which  is  not  from  man's 
works,  but  which  is  said  to  be  in  Jeh  or  to  come 
from  Him  to  His  people  (lsa  32  16  f;  45  23  ff; 
54  17;  58  8;  61  3;  Jer  51  10;  Hos  10  12).  This 
idea  finds  its  clearest  expression  in  connection  with 
the  work  of  the  Messiah  in  Jer  33  16,  where  Jerus 
is  called  "Jeh  our  righteousness"  because  of  the 
coming  of  the  Messianic  king,  and  in  Jer  23  G  where 
the  same  name  is  given  to  the  Messiah  to  express 


His  significance  for  Israel.  Although  the  idea  of 
the  imputation  of  righteousness  is  not  explicitly 
asserted  in  these  passages,  the  idea  is  not  merely 
that  the  righteousness  spoken  of  is  recognized  by 
Jeh  (Cremer),  but  that  it  conies  from  Him,  so  that 
Jeh,  through  the  work  of  the  Messiah,  is  tin;  source 
of  His  people's  righteousness. 

This  idea  is  taken  up  by  Paul,  who  makes  explicit 
the  way  in  which  this  righteousness  conies  to  sin- 
ners, and  who  puts  the  idea  of  imputed  righteous- 
ness at  the  basis  of  his  doctrine  of  Justification. 
By  the  righteousness  of  Christ  Paul  means  Christ's 
legal  status,  or  the  merit  acquired  by  all  that  He 
did  in  satisfying  the  demands  of  God's  law,  includ- 
ing what  has  been  called  His  active  and  passive 
obedience.  Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  most 
of  the  modern  expositors  of  Paul's  doctrine  have 
denied  that  he  teaches  the  imputation  of  Christ's 
obedience,  this  doctrine  has  a  basis  in  the  apostle's 
teaching.  Justification  leads  to  life  and  final  glori- 
fication (Rom  5  18;  8  30);  and  Paul  always  con- 
ceives the  obtaining  of  lib;  as  dependent  on  the  ful- 
filment of  the  law.  If,  therefore,  Christ  secures  life 
for  us,  it  can  only  be  in  accordance  with  this  prin- 
ciple. Accordingly,  the  apostle  emphasizes  the 
element  of  obedience  in  the  death  of  Christ,  and 
places  this  act  of  obedience  at  the  basis  of  the 
sinner's  justification  (Rom  5  18).  He  also  repre- 
sents the  obedience  of  the  cross  as  the  culminating 
point  of  a  life  of  obedience  on  Christ's  part  (Phil 

2  8).  Moreover,  Paul  affirms  that  our  redemption 
from  all  the  demands  of  the  law  is  secured  by  the 
fact  that  Christ  was  born  under  law  (Gal  4  4). 
This  cannot  be  restricted  to  the  fact  that  Christ 
was  under  the  curse  of  the  law,  for  He  was  born 
under  law  and  the  result  of  this  is  that  we  are  free 
from  all  of  its  demands.  This  doctrine  is  also  im- 
plied in  the  apostle's  teaching  that  Justification  is 
absolutely  gracious,  taken  in  connection  with  the 
fact  that  it  leads  to  a  complete  salvation. 

The  importance  in  Paul's  thought  of  the  doctrine 
of  the  imputation  of  the  righteousness  of  Christ  to 
the  believer  can  be  seen  from  the  fact  that  the  ques- 
tion how  righteousness  was  to  be  obtained  occupied 
a  central  place  in  his  religious  consciousness,  both 
before  and  after  his  conversion.  The  apostle's 
conversion  by  the  appearance  of  the  risen  Christ 
determined  his  conception  of  the  true  way  of  ob- 
taining righteousness,  since  the  resurrection  of 
Christ  meant  for  Paul  the  condemnation  of  his 
entire  past  search  for  righteousness  by  works  of  the 
law. 

That  the  imputation  of  the  righteousness  of 
Christ  to  the  believer  does  lie  at  the  basis  of  Paul's 
doctrine  of  Justification  can  be  further  seen  from 
the  fact  that  Justification  is  absolutely  free  and 
unmerited  so  far  as  the  sinner  is  concerned  (Rom 

3  24;  5  15;  Gal  5  4;  Tit  3  7);  its  object  being 
one  who  is  ungodly  (Rom  4  5);  so  that  it  is  not  by 
works  (Rom  3  20.28;  Gal  2  1G;  3  11;  5  4;  Phil 
3  9);  and  yet  that  it  is  not  a  mere  pardon  of  sin, 
but  is  a  strictly  "forensic"  or  judicial  judgment, 
freeing  the  sinner  from  all  the  claims  of  the  law,  and 
granting  him  the  right  to  eternal  life.  This  last 
truth  is  plain  because  God's  retributive  righteous- 
ness lies  at  the  basis  of  Paul's  doctrine  of  Justifi- 
cation (Rom  2);  is  manifested  in  it  (Bom  3  25  f); 
because  Christ's  expiatory  work  is  its  ground  (Rom 
3  25);  and  because  our  redemption  from  the  curse 
of  the;  law  rests  upon  Christ's  having  borne  it  for 
us,  and  our  redemption  from  all  the  demands  of  the 
law  depends  upon  their  fulfilment  by  Christ  (Gal 
3  13;  4  4).  Hence  the  gracious  character  of  Jus- 
tification, according  to  Paul,  does  not  consist  in  its 
being  merely  a  gracious  pardon  without  any  judi- 
cial basis  (Ritschl);  or  in  God's  acceptance  of  a 
subjective  righteousness  produced  by  Him  in  the 


1465 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Imputation 


sinner  (Tobac);  or  in  the  acceptance  of  faith  in- 
stead of  a  perfect  righteousness  (Crenier).  The 
gracious  character  of  Justification  consists  for  Paul 
in  the  fact  that  the  righteousness  on  the  ground  of 
which  Cod  justifies  the  ungodly  is  a  righteous- 
ness which  is  graciously  provided  by  Cod,  and 
which  Paul  contrasts  with  his  own  righteousness 
which  conies  from  law  works  (Phil  3  9).  The 
sinner,  therefore,  is  pardoned  and  accepted  as  a 
righteous  person,  not  on  account  of  anything  in 
himself,  but  only  on  account  of  what  Christ  has 
done  for  him,  which  means  that  the  merits  of 
Christ's  suffering  and  obedience  are  imputed  to  the 
sinner  as  the  ground  of  his  justification. 

This  truth  is  explicitly  affirmed  by  Paul,  who 
speaks  of  Cod's  imputing  righteousness  without 
works,  and  of  righteousness  being  imputed  (Rom 
4  6.11).  The  idea  of  the  imputation  of  righteous- 
ness here  is  made  clear  by  the  context.  The  one 
who  is  declared  righteous  is  said  to  be  "ungodly'' 
(4  5).  Hence  he  is  righteous  only  by  Cod's  impu- 
tation of  righteousness  to  him.  This  is  also  clear 
from  the  contrast  between  imputation  according 
to  grace  and  according  to  debt  (4  4).  He  who  seeks 
righteousness  by  works  would  be  justified  as  a 
reward  for  his  works,  in  antithesis  to  which,  impu- 
tation according  to  grace  would  be  the  charging 
one  with  a  righteousness  which  he  does  not  possess. 
Accordingly,  at  the  basis  of  Justification  there  is  a 
reckoning  to  the  sinner  of  an  objective  righteous- 
ness. This  same  idea  is  also  implied  and  asserted 
by  Paul  in  the  parallel  which  he  draws  between 
Adam  and  Christ  (Rom  5  18  f).  The  apostle  says 
that  just  as  men  are  condemned  on  account  of  a  sin 
not  their  own,  so  they  are  justified  on  account  of  a 
righteousness  which  is  not  their  own.  The  idea  of 
imputed  sin  and  imputed  righteousness,  as  was  said, 
is  the  precise  point  of  the  parallelism  between  con- 
demnation in  Adam  and  justification  in  Christ. 
This  is  also  the  idea  which  underlies  the  apostle's 
contrast  of  the  Old  and  New  Covenants  (2  Cor  3 
9).  The  New  Covenant  is  described  as  a  "ministry 
of  righteousness,"  and  contrasted  with  the  Old 
Covenant  which  is  described  as  a  "ministry  of  con- 
demnation." If,  therefore,  this  last  expression 
does  not  denote  a  subjective  condition  of  men  under 
the  old  dispensation,  but  their  relation  to  God  as 
objects  of  His  condemnation,  righteousness  must 
denote  the  opposite  of  this  relation  to  the  law,  and 
must  depend  on  God's  judicial  acquittal.  The  same 
truth  is  expressed  by  Paul  more  concretely  by  say- 
ing that  Christ  has  been  "made  unto  us  righteous- 
ness from  Cod"  (1  Cor  1  30).  Here;  the  concrete 
mode  of  expression  is  chosen  because  Paul  speaks 
also  of  Christ  being  our  sanctification  and  redemp- 
tion, so  that  an  expression  had  to  be  chosen  which 
would  cover  all  of  these  ideas.  One  of  the  clearest, 
statements  concerning  this  objective  righteousness 
is  Phil  3  9.  The  apostle  here  affirms  that  the 
righteousness  which  the  believer  in  Christ  obtains 
is  directly  opposite  to  his  own  righteousness.  This 
latter  conies  from  works  of  the  law,  whereas  the 
former  conies  from  God  and  through  faith  in  Christ . 
It  is,  therefore,  objective  to  man,  comes  to  him 
from  Cod,  is  connected  with  the  work  of  Christ, 
and  is  mediated  by  faith  in  Christ. 

The  idea  (dearly  stated  in  this  last  passage  of  a 
righteousness  which  is  objective  to  the  sinner  and 
which  comes  to  him  from  Cod,  i.e.  the  idea  of  a  new 
legal  standing  given  to  the  believer  by  God,  explains 
the  meaning,  in  most  cases,  of  the  Pauline  phrase 
"righteousness  of  Cod."  This  phrase  is  used  by 
Paul  9  t:  Rom  1  17;  3  5.21f.25f;  10  3  (twice); 
2  Cor  5  21.  It  denotes  the  Divine  attribute  of 
righteousness  in  Rom  3  5.25  f.  The  customary 
exegesis  was  to  regard  the  other  instances  as  de- 
noting the  righteousness  of  a  sinner  which  comes 


to  him  from  God,  in  accordance  with  Phil  3  9. 
More  recently  Haering,  following  Kolbing  in  general, 
has  interpreted  all  these  instances  as  denoting  Cod's 
justifying  action.  But  this  interpretation  is  most 
strained  in  2  Cor  5  21,  where  we  are  said  to  "be- 
come the  righteousness  of  Cod,"  and  in  Rom  10 
3-6,  where  the  righteousness  of  Cod  is  identified 
with  the  righteousness  which  comes  from  faith,  this 
latter  being  contrasted  with  man's  own  inward 
righteousness.  That  a  righteousness  of  man  which 
he  receives  from  God  is  here  referred  to,  is  confirmed 
by  the  fact  that  the  reason  given  for  the  error  of  the 
Jews  in  seeking  a  righteousness  from  law  works  is 
the  fact  that  the  work  of  Christ  has  made  an  end  of 
this  method  of  obtaining  righteousness  (Rom  10  4). 
This  righteousness,  therefore,  is  one  of  which  man 
is  the  possessor.  The  phrase,  however,  cannot 
mean  a  righteousness  which  is  valid  in  God's  sight 
(Luther),  although  this  thought  is  elsewhere  ex- 
pressed by  Paul  (Rom  3  20;  Gal  3  llj.  It  means 
a  righteousness  which  conies  from  Cod  and  of  which 
He  is  the  author.  This  is  not,  however,  by  making 
man  inwardly  righteous,  since  all  the  above  passages 
show  the  purely  objective  character  of  this  right- 
eousness. It  is  the  righteousness  of  Phil  3  9;  the 
righteousness  which  Cod  imputes  to  the  believer  in 
Christ.  Thus  we  "become  the  righteousness  of 
Cod"  in  precisely  the  same  sense  in  which  Christ 
was  "made  to  be  sin"  (2  Cor  5  21).  Since  Christ 
was  made  sin  by  having  the  guilt  of  our  sin  im- 
puted to  Him  so  that  He  bore  its  penalty,  Paul 
must  mean  that  we  "become  the  righteousness  of 
God"  in  this  same  objective  sense  through  the  impu- 
tation to  us  of  the  righteousness  of  Christ.  In  the 
same  way,  in  Rom  10  3,  the  contrast  between  God's 
righteousness  and  the  Jew's  righteousness  by  works 
of  the  law  shows  that  in  each  case  righteousness 
denotes  a  legal  status  which  conies  from  God  by 
imputation.  It  is  this  same  imputed  righteousness 
which  makes  the  gospel  the  power  of  God  unto  sal- 
vation (Rom  1  17),  which  has  been  revealed  by 
the  law  and  the  prophets,  which  is  received  by  faith 
in  Christ  by  whose  expiatory  death  God's  retrib- 
utive righteousness  has  been  made  manifest  (Rom 
3  21.22.25.26),  and  which  is  represented  by  Peter 
as  the  object  of  Christian  faith  (2  Pet  11). 

In  two  passages  Paul  affirms  that  Abraham  be- 
lieved Cod  and  "it  was  imputed  to  him  for  right- 
eousness" (Rom  4  3AV;  Gal  3  6).  The  old 
Arminian  theologians,  and  some  modern  exegetes 
(H.  Cremer)  assert  that  Paul  means  that  Abraham's 
faith  was  accepted  by  Cod  instead  of  a  perfect 
righteousness  as  the  meritorious  ground  of  his  justi- 
fication. This,  however,  cannot  be  the  apostle's 
meaning.  It  is  diametrically  opposed  to  the  context 
where  Paul  introduces  the  case  of  Abraham  for  the 
very  purpose  of  proving  that  he  was  justified  with- 
out any  merit  on  his  part;  it  is  opposed  to  Paul's 
idea  of  the  nature  of  faith  which  involves  the  renun- 
ciation of  all  claim  to  merit,  and  is  a  simple  resting 
on  Christ  from  whom  all  its  saving  efficacy  is  de- 
rived; and  this  interpretation  is  also  opposed  to 
Paul's  doctrine  of  the  absolutely  gracious  character 
of  Justification.  The  apostle  in  these  passages  wishes 
to  illustrate  from  the  case  of  Abraham  the  gracious 
character  of  Justification,  and  quotes  the  untech- 
nical  language  of  Gen  15  6.  His  meaning  is  simply 
that  Abraham  was  justified  as  a  believer  in  God,  and 
not  as  one  who  sought  righteousness  by  works.  See 
Sin;  Atonement;   Justification. 

Literature. — Besides  the  Comm.,  see  works  on  OT 
Theology  by  Dillmann,  Davidson,  Oehler,  Schultz;  and 
on  NT  Theology  by  H.  Holtzmann,  15.  Weiss,  Schmidt; 
also  Chemnitz,  De  Vocabulo  Imputationis,  hoc.  Theol., 
1594,  11,  ;52()tt;  J.  Martin,  The  Imputation  of  Adam's 
Sin,  1834,20-46;  Clemen,  Die  Christliche  Lehre  von  der 
Silnde,  I,  1S97,  151-79;  Dietzsch,  Adam  und  Christus, 
1871;  Hiinefeld.  Rom  5  12-21,  1S95;  Crawford,  The 
Doctrine  of  the  Holy  Scripture  Respecting  the   Atonement2, 


Imrah 
Infinite 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1460 


1870,  :5H  45,  iss  00.  Cf  also  the  appropriate  sections 
in  the  works  on  the  Scripture  doctrine  of  Justification, 
and  esp.  on  Paul's  doctrine  of  Justification,  e.g.  Owen, 
Justification,  1st.  Am.  ed.  ISo-HIO;  Kitschl,  Die  Clirist- 
Uche  Lehre  von  tier  Hcchtfertiyunu  unit  Versbhnuny,  11', 
1882  :«W  lit;  Buhl,  Von  iter  Kcchtfertiyuny  ilurrh  den 
atau'licii,  1890,  11. ">  2-i;  Nosgen,  Schriftbciceis  fur  die 
evanycl  Hechfertiyunyslehre,  11)01,  147-90;  I'fleiderer, 
Die  Paulinische  Hcchtfertiyunu,  ZVVT  (Hilgenfeld  her- 
ausg.).  1*72,  101  200;  l'„ulini*m.  KT,  I.  171  SO;  with 
which  compare  I'fleiderer's  later  view  of  rani  s  teach- 
ings 2d  ed,  1800,  17S  80;  (i.  Kchwarz,  Juxlitia  Impu- 
tataf  1801;  II.  <  'remer.  Paulinische  Rechtfertiyunyslehre*, 
1900  329  19;  Tobac.  /.<■  probleme  de  In  justification  dans 
Saint  I'aul,  1908,  200-25.  On  Paul's  doctrine  of  the 
righteousness  oft  iod,  of  the  many  monographs  the  follow- 
ing may  ho  mentioned:  Fricke.  Dir  Paulinische  Grund- 
beyrijj  'iter  Sixaicxr  vvi)  0eov,  eriirtert  auj  Orund  v.  Horn. 
Ill  21  26  1SSS;  [volbitlg,  Studien  zur  Paulinische 
The'oloyie,  TSK,  1895,7-51;  Iliiring,  A  i<  moo  v  >•  r,  0eou, 
bei    Paulus,    1896.  CASPAR   WlSTAR   HODGE 

IMRAH,  im'ra  ("n^"1 ,  yimrah):  A  descendant 
of  Asher  (1  Ch  7  36)1  ' 

IMRI,  im'ri  CH^S  ,  Hmri): 

(1)  A  Judahite  (1   Cli  9  4). 

(2)  Father  of  Zaccur  who  helped  to  rebuild  the 
walls  of  Jerus  under  Nehemiah  (Neh  3  2). 

IN:  A  principal  thing  to  notice  about  this  prep., 
which  in  AV  represents  about  16  Ileb  and  as  many 
Gr  words  and  preps.,  is  that,  in  hundreds  of  cases 
(esp.  in  the  OT,  but  frequently  also  in  the  NT)  in 
RV  the  rendering  is  changed  to  more  exact  forms 
("to,"  "unto,"  "by,"  "upon,"  "at,"  "with," 
"among,"  "for,"  "throughout,"  etc;  cf  e.g.  Gen  6 
16;  13  8;  17  7.9.12;  18  1;  Ex  8  17;  Lev  1  9, 
etc);  while,  nearly  as  often,  "in"  is  substituted  for 
divergent  forms  of  AV  (e.g.  Gen  2  14;  17  11; 
31  54;  40  7;  49  17;  Ex  8  14.24;  Lev  3  17; 
4  2,  etc).  The  chief  Gr  pre]),  iv,  en,  is  frequently 
adhered  to  as  "in"  in  RV  where  AV  has  other  forma 
("with,"  "among,"  etc;  cf  "in"  for  "with"  in 
John's  baptism,  Mt  3  11,  and  ||;  "in  the  tombs" 
for  "among  the  tombs,"  Mk  5  3).  In  2  Thess 
2  2,  "shaken  in  mind"  in  AV  is  more  correctly 
rendered  in  RV  "shaken  from  [apd]  your  mind." 
There  are  numerous  such  instructive  changes. 

James  Orr 

IN  THE  LORD  (Iv  Kvpuo,  en  Kurio):  A 
favorite  Pauline  expression,  denoting  that  intimate 
union  and  fellowship  of  the  Christian  with  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  which  supplies  the  basis  of  all  Chris- 
tian relations  and  conduct,  and  the  distinctive  ele- 
ment in  which  the  Christian  life  has  its  specific 
character.  Cf  the  synonymous  Pauline  phrases, 
"in  Christ,"  "in  Christ  Jesus,"  and  the  Johannine 
expressions,  "being  in  Christ,"  "abiding  in  Christ." 
"In  the  Lord"  denotes:  (1)  the  motive,  quality,  or 
character  of  a  Christian  duty  or  virtue,  as  based 
on  union  with  Christ,  e.g.  "Free  to  be  married  to 
whom  she  will;  only  in  the  Lord"  (1  Cor  7  39), 
i.e.  provided  the  marriage  be  consistent  with  the 
Christian  life.  Cf  1  Cor  15  58;  Phil  3  1;  4  1.2. 
4.10;  Eph  6  1.10;  Col  3  18,  etc;  (2)  the  ground 
of  Christian  unity,  fellowship,  and  brotherly  salu- 
tation, e.g.  Rom  16  2.S.22;  1  Cor  16  19;  Col  4  7; 
(3)  it  is  often  practically  synonymous  with  "Chris- 
tian" (noun  or  adj.),  "as  Christians"  or  "as  a 
Christian,"  e.g.  "Salute  them  of  the  household  of 
Narcissus,  that  are  in  the  Lord,"  i.e.  that  are 
Christians  (Rom  16  11);  "I  ...  .  the  prisoner  in 
the  Lord,"  i.e.  the  Christian  prisoner  (Eph  4  1); 
cf  Rom  16  13;  1  Cor  9  1.2;  Eph  6  21  ("faith- 
ful minister  in  the  Lord"  =  faithful  Christian  min- 
ister); Col  4  17  (see  Grimm-Thayer,  Lex.  of  NT, 
iv,  en,  I,  6).  D.  Mi  ale  Edwards 

INCANTATION,  in-kan-ta'shun.     See  Magic. 


INCARNATION,   in-kar-na'shun. 
of  Christ. 


See   Person 


INCENSE,  in'sens  (rnbp ,  kHorah;  in  Jer  44 
21,  "U2p,  kttler;  in  Mat  1  11,  "\BR ,  katar,  "In 
every  place  incense  shall  be  offered  unto  my  name"; 
the  won  i  nD"Qb,  lebhondh,  trd  "incense"  in  several 
passages  in  Isa  and  Jer  in  AV,  is  properly  "frankin- 
cense," and  is  so  Hindered  in  RYj:  The  offering  of 
incense,  or  burning  of  aromatic  substances,  is 
common  in  the  religious  ceremonies  of  nearly  all 
nations  (Egyptians,  Babylonians,  Assyrians, 
Phoenicians,  etc),  and  it  is  natural  to  find  it  holding 
a  prominent  place  in  the  tabernacle  and  temple- 
worship  of  Israel.  The  newer  critical  theory  that 
incense  was  a  late  importation  into  the  religion  of 
Israel,  and  that  the  altar  of  incense  described  in 
Ex  30  1  ff  is  a  post-exilian  invention,  rests  on  pre- 
suppositions which  are  not  here  admitted,  and  is  in 
contradiction  to  the  express  notices  of  the  altar  of 
incense  in  1  K  6  20.22;  7  48;  9  25;  cf  2  Ch  4 
19  (see  discussion  of  the  subject  by  Delitzsch  in 
Luthardt's  Zeitschrift,  1880,  113  17).  In  the  de- 
nunciation of  Eli  in  1  S  2  27  ff,  the  burning  of 
incense  is  mentioned  as  one  of  the  functions  of  the 
priesthood  (ver  28).  The  "smoke"  that  rilled  the 
temple  in  Isaiah's  vision  (Isa  6  4)  may  be  pre- 
sumed to  be  the  smoke  of  incense.  The  word 
kHorah  itself  properly  denotes  "smoke."  For  the 
altar  of  incense  see  art.  on  that  subject,  and  Taber- 
nacle and  Temple.  The  incense  used  in  the  tab- 
ernacle service — called  "sweet  incense"  (k'lorelh 
ha-sammlm,  Ex  25  6,  etc) — was  compounded  ac- 
cording to  a  definite  prescription  of  the  perfumes, 
stacte,  onycha,  galbanum  and  pure  frankincense 
(Ex  30  34  f),  and  incense  not  so  compounded  was 
rejected  as  "strange  incense"  (kHorah  zarah,  30  9). 
In  the  offering  of  incense,  burning  coals  from  the 
altar  of  burnt  offering  were  borne  in  a  censer  and 
put  upon  the  altar  of  incense  (the  "golden  altar" 
before  the  oracle),  then  the  fragrant  incense  was 
sprinkled  on  the  fire  (cf  Lk  1  9f).  Ample  details 
of  the  rabbinical  rules  about  incense  may  be  seen 
in  the  art.  "Incense,"  in  1)B.     See  Censer. 

Figuratively,  incense  was  symbolical  of  ascending 
prayer.  The  multitude  were  praying  while  Zach- 
arias  offered  incense  (Lk  1  10,  dvfxiafia,  thumlama), 
and  in  Rev  5  8;  8  3  f ,  the  incense  in  the  heavenly 
temple  is  connected  and  even  identified  (5  8)  with 
"the  prayers  of  the  saints."  James  Orr 

INCEST,  in'sest.     See  Crimes. 

INCONTINENCY,  in-kon'ti-nen-si  (&Kpa<ria, 
akrasla,  "without  control"):  In  1  Cor  7  5,  it  evi- 
dent ly  refers  to  lack  of  control  in  a  particular  matter, 
and  signifies  unchastity.  In  Mt  23  25,  the  Gr 
word  is  trd  in  both  AV  and  ARV  by  "excess." 

INCORRUPTION,  in-ko-rup'shun  (d<j)0apo-ia, 
aphtharsia):  Occurs  in  1  Cor  15  42.50.53.54,  of  the 
resurrection  body,  and  is  twice  used  in  RV  for  AV 
"immortality"  (Rom  2  7;  2  Tim  1  10  m).  See 
Immortality. 

INCREASE,  in'kres  (noun),  in-kres'  (vb.):  Em- 
ployed in  the  Eng.  Bible  both  as  vb.  and  as  noun, 
and  in  both  cases  to  represent  a  number  of  different 
words  in  the  original.  As  a  vb.  it  is  used  in  the 
ordinary  sense  of  the  term.  As  a  noun  it  is  usually 
used  of  plant  life,  or  of  the  herds  and  flocks,  to  denote 
the  fruitage  or  the  offspring;  more  rarely  of  money, 
to  denote  the  interest.  As  examples  of  the  different 
terms  trd  by  this  word,  students  who  read  Heb  or 
Gr  may  compare  Dt  7  22;  Prov  16  21;  Job  10 
16  AV;  12  23;  Nu  18  30;  Dt  7  13;  Ezk  22  12 
in  the  OT,  and  Jn  3  30;  1  Cor  3  6;  Col  2  19; 
Eph  4  16  in  the  NT. 

Russell  Benjamin  Miller 


1467 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Imrah 
Infinite 


INDIA,  in'di-a  (^Hn ,  hoddu;  tj  TvSiktj,  he 
Indikt) :  The  name  occurs  in  canonical  Scripture 
only  in  Est  1  1 ;  8  9,  of  the  country  which  marked 
the  eastern  boundary  of  the  territory  of  Ahasuerus. 
The  Heb  word  comes  from  the  name  of  the  Indus, 
Hondu,  and  denotes,  not  the  peninsula  of  Hindu- 
stan, but  the  country  drained  by  that  great  river. 
This  is  the  meaning  also  in  1  Esd  3  2;  Ad  Est 
3  2;  16  1.  Many  have  thought  that  this  country 
is  intended  by  Havilah  in  Gen  2  11  and  that  the 
Indus  is  the  Pishon.  The  drivers  of  the  elephants 
(1  Mace  6  37)  were  doubtless  natives  of  this  land. 
The  name  in  1  Mace  8  9  is  certainly  an  error. 
India  never  formed  part  of  the  dominions  of  An- 
tiochus  the  Great.  It  may  possibly  be  a  clerical 
error  for  "Ionia,"  as  Media  is  possibly  a  mistake  for 
Mysia.  If  the  Israelites  in  early  times  had  no  direct 
relations  with  India,  many  characteristic  Indian 
products  seem  to  have  found  their  way  into  Pales- 
tinian markets  by  way  of  the  Arabian  and  Syrian 
trade  routes,  or  by  means  of  the  Red  Sea  fleets 
(1  K  10  11.15;  Ezk  27  15  ff,  etc).  Among  these 
may  be  noted  "horns  of  ivory  and  ebony,"  "cassia 
and  calamus,"  almug  (sandalwood),  apes  and  pea- 
cocks. W.  Ewing 

INDIGNITIES,  in-dig'ni-tiz.    See  Punishments. 

INDITE,  in-dlt':  AV  Ps  45  1,  "My  heart  is  in- 
diting a  good  matter";  RV  "My  heart  overfloweth 
with  a  goodly  matter,"  is  in  harmony  with  TZJrH  , 
rahash,  "to  bubble  up";  cf  LXX  ifypetifaro, 
exeretlxato,  "to  pour  out."  "Indite"  in  Eng.  is 
becoming  obsolete.  It  may  mean  "to  dictate," 
"to  invite,"  "to  compose."  In  the  latter  meaning 
it  is  used  in  the  above  passage. 

INFANCY,   in'fan-si,    GOSPEL   OF   THE.     See 

Apocryphal  Gospels. 

INFANT,  in'fant,  BAPTISM.     See  Baptism. 

INFANTICIDE, in-fan'ti-sid.     Sec  Chimes. 

INFIDEL,  in'fi-del  (amo-ros,  dpistos,  "unbe- 
lieving," "incredulous"):  AV  has  this  word  twice: 
"What  pari  hath  he  that  believeth  with  an  infidel?" 
(2  Cor  6  15);  "If  any  provide  not  for  his  own, 
....  is  worse  than  an  infidel"  (1  Tim  5  8).  In 
both  passages  ERV  and  ARV  have  "unbeliever"  in 
harmony  with  numerous  other  instances  of  the  use 
of  the  Gr  apistos.  The  word  nowhere  corresponds 
to  the  modern  conception  of  an  infidel,  one  who 
denies  the  existence  of  God,  or  repudiates  the  Chris- 
tian faith ;  but  always  signifies  one  who  has  not  be- 
come a  believer  in  Christ.  It  was  formerly  so  used 
in  Eng.,  and  some  of  the  older  VSS  have  it  in  other 
passages,  besides  these  two.  It  is  not  found  in  the 
OT,  but  "infidelity"  (incredulity)  occurs  in  2  Esd 
7  44  [1141.  William  Owen  Carver 

INFINITE,  hvrm-it,  INFINITUDE,  in-fin'i-tud: 
The  word  "infinite!"  occurs  3  t  only  in  the  text  of 
AV  (Job  22  5;  Ps  147  5;  Nah  3  9) 
1.  Scripture  and  once  in  m  (Nah  2  9).  In  Ps  147 
Use  5,   "His  understanding  is  infinite,"  it 

represents  the  Heb  lEClG  "pX ,  'en 
mis-par,  "no  number";  in  the  other  passages  the 
Heb  7p.  T^  ,  'en  keg  (Job  22  5,  of  iniquities)  and 
ntp  ]ii*  ,  'en  kegeh  (Nah  3  9,  of  strength  of  Ethio- 
pia and  Egypt;  AVm  2  9,  of  "spoil"),  meaning  "no 
end."  RV,  therefore,  renders  in  Job  22  5,  "Neither 
is  there  any  end  to  thine  iniquities,"  and  drops  the 
marginal  reference  in  Nah  2  9. 

Ps  147  5  is  thus  the  only  passage  in  which  the 
term  is  directly  applied  to  God.     It  there  correctly 


conveys  the  idea  of  absence  of  all  limitation.     There 
is  nothing  beyond  the  compass  of  God's  understand- 
ing; or,   positively,  His  understanding 

2.  Applica-    embraces  everything  there  is  to  know, 
tion  to  God    Past,  present  and  future;  all  things  pos- 
sible and  actual;    the  inmost  thoughts 

and  purposes  of  man,  as  well  as  his  outward  actions, 
lie  bare  to  God's  knowledge  (He  4  13;  see  Om- 
niscience). 

While,  however,  the  term  is  not  found,  the  truth 

that  God  is  infinite,  not  only  in  His  understanding, 

but  in  His  being  and   all   His   perfec- 

3.  Infinity  tions,  natural  and  moral,  is  one  that 
Universally  pervades  all  Scripture.  It  could  not 
Implied  be  otherwise,  if  God  was  unoriginated, 

exalted  above  all  limits  of  time,  space 
and  creaturehood,  and  dependent  only  on  Himself. 
The  Bib.  writers,  certainly,  are  far  from  thinking 
in  metaphysical  categories,  or  using  such  terms  as 
"self-existence/'  "absoluteness/'  "unconditioned," 
yet  the  ideas  for  which  these  terms  stand  were  all  of 
them  attributed  in  their  conceptions  to  God.  They 
did  not,  e.g.  conceive  of  God  as  having  been  born, 
or  as  having  a  beginning,  as  the  Bab  and  Gr  gods 
had,  but  thought  of  Him  as  the  ever-existing  One 
(Ps  90  1.2),  and  free  Creator  and  Disposer  of  all 
t  hat  exists.  This  means  that  God  has  self-existence, 
and  for  the  same  reason  that  He  is  not  bound  by 
His  own  creation.  He  must  be  thought  of  as  raised 
above  all  creaturely  limits,  that  is,  as  infinite. 

The  anthropomorphisms  of  the  Bible,  indeed,  are 

often  exceedingly  naive,  as  when  J  eh  is  said  to  "go 

down"  to  see  what  is  being  done    (Gen 

4.  Anthro-  11  5.7;  18  21),  or  to  "repent"  of  His 
pomor-  actions  (Gen  6  6);  but  these  repre- 
phisms  sentations    stand    in    contexts    which 

show  that  the  authors  knew  God  to  be 
unlimited  in  time,  space,  knowledge  and  power  (cf 
Gen  6  7,  God,  Creator  of  all;  11  8.9,  universal 
Ruler;  18  25,  universal  Judge;  Nu  23  19,  inca- 
pable of  repentance,  etc) .  Like  anthropomorphisms 
are  found  in  Dt  and  the  Prophets,  where  it  is  not 
doubted  that  the  higher  conceptions  existed.  In 
this  infinity  of  God  is  implied  His  unsearchableness 
(Job  11  7;  Ps  145  3;  Rom  11  33);  conversely, 
the  latter  attribute  implies  His  infinity. 

This  infinitude  of  God  is  displayed  in  all  His 
attributes — in   His  eternity,   omnipresence,  omnis- 
cience, omnipotence,  etc — on  which  see 

5.  Infinity  the  separate  arts.  As  regards  the 
a  Perfection  proper  conception  of  infinity,  one  has 
Not  a  _  chiefly  to  guard  against  figuring  it 
Quantity        under     too     quantitative     an     aspect. 

Quantitative  boundlessness  is  the  nat- 
ural symbol  we  employ  to  represent  infinity,  yet 
reflection  will  convince  us  that  it  is  inadequate  as 
applied  to  a  spiritual  magnitude.  Infinitude  in 
power,  e.g.  is  not  an  infinite  quantity  of  power,  but 
the  potentiality  in  God  of  accomplishing  without 
limit  everything  that,  is  possible  to  power.  It  is  a 
perfection,  not  a  quantity.  Still  more  is  this  appar- 
ent in  moral  attributes  like  love,  righteousness, 
truth,  holiness.  These  attributes  are  not  quanti- 
ties (a  quantity  can  never  be  truly  infinite),  but 
perfections;  the  infinity  is  qualitative,  consisting  in 
the  absence  of  all  defect  or  limitation  in  degree,  not 
in  amount. 

The  recollection  of  the  fact  now  stated  will  free 

the  mind  from  most  of  the  perplexities  that  have 

been  raised   by   metaphysical   writers 

6.  Errors  as  to  the  abstract  possibility  of  the 
Based  on  coexistence  of  infinite;  attributes  in 
Quantita-  God  (thus  e.g.  Mansel);  the  recon- 
tive  Con-  cilability  of  God's  infinity  with  His 
ceptions  Personality,  or  with  the  existence  of 

a  finite  world ;  the  power  of  the  human 
mind  to  conceive  infinity,  etc.     How,  it  is  asked, 


Infirmity 
Ink-horn 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1408 


can  the  idea  of  infinity  get  into  our  finite  minds? 
It,  might  as  well  he  asked  how  the  mind  can  take  in 
the  idea  of  the  sun's  distance  of  some  90  millions  of 
miles  from  the  earth,  when  the  skull  that  holds  the 
brain  is  only  a  few  cubic  inches  in  capacity.  The 
idea  of  a  mile  is  not  a  mile  big,  nor  is  the  idea  of 
infinity  too  large  to  he  thought  of  by  the  mind  of 
man.  '  The  essence  of  the  power  of  thought  is  its 
capacity  for  the  universal,  and  it  cannot  rest  till  it 
has  apprehended  the  most  universal  idea  of  all — 
the  infinite.  James  Ohr 

INFIRMITY,  in-fur'mi-ti  ("*' ,  ddiedh,  ~:n , 
halah,  nbffla,  mahalah;  do-eeveia,  astheneia):  This 
word  is  used  either  in  the  sing,  or  pi.  (the  latter 
only  in  the  NT)  and  with  somewhat  varying  sig- 
nification. (1)  As  sickness  or  bodily  disease  (.In  5 
5;  Alt  8  17;  Lk  5  15;  8  2;  1  Tim  5  2)5).  In 
the  last  instance  the  affections  seem  to  have  been 
dyspeptic,  the  discomfort-  of  which  might  be  re- 
lieved by  alcohol,  although  the  disease  would  not  be 
cured  thereby.  It  is  probable  that  this  condition 
of  body  produced  a  certain  slackness  in  Timothy's 
work  against  which  Paul  several  times  cautions 
him.  In  Lk  7  21  RV  has  "diseases,"  which  is  a 
better  rendering  of  the  Gr  nosdn,  used  here,  than  the 
AV  "infirmities."  (2)  Imperfections  or  weaknesses 
of  body  (Bom  6  B);  2  Cor  11  30  AV;  12  5.9.10 
AV;  Gal  4  13).  (3)  Moral  or  spiritual  weaknesses 
and  defects  (Bs  77  10;  Bom  8  20;  15  1;  He  4 
15;  5  2;  7  28).  In  this  sense  it  is  often  used  by 
the  classic  Eng.  writers,  as  in  Milton's  "the  last 
infirmity  of  noble  minds";  ef  Caesar,  IV,  iii,  80. 
The  infirmity  which  a  man  of  resolution  can  keep 
under  by  his  will  (Brov  18  14)  may  be  either  moral 
or  physical.  In  Lk  13  11  the  woman's  physical 
infirmity  is  ascribed  to  the  influence  of  an  evil  spirit. 

Alex.  Macalister 

INFLAME,  in-flam',  ENFLAME,  en-flam'  (p*?^  , 
ddlak):  "To  inflame"  in  the  meaning  "to  excite 
passion"  is  found  in  Isa  5  11,  "till  wine  inflame 
them."  In  some  AV  passages  (e.g.  Isa  57  5)  we 
find  "enflaming"  with  the  same  meaning;  cf  AV 
Sus  ver  8  and  Sir  28  10  AV  (RV  "inflame"). 

INFLAMMATION,  in-fla-ma'shun  (^£5" ,  dal- 
leketh;  ptyos,  rhigos):  Only  in  Dt  28  22,  was  ^con- 
sidered by  Jewish  writers  as  "burning  fever,"  by 
LXX  as  a  form  of  ague.  Both  this  and  typhoid  fever 
are  now,  and  probably  were,  among  the  commonest 
of  the  diseases  of  Pal.  See  Fever.  In  Lev  13  28 
AV  has  "inflammation"  as  the  rendering  of  cdre- 
bheth,  which  LXX  reads  charaktir,^nd  for  which 
the  proper  Eng.  equivalent  is  "scar,"  as  in  RV. 

INFLUENCES,  in'floo-ens-iz  (Hlis""^ ,  ma- 
Kddhannoth):  This  word  occurs  only  in  Job  38  31 
AV,  "Canst  thou  bind  the  sweet  influences  of 
Pleiades?"  RV  "the  cluster  of  the  Pleiades,"  m 
"or  chain,  or  sweet  influences";  Delitzsch,  Dillmann 
and  others  render  "fetters,"  that  which  binds  the 
group  together;  "influences,"  if  correct,  would 
refer  to  the  seasons,  which  were  believed  to  be  regu- 
lated, so  far,  by  the  Pleiades  (q.v.).  In  Wisd  7 
25,  it  is  said  of  Wisdom  that  she  is  "a  pure  influence 
[aporrhoia,  RV  "effluence"]  flowing  from  the  glory 
of  the  Almighty."  W.  L.  Walker 

INGATHERING,  in'gath-er-ing,  FEAST  OF. 
See  Feasts  and  Fasts;   Booth. 

INHABIT,  in-hab'it,  INHABITANT,  in-hab'it- 
ant  pTB?,  yashabh,  "to  sit,"  "remain,  "dwell," 
"inhabit*"  "(512? ,  shdkhen,  "to  settle  down," 
"tabernacle,"  "dwell";  Ka-roiK^co,  katoikSo,  "to 
settle,"  "dwell"):  See   Dwell.      The   vb.    "to  in- 


habit," now  used  only  transitively,  had  once  an 
intransitive  meaning  as  well.  Cf  Cowper,  Olney 
Hymns,   XIV, 

••  Who  built  it,  who  inhabits  there?  " 

So  in  1  Ch  5  !>  AV,  "And  eastward  he  inhabited 
unto  the  (altering  in  of  the  wilderness"  (but  RV 
"dwelt").  We  have  the  obsolete  inhabiters  for 
"inhabitants"  in  Rev  8  13  AV  (but  RV  "them  that 
dwell")  and  Rev  12  12  AV  (but  omitted  in  RV). 
The  rare  inhabitress  (fern.)  is  found  only  in  Jcr  10 
17  m;  "the  church  called  the  inhabitress  of  the 
gardens"  (Bishop  Richardson). 

1).  Miall  Edwards 

INHERITANCE,  in-her'i-tans  (nbqS,  nahdldh, 
"something  inherited,"  "occupancy,"  "heirloom," 
"estate."  "portion"):  The  word  is  used  in  its  widest 
application  in  the  OT  Scriptures,  referring  not  only 
to  an  estate  received  by  a  child  from  its  parents,  but 
also  to  the  land  received  by  the  children  of  Israel 
as  a  gift  from  Jeh.  And  in  the  figurative  and  poet  i- 
cal  sense,  the  expression  is  applied  to  the  kingdom 
of  God  as  represented  in  the  consecrated  lives  of 
His  followers.  In  a  similar  sense,  the  Psalmist  is 
represented  as  speaking  of  the  Lord  as  the  portion 
of  his  inheritance.  In  addition  to  the  above  word, 
the  King  James  Version  tr9  as  inheritance,  ntiHTQ, 
mordshdh,  "a  possession,"  "heritage"  (Dt  33  4; 
Ezk  33  24);  mB"Y?,  yrushshah,  "something  occu- 
pied," "a  patrimony,"  "possession"  (Jgs  21  17); 
pbn,  hehk,  "smoothness,"  "allotment"  (Ps  16  5); 
K\y}povoixew,  kleronomeo,  "to  inherit"  (Mt  5  5,  etc); 
K\ripoi>6fxos,  kleronomos,  "heir"  (Mt  21  38,  etc); 
KX-npovo/xia,  kleronomia,  "heirship,"  "patrimony,' 
"possession";  or  nXrjpos,  kleros,  "an  acquisition," 
"portion,"  "heritage,"  from  K\t)pbw,  kleroo,  "to 
assign,"  "to  allot,"  "to  obtain  an  inheritance"  (Mt 
21  3S;  Lk  12  13;  Acts  7  5;  20  32;  26  IS;  Gal  3 
IS;  Eph  1  11. 14. IS;  5  5;  Col  1  12;  3  24;  He  1 
4;  9  15;    11  8;   1  Pet  1  4). 

The  Pent  distinguishes  clearly  between  real  and 
personal  property,  the  fundamental  idea  regarding 
the  former  being  the  thought  that  the  land  is  God's, 
given  by  Him  to  His  children,  the  people  of  Israel, 
and  hence  cannot  be  alienated  (Lev  25  23.28). 
In  order  that  there  might  not  be  any  respecter  of 
persons  in  the  division,  the  lot  was  to  determine  the 
specific  piece  to  be  owned  by  each  family  head  (Nu 
26  52-50;  33  54).  In  case,  through  necessity  of 
circumstances,  a  homestead  was  sold,  the  title 
could  pass  only  temporarily;  for  in  the  year  of 
Jubilee  every  homestead  must  again  return  to  the 
original  owner  or  heir  (Lev  25  25-34).  Real 
estate  given  to  the  priesthood  must  be  appraised, 
and  could  be  redeemed  by  the  payment  of  the  ap- 
praised valuation,  thus  preventing  the  transfer  of 
real  property  even  in  this  case  (Lev  27  14-25). 
Inheritance  was  controlled  by  the  following  regu- 
lations: (1)  The  firstborn  son  inherited  a  double 
port  ion  of  all  the  father's  possession  (Dt  21  15-17); 
(2)  the  daughters  were  entitled  to  an  inheritance, 
provided  there  were  no  sons  in  the  family  (Nu  27 
8);  (3)  in  case  there  were  no  direct  heirs,  the 
brothers  or  more  distant  kinsmen  were  recognized 
(vs  9_ii) ;  in  no  case  should  an  estate  pass  from  one 
tribe  to  another.  The  above  points  were  made  the 
subject  of  statutory  law  at  the  instance  of  the 
daughters  of  Zelophehad,  the  entire  case  being 
clearly  set  forth  in  Nu  27,  36. 

Frank  E.  Hirsch 

INIQUITY,     in-ik'wi-ti     ("p?,     Kawon;     dvofiCa, 

anomia):  In  the  OT  of  the  11  words  trd  "iniquity," 
by  far  the  most  common  and  important  is  \ueon 
(about  215  t).  Etymologically,  it  is  customary  to 
explain   it   as   meaning   lit.    "crookedness,"    "per- 


1469 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Infirmity 
Ink-horn 


verseness,"  i.e.  evil  regarded  us  that  which  is  not 
straight  or  upright,  moral  distortion  (from  Pfl37 , 
Hwtvah,  "to  bend,"  "make  crooked,"  "pervert"). 
Driver,  however  (following  Lagarde),  maintains 
that  two  roots,  distinct  in  Aral).,  have  been  confused 
in  11(1),  one  =  "to  bend,"  "pervert"  (as  above), 
and  the  other  =  "to  err,"  "go  astray";  that'aww/  is 
derived  from  the  latter,  and  consequently  ex- 
presses the  idea  of  error,  deviation  from  the  right 
path,  rather  than  that  of  perversion  (Driver,  Notes 
on  Sam,  135n.)  Whichever  etymology  is  adopted, 
in  actual  usage  it  has  three  meanings  which  almost 
imperceptibly  pass  into  each  other:  (1)  iniquity, 
(2)  guilt  of  iniquity,  (3)  punishment  of  iniquity. 
Primarily,  it  denotes  "not  an  action,  but  the  char- 
acter of  an  action"  (Oehler),  and  is  so  distinguished 
from  "sin"  (hattd'th).  Hence;  we  have  the  expres- 
sion "the  iniquity  of  my  sin"  (Ps  32  5).  Thus  the 
meaning  glides  into  that  of  "guilt,"  which  might 
often  take  the  place  of  "iniquity"  as  the  tr  of  xawon 
(Gen  15  16;  _  Ex  34  7;  Jer  2  22,  etc).  From 
"guilt"  it  again  passes  into  the  meaning  of  "punish- 
ment of  guilt,"  just  as  Lat  piaculum  may  denote 
both  guilt  and  its  punishment.  The  transition  is  all 
the  easier  in  Heb  because  of  the  Heb  sense  of  the  in- 
timate relation  of  sin  and  suffering,  e.  g.  Gen  4  13, 
"My  punishment  is  greater  than  1  can  bear";  which 
is  obviously  to  be  preferred  to  AVm,  RYin  "Mine 
iniquity  is  greater  than  can  be  forgiven,"  for  Cain 
is  not  so  much  expressing  sorrow  for  his  sin,  as  com- 
plaining of  the  severity  of  his  punishment;  cf  2  K 
7  9    (ItV    "punishment,"    RVm    "iniquity");     Isa 

5  18  (where  for  "iniquity"  we  might  have  "punish- 
ment of  iniquity."  as  in  Lev  26  41.43,  etc);  Isa 
40  2  ("iniquity,  RVm  "punishment").  The 
phrase  "bear  iniquity"  is  a  standing  expression  for 
bearing  its  consequences,  i.e.  its  penalty;  generally 
of  the  sinner  bearing  the  results  of  his  own  iniquity 
(Lev  17  16;  20  17.19;  Nu  14  34;  Ezk  44  l('), 
etc),  but  sometimes  of  one  bearing  the  iniquity  of 
another  vicariously,  and  so  taking  it  awav  (e.g. 
Ezk  4  4f;  18  19  f).  Of  special  interest  in  the 
latter  sense  are  the  sufferings  of  the  Servant  of  Jeh, 
who  shall  "bear  the  iniquities"  of  the  people  (Isa 
53  11;  cf  ver  6). 

Other  words  frequently  tr'1  "iniquity"  are:  "J1X, 
'awen,  lit.  "worthlessness,"  "vanity,"  hence 
"naughtiness,"  "mischief"  (47  t  in  AY,  esp.  in  the 
phrase  "workers   of   iniquitv,"    Job  4  S;     Ps  5  5; 

6  8;  Prov  10  29,  etc);  *awel  and  'awldh,  lit.  "per- 
verseness"  (Dt  32  4;  Job  6  29  AV,  etc). 

In  the  NT  "iniquity"  stands  for  anomia  =  prop., 
"the  condition  of  one  without  law,"  "lawlessness" 
(so  ti"1  in  1  Jn  3  4,  elsewhere  "iniquity,"  e.g.  Mt 

7  23),  a  word  which  frequently  stood  for  %awon  in 
LXX;  and  adikia,  lit.  "unrighteousness"  (e.g. 
Lk  13  27).  D.  Miall  Edwards 

INJOIN,  in-join'.     See  Enjoin. 

INJURIOUS,  in-joo'ri-us,  in-ju'ri-us  (vPpia-TT|s, 
hubristes,  "insolent"):  In  former  usage,  the  word 
was  strongly  expressive  of  insult  as  well  as  hurtful- 
ness.  So  in  1  Tim  1  13.  In  Rom  1  30  the  same 
adj.  is  trd  "insolent"  (AV  "despiteful"). 

INJURY,  in'ju-ri,  in'jdb-ri.     See  Crimes. 

INK,  ink  (TH ,  deyo,  from  root  meaning  "slowly 
flowing,"  BOB,  1S8;  jieXav,  melon,  "black"):  Any 
fluid  substance  used  with  pen  or  brush  to  form 
written  characters.  In  this  sense  ink  is  mentioned 
once  in  the  Heb  Bible  (Jer  36  2)  and  3  t  in  the  Gr 
NT  (2  Cor_3  3;  2  Jn  ver  12;  3  Jn  ver  13),  and  it 
is  implied  in  all  references  to  writing  on  papyrus 
or  on  leather.  The  inference  from  the  "blotting 
out"  of  Ex  32  33  and  Nu  5  23  that  the  Heb  ink 


was  a  lamp-black  and  gum,  or  some  other  dry  ink, 
is  confirmed  by  the  general  usage  of  antiquity,  by 
t  lie  later  Jewish  prejudice  against  other  inks  (OTJC, 
71  n.)  and  by  a  Jewish  receipt  referring  to  ink- 
tablets  (l)iach,  "Notice  sur  l'encre  des  Hebreux," 
Ann.  philos.  chret.,  42,  45,  353).  The  question  is, 
however,  now  being  put  on  a  wholly  new  basis  by 
the  study  of  the  Elephantine  Jewish  documents 
(Meyer,  Papyrusfund2,  1912,  15,  21),  and  above 
all  of  the  Harvard  ( )st  raca  from  Samaria  which  give 
actual  specimens  of  the  ink  in  Pal  in  the  time  of 
Ahab  ( Harvard  Theol.  Review,  Jan.  1911,  136-43). 
It  is  likely,  however,  that  during  the  long  period  of 
Bible  history  various  inks  were  used.  The  official 
copy  of  the  law  in  the  time  of  Ptolemy  Philadelphus 
was,  according  to  Jos  {Ant,  XII,  ii,  11),  written  in 
gold,  and  the  vermilion  and  red  paints  and  dyes  men- 
tioned in  Jer  22  14;  Ezk  23  14,  and  Wisd  13  14 
(milto  kai  phukei)  were  probably  used  also  for 
writing  books  or  coloring  incised  inscriptions.  See 
literature  under  Writing;  esp.  Krauss,  Talm,  Arch. 
3,  148-53;  Gardthausen,  Gr  Pal,  1911,  1,  202-17, 
and  his  bibliographical  references  passim. 

E.  C.  Richaroson 
INK-HORN,  ink'horn  (n0j5  =  T\ti J5 ,  keseth  = 
keseth,  BOB,  903):  This  term  "inkhorn"  occurs  3  t 
in  Ezk  9  (vs  2.3.11),  in  the  phrase  "writer's  inkhorn 
upon  his  loins"  (or  "by  his  side").  The  word  is 
more  exactly  "implement  case,"  or  "writing-case" 


(a)  Ink-Weils  and  Pen-Case  with  Ink-Well. 

(calamarium  atramentarium,  tfieca  calamaria,  theca 
libraria,  graphiaria).  This  may  have  been  the 
Egyp  palette  (Budge,  Mummy,  350-52)  seen  so 
often  in  the  monuments  of  all  periods,  or  the  later 
form  of  pen-case  with  ink-well  attached,  which  is  a 
modified  form  adapted  for  ink  carried  in  fluid  form. 
The  Egyp  palette  was  carried  characteristically  over 
the  shoulder  or  under  the  arm,  neither  of  which 
methods  is  strictly  "upon  the  loins."  The  manner 
of  carrying,  t  herefore,  was  doubt  less  in  the  girdle,  as 
in  modern  oriental  usage  (Benzinger,  Heb  Archaeol., 
185).  A  good  example  of  the  pen-case  and  ink- 
well writing-case  (given  also  in  Garucci,  Darem- 


(6)  Scribe's  Palette. 

berg-Saglio,  Gardthausen,  etc)  is  given  from  the 
original  in  Birt,  Die  Buchrolle  in  der  Kunst,  220,  and 
is  reproduced  (a)  in  this  article,  together  with  (6)  an 
Egyp  palette.  Whether  the  form  of  Ezekiel's  case 
approached  the  palette  or  the  ink-well  type  prob- 
ably depends  on  the  question  of  whether  dry  ink 
or  fluid  ink  was  used  in  Ezekiel's  time  (see  Ink). 
Compare  Hieronymus  ad  loc,  and  for  literature, 


Inn 
Innocents 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1470 


sec  Win,  in'c,  and  esp.  Gardthausen,  Gr  Pal,  1911, 
I,  193-94.  E.  C.  Richardson 

INN  CP^ip  ,  malon;   iravSox^iov,  pandocheion,  Ka- 

Ta\v(Aa,   katdluma):     The   lleb   word   malon  means 

lit.  a  "nighl  resting-place,"  and  might 

1.  Earliest  be  applied  to  any  spot  where  caravans 
Night  Rest-  (Gen  42  27;  43  21  AV),  individuals 
ing-Places     (Ex  4  24;    .Tor  9  2),   or  even   armies 

(Josh  4  3.8;  2  K  19  23;  Isa  10  29) 
encamped  for  the  night.  In  the  slightly  altered 
form  ni'hlndh,  the  same  word  is  used  of  a  night- 
watchman's  lodge  in  a  garden  (Isa  1  8;  24  20, 
AV  "cottage").  The  word  in  itself  does  not  imply 
the  presence  of  any  building,  and  in  the  case  of 
caravans  and  travelers  was  doubtless  originally,  as 
very  often  at  the  present  day,  only  a  convenient,  level 
bit  of  ground  near  some  spring,  where  baggage 
might  be  unloaded,  animals  watered  and  tethered, 
and  men  rest  on  the  bare  ground.  Nothing  in  the 
OT  suggests  the  occupancy  of  a  house  in  such  cases. 
The  nearest  approach  to  such  an  idea  occurs  in  Jer 
41  17  m,  when;  geruth  kimham  is  1rd  "the  lodging- 
place  of  Chimham,"  but  the  text  is  very  doubtful 
and  probably  refers  rather  to  sheepfolds.  We  can- 
not say  when  buildings  were  first  used,  but  the  need 
of  shelter  for  caravans  traveling  in  winter,  and  of 
protection  in  dangerous  times  and  districts,  would 
lead  to  their  introduction  at  an  early  period  in  the 
history  of  trade. 

It   is  noteworthy  that  all  the  indisputable  desig- 
nations of  "inn"  come  in  with  the  Gr  period.     Jos 

{Ant,  XV,  v,  1;    BJ,  I,  xxi,  7)  speaks 

2.  Public  of  "public  inns"  under  the  name  of 
Inns  kalagogai,  while  in  the  Aram.  Jewish 

writings  we  meet  with  'ushplzd',  from 
Lat  hospitium,  and  'akhsnnyd'  from  the  Gr  xenia; 
the  NT  designation  pandocheion  has  passed  into  the 
Aram,  pundhekd'  and  the  Arab. funduk.  All  these 
are  used  of  public  inns,  and  they  all  correspond  to 
the  modern  "khan"  or  "caravanserai."  These  are 
to  be  found  on  the  great  trade  routes  all  over  the 
East.  In  their  most  elaborate  form  they  have 
almost  the  st  rength  of  a  fortress.  They  consist  of  a 
great  quadrangle  into  which  admission  is  gained 
through  a  broad,  strong  gateway.  The  quad- 
rangle is  inclosed  on  all  sides  by  a  2-story  building, 
the  windows  in  the  case  of  the  lower  story  opening 
only  to  the  interior.  The  xipper  story  is  reached 
by  stairways,  and  has  a  gangway  all  around,  giving 
access  to  the  practically  bare  rooms  which  are  at 
the  disposal  of  travelers. 


Interior  of  Vizir  Khan,  Aleppo. 

There  is  usually  a  well  of  good  water  in  the  center 
of  the  quadrangle,  and  travelers  as  a  rule  bring 
their  own  food  and  often  that  of  their 
3.  Their  animals  (Jgs  19  19)  with  them.  There 
Evil  Name  arc  no  fixed  payments,  and  on  depar- 
ture, the  arranging  of  haqq  el-khan  gen- 
erally means  a  disagreeable  dispute,  as  the  inn- 
keepers  are   invariably  untruthful,  dishonest   and 


oppressive.  They  have  ever  been  regarded  as  of 
infamous  character.  The  Rom  laws  in  many  places 
recognize  this.  In  Mish,  Y'bhamoth,  xvi.7  the  word 
of  an  innkeeper  was  doubted,  and  Mish,  xAbbodhdh 
Zdrdh,  ii.4  places  them  in  the  lowest  scale  of  deg- 
radation. The  NT  is  quite  clear  in  speaking  of 
"Rahab  the  harlot"  (He  11  31;  Jas  2  25).  The 
Tg  designates  her  an  "innkeeper,"  while  Rashi 
tra  zonah  as  "a  seller  of  kinds  of  food,"  a  mean- 
ing the  word  will  bear.  Kimhi,  however,  accepts 
both  meanings.  This  evil  repute  of  public  inns, 
together  with  the  Sem  spirit  of  hospitality,  led 
the  Jews  and  the  early  Christians  to  prefer  to 
recommend  the  keeping  of  open  house  for  the  en- 
tertainment of  strangers.  In  the  Jewish  Morning 
Prayers,  even  in  our  day,  such  action  is  linked 
with  great  promises,  and  the  NT  repeatedly  (He 
13  2;  1  Pet  4  9;  3  Jn  ver  5)  commends  hospi- 
tality. It  is  remarkable  that  both  the  Talm  (Shab 
127(i)  and  the  NT  (He  13  2)  quote  the  same  passage 
(( Jen  18  3)  in  recommending  it. 

The  best-known  khans  in  Pal  are  Khan  Jubb- 
Yusuf,  N.  of  the  Lake  of  Galilee,  Khan  et-Tujjdr, 
under  the  shadow  of  Tabor,  Khan  el-Lubban  (cf 
Jgs  21  19),  and  Khan  Iladrur,  midway  between 
Jerus  and  Jericho.  This  iast  certaiidy  occupies  the 
site  of  the  inn  referred  to  in  Lk  10  34,  and  it  is  not 
without  interest  that  we  read  in  Mish,  Yebhdmoth, 
xvi.7,  of  another  sick  man  being  left  at  that  same 
inn.     See  illustration,  p.  64. 

The  Gr  word  kataluma,  though  implying  a  "loos- 
ing" for  the  night,  seems  rather  to  be  connected  with 
the   idea  of   hospitality   in   a   private 

4.  Guest        house   than    in    a   public    inn.     Luke 
Chambers      with  his  usual  care  distinguishes  be- 
tween this  and  pandocheion,   and  his 

use  of  the  vb.  kalaluo  (Lk  9  12;  _  19  7)  makes  his 
meaning  clear.  In  the  LNX,  indeed,  mdlon  is 
sometimes  tr"1  kataluma,  and  it  appears  in  1  S  9  22 
for  lishkah,  AV  "parlour."  It  is  the  word  used  of 
the  "upper  room"  wdiere  the  Last  Supper  was  held 
(Mk  14  14;  Lk  22  11,  "guest-chamber"),  and  of 
the  place  of  reception  in  Bethlehem  where  Joseph 
and  Mary  failed  to  find  quarters  (Lk  2  7).  It  thus 
corresponds  to  the  spare  or  upper  room  in  a  private 
house  or  in  a  village,  i.e.  to  the  manzil  adjoining  the 
house  of  the  sheikh,  where  travelers  received  hos- 
pitality and  where  no  payment  was  expected,  except 
a  trifle  to  the  caretaker.  In  Jerus  such  payments 
were  made  by  leaving  behind  the_  earthenware 
vessels  that  had  been  used,  and  the  skins  of  the  ani- 
mals that  had  been  slaughtered  (Yomd'  12a). 

Judging  from  the  word  used,  and  the  conditions 

implied,  we  are  led  to  believe  that  Joseph  and  Mary 

had  at  first  expected  reception  in  the 

5.  Birth  upper  room  or  manzil  at  the  house  of 
of  Christ        the   sheikh  of  Bethlehem,  probably  a 

friend  and  member  of  the  house  of 
David;  that  in  this  they  were  disappointed,  and 
had  to  content  themselves  with  the  next  best,  the 
elevated  platform  alongside  the  interior  of  the 
stable,  and  on  which  those  having  the  care  of  the 
animals  generally  slept.  It  being  now  the  season 
when  they  were  in  the  fields  (Lk  2  8),  the  stable 
would  be  empty  and  clean.  There  then  the  Lord 
Jesus  was  born  and  laid  in  the  safest  and  most  con- 
venient place,  the  nearest  empty  manger  alongside 
of  this  elevated  platform.  Humble  though  the  cir- 
cumstances were,  the  family  were  preserved  from 
all  the  annoyance  and  evil  associations  of  a  public 
khan,  and  all  the  demands  of  delicacy  and  privacy 
were  duly  met.  W.   M.  Christik 

INNER  MAN.     See  Inward  Man. 

INNOCENCE,  in'6-sens,  INNOCENCY,  in'o- 
sen-si,   INNOCENT,  in'6-sent  (IDT,   zdkhu,   "p^D, 


1471 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Inn 
Innocents 


nikkayon,  03ft ,  hinnam,  TH ,  haph,  ^pj ,  naki; 
&0aios,  athoos) :  AV  and  ARV  have  innocency  in 
Gen  20  5;  Ps  26  6;  73  13;  Dnl  6  22;  Hos  8  5. 
In  Dnl  the  Heb  is  zakhu,  and  the  innocence  ex- 
pressed is  the  absence  of  the  guilt  of  disloyalty  to 
God.  In  all  the  other  places  the  Heb  is  nikkayon, 
and  the  innocence  expressed  is  the  absence  of  pollu- 
tion, Hos  having  reference  to  the  pollution  of  idol- 
atry, and  the  other  passages  presenting  the  cleansing 
under  the  figure  of  washing  hands.  AV  has  in- 
nocent not  fewer  than  40  t.  In  one  place  (1  K 
2  31)  the  Heb  is  hinnam,  meaning  "undeserved," 
or  "without  cause,"  and,  accordingly,  ARV,  in- 
stead of  "innocent  blood  ....  shed,"  has  "blood 
....  shed  without  cause."  In  another  place  (Job 
33  9)  the  Heb  is  haph,  meaning  "scraped,"  or 
"polished,"  therefore  "clean,"  and  refers  to  moral 
purity.  In  all  the  other  places  the  Heb  is  naki,  or 
its  cognates,  and  the  idea  is  doubtless  the  absence 
of  pollution.  In  more  than  half  the  passages  "in- 
nocent" is  connected  with  blood,  as  "blood  of  the 
innocent,"  or  simply  "innocent  blood."  In  some 
places  there  is  the  idea  of  the  Divine  acquittal,  or 
forgiveness,  as  in  Job  9  28:  "I  know  that  thou  wilt 
not  hold  me  innocent"  (ef  Job  10  14,  where  the 
the  same  Heb  word  is  used).  The  NT  has  "inno- 
cent" twice  in  connection  with  blood — "innocent 
blood,"  and  "innocent  of  the  blood"  (Mt  27  4.24). 

E.  J.  Forrester 
INNOCENTS,   in'6-scnts,    MASSACRE,   mas'a- 
ker,  OF  THE: 

I.       MHAXING  AND  HlSTORY  OF  THE  TERM 

II.     Analysis    op    Narrative    with    Special    Refer- 
ence to  Motive 

1.  Focus  of  Narrative — Residence  at  Nazareth 

2.  Corollaries  from  Above  Facts 

3.  Marks  of  Historicity 

/.  Meaning  and  History  of  the  Term. — The  con- 
ventional, ecclesiastical  name  given  to  the  slaughter 
by  Herod  I  (q.v.)  of  children  two  years  old  and 
under  in  Bethlehem  and  its  environs  at  the  time  of 
the  birth  of  Christ  (Mt  2  1G).  The  accepted  title 
for  this  event  may  be  traced  through  Augustine  to 
Cyprian. 

Irenaeus  (d.  202  AD)  calls  these  children  "mar- 
tyrs," and  in  a  very  beautiful  passage  interprets 
the  tragedy  which  ended  their  brief  lives  as  a  gra- 
cious and  tender  "sending  before"  into  His  kingdom 
by  the  Lord  Himself. 

Cyprian  (d.  258  AD)  says:  "That  it  might  be 
manifest  that  they  who  are  slain  for  Christ's  sake 
are  innocent,  innocent  infancy  was  put  to  death 
for  his  name's  sake"  (Ep.  lv.6). 

Augustine  (b.  354  AD),  following  Cyprian,  speaks 
of  the  children,  formally,  as  "the  Innocents"  (Comm. 
on  Ps  43  5). 

The  ecclesiastical  treatment  of  the  incident  is 
remarkable  because  of  the  exaggeration  which  was 
indulged  in  as  to  the  extent  of  the  massacre  and  the 
number  of  victims.  At  an  early  date  the  Gr  church 
canonized  14,000,  and  afterward,  by  a  curious  mis- 
interpretation of  Rev  14  1.3,  the  number  was 
increased  to  144,000. 

According  to  Milman  the  liturgy  of  the  Church 
of  England  retains  a  reminiscence  of  this  ancient 
error  in  the  use  of  Rev  14  on  Holy  Innocents'  Day 
(see  History  of  Christianity,  I,  107,  n.  c).  This 
exaggeration,  of  which  there  is  no  hint  in  the  NT, 
is  worthy  of  note  because  the  most  serious  general 
argument  against  the  historicity  of  the  narrative  is 
drawn  from  the  silence  of  Jos.  As  in  all  probability 
there  could  not  have  been  more  than  twenty  chil- 
dren involved  (cf  Farrar,  Life  of  Christ,  I,  45,  n.), 
the  incident  could  not  have  bulked  very  largely  in 
the  series  of  horrors  perpetrated  or  planned  by 
Herod  in  the  last  months  of  his  life  (see  Farrar, 
The  Herods,  144  f). 


//.  Analysis  of  Narrative  with  Special  Reference 
to  Motive. — In  estimating  the  value  of  such  a  nar- 
rative from  the  viewpoint  of  historicity,  the  first 
and  most  important  step  is  to  gauge  the  motive. 
Why  was  the  story  told?  This  question  is  not 
always  easy  to  answer,  but  in  the  present  instance 
there  is  a  very  simple  and  effective  test  at  hand. 

In  Mt's  infancy  section  (chs  1  and  2)  there  are  five 
quotations  from  the  OT  which  are  set  into  the  nar- 
rative of  events.  These  five  quotations 
1.  Focus  of  represent  the  cardinal  and  outstanding 
Narrative —  points  of  interest.  The  quotations  are 
Residence  placed  thus:  (1)  at  the  Virgin  Birth 
at  Nazareth  (1  23) ;  (2)  at  the  birth  at  Bethlehem 
(2  6);  (3)  at  the  visit  to  Egypt  (2  15); 
(4)  at  the  murder  of  the  children  (2  18);  (5)  at  the 
Nazareth  residence  (2  23).  It  will  be  noticed  at 
once  as  peculiar  and  significant  that  no  quotation  is 
attached  to  the  visit  of  the  Magi.  This  omission 
is  the  more  noteworthy  because  in  Nu  24  7;  Ps  72 
15;  Isa  60  6,  and  numerous  references  to  the  in- 
gathering of  the  Gentiles  there  are  such  beautiful 
and  appropriate  passages  to  link  with  the  visit  of 
the  strangers  from  the  far  East.  This  peculiar  omis- 
sion, on  the  part  of  a  writer  so  deeply  interested  in 
prophecy  and  its  fulfilment  and  so  keen  to  seize 
upon  appropriate  and  suggestive  harmonies,  in  a 
section  constructed  with  a  view  to  such  harmonies, 
can  be  explained  only  on  the  ground  that  the  visit 
of  the  Magi  did  not,  in  the  writer's  view  of  events, 
occupy  a  critical  point  of  especial  interest.  Their 
visit  is  told,  not  for  its  own  sake,  but  because  of  its 
connection  with  the  murder  of  the  children  and  the 
journey  to  Egypt.  The  murder  of  the  children  is  of 
interest  because  it  discloses  the  character  of  Herod 
and  the  perils  surrounding  the  newborn  Messiah. 
It  also  explains  the  visit  to  Egypt  and  the  sub- 
sequent residence  at  Nazareth.  The  latter  is  evi- 
dently the  objective  point,  because  it  is  given  a  place 
by  itself  and  marked  by  a  quotation.  Moreover, 
the  one  evidence  of  overstrain  in  the  narrative  is  in 
the  ambiguous  and  obscure  statement  by  which  the 
OT  is  brought  into  relationship  with  the  Nazareth 
residence.  The  center  of  interest  in  the  entire  sec- 
tion which  is  concerned  with  Herod  and  the  Magi 
is  the  Nazareth  residence.  The  story  is  told  for  the 
express  purpose  of  explaining  why  the  heir  of  David, 
who  was  born  at  Bethlehem,  lived  at  Nazareth. 

This  brings  the  narrative  of  Mt  into  striking 
relationship  with  that  of  Lk.  The  latter's  concern 
is  to  show  how  it  was  that  the  Messiah  who  lived 
at  Nazareth  was  born  at  Bethlehem.  We  have  here 
one  of  the  undesigned  unities  which  bind  together 
these  two  narratives  which  are  seemingly  so  diver- 
gent. That  Mt  says  nothing  about  a  previous 
residence  at  Nazareth  and  that  Lk  says  nothing 
about  a  forced  return  thither  may  be  explained,  in 
accordance  with  the  balance  of  probabilities,  on  the 
ground,  either  that  each  evangelist  was  ignorant  of 
the  fact  omitted  by  himself,  or  that  in  his  condensed 
and  rapid  statement  he  did  not  see  fit  to  mention  it. 
In  any  case  the  harmony  immeasurably  outweighs 
the  discrepancy. 

The  fact  that  the  focus  of  the  entire  narrative  lies  in 
the  residence  of  Jesus  at  Nazareth  eifectually  disposes 
of  a  number  of  current  hypotheses  as  to  its 
o     /-,        i  origin. 

Z.    COroi-  (i )  Trie  idea  that  it  is  merely  legend  told 

laries  from     for  the  purpose  of  literary  embellishment. 
Above  Facts  ^n(!  dovetailing  of  what  would  be  the  main 
item  into  the  rest  of  the  narrative  and  its 
subordination  to  secondary  features  cannot 
be  explained  on  this  hypothesis.     The  absence  of  adorn- 
ment by  available  passages  from  the  OT  alone  is  con- 
clusive on  this  point  (see  Allen,  "Matthew,"  ICC,  14,  15). 
(2)   The  idea  that  the  story  is  told  for  the  purpose  of 
illustrating  the  scope  of  the  Messiah's  influence  beyond 
Israel.     Here,   again,  the  subordinate  position  assigned 
to  the  story  of  the;  Magi  together  with  the  absence  of  OT 
material  is  conclusive.     Moreover,   the   history   of   the 
Magi  is  abruptly  dropped  with  the  statement  of  their 


Innocents 
Inspiration 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1472 


return  homo.  Interest  in  thorn  Hags  as  soon  as  their 
brief  connection  with  the  movement  of  the  history 
through  Herod  ceases.  And  the  intensely  Hebraic  char- 
acter of  Nit's  infancy  section  as  a  whole  is  incidental 
evidence  pointing  in  the  same  direction  (cf  remarks  of 
the  writer,    Birth   and  Infancy  ofJexux   Christ,  70  f). 

(3)  The  idea  that  the  story  is  told  to  emphasize  tho 
wonder-element  in  connection  with  the  birth  of  Christ. 
The  facts  contradict  this.  In  addition  to  the  primary 
consideration,  t  lie  subordinate  position,  there  are  others 
of  great  value.  That  the  Magi  were  providentially 
guided  to  the  feet  of  the  Messiah  is  evidently  the  firm 
conviction  of  tho  narrator.  The  striking  feature  of  t Ik; 
story  is  that  with  this  belief  in  his  mind  lie  keeps  so  strictly 
within  the  limits  of  the  natural  order.  In  vs  9  and  12 
only  is  there  apparent  exception.  Of  these  the  state- 
ment in  ver  9  is  the  only  one  peculiar  to  this  part  of  the 
narrative.  Two  things  are  to  he  remembered  concerning 
it:  It  is  clear  that,  the  verse  cannot  be  interpreted  apart 
from  a  clear  understanding  of  the  whole  astronomical 
occurrence  of  which  it  forms  a  part. 

It  is  also  evident  that  ver  9  must  not  be  interpreted 
apart  from  the  context.  From  the  viewpoint  of  a 
wonder-tale  the  writer  makes  a  fatal  blunder  at  the  most 
critical  point  of  his  story.  The  popular  notion  that  the 
Magi  were  miraculously  led  to  the  Messiah  finds  no 
support  in  the  text.  The  Magi  did  not  come  to  Beth- 
lehem, but  to  Jerus,  asking:  "Where  is  he  that  is  born 
King  of  the  Jews'.'"  Ver  9  comes  after  this  statement 
and  after  the  conclave  called  by  Herod  in  which  Beth- 
lehem was  specified.  In  view  of  all  this  it  seems  clear 
that  the  Magi  were  led,  not  miraculously,  but  in  accord- 
ance with  the  genius  of  their  own  system,  and  that  the 
Providential  element  lay  in  the  striking  coincidence  of 
their  visit  and  the  birth  of  Jesus.  The  interest  of  the 
writer  was  tiot  in  the  wonder-element,  else,  infallibly, 
he  would  have  sharpened  its  outlines  and  expurgated  all 
ambiguity  as  to  the  nature  of  the  occurrence. 

\\>  may  now  glance  at  the  positive  evidence  for 
the  historicity  of  the  event. 

(1)  The  centering  of  the  narrative 
3.  Marks  of  upon  the  residence!  of  Jesus  at  Naza- 
Historicity  reth.  This  not  only  brings  Lk's  Gospel 
in  support  of  the;  center,  but  groups 
the  story  around  a  point  of  known  interest  to  the 
first  generation  of  believers.  It  is  interesting  to 
note  that  the  residence  in  Egypt  has  independent 
backing  of  a  sort.  There  are  in  existent*  two 
stories,  one  traced  by  Origen  through  Jews  of  his 
own  day  to  earlier  times,  and  the  other  in  the  Talm, 
which  connect  Jesus  with  Egypt  and  attempt  to 
account  for  His  miracles  by  reference  to  Egyp  magic 
(see  Plummer,  "Matthew,"  Ex.  Comm.,  17,18). 

(2)  The  fact  that  the  story  of  the  Magi  is  told 
so  objectively  and  with  such  personal  detachment. 
Both  Jews  and  early  Christians  had  strong  views 
both  its  to  astrology  and  magic  in  general  (see 
Plummer,  op.  cit .,  15),  but  the  author  of  this  Gospel 
tells  the  story  without  emphasis  and  without  com- 
ment and  from  the  viewpoint  of  the  Magi.  His 
interest  is  purely  historical  and  matter-of-fact. 

(3)  The  portrait  of  Herod  the  Great.  So  far  as 
Herod  is  concerned  the  incident  is  usually  discussed 
with  exclusive  reference  to  the  savagery  involved. 
By  many  it  is  affirmed  that  we  have  here  a  hostile 
and  unfair  portrait.  This  contention  could  hardly 
be  sustained  even  if  the  question  turned  entirely 
upon  the  point  of  savagery.  But  there  is  far  more 
than  savagery  in  the  incident,  (a)  In  the  first  place 
there  is  this  undeniable  element  of  inherent  proba- 
bility in  tlte  story.  Practically  all  of  Herod's 
murders,  including  those  of  his  beloved  wife  and 
his  sons,  were  perpetrated  under  the  sway  of  one 
emotion  and  in  obedience  to  a  single  motive.  They 
were  in  practically  every  instance  for  the  purpose 
of  consolidating  or  perpetuating  his  power.  He 
nearly  destroyed  his  own  immediate  family  in  the 
half-mad  jealousy  that  on  occasion  drove  him  to 
the  very  limits  of  ferocity,  simply  because  they  were 
accused  of  plotting  against  him.  The  accusations 
were  largely  false,  but  the  suspicion  doomed  those 
accused.  The  murder  of  the  Innocents  was  another 
crime  of  the  same  sort .  The  old  king  was  obsessed 
by  the  fear  of  a  claimant  to  his  petty  throne;  the 
Messianic  hope  of  the  Jews  was  a  perpetual  secret 
torment,  and  the  murder  of  the  children,   in  the 


attempt  to  reach  the  child  whose  advent  threatened 
him,  was  at  once  so  original  in  method  and  so  char- 
acteristic in  purpose  as  to  give  an  inimitable  veri- 
similitude to  the  whole  narrative.  There  are  also 
other  traits  of  truth.  (6)  Herod's  prompt  discovery 
of  the  visit  of  the  Magi  and  their  questions  is  in 
harmony  with  what  we  know  of  the  old  ruler's 
watchfulness  and  his  elaborate  system  of  espionage, 
(c)  Characteristic  also  is  the  subtlety  with  which  he 
deals  with  the  whole  situation.  How  striking  and 
vivid,  with  till  its  rugged  simplicity,  is  the  story 
of  the  king's  pretended  interest,  in  the  finest  of  the 
strangers,  the  solemn  conclave  of  Jewish  leaders 
with  himself  in  the  role  of  earnest  inquirer,  his  ur- 
gent request  for  information  that  he  may  worship 
also,  followed  by  his  swift  anger  (note  that  idv- 
/j-uO-n,  ethumdthe,  "was  wroth,"  ver  16,  is  not  used 
elsewhere  in  the  NT)  at  being  deceived,  and  the 
blind  but  terrible  stroke  of  his  questing  vengeance. 
All  these  items  are  so  true  to  the  man,  to  the 
atmosphere  which  always  surrounded  him,  and  to 
the  historic;  situation,  that  we  are  forced  to  conclude, 
either  that  we  have  veracious  history  more  or  less 
directly  received  from  one  who  was  an  observer  of 
the  events  described,  or  the  work  of  an  incomparably 
clever  romancer.  Louis  Matthews  .Sweet 

INORDINATE,        in-or'di-nat     ("ill-regulated," 

hence  "immoderate,"  "excessive";  Lat  in,  "not," 
ordinatus,  "set  in  order"):  Only  twice  in  AV.  In 
each  case  there  is  no  corresponding  adj.  in  the  orig- 
inal, but  the  word  was  inserted  by  the  translators 
as  being  implied  in  the  noun.  It  disappears  in  RV: 
p]zk  23  11,  "in  her  inordinate  love"  (RV  "in  her 
doting");  H23",  'aghabhah,  "lust";  Col  3  5  "in- 
ordinate affection"  (RV  "passion");  trddos,  pathos, 
a  word  which  in  classical  Gr  may  have  either  a  good 
or  a  bad  sense  (any  affection  or  emotion  of  the 
mind),  but  in  the  NT  is  used  only  in  a  bad  sense 
(passion).  D.  Miall  Edwards 

INQUIRE,  in-kwir'  (bST» ,  sha'al,  "to  ask,"  "de- 
sire"; tT]T€'a>,  zett-o,  "to  seek");  A  form  sometimes 
employed  with  reference  to  the  practice  of  divina- 
tion, as  where  Saul  "inquires  of"  (or  "consults") 
the  witch  of  Endor  as  to  the  issue  of  the  coming 
battle    (1  S  28  0.7)    (see   Divination). 

In  Job  10  6,  "to  inquire  [tt}£3  ,  bakash]  after 
iniquity"  signifies  to  bring  to  light  and  punish  for 
it,  and  Job  asks  distractedly  if  Cod's  time  is  so  short 
that  He  is  in  a  hurry  to  find  him  guilty  and  to  pun- 
ish him  as  if  He  had  only  a  man's  few  days  to  live. 

"To  inquire  of  Jeh"  denotes  the  consultation  of 
oracle,  priest,  prophet  or  Jeh  Himself,  as  to  a  certain 
course  of  action  or  as  to  necessary  supplies  (Jgs  20 
27  AV,  "to  ask";  1  K  22  5;  IS  9  9  [TITe!,  da- 
rash};    10  22  AV;    2  S  2  1;  5  19.23;   Ezk  36  37). 

"To  inquire  PJ?2,  bdkar]  in  his  temple"  (palace) 
means  to  find  out  all  that  constant  fellowship  or 
unbroken  intercourse  with  God  can  teach  (Ps  27  4). 

Prov  20  25  warns  against  rashness  in  making  a 
vow  and  afterward  considering  (bdkar,  "to  make 
inquiry")  as  to  whether  it  can  he  fulfilled  or  how  it 
may  be  eluded. 

In  the  AV,  the  tr  of  several  Gr  words:  diaginosko, 
"to  know  thoroughly"  (Acts  23  15);  epizetto,"to 
seek  after"  (Acts  19  39);  suzeteo,  "to  seek  to- 
gether" (Lk  22  23);  exetdzo,  "to  search  out"  (Ml 
10  11).  M.  O.  Evans 

INQUISITION,  in-kwi-zish'un  (12TH,  darash, 
"to  follow,"  "diligently  inquire,"  "question," 
"search"  |Dt  19  IS;  Ps  9  12],  TT^ZL ,  bakash,  "to 
search  out,"  "to  strive  after,"  "inquire"  [Est  2  23)): 
Tho  term  refers,  as  indicated  by  these  passages, 
first  of  all  to  a  careful  and  diligent  inquiry  necessary 


1473 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Innocents 
Inspiration 


to  ascertain  the  truth  from  witnesses  in  a  court,  but 
may  also  refer  to  a  careful  examination  into  circum- 
stances or  conditions  without  official  authority. 

INSCRIPTION,  in-skrip'shun  (vb.  eiri-ypd^w, 
epigrdpho,  "to  write  upon,"  "inscribe"):  The  word 
occurs  once  in  EV  in  Acts  17  2.3  of  the  altar  at 
Athens  with  the  inscription  "To  an  Unknown  God." 
On  inscriptions  in  archaeology,  see  Archaeology; 
Assyria;  Babylonia,  etc. 

INSECTS,  in'sckts:  In  EV,  including  the  mar- 
ginal notes,  we  find  at  least  23  names  of  insects  or 
words  referring  to  them:  ant,  bald  locust,  bee, 
beetle,  cankerworm,  caterpillar,  creeping  thing, 
cricket,  crimson,  flea,  fly,  gnat,  grasshopper,  honey, 
hornet,  locust,  louse,  (lice),  moth,  palmer-worm, 
sandfly,  scarlet-worm,  silk-worm.  These  can  be 
referred  to  about  12  insects,  which,  arranged  sys- 
tematically, are:  H  ymenoptera,  ant,  bee,  hornet; 
Lepidoptera,  clothes-moth,  silk-worm;  Siphonap- 
tera,  flea;  Diptera,  fly;  Rhynchota,  louse,  scarlet- 
worm;  Orthoptera,  several  kinds  of  grasshoppers 
and  locusts. 

The  word  "worm"  refers  not  only  to  the  scarlet- 
worm,  but  to  various  larvae  of  Lepidoptera,  Coleop- 
tera,  and  Diptera.  "Creeping  things"  refers  indefi- 
nitely to  insects,  reptiles,  and  beasts.  In  the  list, 
of  23  names  given  above  honey  and  bee  refer  to  one 
insect,  as  do  crimson  and  scarlet.  Sandflv  has  no 
place  if  "lice"  be  retained  in  Ex  8  16  ff.  Bald 
locust,  beetle,  canker-worm,  cricket,  and  palmer- 
worm  probably  all  denote  various  kinds  of  grass- 
hoppers and  locusts.  When  the  translators  of  EV 
had  to  do  with  two  or  more  He!)  words  for  which 
there  was  only  one  well-recognized  Eng.  equivalent, 
they  seem  to  have  been  content  with  that  alone,  if 
the' two  Heb  words  occurred  in  different  passages; 
e.g.  z-hhubh,  "flv"  (Eccl  10  1;  Isa  7  IS),  and 
'arobh,  "fly"  (Ex  8  21  ff).  On  the  other  hand,  they 
were  put  to  it  to  find  equivalents  for  the  insect 
names  in  Lev  11  22;  Joel  1  4,  and  elsewhere.  For 
§ale'dm  (Lev  11  22)  they  evidently  coined  "bald 
locust,"  following  a  statement  of  the  Talm  that  it 
had  a  smooth  head.  For  gazam  and  yelek  they  im- 
ported "palmer-worm"  and  "canker-worm,"  two 
old  Eng.  names  of  caterpillars,  using  "caterpillar" 
for  hasll.  The  AV  "beetle"  for  hargol  is  absolutely 
inappropriate,  and  the  RV  "cricket,"  while  less 
objectionable,  is  probably  also  incorrect.  The 
Eng.  language  seems  to  lack  appropriate  names  for 
different  kinds  of  grasshoppers  and  locusts,  and  it 
is  difficult  to  suggest  any  names  to  take  the  places 
of  those  against  which  these  criticisms  are  directed. 
See  under  the  names  of  the  respective  insects.  See 
also  Scorpion  and  Spider,  which  are  not  included 
here  because  they  are  not  strictly  insects. 

Alfred  Ely  Day 

INSPIRATION,  in-spi-ra'slnm: 

1.  Meaning  of  Terms 

2.  Occurrences  in  the  Bible 

3.  Consideration   of    Important   Passages 

(1)  2  Tim  3   16 

(2)  2   Pet   1    19-21 

(3)  Jn   10  34  I 

4.  Christ's  Declaration  That  Scripture  Must  Be  Ful- 
filled 

5.  His  Testimony  That  God  Is  Author  of  Scripture 

6.  Similar  Testimony  of  His  Immediate  Followers 

7.  Their  Identification  of  Cod  and  Scripture 

8.  The  "Oracles  of  God" 

9.  The  Human  Element  in  Scripture 

10.  Activities  of  God  in  Giving  Scripture 

11.  General  Problem  of  Origin:    God's  Part 

12.  How   Human   Qualities  Affected   Scripture.     Provi- 
dential Preparation 

13.  "Inspiration"  More  than  Mere  "Providence" 

14.  Witness  of  NT  Writers  to  Divine  Operation 

15.  "Inspiration"  and  "Revelation" 
Hi.  Scriptures  a  Divine-Human  Book? 

17.  Scripture  of  NT  Writers  Was  the  OT 

18.  Inclusion  of  the  NT 

LlTEKATUKE 


The  word  "inspire"  and  its  derivatives  seem  to 

have  come  into  Middle  Eng.  from  the  Fr.,  and  have 

been  employed  from  the  first  (early  in 

1.  Meaning  the  14th  cent.)  in  a  considerable  num- 
of  Terms       ber  of  significations,  physical  and  meta- 
phorical,   secular   and    religious.     The 

derivatives  have  been  multiplied  and  their  applica- 
tions extended  during  the  procession  of  the  years, 
until  they  have  acquired  a  very  wide  and  varied  use. 
Underlying  all  their  use,  however,  is  the  constant 
implication  of  an  influence  from  without,  producing 
in  its  object  movements  and  effects  beyond  its 
native,  or  at  least  its  ordinary  powers.  The 
noun  "inspiration,"  although  already  in  use  in  the 
14th  cent.,  seems  not  to  occur  in  any  but  a  theo- 
logical sense  until  late  in  the  16th  cent.  The 
specifically  theological  sense  of  all  these  terms  is 
governed,  of  course,  by  their  usage  in  Lat  theology; 
and  this  rests  ultimately  on  their  employment  in 
the  Lat  Bible.  In  the  Vulg  Lat  Bible  the  vb.  in- 
spiro  (Gen  2  7;  Wisd  15  11;  Ecclus  4  12;  2  Tim 
3  16;  2  Pet  1  21)  and  the  noun  insjriratio  (2  S 
22  16;  Job  32  8;  Ps  18  15;  Acts  17  25)  both 
occur  4  or  5  t  in  somewhat  diverse  applications. 
In  the  development  of  a  theological  nomenclature, 
however,  they  have  acquired  (along  with  other 
less  frequent  applications)  a  technical  sense  with 
reference  to  the  Bib.  writers  or  the  Bib.  books. 
The  Bib.  books  are  called  inspired  as  the  Divinely 
determined  products  of  inspired  men;  the  Bib. 
writers  are  called  inspired  as  breathed  into  by  the 
Holy  Spirit,  so  that  the  product  of  their  activities 
transcends  human  powers  and  becomes  Divinely 
authoritative.  Inspiration  is,  therefore,  usually 
defined  as  a  supernatural  influence  exerted  on  the 
sacred  writers  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  by  virtue  of 
which  their  writings  are  given  Divine  trustworthi- 
ness. 

Meanwhile,  for  Eng. -speaking  men,  these  terms 
have  virtually  ceased  to  be  Bib.  terms.     They  natur- 
ally passed  from  the  Lat  Vulg  into  the 

2.  Occur-  Eng.  VSS  made  from  it  (most  fully 
rences  in  into  the  Rheims-Douay:  Job  32  8; 
the  Bible       Wisd  15  11;      Ecclus  4  12;      2  Tim 

3  16;  2  Pet  1  21).  But  in  the  de- 
velopment of  the  Eng.  Bible  they  have  found  ever- 
decreasing  place.  In  the  EV  of  the  Apoc  (both 
AV  and  RV)  "inspired"  is  retained  in  Wisd  15  11; 
but  in  the  canonical  books  the  nominal  form  alone 
occurs  in  AV  and  that  only  twice:  Job  32  8,  "But 
there  is  a  spirit  in  man:  and  the  inspiration  of  the 
Almighty  giveth  them  understanding";  and  2  Tim 
3  16,  "All  scripture  is  given  by  inspiration  of  God, 
and  is  profitable  for  doctrine,  for  reproof,  for  cor- 
rection, for  instruction  in  righteousness."  RV 
removes  the  former  of  these  instances,  substituting 
"breath"  for  "inspiration";  and  alters  the  latter 
so  as  to  read:  "Every  scripture  inspired  of  God  is 
also  profitable  for  teaching,  for  reproof,  for  correc- 
tion, for  instruction  which  is  in  righteousness," 
with  a  marginal  alternative  in  the  form  of,  "Every 
scripture  is  inspired  of  God  and  profitable,"  etc. 
The  word  "inspiration"  thus  disappears  from  the 
Eng.  Bible,  and  the  word  "inspired"  is  left  in  it 
only  once,  and  then,  let  it  be  added,  by  a  distinct 
and  even  misleading  mistranslation. 

For  the  Gr  word  in  this  passage — Oeb-rrvevaros, 
theopneustos — very  distinctly  does  not  mean  "in- 
spired of  Clod."  This  phrase  is  rather  the  render- 
ing of  the  Lat,  divinitus  inspirata,  restored  from  the 
Wyclif  ("Al  Scripture  of  God  ynspyrid  is  .  .  .  .") 
and  Rhemish  ("All  Scripture  inspired  of  God  is 
....")  VSS  of  the  Vulg.  The  Gr  word  does  not 
even  mean,  as  AV  tra  it,  "given  by  inspiration  of 
God,"  although  that  rendering  (inherited  from 
Tindale:  "All  Scripture  given  by  inspiration  of 
God  is  .  .  -  ."  and  its  successors;  cf  Geneva:  "The 


Inspiration 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1174 


whole  Scripture  is  given  by  inspiration  of  Cod  and 
js  "j  has  at  least   to  say  for  itself  that  it  is  a 

somewhat  clumsy,  perhaps,  but  not  misleading, 
paraphrase  of  the  Gr  term  in  the  theological  lan- 
,rUage  of  the  d:iV.  The  Gr  term  has,  however, 
nothing  to  sav  of  ///spiring  or  of  ///spiral  ion :  it 
speaks  onlv  of  a  "spiring"  or  •'spiral  ion.  V\  nat 
it  says  of  Scripture  is,  not  that  it  is  "breathed  into 
l,v  Cod"  or  is  the  product  of  the  Divine  "inbreath- 
ing" into  its  human  authors,  but  that  it  is  breathed 
out  by  God  "Cod-breathed,"  the  product  oi  the 
creative  breath  of  God.  In  a  word,  what  is  de- 
clared by  this  fundamental  passage  is  simply  that 
the  Scriptures  are  a  Divine  product,  without  any 
indication  of  how  Cod  has  operated  in  producing 
them.  No  term  could  have  been  chosen,  however, 
which  would  have  more  emphatically  asserted  the 
Divine  production  of  Scripture  than  that  which  is 
here  emplovcd.  The  "breath  of  Cod"  is  in  Scrip- 
ture just  the  svmbol  of  His  almighty  power,  the 
hearer  of  1 1  is  creative  word.  "By  the  word  of  Jeh," 
we  read  in  the  significant  parallel  of  Ps  33  6,  "were 
the  heavens  made,  and  all  the  host  of  them  by  the 
breath  of  his  mouth."  And  it  is  particularly  where 
the  operations  of  God  are  energetic  that  this  term 
(whether  rFH ,  ?•/?"//,  or  HIQtJp,  n'shamah)  is  em- 
ployed to  designate  them  Cod's  breath  is  the 
irresistible  outflow  of  His  power.  When  Paul  de- 
clares, then,  that  "every  scripture," or  "all scripture" 
is  the  product  of  the  Divine  breath,  "is  Cod- 
breathed,"  he  asserts  with  as  much  energy  as  he 
could  employ  that  Scripture  is  the  product  of  a 
specifically  Divine  operation. 

(1)  2  Tim  3  1C:    In  the  passage  in  which  Paul 
makes  this  energetic  assertion  of  the  Divine  origin 
of   Scripture  he  is  engaged  in  explain- 
3.  Impor-      ing   the   greatness   of   the    advantages 
tant  which  Timothy  had  enjoyed  for  lea rn- 

Passages  ing  the  saving  truth  of  God.  He  had 
had  good  teachers;  and  from  his  very 
infancy  he  had  been,  by  his  knowledge  of  the  Scrip- 
tures,'made  wise  unto  salvation  through  faith  in 
Jesus  Christ.  The  expression,  "sacred  writings," 
here  employed  (ver  15),  is  a  technical  one,  not  found 
elsewhere  in  the  NT,  it  is  true,  but  occurring  cur- 
rently in  Philo  and  Jos  to  designate  that  body  of 
authoritative  books  which  constituted  the  Jewish 
"Law."  It  appears  here  anarthrously  because  it 
is  set  in  contrast  with  the  oral  teaching  which  Timo- 
thy had  enjoyed,  as  something  still  better:  he 
had  not  only  had  good  instructors,  but  also  always 
"an  open  Bible,"  as  we  should  say,  in  his  hand. 
To  enhance  yet  further  the  great  advantage  of  the 
possession  of  these  Sacred  Scriptures  the  apostle 
adds  now  a  sentence  throwing  their  nature  strongly 
up  to  view.  They  are  of  Divine  origin  and  there- 
fore of  the  highest  value  for  all  holy  purposes. 

There  is  room  for  some  difference  of  opinion  as  to  the 
exact  construction  of  this  declaration.  Shall  Ave  render 
"  Every  Script  arc"  or  "  All  Scripture"  ?  Shall  we  render 
"Every  [or  all]  Scripture  is  God-breathed  and  [there- 
fore] profitable,"  or  "Every  [or  all]  Scripture,  being 
God-breathed,  is  as  well  profitable "  ?  No  doubt  both 
questions  arc  interesting,  but  for  the  main  matter 
now  engaging  our  attention  they  are  both  indifferent. 
Whether  Paul,  looking  back  at  the  Sacred  Scriptures  he 
had  just  mentioned,  makes  the  assertion  he  is  about 
to  add.  of  them  distributively,  of  all  their  parts,  or  col- 
lectively, of  their  entire  mass,  is  of  no  moment:  to  say 
that  every  part  of  t  hesc  Sacred  Scriptures  is(  tod-breathed 
and  to  say  that  the  whole  of  these  Sacred  Scriptures  is 
God-breathed,  is,  for  the  main  matter,  all  one.  Nor  is 
the  ditference  Kreat  between  saying  that  they  are  in  all 
their  parts,  or  in  their  whole  extent,  God-breathed  and 
therefore  profitable,  and  saying  that  they  arc  in  all  their 
parts,  or  in  their  whole  extent,  because  God-breathed 
as  well  profitable.  In  both  cases  these  Sacred  Scriptures 
are  declared  to  owe  their  value  to  their  Divine  origin; 
and  i  n  both  cases  t his  their  Divine;  origin  is  energetically 
asserted  of  their  entire  fabric.  On  the  whole,  the  prefer- 
able construction  would  seem  to  lie,  "Every  Scripture, 
seeing  that  it   is  God-breathed,   is  as   well  profitable." 


In  that  case,  what  the  apostle  asserts  is  that  the  Sacred 
scriptures  in  their  every  several  passage — for  it  is  just 
"passage  of  Scripture"  which  "Scripture  '  in  this  dis- 
tributive use;  of  it  signifies — is  the  product  of  the  cre- 
ative breath  of  Cod.  and,  because  of  this  its  Divine  origi- 
nation   is  of  supreme  value  for  all  holy  purposes. 

It  is  to  be  observed  that  the  apostle  does  not  stop  here 
to  tell  us  cither  what  particular  books  enter  into  the 
collection  which  he  calls  Sacred  Scriptures,  or  by  what 
precise  operations  God  has  produced  them.  Neither  of 
these  subjects  entered  into  the  matter  lie  had  at  the  mo- 
ment in  hand.  It  was  the  value  of  the  Scriptures,  and 
the  s,,urce  of  that  value  in  their  Divine  origin,  which 
he  required  at  the  moment  to  assert;  and  these  things  he 
asserts  leaving  to  other  occasions  any  further  facts  con- 
cerning them  which  it  might  be  well  to  emphasize  It 
is  also  to  be  observed  that  the  apostle  does  not  tell  us 
here  everything  for  which  the  Scriptures  are  made  val- 
uable by  their  Divine  origination.  He  speaks  simply 
to  the  point  immediately  in  hand,  and  reminds  timothy 
of  the  value  which  these  Scriptures,  by  virtue  of  their 
Divine  origin,  have  for  the  "man  of  God.  Their  spirit- 
ual power  as  God-breathed,  is  all  that  he  had  occasion 
her.  to  advert  to.  Whatever  other  qualities  may  accrue 
to  them  from  their  Divine  origin,  he  leaves  to  other 
occasions  to  speak  of. 

(2)  2  Pet  1  10-21:  What  Paul  tolls  us  here 
about  the  Divine  origin  of  the  Scriptures  is  en- 
forced and  extended  by  a  striking  passage  in  2  Pet 
(1  19-21).  Peter  is  assuring  his  readers  that  what 
had  been  made  known  to  them  of  "the  power  and 
coming  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ"  did  not  rest  on 
"cunningly  devised  fables."  He  offers  them  the  t  est  1- 
mony  of  eyewitnesses  of  Christ's  glory.  And  then 
he  intimates  that  they  have  better  testimony  than 
even  that  of  eyewitnesses.  "We  have,"  says  he, 
"the  prophetic  word"  (EV,  unhappily,  "the  word  of 
prophecy"):  and  this,  he  says,  is  "more  sure,"  and 
therefore  should  certainly  be  heeded.  He  refers,  of 
course,  to  the  Scriptures.  Of  what  other  "prophetic 
word"  could  he,  over  against  the  testimony  of  the 
eyewitnesses  of  Christ's  "excellent  glory"  (AY)  say 
that  "  we  have"  it,  that  is,  it  is  in  our  hands?  And 
he  proceeds  at  once  to  speak  of  it  plainly  as  "Scrip- 
tural prophecy."  You  do  well,  he  says,  to  pay 
heed  to  the  prophetic  word,  because  we  know  this 
first,  that  "every  prophecy  of  scripture  .  .  .  ."  It 
admits  of  more  question,  however,  whether  by  this 
phrase  he  means  the  whole  of  Scripture,  designated 
according  to  its  character,  as  prophetic,  that  is,  of 
Divine  origin;  or  only  that  portion  of  Scripture 
which  we  discriminate  as  particularly  prophetic, 
the  immediate  revelations  contained  in  Scripture. 
The  former  is  the  more  likely  view,  inasmuch  as 
the  entirety  of  Scripture  is  elsewhere  conceived  and 
spoken  of  as  prophetic.  In  t  hat  case,  what  Peter  has 
to  say  of  this  "every  prophecy  of  scripture" — the 
exact  equivalent,  it  will  be  observed,  in  this  case  of 
Paul's  "every  scripture"  (2  Tim  3  16)— applies  to 
t  he  whole  of  Scripture  in  all  its  parts.  What  he  says 
of  it  is  that  it  does  not  come  "of  private  interpre- 
tation"; that  is,  it  is  not  the  result  of  human  inves- 
tigation into  the  nature  of  things,  the  product  of  its 
writers'  own  thinking.  This  is  as  much  as  to  say 
it  is  of  Divine  gift.  Accordingly,  he  proceeds  at 
once  to  make  this  plain  in  a  supporting  clause 
which  contains  both  the  negative  ami  the  positive 
declaration:  "For  no  prophecy  ever  came  [m  "was 
brought"]  by  the  will  of  man,  but  it  was  as  borne 
by  the  Holy  Spirit  that  men  spoke  from  Cod."  In 
this  singularly  precise  and  pregnant  statement  there 
arc  several  things  which  require  to  be  carefully 
observed.  There  is,  first  of  all,  the  emphatic  de- 
nial that  prophecy — that  is  to  say,  on  the  hypothesis 
upon  which  we  are  working,  Scripture — owes  its 
origin  to  human  initiative:  "No  prophecy  ever  was 
broughl  -'came'  is  the  word  used  in  the  EV  text, 
with  'was  brought'  in  RVm — by  the  will  of  man." 
Then,  there  is  the  equally  emphatic  assertion  that 
its  source  lies  in  God:  it  was  spoken  by  men,  in- 
deed, but  the  men  who  spoke  it  "spake  from  God." 
And  a  remarkable  clause  is  here  inserted,  and 
thrown  forward  in  the  sentence  that  stress  may  fall 


1475 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Inspiration 


on  it,  which  tells  us  how  it  could  be  that  men,  in 
speaking,  should  speak  not  from  themselves,  but 
from  God:  it  was  "as  borne" — it  is  the  same  word 
which  was  rendered  "was  brought"  above,  and 
might  possibly  be  rendered  "brought"  here — "by 
the  Holy  Spirit"  that  they  spoke.  Speaking  thus 
under  the  determining  influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit, 
the  things  they  spoke  were  not  from  themselves, 
but  from  God. 

Here  is  as  direct  an  assertion  of  the  Divine  origin 
of  Scripture  as  that  of  2  Tim  3  16.  But  there  is 
more  here  than  a  simple  assertion  of  the  Divine 
origin  of  Scripture.  We  are  advanced  somewhat 
in  our  understanding  of  how  God  has  produced  the 
Scriptures.  It  was  through  the  instrumentality 
of  men  who  "spake  from  him."  More  specifically, 
it  was  through  an  operation  of  the  Holy  Ghost  on 
these  men  which  is  described  as  "bearing"  them. 
The  term  here  used  is  a  very  specific  one.  It  is 
not  to  be  confounded  with  guiding,  or  directing,  or 
controlling,  or  even  leading  in  the  full  sense  of  that 
word.  It  goes  beyond  all  such  terms,  in  assigning 
the  effect  produced  specifically  to  the  active  agent. 
What  is  "borne"  is  taken  up  by  the  "bearer,"  and 
conveyed  by  the  "bearer's"  power,  not  its  own,  to 
the  "bearer's"  goal,  not  its  own.  The  men  who 
spoke  from  God  are  here  declared,  therefore,  to  have 
been  taken  up  by  the  Holy  Spirit  and  brought  by 
His  power  to  the  goal  of  His  choosing.  The  things 
which  they  spoke  under  this  operation  of  the  Spirit 
were  therefore  His  things,  not  theirs.  And  that 
is  the  reason  which  is  assigned  why  "the  prophetic 
word"  is  so  sure.  Though  spoken  through  the  in- 
strumentality of  men,  it  is,  by  virtue  of  the  fact 
that  these  men  spoke  "as  borne  by  the  Holy  Spirit," 
an  immediately  Divine  word.  It  will  be  observed 
that  the  proximate  stress  is  laid  here,  not  on  the 
spiritual  value  of  Scripture  (though  that,  too,  is  seen 
in  the  background),  but  on  the  Divine  trustworthi- 
ness of  Scripture.  Because  this  is  the  way  every 
prophecy  of  Scripture  "has  been  brought,"  it  affords 
a  more  sure  basis  of  confidence  than  even  the  tes- 
timony of  human  eyewitnesses.  Of  course,  if  we 
do  not  understand  by  "the  prophetic  word"  here 
the  entirety  of  Scripture  described,  according  to 
its  character,  as  revelation,  but  only  that  element 
in  Scripture  which  we  call  specifically  prophecy, 
then  it  is  directly  only  of  that  element  in  Scripture 
that  these  great  declarations  are  made.  In  any 
event,  however,  they  are  made  of  the  prophetic 
element  in  Scripture  as  written,  which  was  the  only 
form  in  which  the  readers  of  this  Ep.  possessed  it, 
and  which  is  the  thing  specifically  intimated  in  the 
phrase  "every  prophecy  of  scripture."  These  great 
declarations  are  made,  therefore,  at  least  of  large 
tracts  of  Scripture;  and  if  the  entirety  of  Scripture 
is  intended  by  the  phrase  "the  prophetic  word,"  they 
are  made  of  the  whole  of  Scripture. 

(3)  Jn  10  34  f:  How  far  the  supreme  trust- 
worthiness of  Scripture,  thus  asserted,  extends  may 
be  conveyed  to  us  by  a  passage  in  one  of  Our  Lord's 
discourses  recorded  by  John  (Jn  10  34-35).  The 
Jews,  offended  by  Jesus'  "making  himself  God," 
were  in  the  act  to  stone  Him,  when  Pie  defended 
Himself  thus:  "Is  it  not  written  in  your  law,  I  said, 
Ye  are  gods?  If  he  called  them  gods,  unto  whom 
the  word  of  God  came  (and  the  scripture  cannot  be 
broken),  say  ye  of  him,  whom  the  Father  sancti- 
fied [m  "consecrated"]  and  sent  unto  the  world, 
Thou  blasphemest ;  because  I  said,  I  am  the  Son 
of  God?"  It  may  be  thought  that  this  defence 
is  inadequate.  It  certainly  is  incomplete:  Jesus 
made  Himself  God  (Jn  10  33)  in  a  far  higher  sense 
than  that  in  which  "Ye  are  gods"  was  said  of  those 
"unto  whom  the  word  of  God  came":  He  had  just 
declared  in  unmistakable  terms,  "I  and  the  Father 
are  one."     But  it  was  quite  sufficient  for  the  imme- 


diate end  in  view — to  repel  the  technical  charge  of 
blasphemy  based  on  His  making  Himself  God:  it 
is  not  blasphemy  to  call  one  God  in  any  sense  in 
which  he  may  fitly  receive  that  designation;  and 
certainly  if  it  is  not  blasphemy  to  call  such  men  as 
those  spoken  of  in  the  passage  of  Scripture  adduced 
gods,  because  of  their  official  functions,  it  cannot 
be  blasphemy  to  call  Him  God  whom  the  Father 
consecrated  and  sent  into  the  world.  The  point  for 
us  to  note,  however,  is  merely  that  Jesus'  defence 
takes  the  form  of  an  appeal  to  Scripture;  and  it  is 
important  to  observe  how  He  makes  this  appeal. 
In  the  first  place,  He  adduces  the  Scriptures  as 
law:  "Is  it  not  written  in  your  law?"  He  demands. 
The  passage  of  Scripture  which  He  adduces  is  not 
written  in  that  portion  of  Scripture  which  was  more 
specifically  called  "the  Law,"  that  is  to  say,  the 
Pent;  nor  in  any  portion  of  Scripture  of  formally 
legal  contents.  It  is  written  in  the  Book  of  Pss; 
and  in  a  particular  psalm  which  is  as  far  as  possible 
from  presenting  the  external  characteristics  of  legal 
enactment  (Ps  82  G).  When  Jesus  adduces  this 
passage,  then,  as  written  in  the  "law"  of  the  Jews, 
He  does  it,  not  because  it  stands  in  this  psalm,  but 
because  it  is  a  part  of  Scripture  at  large.  In  other 
words,  He  here  ascribes  legal  authority  to  the 
entirety  of  Scripture,  in  accordance  with  a  con- 
ception common  enough  among  the  Jews  (cf  Jn  12 
34),  and  finding  expression  in  the  NT  occasionally, 
both  on  the  lips  of  Jesus  Himself,  and  in  the  writings 
of  the  apostles.  Thus,  on  a  later  occasion  (Jn  15 
25),  Jesus  declares  that  it  is  written  in  the  "law" 
of  the  Jewrs,  "They  hated  me  without  a  cause,"  a 
clause  found  in  Ps  35  19.  And  Paul  assigns  pas- 
sages both  from  the  Pss  and  from  Isa  to  "the  Law" 
(1  Cor  14  21;  Rom  3  19),  and  can  write  such  a 
sentence  as  this  (Gal  4  21  f):  "Tell  me,  ye  that 
desire  to  be  under  the  law,  do  ye  not  hear  the  law? 
For  it  is  written  .  .  .  ."  quoting  from  the  narra- 
tive of  Gen.  We  have  seen  that  the  entirety  of 
Scripture  was  conceived  as  "prophecy";  we  now 
see  that  the  entirety  of  Scripture  was  also  conceived 
as  "law":  these  three  terms,  the  law,  prophecy, 
Scripture,  were  indeed,  materially,  strict  synonyms, 
as  our  present  passage  itself  advises  us,  by  varying 
the  formula  of  adduction  in  contiguous  verses  from 
"lawr"  to  "scripture."  And  what  is  thus  implied 
in  the  manner  in  which  Scripture  is  adduced,  is 
immediately  afterward  spoken  out  in  the  most 
explicit  language,  because  it  forms  an  essential 
element  in  Our  Lord's  defence.  It  might  have  been 
enough  to  say  simply,  "Is  it  not  written  in  your 
law?"  But  Our  Lord,  determined  to  drive  His 
appeal  to  Scripture  home,  sharpens  the  point  to 
the  utmost  by  adding  with  the  highest  emphasis: 
"and  the  scripture  cannot  be  broken."  This  is  the 
reason  why  it  is  worth  while  to  appeal  to  what  is 
"written  in  the  law,"  because  "the  scripture  cannot 
be  broken."  The  word  "broken"  here  is  the  com- 
mon one  for  breaking  the  law,  or  the  Sabbath,  or 
the  like  (Jn  5  18;  7  23;  Mt  5  19),  and  the  mean- 
ing of  the  declaration  is  that  it  is  impossible  for  the 
Scripture  to  be  annulled,  its  authority  to  be  with- 
stood, or  denied.  The  movement  of  thought  is  to 
the  effect  that,  because  it  is  impossible  for  the 
Scripture; — the  term  is  perfectly  general  and  wit- 
nesses to  the  unitary  character  of  Scripture  (it  is 
all,  for  the  purpose  in  hand,  of  a  piece) — to  be  with- 
stood, therefore  this  particular  Scripture  which  is 
cited  must  be  taken  as  of  irrefragable  authority. 
What  we  have  here  is,  therefore,  the  strongest  pos- 
sible assertion  of  the  indefectible  authority  of  Scrip- 
ture; precisely  what  is  true  of  Scripture  is  that  it 
"cannot  be  broken."  Now,  what  is  the  particular 
thing  in  Scripture,  for  the  confirmation  of  which  the 
indefectible  authority  of  Scripture  is  thus  invoked? 
It  is  one  of  its  most  casual  clauses — more  than  that, 


Inspiration 


Till;   INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


147G 


the  very  form  of  its  expression  in  one  of  its  most 
casual  clauses.  This  means,  of  course,  that  in  the 
Saviour's  view  the  indefectible  authority  of  Scrip- 
ture attaches  to  the  very  form  of  expression  of  its 
most  casual  clauses.  It  belongs  to  Scripture  through 
ami  through,  down  to  its  mosl  minute  particulars, 
that  it  is  of  indefectible  authority. 

ll  is  sometimes  suggested,  it  is  true,  thai  Our 
Lord's  argument  here  is  an  arytimvutinn  <ul  hottii- 
iii  m,  and  that  His  words,  therefore,  express  not  His 
own  view  of  the  authority  of  Scripture,  but  that 
of  His  Jewish  opponents.  It  will  scarcely  be  de- 
nied that  there  is  a  vein  of  satire  running  through 
Our  Lord's  defence:  thai  the  .lews  so  readily  al- 
lowed that  corrupt  judges  might  properly  be  called 
"jrods,"  but  could  not  endure  that  He  whom  the 
Father  had  consecrated  and  sent  into  the  world 
should  call  Himself  Son  of  God,  was  a  somewhat 
pungent  fact  to  throw  up  into  such  a  high  light. 
But  the  argument  from  Scripture  is  not  ad  hominan 
but  i  concessit;  Scripture  was  common  ground  with 
Jesus  and  His  opponents.  If  proof  were  needed 
for  so  obvious  a  fact,  it  would  be  supplied  by  the 
circumstance  that  this  is  not  an  isolated  but  a  rep- 
resentative passage.  The  conception  of  Scripture 
thrown  up  into  such  clear  view  here  supplies  the 
ground  of  all  Jesus'  appeals  to  Scripture,  and  of 
all  the  appeals  of  the  NT  writers  as  well.  Every- 
where, to  Him  and  to  them  alike,  an  appeal  to 
Scripture  is  an  appeal  to  an  indefectible  authority 
whose  determination  is  final;  both  He  and  they 
make  their  appeal  indifferently  to  every  pari  of 
Scripture,  to  every  element  in  Scripture,  to  its  most 
incidental  clauses  as  well  as  to  its  most  fundamental 
principles,  and  to  the  very  form  of  its  expression. 
This  attitude  toward  Scripture  as  an  authoritative 
document  is,  indeed,  already  intimated  by  their 
constant  designation  of  it  by  the  name  of  Scripture, 
the  Scriptures,  that  is  "tin"  Document,"  by  way  of 
eminence;  and  by  their  customary  citation  of  it  with 
the  simple  formula,  "It  is  written."  What  is 
written  in  this  document  admits  so  little  of  question- 
ing that  its  authoritativeness  required  no  asserting, 
but  might  safely  be  taken  for  granted.  Both  modes 
of  expression  belong  to  the  constantly  illustrated 
habitudes  of  Our  Lord's  speech.  The  first  words 
He  is  recorded  as  uttering  after  His  manifestation 
to  Israel  were  an  appeal  to  the  unquestionable 
authority  of  Scripture;  to  Satan's  temptations  He 
opposed  no  other  weapon  than  the  final  "It  is  writ- 
ten"! (Ml  4  4.7.10;  Lk  4  4.8).  And  among  the 
last  words  which  He  spoke  to  His  disciples  before 
He  was  received  up  was  a  rebuke  to  them  for  not 
understanding  that  all  things  "which  are  written  in 
the  law  of  Moses,  and  the  prophets,  and  psalms" 
concerning  Him — that  is  (ver  45)  in  the  entire 
"Scriptures" — "must  needs  be"  (very  emphatic) 
"fulfilled"  (Lk  24  44).  "Thus  it  is  written,"  says 
He  (ver  46,i,  as  rendering  all  doubt  absurd.  For, 
as  He  had  explained  earlier  upon  the  same  day  (Lk 
24  IT)  IT),  it  argues  only  that  one  is  "foolish  and 
slow  of  heart"  if  he  does  not  "believe  in"  (if  his 
faith  does  nol  rest  securely  on,  as  on  a  firm  founda- 
tion, "all"  (without  limit  of  subject-matter  here) 
"that  the  prophets"  (explained  in  ver  27  as  equiva- 
lent to  "all  the  scriptures")  "have  spoken." 

The  necessity  of  the  fulfilment  of  all  that  is  written 
in  Scripture,  which  is  so  strongly  asserted  in  these 
last  instructions  to  His  disciples,  is 
4.  Neces-  frequently  adverted  to  by  Our  Lord, 
sary  Ful-  He  repeatedly  explains  of  occurrences 
filment  of  occasionally  happening  thai  they  have 
Scripture  come  to  pass  "that  the  scripture'  mighl 
be  fulfilled"  (Mk  14  41);  .In  13  IS- 
17  12;  ef  12  14;  Mk  9  12.13).  On  the  basis  of 
■Scriptural  declarations,  therefore,  He  announces 
with   confidence    that    given   events  will    certainly 


occur:  "All  ye  shall  be  offended  [lit.  "scandalized") 
in  me  this  night:  for  it  is  written  .  .  .  ."  (Mt  26 
31;  Mk  14  27;  ef  Lk  20  17).  Although  holding 
at  His  command  ample  means  of  escape,  He  bows 
before  on-coming  calamities,  for,  He  asks,  how 
otherwise  "should  the  scriptures  be  fufilled,  that 
thus  it  must  be?"  (Mt  26  54).  It  is  not  merely 
the  two  disciples  with  whom  He  talked  on  the 
way  to  Kininaus  (Lk  24  25)  whom  He  rebukes 
for  not  trusting  themselves  more  perfectly  to  the 
teaching  of  Scripture.  "Ye  search  the  scriptures," 
he  says  to  the  Jews,  in  th<  classical  passage  (Jn 
5  IV.)),  "because  ye  think  that  in  them  ye  have  eter- 
nal life;  and  these  are  they  which  bear  witness  of 
me;  and  ye  will  not  come  to  me,  that  ye  may  have 
life!"  These  words  surely  were  spoken  more  in 
sorrow  than  in  scorn:  there  is  no  blame  implied 
either  for  searching  the  Scriptures  or  for  thinking 
that  eternal  life  is  to  be  found  in  Scripture;  ap- 
proval rather.  What  the  Jews  are  blamed  for  is 
that  they  read  with  a  veil  lying  upon  their  hearts 
which  lie  would  fain  take  away  (2  Cor  3  15  f). 
"Ye  search  the  scriptures" — that  is  right:  and 
"even  you"  (emphatic)  "think  to  have  eternal  life 
in  them" — that  is  right, loo.  But  "it  is  these  very 
Scriptures"  (very  emphatic)  "which  an;  bearing 
witness"  (continuous  process)  "of  me;  and"  (here 
is  the  marvel!)  "ye  will  not  come  to  me  and  have 
life!" — that  you  may,  that  is,  reach  the  very  end  you 
have  so  properly  in  view  in  searching  the  Scriptures. 
Their  failure  is  due,  not  to  the  Scriptures  but  to 
themselves,  who  read  the  Scriptures  to  such  little 
purpose. 

Quite  similarly  Our  Lord  often  finds  occasion  to 
express  wonder  at  1  he  little  effect  to  which  Scrip- 
ture had  been  read,  not,  because  it  had 
been  looked  into  too  curiously,  but 
because  it  had  not  been  looked  into 
earnestly  enough,  with  sufficiently 
simple  and  robust  trust  in  its  every 
declaration.  "Have  ye  not  read  even 
this  scripture?"  He  demands,  as  He  adduces  Bs  118 
to  show  that  the  rejection  of  the  Messiah  was  al- 
ready intimated  in  Scripture  (Mk  12  K);  Mt  21  42 
varies  the  expression  to  the  equivalent:  "Did  ye 
never  read  in  the  scriptures?").  And  when  the 
indignant  Jews  came  to  Him  complaining  of  the 
Hosannas  with  which  the  children  in  the  Temple 
were  acclaiming  Him,  and  demanding,  "Hearest  thou 
what  these  are  saying?"  He  met  them  (Mt  21  16) 
merely  with,  "Yea:  did  ye  never  read,  Out  of  the 
mouths  of  babes  and  sucklings  thou  has  perfected 
praise?"  The  underlying  thought  of  these  passages 
is  spoken  out  when  He  intimates  that  the  source  of 
all  error  in  Divine  things  is  just  ignorance  of  the 
Scriptures:  "Ye  do  err,"  He  declares  to  His  ques- 
tioners, on  an  important  occasion,  "not  knowing  the 
scriptures"  (Mt  22  29);  or,  as  it  is  put,  perhaps 
more  forcibly,  in  interrogative  form,  in  its  ||  in 
another  ( Jospel:  "Is  it  not  for  this  cause  that  ye  err, 
that  ye  know  not  the  scriptures?"  (Mk  12  24). 
Clearly,  he  who  rightly  knows  the  Scriptures  does 
not  err.  The  confidence  with  which  Jesus  rested 
on  Scripture,  in  its  every  declaration,  is  further 
illustrated  in  a  passage  like  Mt  19  4.  Certain 
Pharisees  had  come  to  Him  with  a  question  on 
divorce  and  He  met  them  thus:  "Have  ye  not  read, 
that  he  who  made  them  from  the  beginning  made 
them  male  and  female,  and  said,  For  this  cause 
shall  a  man  leave  his  father  and  mother,  and  shall 
cleave  to  his  wife;  and  the  two  shall  become  one 
flesh?  ....  What  therefore  Cod  hath  joined  to- 
gether, let  not  man  put  asunder."  The  point  to  be 
noted   is  the  explicit  reference  of  C en  2  24  to  God 

as    its   author:   "He  who   made  thou said"; 

"what  therefore  God  hath  joined  together."  Yet 
this  passage   does  not  give  us  a  saying  of  Cod's 


5.  Christ's 
Testimony 
That  God 
Is  Author 


1477 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Inspiration 


recorded  in  Scripture,  but  just  the  word  of  Scripture 
itself,  and  can  be  treated  as  a  declaration  of  God's 
only  on  the  hypothesis  that  all  Scripture  is  a  decla- 
ration of  Cod's.  The  [|  in  Mk  (10  5  ff)  just  as  truly, 
though  not  as  explicitly,  assigns  the  passage  to  God 
as  its  author,  citing  it  as  authoritative  law  and 
speaking  of  its  enactment  as  an  act  of  God's.  And 
it  is  interesting  to  observe  in  passing  that  Paul, 
having  occasion  to  quote  the  same  passage  (1  Cor 
6  16),  also  explicitly  quotes  it  as  a  Divine  word: 
"1'or,  The  twain,  saith  he,  shall  become  one  flesh" — 
the  "he"  here,  in  accordance  with  a  usage  to  be 
noted  later,  meaning  just  "God." 

Thus  clear  is  it  that  Jesus'  occasional  adduction 
of  Scripture  as  an  authoritative  document  rests  on 
an  ascription  of  it  to  God  as  its  author.  His  tes- 
timony is  that  whatever  stands  written  in  Scripture 
is  a  word  of  God.  Nor  can  we  evacuate  this  testi- 
mony of  its  force  on  the  plea  that  it  represents  Jesus 
only  in  the  days  of  His  flesh,  when  He  may  be  sup- 
posed to  have;  reflected  merely  the  opinions  of  His 
day  and  generation.  The  view  of  Scripture  He 
announces  was,  no  doubt,  the  view  of  His  day  and 
generation  as  well  as  His  own  view.  But  there  is 
no  reason  to  doubt  that  it  was  held  by  Him,  not 
because  it  was  the  current  view,  but  because,  in 
His  Divine-human  knowledge,  He  knew  it  to  be 
true;  for,  even  in  His  humiliation,  He  is  the  faith- 
ful and  true  witness.  And  in  any  event  we  should 
bear  in  mind  that  this  was  the  view  of  the  resur- 
rected as  well  as  of  the  humiliated  Christ.  It  was 
after  He  had  suffered  and  had  risen  again  in  the 
power  of  His  Divine  life  that  He  pronounced  those 
foolish  and  slow  of  heart  who  do  not  believe  all 
that  stands  written  in  all  the  Scriptures  (Lk  24 
25);  and  that  He  laid  down  the  simple  "Thus  it  is 
written"  as  the  sufficient  ground  of  confident  belief 
(Lk  24  4G).  Nor  can  we  explain  away  Jesus' 
testimony  to  the  Divine  trustworthiness  of  Scrip- 
ture by  interpreting  it  as  not  His  own,  but  that  of 
His  followers,  placed  on  His  lips  in  their  reports  of 
His  words.  Not  only  is  it  too  constant,  minute,  inti- 
mate and  in  part  incidental,  and  therefore,  as  it 
wen1,  hidden,  to  admit  of  this  interpretation;  but 
it  so  pervades  all  our  channels  of  information  con- 
cerning Jesus'  teaching  as  to  make  it  certain  that  it 
comes  actually  from  Him.  It  belongs  not  only  to 
the  Jesus  of  our  evangelical  records  but  as  well  to 
the  Jesus  of  the  earlier  sources  which  underlie  our 
evangelical  records,  as  anyone  may  assure  himself 
by  observing  the  instances  in  which  Jesus  adduces 
the  Scriptures  as  Divinely  authoritative  that  are 
recorded  in  more  than  one  of  the  Gospels  (e.g.  "It 
is  written,"  Mt  4  4.7.10  [Lk  4  4.8.10];  Mt  11  10; 
[Lk  7  27];  Mt  21  13  [Lk  19  46;  Mk  11  17]; 
Mt  26  31  [Mk  14  21];  "the  scripture"  or  "the 
scriptures,"  Mt  19  4  [Mk  10  9];  Mt  21  42  [Mk 
12  10;  Lk  20  17];  Mt  22  29  [Mk  12  24;  Lk 
20  37];  Mt  26  56  [Mk  14  40;  Lk  24  44]).  These 
passages  alone  would  suffice  to  make  clear  to  us  the 
testimony  of  Jesus  to  Scripture  as  in  all  its  parts 
and  declarations  Divinely  authoritative. 

The  attempt  to  attribute  the  testimony  of  Jesus 
to  His  followers  has  in  its  favor  only  the  undeniable1 
fact  that  the  testimony  of  the  writers 
6.  Similar  of  the  NT  is  to  precisely  the  same 
Witness  of  effect  as  His.  They,  too,  cursorily 
Apostles  speak  of  Scripture  by  that  pregnant 
name  and  adduce  it  with  the  simple 
"It  is  written,"  with  the  implication  that  whatever 
stands  written  in  it  is  Divinely  authoritative.  As 
Jesus'  official  life  begins  with  this  "It  is  written" 
(Mt  4  4),  so  the  evangelical  proclamation  begins 
with  an  "liven  as  it  is  written"  (Mk  1  2);  and 
as  Jesus  sought  the  justification  of  His  work  in  a 
solemn  "Thus  it  is  written,  that  the  Christ  should 
suffer,  and  rise  again  from  the  dead  the  third  day" 


(Lk  24  46 ff),  so  the  apostles  solemnly  justified  the 
Gospel  which  they  preached,  detail  after  detail,  by 
appeal  to  the  Scripture's,  "That  Christ  died  for  our 
sins  according  to  the  scriptures"  and  "That  he  hath 
been  raised  on  the  third  day  according  to  the  scrip- 
tures" (1  Cor  15  3.4;  cf  Acts  8  35;  17  3;  26  22, 
and  also  Rom  1  17;    3  4.10;  4  17;    11  20;  14  11; 

I  Cor  1  19;  2  9;  3  10;  15  45;  Gal  3  10.13;  4 
22.27).  Wherever  they  carried  the  gospel  it  was 
as  a  gospel  resting  on  Scripture  that  they  proclaimed 
it  (Acts  17  2;  18  24.28);  and  they  encouraged 
themselves  to  test  its  truth  by  the  Scriptures  (Acts 
17  11).  The  holiness  of  life  they  inculcated,  they 
based  on  Scriptural  requirement  (1  Pet  1  10),  and 
they  commended  the  royal  law  of  love  which  they 
taught  by  Scriptural  sanction  (Jas  2  S).  Every 
detail  of  duty  was  supported  by  them  by  an  appeal 
to  Scripture"  (Acts  23  5;  Rom  12  19).  The  cir- 
cumstances of  their  lives  and  the  events  occasion- 
ally occurring  about  them  are  referred  to  Scripture 
for  their  significance  (Rom  2  26;  8  36;  9  33;  11 
S;  15  9.21;  2  Cor  4  13).  As  Our  Lord  declared 
that  whatever  was  writ  tern  in  Scripture  must  needs 
be  fulfilled  (Mt  26  54;  Lk  22  37;  24  44),  so  His 
followers  explained  one  of  the  most  startling  facts 
which  had  occurred  in  their  experience  by  pointing 
out  that  "it  was  needful  that  the  scripture  should 
be  fulfilled,  which  the  Holy  Spirit  spake  before  by 
the  mouth  of  David"  (Acts  1  16).  Here  the 
ground  of  this  constant  append  te)  Scripture,  se>  that  it 
is  enough  that  a  thing  "is  contained  in  scripture" 
(1  Pel  2  6)  for  it  to  be  of  inelefectible  authority, 
is  plainly  enough  declared:  Scripture  must  needs 
be  fulfilled,  for  what  is  contained  in  it  is  the 
declaration  of  the  Holy  Ghost  through  the1  human 
author.  What  Scripture  says,  God  says;  and 
accordingly  we  read  such  remarkable  declarations  as 
these:  "For  the  scripture  saith  unto  Pharaoh,  For 
this  very  purpose  did  1  raise  thee  up"  (Rom  9  17); 
"And  the  scripture,  fore'se>enng  that  God  would 
justify  the  Gentiles  by  faith,  preached  the  gospel 
beforehand  unto  Abraham,  ....  In  thee  shall 
all  the  nations  be  blessed"  (Gal  3  8).  These  are 
not  instancies  of  simple  personification  e>f  Scripture, 
which  is  itself  a  sufficiently  remarkable'  usage1  (Mk 
15  28;     Jn  7  38.42;     19  37;     Rom  4  3;     10  11; 

II  2;  Gal  4  30;  1  Tim  5  IS;  Jas  2  23;  4  5  f), 
ve>cal  with  the  conviction  expressed  by  James  (4  5) 
that  Scripture  cannot,  speak  in  vain.  They  indi- 
cate a  certain  confusion  in  current  speech  between 
"Scripture"  and  "God,"  the  outgrowth  of  a  deep- 
seated  conviction  that  the  word  of  Scripture  is  the 
word  of  God.  It  was  not  "Scripture"  that  spoke 
to  Pharaoh,  or  gave  his  great  promise  to  Abraham, 
but  God.  But  "Scripture"  and  "God"  lay  se>  e-le)se 
together  in  the  minds  e>f  the  writers  of  the  NT  that 
they  could  naturally  spe-ak  e>f  "Scripture1"  de>ing 
what  Scripture  records  God  as  de>ing.  It  was, 
however,  even  more1  natural  \o  them  te>  speak 
casually  of  God  saying  what  the  Scriptures  say ;  and 
accordingly  we  meet  with  forms  of  speech  such  as 
these:  "Where-fore,  ewe'n  as  the  Holy  Spirit  saith, 
To-day  if  ye1  shall  hear  His  voice,"  etc  (He  3  7, 
quoting  Ps  95  7);  "Them  art  God  .  .  .  .  who  by 
the1  mouth  of  thy  servant  Daviel  hast  said,  Why 
did  the1  heathen  rage,"  etc  (Acts  4  25  AV,  quoting 
Ps  2  1);  "He1  that  raised  him  from  the  dead 
....  hath  spoken  on  this  wise,  1  will  give1 
you   ....  because  he  saith  also  in   another  [place] 

."  (Acts  13  34,  quoting  Isa  55  3  and  Ps  16 
10),  and  1h(>  like.  The  words  put  into  ( iod's  mouth 
in  each  case  are  not  words  of  Goel  recorded  in  the 
Scripture's,  but  just  Scripture  words  in  themselves. 
Wlien  we-  take  the  two  classes  of  passages  together, 
in  the  one  of  which  the  Scriptures  are1  spoken  of  as 
God,  while  in  the  other  God  is  spoken  of  as  if  He 
were    the    SeTiptures,  we    may  perceive    how  close 


Inspiration 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1478 


certain    catenae  ot    qi 


7.  Identifi- 
cation of 
God  and 
Scriptures 


Sllbj( 


being 


the  identification  of   the  two  was  in  the  minds  of 
the  writers  of  the  NT.  . 

This  identification  is  strikingly  observable  in 
of  quotations,  in  which  there  are 
brought  together  a  number  of  passages 
of  Scripture  closely  connected  with 
one  another.  The  first  chapter  of  the 
Kp.  to  the  He  supplies  an  example. 
W'e  may  begin  with  ver  5:  "For  unto 
which  of  the  angels  said  he"  the 
necessarily  "Cod"— "at  any  time, 
Thou  art  mv  Son,  this  day  have  1  begotten  thee  ?"- 
the  citation  being  from  Ps  2  7  and  very  appro- 
priate in  the  mouth  of  Cod  "and  again,  I  wiH  be 
to  him  a  Father,  and  he  shall  be  to  me  a  Son? 
from  2  S  7  14,  again  a  declaration  of  God's  own— 
"\nd  when  he  again  bringeth  in  the  firstborn  into 
the  world  he  saith.  And  let  all  the  angels  of  God 
worship  him"-  from  Dt  32  43,  LXX,  or  Ps  97  7, 
in  neither  of  which  is  God  the  speaker— "And  of 
the  angels  he  saith,  Who  maketh  his  angels  winds, 
and  his  ministers  a  flame  of  fire"— from  Ps  104  4, 
where  again  God  is  not  the  speaker  but  is  spoken  of 
in  the  third  person— "but  of  the  Son  he  saith,  Thy 
throne,  0  Cod.  etc"— from  Ps  45  6.7  where  again 
God  is  not  the  speaker,  but  is  addressed — "And, 
Thou.  Lord,  in  the  beginning,"  etc— from  Ps  102 
25  27,  where  again  God  is  not  the  speaker  but 
is  addressed— "But  of  which  of  the  angels  hath  he 
said  at  any  time,  Sit  thou  on  my  right  hand?"  etc 
—from  Ps  110  1,  in  which  God  is  the  speaker. 
Here  we  have  passages  in  which  God  is  the  speaker 
and  passages  in  which  God  is  not  the  speaker,  but 
is  addressed  or  spoken  of,  indiscriminately  assigned 
to  Cod,  because  they  all  have  it  in  common  that 
they  are  words  of  Scripture,  and  as  words  of  Scrip- 
ture are  words  of  God.  Similarly  in  Pom  15  (.)  ff 
we  have  a  series  of  citations  the  first  of  which  is 
introduced  by  "as  it  is  written,"  and  the  next  two 
by  "again  he  saith,"  and  "again,"  and  the  last,  by 
"and  again,  Isaiah  saith,"  the  first  being  from  Ps  18 
49;  the  second  from  Dt  32  43;  the  third  from  Ps 
117  1;  and  the  last  from  Isa  11  10.  Only  the  last 
(the  only  one  here  assigned  to  the  human  author) 
is  a  word  of  ( Jod  in  the  text  of  the  OT. 

This  view  of  the  Scriptures  as  a  compact  mass  of 
words  of  God  occasioned  the  formation  of  a  desig- 
nation for  them  by  which  this  their 
8.  "Oracles  character  was  explicitly  expressed, 
of  God"  This  designation  is  "thesacred  oracles," 
"the  oracles  of  God."  It  occurs  with 
extraordinary  frequency  in  Philo,  who  very  com- 
monly refers  to  Scripture  as  "the  sacred  oracles" 
and  cites  its  several  passages  as  each  an  "oracle." 
Sharing,  as  they  do,  Philo's  conception  of  the  Scrip- 
tures as,  in  all  their  parts,  a  word  of  God,  the  NT 
writers  naturally  also  speak  of  them  under  this 
designation.  The  classical  passage  is  Rom  3  2 
(cf  He  5  12;  Acts  7  38).  Here  Paul  begins  an 
enumeration  of  the  advantages  which  belonged  to 
the  chosen  people  above  other  nations;  and,  after 
declaring  these  advantages  to  have  been  great  and 
numerous,  he  places  first  among  them  all  their 
possession  of  the  Scriptures:  "What  advantage 
then  hath  the  Jew?  or  what-  is  the  profit  of  circum- 
cision? Much  every  way:  first  of  all,  that  they 
were  intrusted  with  the  oracles  of  God."  That 
by  "the  oracles  of  God"  here  are  meant  just  the 
Holy  Scriptures  in  their  entirety,  conceived  as  a 
direct  Divine  revelation,  and  not  any  portions  of 
them,  or  elements  in  them  more  esp.  thought  of  as 
revelatory,  is  perfectly  clear  from  the  wide  con- 
temporary use  of  this  designation  in  this  sense  by 
Philo,  and  is  put  beyond  question  by  the  presence 
in  the  NT  of  habitudes  of  speech  which  rest  on  and 
grow  out  of  the  conception  of  Scripture  embodied 
in  this  term.     From  the  point  of  view  of  this  desig- 


nation, Scripture  is  thought  of  as  the  living  voice 
of  God  speaking  in  all  its  parts  directly  to  the 
reader;  and,  accordingly,  it  is  cited  by  some  such 
formula  as  "it  is  said,"  and  this  mode  of  citing 
Scripture  duly  occurs  as  an  alternative  to  "it  is 
written"  (Lk  4  12,  replacing  "it  is  written"  in 
Mt;  He  3  15;  cf  Rom  4  18).  It  is  due  also  to 
this  point  of  view  that  Scripture  is  cited,  not  as 
what  Cod  or  the  Holy  Spirit  "said,"  but  what  lie 
"says,"  the  present  tense  emphasizing  the  living 
voice 'of  God  speaking  in  Scriptures  to  the  indi- 
vidual soul  (He  3  7;  Acts  13  35;  He  1  7.8.10; 
Rom  15  10).  And  esp.  there  is  due  to  it  the  pecul- 
iar usage  by  which  Scripture  is  cited  by  the  simple 
"saith,"  without  expressed  subject,  the  subject 
being  too  well  understood,  when  Scripture  is  ad- 
duced, to  require  stating;  for  who  could  be  the 
speaker  of  the  words  of  Scripture  but  Clod  only 
(Rom  15  10;  1  Cor  6  16;  2  Cor  6  2;  Gal  3 
l(i;  Eph  4  S;  5  14)?  The  analogies  of  this  preg- 
nant subject  less  "saith"  are  very  widespread.  It 
was  with  it  that  the  ancient  Pythagoreans  and  Pla- 
tonists  and  the  mediaeval  Aristotelians  adduced 
each  their  master's  teaching;  it  was  with  it  that, 
in  certain  circles,  the  judgments  of  Hadrian's  great 
jurist  Salvius  Julianus  were  cited;  African  stylists 
were  even  accustomed  to  refer  by  it  to  Sallust,  their 
great  model.  There  is  a  tendency,  cropping  out 
occasionally,  in  the  OT,  to  omit  the  name  of  God 
as  superfluous,  when  Ho,  as  the  great  logical  sub- 
ject always  in  mind,  would  be  easily  understood 
(cf  Job  20  2:5;  21  17;  Ps  114  2;  Lam  4  22). 
So,  too,  when  the  NT  writers  quoted  Scripture 
there  was  no  need  to  say  whose  word  it  was:  that 
lay  beyond  question  in  every  mind.  This  usage, 
accordingly,  is  a  specially  striking  intimation  of  the 
vivid  sense  which  the  NT  writers  had  of  the  Divine 
origin  of  the  Scriptures,  and  means  that  in  citing 
them  they  were  acutely  conscious  that  they  were 
citing  immediate  words  of  God.  How  completely 
the  Scriptures  were;  to  them  just  the  word  of  God 
may  be  illustrated  by  a  passage  like  Gal  3  16:  "He 
saith  not,  And  to  seeds,  as  of  many;  but  as  of  one, 
And  to  thy  seed,  which  is  Christ."  We  have  seen 
Our  Lord  "hanging  an  argument  on  the  very  words 
of  Scripture  (Jn  10  34);  elsewhere  His  reasoning 
depends  on  the  particular  tense  (Mt  22  32)  or 
word  (Mt  22  43)  used  in  Scripture.  Here  Paul's 
argument  rests  similarly  on  a  grammatical  form. 
No  doubt  it  is  the  grammatical  form  of  the  word 
which  God  is  recorded  as  having  spoken  to  Abraham 
that  is  in  question.  But  Paul  knows  what  grammat- 
ical form  God  employed  in  speaking  to  Abraham 
only  as  the  Scriptures  have  transmitted  it  to  him; 
and,  as  we  have  seen,  in  citing  the  words  of  God  and 
the  words  of  Scripture  he  was  not  accustomed  to 
make  any  distinction  between  them.  It  is  probably 
the  Scriptural  word  as  a  Scriptural  word,  therefore, 
which  he  has  here  in  mind:  though,  of  course,  it  is 
possible  that  what  he  here  witnesses  to  is  rather  the 
det  ailed  trust  wort  hiness  of  the  Scriptural  record  than 
its  direct  divinity — if  we  can  separate  two  things 
which  apparently  were  not  separated  in  Paul's  mind. 
This  much  we  can  at  least  say  without  straining, 
that  the  designation  of  Scripture  as  "scripture"  and 
its  citation  by  the  formula,  "It  is  written,"  attest 
primarily  its  indefectible  authority;  the  designation 
of  it  as  "oracles"  and  the  adduction  of  it  by  the  for- 
mula, "It  says,"  attest  primarily  its  immediate 
divinity.  Its  authority  rests  on  its  divinity  and  its 
divinity  expresses  itself  in  its  trustworthiness;  and 
the  NT  writers  in  all  their  use  of  it  treat  it  as  what 
they  declare  it  to  be — a  God-breathed  document, 
which,  because  God-breathed,  is  through  and  t  hrough 
trustworthy  in  all  its  assertions,  authoritative  in  all 
its  declarations,  and  down  to  its  last  particular,  the 
very  word  of  God,  His  "oracles." 


1479 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Inspiration 


That  the  Scriptures  are  throughout  a  Divine 
book,  created  by  the  Divine  energy  and  speaking 

in  their  every  part  with  Divine  author- 
9.  Human  ity  directly  to  the  heart  of  the  readers, 
Element  in  is  the  fundamental  fact  concerning 
Scripture       them  which  is  witnessed  by  Christ  and 

the  sacred  writers  to  whom  we  owe 
the  NT.  But  the  strength  and  constancy  with 
which  they  bear  witness  to  this  primary  fact  do  not 
prevent  their  recognizing  by  the  side  of  it  that  the 
Scriptures  have  come  into  being  by  the  agency  of 
men.  It  would  be  inexact  to  say  that  they  recog- 
nize a  human  element  in  Scripture:  they  do  not 
parcel  Scripture  out,  assigning  portions  of  it,  or 
elements  in  it,  respectively  to  Cod  and  man.  In 
their  view  the  whole  of  Scripture  in  all  its  parts 
and  in  all  its  elements,  down  to  the  least  minutiae, 
in  form  of  expression  as  well  as  in  substance  of 
teaching,  is  from  God;  but  the  whole  of  it  has  been 
given  by  God  through  the  instrumentality  of  men. 
There  is,  therefore,  in  their  view,  not,  indeed,  a 
human  element  or  ingredient  in  Scripture,  and 
much  less  human  divisions  or  sections  of  Scripture, 
but  a  human  side  or  aspect  to  Scripture;  and  they 
do  not  fail  to  give  full  recognition  to  this  human 
side  or  aspect.  In  one  of  the  primary  passages 
which  has  already  been  before  us,  their  conception 
is  given,  if  somewhat  broad  and  very  succinct,  yet 
clear  expression.  No  'prophecy,'  Peter  tells  us 
(2  Pet  1  21),  'ever  came  by  the  will  of  man;  but 
as  borne  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  men  spake  from  God.' 
Here  the  whole  initiative  is  assigned  to  God,  and 
such  complete  control  of  the  human  agents  that  the 
product  is  truly  God's  work.  The  men  who  speak 
in  this  "prophecy  of  scripture"  speak  not  of  them- 
selves or  out  of  themselves,  but  from  "God":  they 
speak  only  as  they  are  "borne  by  the  Holy  Ghost." 
But  it  is  they,  after  all,  who  speak.  Scripture 
is  the  product  of  man,  but  only  of  man  speaking 
from  God  and  under  such  a  control  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  as  that  in  their  speaking  they  are  "borne"  by 
Him.  The  conception  obviously  is  that  the  Scrip- 
tures have  been  given  by  the  instrumentality  of 
men;  and  this  conception  finds  repeated  incidental 
expression  throughout  the  NT. 

It  is  this  conception,  for  example,  which  is  ex- 
pressed when  Our  Lord,  quoting  Ps  110,  declares 
of  its  words  that  "David  himself  said  in  the  Holy 
Spirit"  (Mk  12  36).  There  is  a  certain  emphasis 
here  on  the  words  being  David's  own  words,  which 
is  due  to  the  requirements  of  the  argument  Our 
Lord  was  conducting,  but  which  none  the  less  sin- 
cerely represents  Our  Lord's  conception  of  their 
origin.  They  are  David's  own  words  which  we 
find  in  Ps  110,  therefore;  but  they  are  David's 
own  words,  spoken  not  of  his  own  motion  merely, 
but  "in  the  Holy  Spirit,"  that  is  to  say — we  could 
not  better  paraphrase  it — "as  borne  by  the  Holy 
Spirit."  In  other  words,  they  are  "God-breathed" 
words  and  therefore  authoritative  in  a  sense  above 
what  any  words  of  David,  not  spoken  in  the  Holy 
Spirit,  could  possibly  be.  Generalizing  the  matter, 
we  may  say  that  the  words  of  Scripture  are  con- 
ceived by  Our  Lord  and  the  NT  writers  as  the  words 
of  their  human  authors  when  speaking  "in  the  Holy 
Spirit,"  that  is  to  say,  by  His  initiative  and  under 
His  controlling  direction.  The  conception  finds 
even  more  precise  expression,  perhaps,  in  such  a 
statement  as  we  find — it  is  Peter  who  is  speaking  and 
it  is  again  a  psalm  which  is  cited — in  Acts  1  16,  "The 
Holy  Spirit  spake  by  the  mouth  of  David."  Here 
the  Holy  Spirit  is  adduced,  of  course,  as  the  real 
author  of  what  is  said  (and  hence  Peter's  certainty 
that  what  is  said  will  be  fulfilled);  but  David's 
mouth  is  expressly  designated  as  the  instrument 
(it  is  the  instrumental  preposition  that  is  used)  by 
means  of  which  the  Holy  Spirit  speaks  the  Scripture 


in  question.  He  does  not  speak  save  through 
David's  mouth.  Accordingly,  in  Acts  4  25,  'the 
Lord  that  made  the  heaven  and  earth,'  acting  by 
His  Holy  Spirit,  is  declared  to  have  spoken  another 
psalm  'through  the  mouth  of  ...  .  David,'  His 
"servant";  and  in  Mt  13  35  still  another  psalm 
is  adduced  as  "spoken  through  the  prophet"  (cf 
Mt  2  5).  In  the  very  act  of  energetically  assert- 
ing the  Divine  origin  of  Scripture  the  human 
instrumentality  through  which  it  is  given  is  con- 
stantly recognized.  The  NT  writers  have,  there- 
fore, no  difficulty  in  assigning  Scripture  to  its  hu- 
man authors,  or  in  discovering  in  Scripture  traits 
due  to  its  human  authorship.  They  freely  quote 
it  by  such  simple  formulae  as  these:  "Moses  saith" 
(Rom  10  19);  "Moses  said"  (Mt  22  24;  Mk  7 
10;  Acts  3  22);  "Moses  writeth"  (Rom  10  5); 
"Moses  wrote"  (Mk  12  19;  Lk  20  28);  "Isaiah 
....  saith"  (Rom  10  20);  "Isaiah  said"  (Jn  12 
39);  "Isaiah  crieth"  (Rom  9  27);  "Isaiah  hath 
said  before"  (Rom  9  29);  "said  Isaiah  the  prophet" 
(Jn  1  23);  "did  Isaiah  prophesy"  (Mk  7  6;  Mt  15 
7);  "David  saith"  (Lk  20  42;  Acts  2  25;  Rom 
11  9);  "David  said"  (Mk  12  36).  It  is  to  be  noted 
that  when  thus  Scripture  is  adduced  by  the  names 
of  its  human  authors,  it  is  a  matter  of  complete  in- 
difference whether  the  words  adduced  an;  comments 
of  these  authors  or  direct  words  of  God  recorded 
by  them.  As  the  plainest  words  of  the  human 
authors  are  assigned  to  God  as  their  real  author,  so 
the  most  express  words  of  God,  repeated  by  the 
Scriptural  writers,  are  cited  by  the  names  of 
these  human  writers  (Mt  15  7;  Mk  7  6;  Rom  10 
5  19.20;  cf  Mk  7  10  from  the  Decalogue).  To  say 
that  "Moses"  or  "David  says,"  is  evidently  thus 
only  a  way  of  saying  that  "Scripture  says,"  which 
is  the  same  as  to  say  that  "God  says."  Such  modes 
of  citing  Scripture,  accordingly,  carry  us  little  be- 
yond merely  connecting  the  name,  or  perhaps  we 
may  say  the  individuality,  of  the  several  writers 
with  the  portions  of  Scripture  given  through  each. 
How  it  was  given  through  them  is  left  meanwhile, 
if  not  without  suggestion,  yet  without  specific  ex- 
planation. We  seem  safe  only  in  inferring  this 
much :  that  the  gift  of  Scripture  through  its  human 
authors  took  place  by  a  process  much  more  intimate 
than  can  be  expressed  by  the  term  "dictation,"  and 
that  it  took  place  in  a  process  in  which  the  control 
of  the  Holy  Spirit  was  too  complete  and  pervasive 
to  permit  the  human  qualities  of  the  secondary 
authors  in  any  way  to  condition  the  purity  of  the 
product  as  the  word  of  God.  The  Scripture's,  in 
other  words,  are  conceived  by  the  writers  of  the 
NT  as  through  and  through  God's  book,  in  every 
part  expressive  of  His  mind,  given  through  men 
after  a  fashion  which  does  no  violence  to  their  nature 
as  men,  and  constitutes  the  book  also  men's  book 
as  well  as  God's,  in  every  part  expressive  of  the  mind 
of  its  human  authors. 

If  we  attempt  to  get  behind  this  broad  statement 
and  to  obtain  a  more  detailed  conception  of  the 

activities  by  which  God  has  given  the 
10.  Activi-  Scriptures,  we  are  thrown  back  upon 
ties  of  God  somewhat  general  representations,  sup- 
in  Giving  ported  by  the  analogy  of  the  modes 
Scripture       of  God's  working  in  other  spheres  of 

His  operation.  It  is  very  desirable 
that  we  should  free  ourselves  at  the  outset  from  in- 
fluences arising  from  the  current  employment  of  the 
term  "inspiration"  to  designate  this  process.  This 
term  is  not  a  Bib.  term  and  its  etymological  impli- 
cations are  not  perfectly  accordant  with  the  Bib. 
conception  of  the  modes  of  the  Divine  operation  in 
giving  the  Scriptures.  The  Bib.  writers  do  not  con- 
ceive of  the  Scriptures  as  a  human  product  breathed 
into  by  the  Divine  Spirit,  and  thus  heightened  in  its 
qualities  or  endowed  with  new  qualities;    but  as  a 


Inspiration 


INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1  ISO 


Divin.-  product  produced  through  the  mstruinen- 
lalitv  <»f  men.  They  d<>  not  conceiveol  these  men, 
|,v  whose  instrumentality  Scripture  is  produced, 
■is  working  upon  their  own  initiative,  though  ener- 
,,,/ed  by  Cod  to  greater  etTort  and  higher  aclueve- 
,„;,„,  |lu1  :ls  moved  by  the  Divine  initiative  an, 
,„„,„.,,.,  ,he  irresistible  power  ot  t  lie  .Spirit  ot  God 
along  wavs  of  His  choosing  lo  ends  ol  His  appoint - 
,„,.i,t  The  ditTerence  between  the  two  conceptions 
mav  not  appear  great  when  the  mind  is  fixed  ex- 
,-lusivelv  upon  the  nature  of  the  result  mg  product . 
Hut  thev  are  differing  eoncei)tions,  and  look  at  the 
production  of  Scripture  from  distinct  points  ot  view 
tlie  human  and  the  Divine;  and  the  involved 
iiumtal  attitudes  toward  the  origin  ol  Script  lire  are 
verv  diverse  The  term  "inspiration"  is  too  (irmly 
fixed  m  both  theological  and  popular  usage,  as  tin' 
technical  designation  of  the  action  ol  Cod  in  giving 
the  Scriptures,  to  be  replaced;  and  we  may  be 
thankful  that  its  native  implications  lie  as  close 
as  thev  do  to  the  Bib.  concept  ions.  Meanwhile 
however,  it  mav  be  justly  insisted  that  it  shall 
receive  its  definition  from  the  representations  ot 
Scripture  and  not  be  permitted  to  impose  upon  our 
thought  ideas  of  the  origin  of  Scripture  derived 
from  an  analvsis  of  its  own  implications,  etymo- 
logical or  historical.  The  Scriptural  conception  ot 
the  relation  of  the  Divine  Spirit  to  the  human 
authors  in  the  production  of  Scripture  is  better  ex- 
pressed liv  t  he  figure  of  "bearing"  I  ban  by  the  figure 
of  "inbreathing";  and  when  our  Bib.  writers  speak 
,,f  the  action  of  the  Spirit  of  God  in  this  relation 
as  a  breathing,  they  represent  it  as  a  ''breathing 
out"  of  the  Scriptures  by  the  Spirit,  and  not  a 
"breathing  into"  the  Scriptures  by  Him. 

So  soon,  however,  as  we  seriously  endeavor  to 
form  for  ourselves  a  clear  conception  of  the  precise 
nature  of  the  Divine  action  in  this 
11.  General  "breathing  out"  of  the  Scriptures- 
Problem  of  this  "bearing"  of  the  writers  of  the 
Origin:  Scriptures   to  their  appointed  goal  of 

God's  Part  the  production  of  a  book  of  Divine 
trustworthiness  and  indefectible  au- 
thority— we  become  acutely  aware  of  a  more  deeply 
lying  and  much  wider  problem,  apart  from  which 
this  one  of  inspiration,  technically  so  called,  cannot 
be  profitably  considered.  This  is  the  general  prob- 
lem of  the  origin  of  the  Scriptures  and  the  part  of 
God  in  all  that  complex  of  processes  by  the  inter- 
action of  which  these  books,  which  we  call  the 
sacred  Scriptures,  with  all  their  peculiarities,  and 
all  their  qualities  of  whatever  sort,  have  been 
brought  into  being.  For,  of  course,  these  books  were 
not  produced  suddenly,  by  some  miraculous  act  — 
handed  down  complete  out  of  heaven,  as  the  phrase 
goes;  but,  like  all  other  products  of  time,  are  the 
ultimate  effect  of  many  processes  cooperating 
through  long  periods.  There  is  to  be  considered, 
for  instance,  the  preparation  of  the  material  which 
forms  the  subject-matter  of  these  books:  in  a  sacred 
history,  say,  for  example,  to  be  narrated;  or  in  a 
religious  experience  which  may  serve  as  a  norm  for 
record;  or  in  a  logical  elaboration  of  the  contents 
of  revelation  which  may  be  placed  at  the  service  of 
God's  people;  or  in  the  progressive  revelation  of 
Divine  truth  itself,  supplying  their  culminating 
(•(intents.  And  there  is  the  preparation  of  the  men 
to  write  these  books  to  be  considered,  a  preparation 
physical,  intellectual,  spiritual,  which  must  have 
attended  them  throughout  their  whole  lives,  and, 
indeed,  must  have  had  its  beginning  in  their  remote 
ancestors,  and  the  effect  of  which  was  to  bring  the 
right  men  to  the  right  places  at  the  right  times,  with 
the  right  endowments,  impulses,  acquirements,  to 
write  just,  the  books  which  were  designed  for  them. 
When  "inspiration,"  technically  so  called,  is  super- 
induced on  lines  of  preparation  like  these,  it  takes 


12.  Effect 
of  Human 
Qualities: 


on  quite  a  different  aspect  from  that  which  it  bears 
when  it  is  thought  of  as  an  isolated  action  of  the 
Divine  Spirit  operating  out  of  all  relation  to  his- 
torical processes.  Representations  are  sometimes 
made  as  if,  when  God  wished  to  produce  sacred 
books  which  would  incorporate  His  will  a  series 
of  letters  like  those  of  Paul,  for  example  lie  was 
reduced  to  the  necessity  of  going  down  to  earth  and 
painfully  scrutinizing  the  men  lie  found  there, 
seeking  anxiously  for  the  one  who,  on  the  whole, 
promised  best  for  His  purpose;  and  then  violently 
forcing  the  material  He  wished  expressed  through 
him  against  his  natural  bent,  and  with  as  little  loss 
from  his  recalcitrant  characteristics  as  possible.  Of 
course,  nothing  of  the  sort  took  place.  If  God 
wished  to  give  His  people  a  series  of  letters  like 
Paul's  He  prepared  a  Paul  to  write  them,  and  the 
Paul  lie  brought  to  the  task  was  a  Paul  who  spon- 
taneously would  write  just  such  letters. 

If  we  bear  this  in  mind,  we  shall  know  what  esti- 
mate to  place  upon  the  common  representation  to 
the  effect    that    the  human  character- 
istics of  the  writers  must,  and  in  point 
of   fact  do,  condition  and  qualify  the 
writings  produced  by  them,  the  impli- 
Providentialcation  being  that,  therefore,  we,  cannot 
Preparation  get  from  man  a  pure  word  ot  God.     As 
light  that  passes  through   the  colored 
glass  of  a  cathedral  window,  we  are  told,  is  light, 
from  heaven,  but  is  stained  by  the  tints  of  the  glass 
through   which    it    passes;    so    any  word    of    God 
which  is  passed  through  the  mind  and  soul  of  a  man 
must  come  out  discolored  by  the  personality  through 
which  it-  is  given,  and  just  to  that  degree  ceases  to 
be  the  pure  word  of  God.     But  what   if    this  per- 
sonality has  itself  been  formed  by  God  into  precisely 
the  personality  it  is,  for  the  express  purpose  of 
communicating  to  the  word  given  through  it  just 
the  coloring  which  it  gives  it?     What  if  the  colors 
of  the  stained-glass  window  have  been  designed  by 
the  architect  for  t he  express  purpose  of  giving  to  the 
light  that  floods  the  cathedral  precisely  the  tone  and 
quality  it  receives  from  them?     What  it  the  word  of 
God  that  conies  to  His  people   is   framed  by  God 
into   the  word  of   God  it  is,  precisely  by  means  of 
the  qualities  of  the  men  formed  by  Him  for  the  pur- 
pose, through  which  it   is   given?     When  we  think 
of  God  the  Lord  giving  by  His  Spirit  a  body  of 
authoritative   Scriptures   to   His  people,   we   must 
remember  that  He  is  the  God  of  providence  and  of 
grace  as  well  as  of  revelation  and  inspiration,  and 
that  He  holds  all  the  lines  of  preparation  as  fully 
under  His  direction  as  He  does  the  specific  operation 
which  we  call  technically,  in  the  narrow-  sense,  by 
the  name  of  "inspiration."     The  production  of  the 
Scriptures  is,  in  point  of  fact,  a  long  process,  in  the 
course  of  which  numerous  and  very  varied  Divine 
activities     are      involved,    providential,     gracious, 
miraculous,  all  of  which  must  be  taken  into  account 
in  any  attempt  to  explain  tin1  relation  of  God  to  the 
production  of  Scripture.     When  they  are  all  taken 
into   account    we   can  no   longer  wonder   that   the 
resultant     Scriptures  are  constantly  spoken  of  as 
Hie  pure  word  of  God.     We  wonder,  rather,  that  an 
additional    operation   of    God — what    we   call   spe- 
cifically  "inspiration,"  in  its  technical  sense — was 
thought    necessary.     Consider,   for    example,    how 
a  piece  of   sacred  history— say  the  Book  of  Ch,  or 
the    great    historical    work,  Gospel    and    Acts,    of 
Luke — is  brought  to  the  writing.     There  is  first  of 
all  the  preparation  of  the  history  to  be  written: 
God   the    Lord   leads  the  sequence  of  occurrences 
through  the  development  He  has  designed  for  them 
that  thev  may  convey  their  lessons  to  His  people: 
a  "teleological"  or  "aetiological"   character  is  in- 
herent in  the  very  course  of  events.     Then  He  pre- 
pares a  man,  by  birth,  training,  experience,  gifts 


1481 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Inspiration 


of  grace,  and,  if  need  be,  of  revelation,  capable  of 
appreciating  this  historical  development  and  eager 
to  search  it  out,  thrilling  in  all  his  being  with  its 
lessons  and  bent  upon  making  them  clear  and  effect- 
ive to  others.  When,  then,  by  His  providence,  God 
sets  this  man  to  work  on  the  writing  of  this  history, 
will  there  not  be  spontaneously  written  by  him 
the  history  which  it  was  Divinely  intended  should 
be  written?  Or  consider  how  a  psalmist  would 
be  prepared  to  put  into  moving  verse  a  piece  of 
normative  religious  experience:  how  he  would  be 
born  with  just  the  right  quality  of  religious  sensibility, 
of  parents  through  whom  he  should  receive  just 
the  right  hereditary  bent,  and  from  whom  he  should 
get  precisely  the  right  religious  example  and  train- 
ing, in  circumstances  of  life  in  which  his  religious 
tendencies  should  be  developed  precisely  on  right 
lines;  how  he  would  be  brought  through  just  the 
right  experiences  to  quicken  in  him  the  precise  emo- 
tions he  would  be  called  upon  to  express,  and  finally 
would  be  placed  in  precisely  the  exigencies  which 
would  call  out  their  expression.  Or  consider  the 
providential  preparation  of  a  writer  of  a  didactic 
epistlt — by  means  of  which  he  should  be  given  the 
intellectual  breadth  and  acuteness,  and  be  trained  in 
habitudes  of  reasoning,  and  placed  in  the  situations 
which  would  call  out  precisely  the  argumentative 
presentation  of  Christian  truth  which  was  required 
of  him.  When  we  give  due  place  in  our  thoughts 
to  the  universality  of  the  providential  government  of 
Cod,  to  the  minuteness  and  completeness  of  its 
sway,  and  to  its  invariable  efficacy,  we  may  be  in- 
clined to  ask  what  is  needed  beyond  this  mere  provi- 
dential government  to  secure  the  production  of 
sacred  books  which  should  be  in  every  detail  abso- 
lutely accordant  with  the  Divine  will. 

The  answer  is,  Nothing  is  needed  beyond  mere 
providence  to  secure  such  books — provided  only 
that  it  does  not  lie  in  the  Divine  pur- 
13.  "Inspi-  pose  that  these  books  should  possess 
ration"  qualities  which  rise  above  the  powers 

More  than  of  men  to  produce,  even  under  the 
"Provi-  most  complete  Divine  guidance.     For 

dence"  providence  is  guidance;   and  guidance 

can  bring  one  only  so  far  as  his  own 
power  can  carry  him.  If  heights  are  to  be  scaled 
above  man's  native  power  to  achieve,  then  some- 
thing more  than  guidance,  however  effective,  is 
necessary.  This  is  the  reason  for  the  superindue- 
tion,  at  the  end  of  the  long  process  of  the  production 
of  Scripture,  of  the  additional  Divine  operation 
which  we  call  technically  "inspiration."  By  it, 
the  Spirit  of  God,  flowing  confiuently  in  with  the 
providentially  and  graciously  determined  work  of 
men,  spontaneously  producing  under  the  Divine 
directions  the  writings  appointed  to  them,  gives 
the  product  a  Divine  quality  unattainable  by  human 
powers  alone.  Thus  these  books  become  not  merely 
the  word  of  godly  men,  but  the  immediate  word  of 
God  Himself,  speaking  directly  as  such  to  the  minds 
and  hearts  of  every  reader.  The  value  of  "inspi- 
ration" emerges,  thus,  as  twofold.  It  gives  to  the 
books  written  under  its  "bearing"  a  quality  which 
is  truly  superhuman;  a  trustworthiness,  an  author- 
ity, a  searchingness,  a  profundity,  a  profitableness 
which  is  altogether  Divine.  And  it  speaks  this 
Divine;  word  immediately  to  each  reader's  heart 
and  conscience;  so  that  he  does  not  require  to  make 
his  way  to  God,  painfully,  perhaps  even  uncertainly, 
through  the  words  of  His  servants,  the  human  in- 
struments in  writing  the  Scriptures,  but  can  listen 
directly  to  the  Divine  voice  itself  speaking  imme- 
diately in  the  Scriptural  word  to  him. 

That  the  writers  of  the  NT  themselves  conceive 
the  Scriptures  to  have  been  produced  thus  by  Di- 
vine operations  extending  through  the  increasing  ages 
and  involving  a  multitude  of  varied  activities,  can 


be  made  clear  by  simply  attending  to  the  occasional 
references  they  make  to  this  or  that  step  in  the 
process.  It  lies,  for  example,  on  the 
14.  Witness  face  of  their  expositions,  that  they 
of  NT  looked  upon  the  Bit),  history  as  teleo- 

Writers  logical.     Not,  only  do  they  tell  us  that 

to  This  "whatsoever  things  were  written  afore- 

time were  written  for  our  learning, 
that  through  patience  and  through  comfort  of  the 
scriptures  we  might  have  hope"  (Rom  15  4;  cf 
Rom  4  23.24);  they  speak  also  of  the  course  of  the 
historical  events  themselves  as  guided  for  our  bene- 
fit: "Now  these  things  happened  unto  them  by  way 
of  example" — in  a  typical  fashion,  in  such  a  way 
that,  as  they  occurred,  a  typical  character,  or  pre- 
dictive reference  impressed  itself  upon  them;  that 
is  to  say,  briefly,  the  history  occurred  as  it  did  in 
order  to  bear  a  message  to  us — "and  they  were 
written  for  our  admonition,  upon  whom  the  ends  of 
the  ages  are  come"  (1  Cor  10  11;  cf  ver  0).  Ac- 
cordingly, it  has  become  a  commonplace  of  Bib.  ex- 
posit  ion  that  "the  history  of  redemption  itself  is  a 
typically  progressive  one"  (Kuper),  and  is  "in  a 
manner  impregnated  with  the  prophetic  element," 
so  as  to  form  a  "part  of  a  great  plan  which  stretches 
from  the  fall  of  man  to  the  first  consummation  of  all 
things  in  glory;  and,  in  so  far  as  it  reveals  the  mind 
of  God  toward  man,  carries  a  respect  to  the  future 
not  less  than  to  the  present"  (P.  Fairbairn).  It  lies 
equally  on  the  face  of  the  NT  allusions  to  the  sub- 
ject that  its  writers  understood  that  the  preparation 
of  men  to  become  vehicles  of  God's  message  to  man 
was  not  of  yesterday,  but  had  its  beginnings  in  the 
very  origin  of  their  being.  The  call  by  which  Paul, 
for  example,  was  made  an  apostle  of  Jesus  Christ 
was  sudden  and  apparently  without  antecedents; 
but  it  is  precisely  this  Paul  who  reckons  this  call 
as  only  one  step  in  a  long  process,  the  beginnings  of 
which  antedated  his  own  existence:  "But  when  it 
was  the  good  pleasure  of  God,  who  separated  me, 
even  from  my  mother's  womb,  and  called  me 
through  his  grace,  to  reveal  his  Son  in  me"  (Gal  1 
15.16;  cf  Jer  1  5;  Isa  49  1.5).  The  recognition 
by  t  he  writers  of  the  NT  of  the  experiences  of  God's 
grace,  wdiich  had  been  vouchsafed  to  them  as  an 
integral  element  in  their  fitting  to  be  the  bearers  of 
His  gospel  to  others,  finds  such  pervasive  expression 
t  hat  t  he  only  difficulty  is  to  select  from  the  mass  the 
most  illustrative  passages.  Such  a  statement  as 
Paul  gives  in  the  opening  verses  of  2  Cor  is 
thoroughly  typical.  There  he  represents  that  he 
has  been  afflicted  and  comforted  to  the  end  that 
he  might  "be  able  to  comfort,  them  that  are  in  any 
affliction,  through  the  comfort  wherewith"  he  had 
himself  been  "comforted of  God."  For,  he  explains, 
"Whether  we  are  afflicted,  it  is  for  your  comfort  and 
salvation;  or  whether  we  are  comforted,  it  is  for 
your  comfort,  which  worketh  in  the  patient  endur- 
ing of  the  same  sufferings  which  we  also  suffer"  (2 
Cor  1  4-0).  It  is  beyond  question,  therefore,  that 
the  NT  writers,  when  they  declare  the  Scriptures 
to  be  the  product  of  the  Divine  breath,  and  explain 
this  as  meaning  that  the  writers  of  these  Scriptures 
wrote  them  only  as  borne  by  the  Holy  Spirit  in 
such  a  fashion  that  they  spoke,  not  out  of  them- 
selves, but  "from  God,"  are  thinking  of  this  opera- 
tion of  the  Spirit  oidy  as  the  final  act  of  God  in  the 
production  of  the  Scriptures,  superinduced  upon  a 
long  series  of  processes,  providential,  gracious, 
miraculous,  by  which  the  matter  of  Scripture  had 
been  prepared  for  writing,  and  the  men  for  writing 
it,  and  the  writing  of  it  had  been  actually  brought 
to  pass.  It  is  this  final  act  in  the  production  of 
Scripture  which  is  technically  called  "inspiration"; 
and  inspiration  is  thus  brought  before  us  as,  in  the 
minds  of  the  writers  of  the  NT,  that  particular 
operation  of  God  in  the  production  of  Scripture 


Inspiration 
Instrument 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1482 


which  takes  effect  til  the  very  point  of  the  writing 
of  Scripture  understanding  the.  term  "writing 
h,.re  as  inclusive  of  all  the  processes  of  the  actual 
composition  of  Scripture,  the  investigation  ot  docu- 
ments the  collection  of  facts,  the  excogitation  ol 
conclusions,  the  adaptation  ol  exhortations  as 
means  to  ends  and  the  like  with  the  effect  of  giving 
to  the  resultant  Scripture  a  specifically  supernatural 
character,  and  constituting  it  a  Divine,  as  well  as 
human,  hook.  Obviously  the  mode  ol  operation 
of  this  Divine  activitv  moving  to  this  result  is  con- 
ceived in  full  accord  with  the  analogy  of  the  Divine 
operations  in  other  spheres  of  its  activity,  in  provi- 
dence and  in  grace  alike,  as  confluent  with  the 
human  activities  operative  in  the  ease;  as  in  a 
word,  of  the  nature  of  what  has  come  to  be  known 
as  "immanent  action." 

It  will  not  escape  observation  thai  thus  inspira- 
tion" is  made  a  mode  of  "revelation."  We  are 
often  exhorted,  to  be  sure,  to  distinguish 
16.  "Inspi-  sharply  between  "inspiration"  and 
ration"  and  "revelation";  and  the  exhortation  is 
"Revela-  just  when  "revelation"  is  taken  m  one 
tion"  of  its  narrower  senses,  of,  say,  an  ex- 

ternal manifestation  of  God,  or  of  an 
immediate    communication    from    God    in    words. 
But  "inspiration"  does  not  differ  from  "revelation 
in  these  narrowed  senses  as  genus  from  genus,  but 
as  a  species  of    one    genus    differs    from    another. 
That  operation  of  Cod  which  we  call  "inspiration," 
that  is  to  say,  that  operation  of  the  Spirit  ot  Cod 
by  which  He  "bears"  men  in  the   process  of   com- 
posing Scripture,  so  that  they  write,  not  of  them- 
selves, but  "from  Cod,"  is  one  of  the  modes  in  which 
Cod  makes  known  to  men  His  being,  His  will.   His 
operations,    His    purposes.     It    is    as    distinctly    a 
mode  of  revelation  as  any  mode  of  revelation  can 
be,  and  therefore  it  performs  the  same  office  which 
all' revelation  performs,  that  is  to  say,  in  the  express 
words  of  Paul,  it  makes  men  wise,  and  makes  them 
wise  unto  salvation.    All  "special"  or  "supernatural" 
revelation   (which   is  redemptive  in  its  very  idea, 
and  occupies  a  place  as  a  substantial  element,  in 
God's  redemptive  processes)  has  precisely  this  for 
its  end;  and  Scripture,  as  a  mode  of  the  redemptive 
revelation  of    Cod,  finds  its   fundamental    purpose 
just  in  this:  if  the  "inspiration"  by  which  Scripture 
is  produced  renders  it   trustworthy  and  authorita- 
tive,   it    renders  it   trustworthy   and   authoritative 
only  that  it  may  the  better  serve  to  make  men  wise 
unto   salvation.     Scripture  is  conceived,  from   the 
point  of  view  of  the  writers  of  the  NT,  not  merely 
as  the  record  of  revelations,  but  as  itself  a  part  of 
the  redemptive  revelation  of  Cod;    not  merely  as 
the  record  of  the  redemptive  acts  by  which  Cod  is 
saving  the  world,  but  as  itself  one  of  these  redemp- 
tive acts,  having  its  own  part  to  play  in  the  great 
work  of  establishing  and  building  up  the  kingdom 
of  Cod.     What  gives  it  a  place  among  the  redemp- 
tive acts  of  Cod  is  its  Divine  origination,  taken  in 
its   widest    sense,    as   inclusive   of    all   the    Divine 
operations,    providential,    gracious    and    expressly 
supernatural,    by  which    it    has    been     made    just 
what  it  is — a  body  of  writings  able  to  make  wise 
unto  salvation,  and  profitable  for  making  the  man 
of  Cod  perfect.     What  gives  it   its  place  among  the 
modes  of  revelation  is,  however,  specifically  the  cul- 
minating one  of  these  Divine  operations,  which  we 
call  "inspiration";    that  is  to  say.  the  action  of  the 
Spirit  of   God   in   so  "bearing"  its  human  authors 
in  their  work   of   producing   Scripture,  as  that   in 
these  Scriptures  they  speak,  not  out  of  themselves, 
but  "from  God."     It  is  this  act  by  virtue  of  which 
the    Scriptures    may    properly    be    called     "God- 
breathed." 

It    has  been  customary  among  a  certain  school 
of  writers  to  speak  of  the  Scriptures,  because  thus 


"inspired,"  as  a  Divine-human  book,  and  to  appeal 
to  the  analogy  of  Our  Lord's  Divine-human  per- 
sonality to  explain  their  peculiar  quali- 
16.  Scrip-  ties  as  such.  The  expression  calls 
tures  a  attention    to   an    important    fact,    and 

Divine-  the  analogy  holds  good  a  certain  dis- 

Human  tance.     There  are  human  and  Divine 

Book?  sides  to  Scripture,  and,  as  we  cursorily 

examine  it ,  we  may  perceive  in  it,  alter- 
nately, traits  which  suggest  now  the  one,  now  the 
other  factor  in  its  origin.  But  the  analogy  with 
Our  Lord's  Divine-human  personality  may  easily 
be  pressed  beyond  reason.  There  is  no  hypostatic 
union  between  the  Divine  and  the  human  in  Scrip- 
t  ure;  we  cannot  parallel  the  "inscripturation"  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  and  the  incarnation  of  the  Son  of  God. 
The  Scriptures  are  merely  the  product  of  Divine 
and  human  forces  working  together  to  produce  a 
product  in  the  production  of  which  the  human 
forces  work  under  the1  initiation  and  prevalent  di- 
rection of  the  Divine:  the  person  of  Our  Lord  unites 
in  itself  Divine  and  human  natures,  each  of  which 
retains  its  distinctness  while  operating  only  in  rela- 
tion to  the  other.  Between  such  diverse  things 
there  can  exist  only  a  remote  analogy;  and,  in  point 
of  fact,  the  analogy  in  the  present  instance  amounts 
to  no  more  than  that  in  both  cases  Divine  and 
human  factors  are  involved,  though  very  differ- 
ently. In  the  one  they  unite  to  constitute  a  Divine- 
human  person,  in  the  other  they  cooperate  to  per- 
form a  Divine-human  work.  Even  so  distant  an 
analogy  may  enable  us,  however,  to  recognize  that 
as,  in  the  case  of  Our  Lord's  person,  the  human 
nature  remains  truly  human  while  yet  it  can  never 
fall  into  sin  or  error  because  it  can  never  act  out  of 
relation  with  the  Divine  nature  into  conjunction 
with  which  it  has  been  brought;  so  in  the  case  of 
the  production  of  Scripture  by  the  conjoint  action 
of  human  and  Divine  factors,  the  human  factors 
have  acted  as  human  factors  and  have  left  their 
mark  on  the  product  as  such,  and  yet  cannot  have 
fallen  into  that  error  which  we  say  it  is  human  to 
fall  into,  because  they  have  not  acted  apart  from 
the  Divine  factors,  by  themselves,  'out  only  under 
their  unerring  guidance. 

The  NT  testimony  is  to  the  Divine  origin  and 
qualities  of  "Scripture";  and  "Scripture"  to  the 
writers  of  the  NT  was  fundamentally, 
17.  Scrip-  of  course,  the  OT.  In  the  primary 
ture  of  NT  passage,  in  which  we  are  told  that 
Writers  "every"   or   "all  Scripture"   is   "God- 

Was  the  OT  breathed,"  the  direct  reference  is  to 
the  "sacred  writings"  which  Timothy 
had  had  in  knowledge  since  his  infancy,  and  these 
were,  of  course,  just  the  sacred  books  of  the  Jews 
(2  Tim  3  16).  What  is  explicit  here  is  implicit 
in  all  the  allusions  to  inspired  Scriptures  in  the  NT. 
Accordingly,  it  is  frequently  said  that  our  entire 
testimony  to  the  inspiration  of  Scripture  concerns 
the  OT  alone.  In  many  ways,  however,  this  is 
overstated.  Our  present  concern  is  not  with  the 
extent  of  "Scripture"  but  with  the  nature  of 
"Scripture";  and  we  cannot  present  here  the  con- 
siderations which  justify  extending  to  the  NT  the 
inspiration  which  the  NT  writers  attribute  to  the 
OT.  It  will  not  be  out  of  place,  however,  to  point 
out  simply  that  the  NT  writers  obviously  them- 
selves made  this  extension.  They  do  not  for  an 
instant  imagine  themselves,  as  ministers  of  a  new 
covenant,  less  in  possession  of  the  Spirit  of  God  than 
the  ministers  of  the  old  covenant:  they  freely 
recognize,  indeed,  that  they  have  no  sufficiency 
of  themselves,  but  they  know  that  God  has  made 
them  sufficient  (2  Cor  3  5.6).  They  prosecute 
their  work  of  proclaiming  the  gospel,  therefore,  in 
full  confidence  that  they  speak  "by  the  Holy  Spirit" 
(1  Pet  1  12),   to  whom   they  attribute   both   the 


1483 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Inspiration 
Instrument 


matter  and  form  of  their  teaching  (1  Cor  2  13). 
They,  therefore,  speak  with  the  utmost  assurance 
of  their  teaching  (Gal  1  7.8);  and  they  issue  com- 
mands with  the  completest  authority  (1  Thess  4 
2.14;  2  Thess  3  6.12),  making  it,  indeed,  the  test 
of  whether  one  has  the  Spirit  that  he  should  recog- 
nize what  they  demand  as  commandments  of  God 
(1  Cor  14  37).  It  would  be  strange,  indeed,  if 
these  high  claims  were  made  for  their  oral  teaching 
and  commandments  exclusively.  In  point  of  fact, 
they  are  made  explicitly  also  for  their  written  in- 
junctions. It  was  "the  things"  which  Paul  was 
"writing,"  the  recognition  of  which  as  commands 
of  the  Lord,  he  makes  the  test  of  a  Spirit-led  man 
(1  Cor  14  37).  _  It  is  his  "word  by  this  epistle," 
obedience  to  which  he  makes  the  condition  of  Chris- 
tian communion  (2  Thess  3  14).  There  seems  in- 
volved in  such  an  attitude  toward  their  own  teach- 
ing, oral  and  written,  a  claim  on  the  part  of  the  NT 
writers  to  something  very  much  like  the  "inspira- 
tion" which  they  attribute  to  the  writers  of  the  OT. 
And  all  doubt  is  dispelled  when  we  observe  the 
NT  writers  placing  the  writings  of  one  another  in  the 
same  category  of  "Scripture"  with  the 
18.  Inclu-  books  of  the  OT.  The  same  Paul  who, 
sion  of  NT  in  2  Tim  3  16,  declared  that  'every' or 
'all  scripture  is  God-breathed'  had 
already  written  in  1  Tim  5  18:  "For  the  scripture 
saith,  Thou  shall  not  muzzle  the  ox  when  he  treadeth 
out  the  corn.  And,  The  laborer  is  worthy  of  his  hire." 
The  first  clause  here  is  derived  from  Dt  and  the  sec- 
ond from  the  Gospel  of  Lk,  though  both  are  cited 
as  together  constituting,  or  better,  forming  part  of 
the  "Scripture"  which  Paul  adduces  as  so  authori- 
tative as  by  its  mere  citation  to  end  all  strife. 
Who  shall  say  that,  in  the  declaration  of  the 
later  ep.  that  "all"  or  "every"  Scripture  is  God- 
breathed,  Paul  did  not  have  Lk,  and,  along  with  Lk, 
whatever  other  new  books  he  classed  with  the  old 
under  the  name  of  Scripture,  in  the  back  of  his 
mind,  along  with  those  old  books  which  Timothy 
had  had  in  his  hands  from  infancy?  And  the  same 
Peter  who  declared  that  every  "prophecy  of  scrip- 
ture" was  the  product  of  men  who  spoke  "from 
God,"  being 'borne' by  the  Holy  Ghost  (2  Pet  1  21), 
in  this  same  ep.  (3  16),  places  Paul's  Epp.  in  the 
category  of  Scripture  along  with  whatever  other 
books  deserve  that  name.  For  Paul,  says  he,  wrote 
these  epj).,  not  out  of  his  own  wisdom,  but  "ac- 
cording to  the  wisdom  given  to  him,"  and  though 
there  are  some  things  in  them  hard  to  be  understood, 
yet  it  is  only  "the  ignorant  and  unstedfast"  who 
wrest  these  difficult  passages — as  what  else  could 
be  expected  of  men  who  wrest  "also  the  other 
Scriptures"  (obviously  the  OT  is  meant) — "unto 
their  own  destruction"?  Is  it  possible  to  say  that 
Peter  could  not  have  had  these  epp.  of  Paul  also 
lurking  somewhere  in  the  back  of  his  mind,  along 
with  "the  other  scriptures,"  when  he  told  his  readers 
that  every  "prophecy  of  scripture"  owes  its  origin 
to  the  prevailing  operation  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ? 
What  must  be  understood  in  estimating  the  testi- 
mony of  the  NT  writers  to  the  inspiration  of  Scrip- 
ture is  that  "Scripture"  stood  in  their  minds  as  the 
title  of  a  unitary  body  of  books,  throughout,  the  gift 
of  God  through  His  Spirit  to  His  people;  but  that 
this  body  of  writings  was  at  the  same  time  under- 
stood to  be  a  growing  aggregate,  so  that  what  is 
said  of  it  applies  to  the  new  books  which  were  being 
added  to  it  as  the  Spirit  gave  them,  as  fully  as  to  the 
old  books  which  had  come  down  to  them  from  their 
hoary  past.  It  is  a  mere  matter  of  detail  to  deter- 
mine precisely  what  new  books  were  thus  included 
by  them  in  the  category  "Scripture."  They  tell 
us  some  of  them  themselves.  Those  who  received 
them  from  their  hands  tell  us  of  others.  And  when 
we  put  the  two  bodies  of  testimony  together  we  find 


that  they  constitute  just  our  NT.  It  is  no  pressure 
of  the  witness  of  the  writers  of  the  NT  to  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Scripture,  therefore,  to  look  upon  it 
as  covering  the  entire  body  of  "Scriptures,"  the  new 
books  which  they  were  themselves  adding  to  this 
aggregate,  as  well  as  the  old  books  which  they  had 
received  as  Scripture  from  the  fathers.  Whatever 
can  lay  claim  by  just  right  to  the  appellation  of 
"Scripture,"  as  employed  in  its  eminent  sense  by 
those1  writers,  can  by  the  same  just  right  lay  claim 
to  the  "inspiration"  which  they  ascribe  to  this 
"Scripture." 

Litkkature. — J.  Gerhard,  Loci  Theolog.,  Locus  I; 
F.  Turretin,  Instit.  Theol.,  Locus  II;  B.  dt'  Moor,  Comm. 
in  -J.  Marckii  Comp.,  cap.  ii;  C.  Hodge.  Syst.  Thiol.,  New 
York,  1871,1,  151-86;  Henry  B.  Smith,  The  Inspiration 
of  the  Holy  Scriptures,  New  York,  1855,  new  ed,  Cincin- 
nati, 1891;  A.  Kuyper,  Encyclopedic  tier  heiliije  Gud- 
ijeieerdheid.  1888-89,  II,  :547  If,  ET;  Enc  of  Sacred  Theol., 
y,(*w  York,  1898,  341-563;  also  De,  Schrift  het  woord 
Gods,  Tiel,  1870;  H.  Bavinck,  Gereformeerde  Dogmatiek*, 
Kampen,  1906,  I,  406-527;  R.  Haldane,  The  Ycrlal  In- 
spiration of  the  Scriptures  Established,  Edinburgh,  1830; 
J.  T.  Beck,  Einleitung  in  das  Si/stem  der  christlichen 
Lehre,  Stuttgart,  18:58,  2d  ed,  1870;  A.  ('..  Rudelbach, 
"  Die  Lehre  von  der  Inspiration  der  heil.  Schrift," 
Zeitschrift  fur  die  gesammte  Lutherische  Thcoloqie  und 
Kirche,  1840,  1,  1841,  1,  1842,  1;  S.  R.  L.  Gaussen, 
Thiopneustie  ou  inspiration  pleniere  des  suintes  err  it  ares-, 
Paris,  1842,  ET  by  E.  N.  Kirk,  New  York,  1842;  also 
Theopneustia;  the  Plenary  Inspiration  of  the  Holy 
Scriptures,  David  Scott's  tr,  reedited  and  revised  by 
B.  W.  Garr,  with  a  preface  by  G.  H.  Spurgeon,  London, 
1888;  William  Lee,  The  Inspiration  of  the,  Holy  Scriptures, 
Donellan  Lecture,  1852,  New  York,  1857;  James  Ban- 
nerman,  Inspiration:  the  Infallible  Truth  and  Divine 
Authority  of  the  Holy  Scriptures,  Edinburgh,  1865;  E.  L. 
Patton,  The  Inspiration  of  the  Scriptures,  Philadelphia, 
1869  (reviewing  Lee  and  Bannerman);    Charles  Elliott, 

A     Treatise    on    tlie    Inspiration    of    the    Holi/    Scriptures 

Edinburgh,    1877;    A.   A.   Hodge    and   B.   B.    Warfleld, 

"Inspiration."  Presbyterian  Review,  April,  1881,  also 
tract,  Philadelphia,  1881;  R.  Watts,  The  Rule  of  Faith 
and  the  Doctrine  of  Inspiration,  Edinburgh,  1885;  A. 
Cave,  The  Inspiration,  of  the  OT  Inductively  Considered, 
London,  1888;  B.  Manly,  The  Bible  Doctrine  of  Inspira- 
tion, New  York,  1888;  W.  Rohnert,  Die  Inspiration  der 
In  ill,  pi  i,  Schrift  und  ihre  Bestreiter,  Leipzig,  1889;  A.  W. 
Lieckhoif,  Die  Inspiration  und  Irrth  it  mlosii/keit  der 
heiligen  Schrift,  Leipzig,  1891;  J.  Wichelhaus,  Die  Lehre 
der  heiligen  Schrift,  Stuttgart,  1892;  J.  Macgregor,  The 
Hi  velation  and  the  Record,  Edinburgh,  189:5;  J.  L'rquhart, 
The  Inspiration  and  Accuracy  of  the  Holy  Scriptures, 
London,  1895;  C.  Pesch,  De  Inspiratione  Sacrae  Serip- 
turae.  Freiburg,  1906;  James  Orr,  Revelation  and  Inspira- 
tion, London, 1910. 

Benjamin  B.  Warfield 
INSTANT,   in'stant,    INSTANTLY,   in'stant-li: 
Derivative  from  Lat  instare.     Found  in  Eng.  with 
various  meanings  from  the  15th  cent,  to  the  present 
time. 

Instant  is  used  once  in  Isa  29  5  in  the  sense  of 
immediate  time;  elsewhere  in  the  sense  of  urgent,, 
pressing;  Lk  23  23,  where  "were  instant"  is  the  AV 
tr  of  the  vb.  i-n-iKeivro,  epekeinto;  Horn  12  12,  where 
it  is  involved  in  the  vb.  Trpoo-Kaprepdw,  proskartereu; 
cf  Acts  6  4.  In  2  Tim  4  2  it  stands  for  the  ex- 
pressive vb.  lirio-T-ndi,  epistethi,  "stand  to." 

Instantly  (urgently,  stedfastly)  is  the  AV  render- 
ing of  two  different  Gr  phrases,  o-n-ovdaius,  spou- 
daios,  found  in  Lk  7  4;  and  iv  i/crenela,  en  ekte- 
nela,  in  Acts  26  7.  In  both  cases  ARV  renders 
"earnestly."  Russell  Benjamin  Miller 

INSTRUCTION,  in-struk'shun.  See  Catechist; 
Education;  School. 

INSTRUMENT,  in'stroo-ment  pbs ,  Ml;  in 
Gr  pi.  oirX.a,  hopla,  Rom  6  13) :  The  word  in  the  OT 
is  used  for  utensils  for  service,  chiefly  in  connection 
with  the  sanctuary  (cf  Ex  25  9;  Nu  4  12.20.32; 
1  K  19  21;  1  Ch  9  29;  2  Ch  4  16,  AV);  for 
weapons  of  war  (1  S  8  12;  1  Ch  12  33.37,  etc); 
notably  for  musical  instruments.  See  Music. 
The  members  of  the  body  are  described  by  Paul 
(Rom  6  13)  as  "instruments"  to  be  used  in  the 
service  of  righteousness,  as  before  they  were  in 
the  service  of  unrighteousness. 


Instruments  TIIE   [XTERNATIONAL  STAND 

Intercession 

INSTRUMENTS  OF  MUSIC  (C^bW ,  shall- 
8/,7/h):  Thus  KV  and  AV  (1  S  18  0),  KVm  "tri- 
angles" or  "three-stringed  instruments.  M'«' 
Mrsif. 

INSURRECTION,  in-su-rok'shun:  The  word  in 
Ps  64  2  AV  is  changed  in  KV  into  "tnmnlt  :  in 
Kxr  4  1'."  (vl).)  i'  represents  the  Aram.  STCI ,  n'.su', 
to  "lift  up  oneself."  In  the  NT  errdens,  stasis,  is 
rendered  ••insurrection"  in  Mk  15  7  A\  (where  ct 
the  vl)  "made  insurrection"),  but  m  Lk  23  19.2o 
"sedition."  KV  correctly  renders  "insurrection 
throughout;  also  in  Ads  24  5  '•insurrections  lor 
AV  '•sedition." 

INTEGRITY,  in-teg'ri-ti  (DFi ,  fowl,  .TEH,  im/w- 
Wd/,j:  The  tr  of  torn,  "simplicity,"  "soundness, 
"completeness,"  rendered  also  "upright,"  ''per- 
fection "  lis  original  sense  appears  in  the  phrase 
I'tdm  (1  K  22  34;  2  Ch  18  33),  "A  certain  man 
drew  his  Low  at  a  venture,"  m  "Heb,  in  Ins  sim- 
plicity" (cf  2  S  15  11,  "in  their  simplicity  ).  It 
is  tr'1' "integrity"  ((Jen  20  5.0;  1  K  9  4;  Ps  7  8; 
25  21;  26  111:  41  12;  78  72;  Prov  19  1;  20 
7)  in  all  which  places  it  seems  to  carry  the  meaning 
of' simplicity,  or  sincerity  of  heart  and  intention, 
truthfulness,  uprightness.  In  the  pi.  (tiunmim)  it 
is  one  of  the  words  on  the  breastplate  of  the  high 
priest  (Ex  28  30;  Dt  33  S;  Kzr  2  G3;  Neh  7  05), 
one  of  the  sacred  lots,  indicating,  perhaps,  "inno- 
cence" or  "integrity"  (LXX  alcthcia).  SeeUmu  and 
Tuimmim.  Another  word  tr'1  "integrity"  is  tununuh, 
from  tarn  am,  "to  complete,"  "be  upright,"  "perfect," 
only  in  .lob  2  3.9;  27  5;  31  0;   Prov  11  3. 

The  word  "integrity"  docs  not  occur  in  the  NT, 
but  its  equivalents  may  be  seen  in  "sincerity," 
"truth,"  the  "pure  heart,"  the  "single  eye,"  etc. 
In  the  above  sense  of  simplicity  of  intention  it  is 
equivalent  to  being  honest,  sincere,  genuine,  and 
is  fundamental  to  true  character. 

W.  L.  Walker 

INTELLIGENCE,  in-tel'i-gens  ("p3 ,  bin):  Oc- 
curs only  once  in  AV  as  the  tr  of  bin,  "to  dis- 
criminate" (frequently  tr'1  "to  understand"),  in 
Did  11  30  AV,  "[he  shall]  have  intelligence  with 
them  that  forsake  the  holy  covenant,"  RV  renders 
"have  regard  unto  them."  "Intelligence"  occurs 
in  2  Mace  3  9  AV,  in  the  sense  of  in  for/nation  (so 
KV). 

INTEND,  in-tend',  INTENT,  in-lent':  _  Early 
Eng.  words  derived  from  bat  and  used  in  AV, 
sometimes  in  RY,  to  translate  a  number  of  different 
expressions  of  the  original. 

Intend  is  sometimes  used  in  Eng.  in  the  literal 
sense  of  Lat  inlendere,  "to  stretch,"  but  in  the  Eng. 
Bible  it  is  used  only  of  the  direction  of  the  mind 
toward  an  object.  Sometimes  it  is  used  of  mere 
design  ([it\\o>,  mello),  Acts  5  35  AV;  20  13;  or 
of  desired  action  (W\w,  thelo),  Lk  14  2SAV; 
again  of  a  lixed  purpose  (/^otfAojucu,  boxdomai), 
Acts  5  28;  12  4;  or,  finally,  of  a  declared  intention 
{'amar),  Josh  22  33  AV;  2  Ch  28  13  AV. 

Intent  is  used  only  of  purpose,  and  is  the  tr  some- 
times of  a  conjunction  {lrbhaxabhur),  2  S  17  14; 
(l'ma\in),2  K  10  19;  (iVa,  hina),  Eph  3  10;  some- 
times of  an  infinitive  of  purpose,  1  Cor  10  0;  or  of 
a  preposition  with  pronoun  (ei's  tovto,  vistouto),  Acts 

9  21,  and  sometimes  of  a  subst .  (Xcr/y,  logo),  Acts 

10  '_".).  This  variety  of  original  expressions  repre- 
sented in  the  Eng.  by  single  terms  is  an  interesting 
illustration  of  the  extent  of  interpretation  embodied 
in  our  Eng.  Bible. 

Rt'ssell  Benjamin  Miller 
INTERCESSION,   in-ter-sesh'un    ("3S  ,    pagluS, 
"to  make  intercession";  originally  "to  st  rike  upon," 


A1!D  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1484 


or  "against";    then  in 


„  good  sense,  "to  assail  any- 
one- with  petitions,"  "to  urge,  and  when  on  behalt 
„f  another,  "to  intercede"  [Ruth  1  10;  Jer  7  10; 
27  IS;  Job  21  15;  Gen  23  8;  Isa  53  12;  Jer 
36  25].  A  similar  idea  is  found  in  «VT«y^s,  en- 
tcitxis,  used  as  "petition,"  and  in  the  NT  "inter- 
cession." The  Eng. 'word  is  derived  from  Lat 
inhrccdo,  "to  come  between,"  which  strangely  has 
the  somewhat  opposed  meanings  of  "obstruct"  and 
"to  interpose  on  behalf  of"  a  person,  and  finally  "to 
intercede."  The  growth  of  meaning  in  this  word 
in  the  various  languages  is  highly  suggestive.  In 
the  Or  NT  we  find  the  word  in  1  Tim  2  1;  4  5; 
ivTvy\av(D,  enlnavhano,  is  also  found  in  Rom  8 
20  34): 

M 


El  vmology  ami 
I.     M 

1. 


10. 

1  I  . 

vz. 

Hi. 


11. 

111. 

'1 

use 


Etymology     sions, 
and  Mean-    men" 


ing  of  Term  prayers    appear    to 
Considerable  discus 


ning  of  Term  in  the  OT  and  XT 

BHCBSSIO.N     FOK     Ills     K  I :  I.  I.o  W-.M  A  N 

Patriarchal  Examples 

Intercessions  of  Moses 

The    Progress  of    Religion,  Seen    in    Moses     In- 
tercessions 

Intercessory   Prayer   in    Israel's    Later   History 
The  Rise  of  Official  Intercession 
Samuel  as  an  Intercessor  as  Judge,   Priest  and 
Prophet 

Intercession  in  the  Pot-tic  Hooks 
The  Hooks  of  Wisdom 

The      Prophets'      Succession      to      Moses     and 
Samuel 

The  Priest  and  Intercession 
Intel-cession  in  t  he  (  lospels 
Intercessory  Prayers  of  the  Church 
Intercession  Pound  in  the  Epistles 

1  NT  F.IK  'ESSION        PERFECTED        IN        ChKIST's       OFFICE 

AM)    IN    THE    Ciieuen 
Intercession'    of   the   Holy   Spikit 

ae  meaning  of  the  word  is  determined  by  its 
in  1  Tim  2  1,  "1  exhort,  therefore,  first  of  all, 
that  supplications,  prayers,  interces- 
thanksgivings,  be  made  for  all 
where  the  different  kinds  of 
to  be  distinguished. 
ion  has  arisen  on 
the  exact  meaning  of  t  best- words.  Augustine  refers 
them  to  the  liturgy  of  the  Eucharist.  This  seems 
to  be  importing  the  significance  of  the  various  parts 
of  the  ceremony  as  observed  at  a  time  much  later 
than  the  date  of  the  passage  in  question.  "Suppli- 
cations" and  "prayers"  refer  to  general  and  specific 
petitions;  "intercessions''  will  then  have;  the  mean- 
ing of  a  request  concerning  others. 

Intercession  is  prayer  on  behalf  of  another,  and 
naturally  arises  from  the  instinct  of  the  human 
heart — not  merely  prompted  by  affection  and  inter- 
est, but  recognizing  that  Cod's  relation  to  man  is 
not  merely  individual,  but  social.  Religion  thus 
involves  man's  relations  to  his  fellow-man,  just  as 
in  man's  social  position  intercession  with  one  on 
behalf  of  another  is  a  common  incident,  becoming, 
in  the  development  of  society,  the  function  of  ap- 
pointed officials;  as  in  legal  and  courtly  procedure, 
so  in  religion,  the  spontaneous  and  affectionate 
prayer  to  Cod  on  behalf  of  another  grows  into  the 
regular  and  orderly  service  of  a  duly  appointed 
priesthood.  Intercession  is  thus  to  be  regarded: 
(1)  as  the  spontaneous  act  of  man  for  his  fellow- 
man;  (2)  the  official  act  of  developed  sacerdotalism; 
(3)  the  perfecting  of  the  natural  movement  of  hu- 
manity, and  the  typified  function  of  priesthood  in 
the  intercession  of  Christ  and  the  Holy  Spirit. 

/.  Man's  Intercession  for  His  Fellow-Man. — 
Many  such  prayers  are  recorded  in  Scripture.  The 
sacrificial  act  of  Noah  may  have  been 
partly  of  this  nature,  for  it  is  followed 
by  a  promise  of  Cod  on  behalf  of  the 
race  and  the  earth  at  large  (Gen  8  20- 
22).  Such  also  is  Abraham's  prayer 
for  Ishmael  (Gen  17  18);  Abraham's  prayer  for 
Sodom  (Gen  18  23-33);  Abraham  for  Abimelech 
((Jen  20  17).  Jacob's  blessing  of  Joseph's  sons 
is  of  the  nature  of  intercession  (Gen  48  8-23).     His 


1.  Patri- 
archal 
Examples 


1485 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Instruments 
Intercession 


dying  blessing  of  his  sons  is  hardly  to  be  regarded 
as  intercessory;  it  is,  rather,  declarative,  although  in 
the  case  of  Joseph  it  approaches  intercession.  The 
absence  of  distinct  intercessory  prayer  from  Abra- 
ham to  Moses  is  to  be  observed,  and  shows  how  in- 
tensely personal  and  individual  the  religious  con- 
sciousness was  still  in  its  undeveloped  quality.  In 
Moses,  however,  the  social  element  finds  a  further 
development,  and  is  interesting  as  taking  up  the 
spirit  of  the  Father  of  the  Faithful.  Moses  is  the 
creator  of  the  national  spirit.  He  lifts  religion  from 
its  somewhat  selfish  character  in  the  patriarchal 
life  to  the  higher  and  wider  plane  of  a  national  and 
racial  fellowship. 

The  progressive  character  of  the  Divine  leading  of 
man  is  found  thus  in  the  development  of  the  inter- 
cessory spirit,  e.g.  Moses'  prayer  for  the 

2.  Inter-  removal  of  plagues  (Ex  15  25  f);  for 
cessions  of  water  at  Rephidim  (17  4);  for  victory 
Moses  over    Amalek    (17  8-16);     prayer   for 

the  people  after  the  golden  calf  (Ex 
32  1 1  -14.21-34;  33  12  f);  after  the  renewal  of  the 
tables  of  stone  (34  9);  at  the  setting  forth  and 
stopping  of  the  Ark  (Nu  10  35  f);  after  the  burning 
at  Taberah  (Nu  11  2);  for  the  healing  of  Miriam's 
leprosy  (12  13);  after  the  return  of  the  spies  (14 
13-19);  after  the  destruction  by  serpents  (Nu  21 
7);  for  direction  in  the  case  of  the  daughters  of 
Zelophehad  (27  5);  for  a  successor  (27  15);  recital 
of  his  prayer  for  the  people  for  their  entrance  into 
Canaan  (Dt  3  23  f);  recital  of  his  prayer  for  the 
people  after  the  worship  of  the  golden  calf  (9  IS  ff); 
recital  of  prayers  for  the  rebellious  people  (Dt  9 
25-29);  a  command  to  him  who  pays  his  third-year 
tithes  to  offer  prayer  for  the  nation  (26  15);  Moses' 
final  blessing  of  the  tribes  (Dt  33;. 

This  extensive  series  of  the  intercessory  prayers 

of  Moses  forms  a  striking  illustration  of  the  growth 

of  religion,  represented  by  the  founder 

3.  The  of  the  national  life  of  Israel.  It  is  the 
Progress  of  history  of  an  official,  but  it  is  also  the 
Religion  history  of  a  leader  whose  heart  was 
Seen  in  the  filled  with  the  intensest  patriotism  and 
Interces-  regard  for  his  fellows.  None  of  these 
sions  of  prayers  are  perfunctory.  They  are 
Moses            the  vivid  and  passionate  utterances  of 

a  man  full  of  Divine  enthusiasm  and 
human  affect  ion.  They  are  real  prayers  wrung  from 
a  great  and  devout  soul  on  occasions  of  deep  and 
critical  importance.  Apart  from  their  importance  in 
the  history  of  Israel,  they  are  a  noble  record  of  a 
great  leader  of  men  and  servant  of  God. 

In  the  history  of  Joshua  we  find  only  the  prayer  for  the 
people  after  the  sin  of  Achan  (Josh  7  6-9),  although  the 

communications  from  God  to  Joshua  are 
4  Interces-  numerous.  A  faint  intercessory  note  may 
enrv  Prav^r  bo  hl'ard  in  Deborah's  song  (Jgs  5  31), 
?UI  J  -grayer  though  it  is  almost  silenced  by  the  stern  and 
in  Later  warlike  tone  of  the  poem.     ( ;  ideon's  prayer 

History  of  seems  to  reecho  something  of  the  words*  of 
T         i  J  Moses  (Jgs  6  13),  and  accords  with  the  na- 

israei  tional  and  religious  spirit  of  the  great  leader 

who  helped  in  the  formation  of  the  religious 
life  of  his  people  (see  Jgs  6  24),  notwithstanding  the 
evident  lower  plane  on  which  he  stood  (Jgs  8  27),  which 
may  account  partially  for  the  apostasy  after  his  death 

(Jgs  8  33  f).  Manoah's  prayers  (Jgs  13) 
5.  The  Rise  may  De  noted.  (The  satisfaction  of  Micah 
nf  Offirial  at  securing  a  priest  for  his  house,  and  the 
r  . .  subsequent  story,  belong  rather  to  the  his- 
Intercession  tory  of  official  intercession  [Jgs  18;     see 

below],  as  also  the  inquiry  of  the  people 
through  Phinehas  at  Shiloh  [Jgs  20  27  f],  and  the  peo- 
ple's mourning  and  prayer  [Jgs  21   2  f].) 

Samuel  is  the  real  successor  of  Moses,  and  in 
connection  with  his  life;  intercession  again  appears 
more  distinct  and  effective.  Hannah's  song,  though 
chiefly  of  thankfulness,  is  not  without  the  inter- 
cessory spirit  (1  S  2  1-11).  So  also  of  Samuel's 
prayer  at  Mizpeh  (1  S  7  5),  and  the  recognition  by 
the  people  of  Samuel's  place  (1  S  7  8  f ;   sec;  also 


8  6.21;  10  17  25;  12  19)  (for  the  custom  of  in- 
quiring of  the  Lord  through  a  seer  see  1    S  9  <>-10j; 

Samuel's  prayer  for  Saul  (1  S  15  11); 
6.  Samuel  Saul's  failure  to  secure  inquiry  of  God, 
as  an  Inter-  even  through  intercession  (IS  28  6); 
cessor  in  Saul's  final  appeal  through  the  witch 
His  Func-  of  Endor  (1  S  28  7-20);  David's 
tions  as  prayer   to   God    (2  S  7   18);     David's 

Judge,  prayer   for  deliverance  of   the   people 

Priest  and  from  pestilence  (2  S  24  17);  Solo- 
Prophet  mon's  prayer  for  wisdom  to  govern  the 

people  (1  K  3  5-15);  Solomon's  prayer 
at  the  dedication  of  the  temple  (1  K  8  12-61); 
Jeroboam's  appeal  to  the  man  of  God  to  pray  for 
the  healing  of  his  hand  (1  K  13  6);  Elijah's  prayer 
for  the  widow's  son  (1  K  17  20);  Elijah's  prayer 
for  rain  (1  K  18  42);  Elisha's  prayer  for  the 
widow's  son  (2  K  4  33);  Elisha's  prayer  for  the 
opening  of  the  young  man's  eyes  (2  K  6  17); 
Hezekiah's  appeal  to  Isaiah  (2  K  19  4);  Heze- 
kiah's  prayer  (2  K  19  14-19);  Josiah's  command 
for  prayer  concerning  the  "book  that  is  found''  (2  K 
22  13).  In  Ch  we  find  David's  prayer  for  his 
house  (1  Ch  17  16-27j;  David's  prayer  for  de- 
liverance from  the  plague  (21  17);  David's  prayer 
for  the  people  and  for  Solomon  at  the  offering  of 
gifts  for  the  temple  (29  10-19);  Solomon's  prayer 
at  the  consecration  of  the  temple  (2  Ch  6  1-42); 
Asa's  prayer  (14  11);  Jehoshaphat's  prayer  (2  Ch 
20  5-13);  Hezekiah's  prayer  for  the  people  who 
had  not  prepared  to  eat  the  Passover  (2  Ch  30  18); 
Josiah's  command  for  prayer  concerning  the  book 
(34  21).  In  the  Prophets  we  note  Ezra's  prayer 
(Ezr  9  5-15);  Nehemiah's  prayer  (Neh  1  5-11); 
the  prayer  of  the  Levites  for  the  nation  (Neh  9  4- 
38). 

The  poetic  books   furnish   a   few   examples   of  inter- 
cessory prayer:    Job's  intercession  for  his  children   (Job 
1  5);    Job's  regret  at  the  absence  of  inter- 
7    Trit^r  cession  (Job  16  21):    the  Lord's  command 

'•   ~l      .  that  Job  should  pray  for  his  friends  (Job  42 

Cession  in  s).  It  is  remarkable  that  the  references  to 
the  Poetic  intercession  in  the  Pssarefew;  but  it  must 
Books  no*  '"'  forgotten  that  the  psalm  is  generally 

a  lyrical  expression  of  an  intense  subjective 
condition.  This  does  not  seem  in  the  con- 
sciousness of  Israel  to  have  reached  an  altruistic  devel- 
opment. The  Pss  express  very  powerfully  the  sense  of 
obligation  to  God,  consciousness  of  sin,  indignation 
against  the  sin  of  others.  Occasionally  the  patriotic 
spirit  leads  to  prayer  for  Israel:  but  only  rarely  does 
any  deep  sense  of  interest  in  the  welfare  of  others  appear 
to  possess  the  hearts  of  Israel's  singers.  In  Ps  2  12 
there  is  a  hint  of  the  intercessory  ofliee  of  the  Son.  which 
reflects,  perhaps,  tin-  growth  of  the  Messianic  spirit  in 
the  mind  of  Israel;  Ps  20  is  intercession al;  it  is  the 
prayer  of  a  people  for  their  king.  In  Ps  25  22  we  find 
a  prayer  for  the  redemption  of  Israel,  as  in  Ps  28  !>. 
In  Ps  35  13  the  Psalmist  refers  to  his  intercession  for 
others.  But  the  "  prayer  returned  into  mine  own  bosom," 
and  the  final  issue  of  the  prayer  becomes  rather  denun- 
ciatory than  intercessional.  '  The  penitence  of  Ps  51 
rises  into  a  note  of  prayer  for  the  city  (ver  IS).  Some- 
times (Ps  60,  and  perhaps  Ps  67).  the  prayer  is  not  indi- 
vidual but  for  the  community,  though  even  there  it  is 
hardly  intercession.  A  common  necessity  makes  a 
common  prayer.  In  Ps  69  there  is  the  recognition  of 
the  injury  that  folly  and  sin  may  do  to  others,  and  a  kind 
of  compensatory  note  of  intercession  is  heard.  Ps  72 
is  regarded  by  some  as  the  royal  father's  prayer  for  his 
son  and  successor,  but  the  reading  of  the  title  adopted 
by  RV  takes  even  this  psalm  from  the  category  of  inter- 
cession. In  Asaph's  Maschil  (Ps  74).  intercession  is 
more  distinct;  it  is  a  prayer  for  the  sanctuary  and  the 
people  in  their  desolation  and  calamity.  Asaph  appears 
to  have  caught  something  of  the  spirit  of  Moses,  as  in 
Ps  79  he  again  prays  for  the  deliverance  of  Jerus;  while 
a  faint  echo  of  the  intercessory  plea  for  the  nation  is 
heard  in  Ethan's  psalm  (Ps  89).  It  sounds  faintly  in 
Ps  106.  In  Ps  122  we  seem  to  breathe  a  larger  and  more 
liberal  spirit.  It  contains  the  appeal  to  pray  for  the  peace 
of  Jerus  (ver  (>),  as  if  the  later  thought 'of  Israel  had 
begun  to  expand  beyond  the  mere  limits  of  personal 
penitence,  or  desire  for  deliverance,  or  denunciation  of 
the  enemy.  In  one  of  the  Songs  of  Degrees  (Ps  125), 
there  is  the  somewhat  severely  ethical  prayer:  "Do 
good,  O  Jeh.  unto  those  that  are  good."  The  yearning 
for  the  salvation  of  man  as  man  has  not  yet  been  born. 
The  Christ  must  come  before  the  fulness  of  Divine  love 
is  shed   abroad   in   the  hearts  even  of  the   pious.     This 


Intercession 
Inter,  of  Christ 


Till:  INTER NATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1486 


comparative  absence  <if  intercessory  prayer  from  the 
service-book  of  Israel,  anil  ils  collected  expressions  of 
spiritual  experience,  is  instructive.  We  find  continued 
references  lo  those  who  needed  prayer;  but  for  the  most 
part  these  references  are  descriptive  of  their  wickedness, 
or  denunciators  of  tin  ir  hostility  to  the  I'salmist.  The 
Hook  of  I'ss  is  thus  a  st  r  iking  commentary  on  the  grow  t  h 
of  Israel's  spiritual  life.  Intense  as  it  is  in  its  perception 
of  (iod  and  His  claim  on  human  righteousness,  it  is  only 
when  the  supreme  revelation  of  Divine  love  and  the 
regard  for  universal  man  has  appeared  in  the  person  of 
Our  Lord  that  the  large  and  losing  spirit  which  inter- 
cession signifies  is  found  in  t  he  experience  and  expressions 
of  t  he  pious. 

In  the  Wisdom  books  there  is  little,  if  any,  reference  to 
intercession.      Hut    they    deal    rather    with    ethical    char- 
acter, and  often  on  a   merely   providential 

8.  The  and  utilitarian  basis.  It  is  noticeable  that 
„'r.  ,  theonl\  reference  to  pleading  a  cause  is  .said 
Wisdom           (()  |„,  |'1V   ,1,,.   L(in|    Hi„lsi.if  as  against    the 

Books  injustice  of    man    (l'ro\    22   'S.i)  :    "Jell  will 

plead  their  [the  poor's]  cause.''  Action  on 
behalf  of  others  does  not  appear  to  have  been  very 
highly  regarded  by  the  current  ethics  of  the  Israelite. 
A  kind  of  negative  helpfulness  is  indicated  in  I'rov  24 
2S:  "He  not  a  witness  against  thy  neighbor  without 
cause";  and  it  is  significant  that  the  office  of  advocate 
was  not  known  among  the  .lews  until  they  had  come 
under  the  authority  of  Rome,  when,  not  knowing  the 
forms  of  Horn  law,  they  were  obliged  to  secure  the  aid 
of  a  Kom  lawyer  before  the  courts.  Such  practitioners 
were  found  in  the  provinces  (Cic.  pro  Coclio  c.  30) ; 
Tcrtullus  (Acts  24   1)  was  such  an  advocate. 

In  the  prophetical  books  the  note  of   intercession 
reappears.     The  prophet,  though  primarily  a  mes- 
senger   from    (iod    to    man,    has    also 

9.  The  something  of  the  character  of  the;  inter- 
Prophets'  cessor  (sec  Isaiah's  call,  Isa  6).  Isa 
Succession  25,26  exhibit  the  intercessory  char- 
to  Moses  acteristics.  The  request  of  Hezo- 
and  Samuel  kiah    for   the   prayers   of    Isaiah    (Isa 

37  4),  and  the  answer  of  the  Lord 
implied  in  ver  (>,  recall  the  constantly  recurring 
service  of  Moses  to  the  people.  Hezekiah  himself 
becomes  an  intercessor  (vs  14-21).  In  Jer  4  10 
intercession  is  mingled  with  the  words  of  the  messen- 
ger. The  sin  of  the  people  hinders  such  prayers  as 
were  offered  on  their  behalf  (Jer  7  16;  cf  11  14; 
14  11).  Intercessory  prayers  are  found  in  Jer  10 
23  ff;  14  7  ff.  19-22.  The  message  of  Zedekiah  re- 
questing Jeremiah's  help  is  perhaps  an  instance  of 
seer-inquiry  as  much  as  intercession  (Jer  21  1  f; 
cf  1  S  9  19).  In  Jer  42  4,  the  prophet  consents 
to  the  request  of  Johanan  to  seek  the  Lord  on  behalf 
of  the  people.  The  Book  of  Lam  is  naturally  con- 
ceived in  a  more  constantly  recurring  spirit  of  inter- 
cession. In  the  prophecies  Jeremiah  has  been  the 
messenger  of  God  to  the  people.  But,  after  the  ca- 
tastrophe, in  his  sorrow  he  appeals  to  ( lod  for  mercy 
upon  them  (bam  2  20;  5  1.19).  Ezekiel  in  the 
same  way  is  rather  the  seer  of  visions  and  the  pro- 
phetic representative  of  God.  Yet  tit  times  he 
appeals  to  God  for  the  people  (Ezk  9  S;  11  13). 
In  Dnl  we  find  the  intercession  of  his  three  friends 
sought  for  in  order  to  secure  the  revelation  of  the 
king's  dream  (Dnl  2  17);  and  Daniel's  prayer  for 
Jerus  and  her  people  (Dnl  9  16   19). 

In  the  Minor  Prophets  intercession  rarely  appears; 
even  in  the  graphic  pictures  of  Jonah,  though  the 
work  itself  shows  the  enlarging  of  the  conception 
of  Cod's  relation  to  humanity  outside  of  Israel,  the 
prophet  himself  exhibits  no '  tenderness  and  utters 
no  pleas  for  the  city  against  which  he  had  been  sent 
to  prophesy,  and  receives  the  implied  rebuke  from 
the  Lord  for  his  want  of  sympathy,  caring  more  for 
the  perished  gourd  than  for  the  vasl  population  of 
Nineveh,  whom  the  Lord,  however,  pitied  and 
spared  (Jon  4).  Even  the  sublime  prayer  of  Hab 
3  has  only  a  suggestion  of  intercession.'  Zee  6  13 
relieves  the  general  severity  of  the  prophetic  mes- 
sage, consisting  of  the  threat enings  of  judgment, 
by  the  gleam  of  the  promise  of  a  royal  priest  whose 
office  was  partially  thai  of  an  intercessor,  though 
the   picture   is   darkened   by   the   character  of    the 


priesthood  and  the  people,  whose  services  had  been 
selfish,  without  mercy  and  compassion  (Zee  7  4.7). 
Now  the  spirit  of  tenderness,  the  larger  nature,  the 
loving  heart,  are  to  be  restored  to  Israel  (Zee  8  16- 
23).  Other  nations  than  Israel  will  share  in  the 
mercy  of  God.  In  Mai  2  7  we  find  the  priest 
rebuked  for  the  loss  of  his  intercessory  character. 

How  far  intercession  was  regarded  as  a  special 

duty    of    the    priesthood    it    is    not     very    easy    to 

determine.     The    priestly   office   itself 

10.  The  was  undoubtedly  intercessory.     In  the 
Priest  and     offering  of  the  sacrifice  even  for   the 
Intercession  individual,  and  certainly  in  the  nation- 
al functions,  both  of  the  regular  and 

the  occasional  ceremonies,  the  priest  represented  the 
individual  or  the  community.  In  Joel  2  17  the 
priests  are  distinctly  bidden  to  "weep  between  the 
porch  and  the  altar,  and  let  them  say,  Spare  thy 
people,  ()  Jeh."  Mai  1  9  appeals  to  them  for 
intercession  to  ( iod,  and  t  he  graphic  scene  in  1  Mace 
7  33  3<S  shows  the  priests  interceding  on  behalf  of 
the  people  against  Nicanor. 

In  the  NT,  all  prayer  necessarily  Lakes  a  new  form 
from  its  relation    to   Our  Lord,  and  in  this  inter- 
cessory prayer  shares.     At  the  outset, 

11.  Inter-  Christ  leaches  prayer  on  behalf  of 
cession  in  those  ''which  despitefully  use  you" 
the  Gospels  (Mt  5  44  AV).     How  completely  does 

this  change  the  entire  spirit  of  prayer! 
We  breathe  a  new  atmosphere  of  the  higher  revela- 
tion of  love.  The  Lord's  Prayer  (Mt  6  9-13)  is 
of  this  character.  Its  initial  word  is  social,  do- 
mestic; prayer  is  the  address  of  children  to  the 
Lather.  Liven  though  some  of  the  petitions  tire  not 
original,  yet  theirplacein  the  prayer,  and  the  general 
tone  of  the  Master's  teaching,  exhibit  the  social  and 
altruistic  spirit,  not  so  pervasive  of  the  older  dis- 
pensation. "Thy  kingdom  come"  leads  the  order 
of  petitions,  with  its  essentially  intercessory  char- 
acter. The  forgiveness  of  others,  which  is  the 
measure  and  pleaof  our  own  forgiveness,  brings  even 
those  who  have  wronged  us  upon  the  same  plane 
as  ourselves,  and  if  the  plea  be  genuine,  how  can 
we  refuse  to  pray  for  them?  And  if  for  our  enemies, 
then  surely  for  our  friends.  In  Mt  7  11  f,  the 
good  things  sought  of  the  Father  are  to  be  inter- 
preted as  among  those  that  if  we  desire  from  others 
we  should  do  lo  them.  And  from  this  spirit  the 
intercessory  prayer  cannot  be  absent.  We  find  the 
spirit  of  intercession  in  t  he  pleas  of  those  who  sought 
Christ's  help  for  their  friends,  which  He  was  always 
so  quick  to  recognize:  the  centurion  for  his  servant 
(Mt  8  13);  the  friends  of  the  paralytic  (Mt  9  2-6), 
where  the  miracle  was  wrought  on  the  ground  of  the 
friends'  faith.  Of  a  similar  character  are  the  re- 
quests of  the  woman  for  her  child  and  the  Lord's 
response  (Mt  15  2<S);  of  the  man  for  his  lunatic 
son  (17  14-21).  There  is  the  suggestion  of  the 
intercessory  spirit  in  the  law  of  trespass,  specifically 
followed  by  the  promise  of  the  answer  to  the  prayer 
of  the  two  or  three,  agreed  and  in  fellowship  (Mt 
18  15-20),  with  the  immediately  attached  precepts 
of  forgiveness  (vs  21-35).  A  remarkable  instance 
of  intercession  is  recorded  in  Mt  20  20-23,  where 
the  mother  of  Zebedee's  sons  makes  a  request  on 
behalf  of  her  children;  the  added  expression,  "wor- 
shipping him,"  raises  the  occasion  into  one  of  inter- 
cessory prayer.  Our  Lord's  rebuke  is  not  to  the 
prayer,  but  to  its  unwisdom. 

It  is  needless  to  review  the  cases  in  the  other 
Gospels.  But  the  statement  of  Mk  6  5  f,  that 
Christ  could  not  perform  mighty  works  because  of 
unbelief,  sheds  a  flood  of  light  upon  one  of  the  im- 
portant conditions  of  successful  intercession,  when 
contrasted  with  the  healing  conditioned  by  the 
faith  of  others  than  the  healed.  One  of  the  most 
distinct  examples  of  intercessory  prayer  is  that  of 


1487 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Intercession 
Inter,  of  Christ 


the  Lord's  intercession  for  Peter  (Lk  22  31  f),  and 
for  those  who  crucified  Him  (Lk  23  34).  The  place 
of  intercession  in  the  work  of  Christ  is  seen  clearly 
in  Our  Lord's  intercessory  prayer  (see  Intercession 
op"  Christ),  where  it  is  commanded  by  definite 
precept  and  promise  of  acceptance.  The  promise 
of  the  answer  to  prayer  in  the  name  of  Christ  is  very 
definite  (.In  16  24).  Christ's  high-priestly  prayer 
is  the  sublimest  height  of  prayer  to  God  and  is  inter- 
cessory throughout  (Jn  17);  Jn  16  26  does  not, 
as  some  have  held,  deny  His  intercession  for  His 
disciples;  it  only  throws  open  the  approach  to  God 
Himself. 

Acts  introduces  us  to  the  working  of  the  fresh  ele- 
ments which  Christ  gave  to  life.     Hence  the  prayers 

of  the  church  becomcChristian  prayers, 
12.  Inter-  involving  the  wider  outlook  on  others 
cessory  and  on  the  world  at  large  which  Chris- 

Prayers  tianity   has   bestowed   on   men.     The 

of  the  prayer  of  the  assembled  believers  upon 

Church  the  liberation  of  the  apostles  breathes 

this  spirit  (Acts  4  24-30).  The  con- 
secrating prayer  for  the  seven  was  probably  inter- 
cessory (Acts  6  6;  cf  Acts  1  24).  How  pathetic 
is  the  plea  of  Stephen  for  his  murderers  (Acts  7  60)! 
How  natural  is  intercession  (Acts  8  24)!  Peter  at 
Joppa  (Acts  9  40);  the  church  making  prayer  with- 
out ceasing  for  Peter  (Acts  12  5.12);  the  prayer  for 
Barnabas  and  Saul  at  Antioch  (Acts  13  3);  Paul 
and  Barnabas  praying  for  the  churches  (Acts  14  23); 
the  church  at  Antioch  commending  Paul  and  Silas 
to  the  grace  of  God  (Acts  15  40);  Paul  and  the 
elders  of  Ephesus  (Acts  20  36),  are  all  examples, 
more  or  less  defined,  of  intercessory  prayer. 

In  the  Epp.  wc  may  expect  to  find  intercession  more 
distinctly  filled  with  the  relation  of  prayer  through 
Christ.  Paul  Kives  us  many  examples  in 
1^  Tn+er  his  Epp.:  for  the  Romans  (Rom  1  9);  the 
J.O.  xiuei-  Spirit's  interceding  (8  27);  Paul's  prayer 
cession  for  his  race  (10  l);  his  request  for  prayers 

Found  in  (15  30);  the  help  that  he  found  from  the 
ttiP  "RnictlAc  prayer  of  his  friends  (2  Cor  1  11);  prayer 
me  Jipisues  f()r  the  Corinthian  church  (2  Cor  13  7); 
for  the  Ephesians  (Eph  1  16-23 ;  3  14- 
21;  see  also  Eph  6  IS;  Phil  1  3-11.19;  Col  1  :-!.9;  4  3; 
1  Thess  1  2;  5  2:5.25;  2  Thess  1  2);  a  definite  com- 
mand that  intercession  be  made  for  all  men  and  for  kin^s 
and  those  in  authority  (1  Tim  2  1.2);  his  prayer  for 
Timothy  (2  Tim  1  3);  for  Philemon  (ver4);  and  prayer 
to  be  offered  for  the  sick  by  the  elders  of  the  church 
(Jas  5  14-18:    see  also  He  13   18-21;    1  Jn  5    14  ff). 

//.  Intercession  Perfected  in  Christ's  Office  and 
in  the  Church. — This  review  of  the  intercession  of 
the  Scriptures  prepares  us  for  the  development  of 
a  specific  office  of  intercession,  perfectly  realized 
in  Christ.  We  have  seen  Moses  complying  with 
the  people's  request  to  represent  them  before  God. 
In  a  large  and  generous  spirit  the  leader  of  Israel 
intercedes  with  God  for  his  nation.  It  was  natural 
that  this  striking  example  of  intercessory  prayer 
should  be  followed  by  other  leaders,  and  that  the 
gradually  developed  system  of  religious  worship 
should  furnish  the  conception  of  the  priest,  and  esp. 
the  high  priest,  as  the  intercessor  for  those  who  came 
to  the  sacrifice.  This  was  particularly  the  signifi- 
cance of  the  great  Day  of  Atonement,  when  after 
offering  for  himself,  the  high  priest  offered  the  sac- 
rifice for  t  he  whole  people.  This  official  act,  however, 
does  not  do  away  with  the  intercessory  character 
of  prayer  as  offered  by  men.  We  have  seen  how  it 
runs  through  the  whole  history  of  Israel.  But 
it  is  found  much  more  distinctly  in  the  Christian 
life  and  apparently  in  the  practice  of  the  Chris- 
tian assembly  itself.  Paul  continually  refers  to  his 
own  intercessory  prayers,  and  seeks  for  a  similar 
service  on  his  own  behalf  from  those  to  whom  he 
writes.  Intercession  is  thus  based  upon  the  natural 
tendency  of  the  heart  filled  by  love  and  a  deep  sym- 
pathetic sense  of  relation  to  others.  Christ's  inter- 
cessory prayer  is  the  highest  example  and  pattern 


of  this  form  of  prayer.  His  intercessions  for  His 
disciples,  for  His  crucifiers,  are  recorded,  and  the 
sacred  record  rises  to  the  supreme  height  in  the 
prayer  of  Jn  17.  In  this  prayer  the  following  char- 
acteristics are  to  be  found:  (1)  It  is  based  upon  the 
intimate  relation  of  Jesus  to  the  Father.  This 
gives  to  such  prayer  its  justification;  may  it  be  said, 
its  right.  (2)  It  follows  the  completes!  fulfilment 
of  duty.  It  is  not  the  mere  expression  of  desire, 
even  for  others.  It  is  the  crown  of  effort  on  their 
behalf.  He  has  revealed  God  to  His  disciples.  He 
has  given  to  them  God's  words;  therefore  He  prays 
for  them  (Jn  17  6.779).  (3)  It  recognizes  the  Di- 
vine, unbroken  relation  to  the  object  of  the  prayer: 
"1  am  no  more  iti  the  world,  and  these  are  in  the 
world,  and  I  come  to  Thee.  Holy  Father,  keep," 
etc  (ver  11).  (4)  The  supreme  end  of  the  prayer 
is  salvation  from  the  evil  of  the  world  (ver  15). 
(5)  The  wide  sweep  of  the  prayer  and  its  chief  ob- 
jects— unity  with  God,  and  the  presence  with  Christ, 
and  the  indwelling  of  the  Divine  love.  The  prayer 
is  a  model  for  all  intercessory  prayer.  See,  further, 
Intercession  of  Christ;  Prayers  of  Christ; 
Offices  of  Christ. 

///.  Intercession  of  the  Holy  Spirit. — In  connec- 
tion with  the  subject  of  intercession,  there  arises  a 
most  interesting  question  as  to  whether  the  Holy 
Spirit  is  not  presented  in  Scriptures  as  an  inter- 
cessor. The  text  in  which  the  doctrine  seems  to  be 
taught  is  that  of  Rom  8  26  f:  "In  like  manner  the 
Spirit  also  helpcth  our  infirmity:  for  we  know  not 
how  to  pray  as  we  ought ;  but  the  Spirit  himself 
maketh  intercession  for  us  with  groanings  which 
cannot  be  uttered;  and  he  that  searcheth  the  hearts 
knoweth  what  is  the  mind  of  the  Spirit,  because  he 
maketh  intercession  for  the  saints  according  to  the 
will  of  God."  By  far  the  larger  number  of  exposi- 
tors have  understood  by  the  Spirit,  the  Holy  Spirit. 
The  older  commentators,  in  general,  refer  to  the 
Holy  Spirit.  Tholuck,  Ewald,  Philippi,  Meyer, 
most  of  the  Amer.  theologians  and  Eng.  commenta- 
tors, as  Shedd,  Alford,  Jowett,  Wordsworth,  inter- 
pret it  in  the  same  way.  Lange  and  Olshausen 
refer  it  to  the  human  spirit.  Undoubtedly  the 
"groanings"  have  led  to  the  denial  of  the  reference 
to  the  Holy  Spirit.  But  the  very  form  of  the  word 
trd  "helpeth"  indicates  cooperation,  and  this  must 
be  of  something  other  than  the  spirit  of  man  him- 
self. The  undoubted  difficulties  of  the  passage, 
which  are  strongly  urged  by  Lange  (sec;  Lange's 
Comm.  on  Rom  8  26),  must  be  acknowledged.  At 
the  same  time  the  statement  seems  to  be  very  clear 
and  definite.  An  explanation  has  been  given  that 
the  Holy  Spirit  is  here  referred  to  as  dwelling  in  us, 
and  thus  making  intercession.  The  Divine  Spirit 
is  said  to  be  a  Spirit  of  supplication  (Zee  12  10). 
The  distinction  which  is  made  between  the  inter- 
cession of  Christ  in  heaven  in  His  priestly  office 
and  that  of  the  Holy  Spirit  interceding  within  the 
souls  of  believers,  referred  to  by  Shedd  (see  Comm. 
on  Rom),  must  be  carefully  used,  for  if  pressed  to  its 
extreme  it  would  lead  to  the  materialization  and 
localization  of  the  Divine  nature.  Moreover,  may 
not  the  intercession  of  Our  Lord  be  regarded  as 
being  partially  exemplified  in  that  of  the  Spirit 
whom  He  has  declared  to  be  His  agent  and  repre- 
sent at ive?  If  Christ  dwells  in  believers  by  His 
Spirit,  His  intercession,  esp.  if  subjective  in  and  with 
their  spirits,  may  properly  be  described  as  the  inter- 
cession of  the  Holy  Ghost .  Ll.  D.  Bevan 

INTERCESSION  OF  CHRIST:  The  general  con- 
ception of  Our  Lord's  mediatorial  office  is  specially 
summed  up  in  His  intercession  in  which  He  appears 
in  His  high-priestly  office1,  and  also  as  interceding 
with  the  Father  on  behalf  of  that  humanity  whose 
cause  He  had  espoused. 


Inter,  of  Christ 
Interpretation 


THE 


INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1488 


The  function 
Judaism    invoh 
(w 
1.  Christ's     re] 
Intercession 
Viewed  in 
Its  Priestly 
Aspect 


priesthood  as  developed  under 
the  position  of  mediation  he- 
man  and  (iod.  The  priest 
represented  man,  and  on  man's  behalf 
approached  God;  thus  he  offered  sacri- 
hee  interceded  and  gave  to  the  offerer 
whom  he  represented  the  benediction 
and  expression  of  the  Divine  accept- 
ance (For  the  various  forms  oi  these 
■rmi-  sre'  special  articles.)  As  in  sacrifice  so 
the  work  of  Christ,  we  find  the  proprietary  rights 
1(,  uff(.rer  in  the  sacrifice.  For  man,  (  linst  as 
with  man,  and  vet  in  His  own  personal  right 
rs  Himself  (see  Rom  5;  and  cl  Gal  4  5  with 
2  11)  Then1  was  also  the  transfer  oi  guilt 
its  conditions,  tvpieallv  bv  laying  the  hand  on 
ll(..1(|  of  the  animal,  which  then  bore  the  sins  ot 
offerer  anil  was  presented  to  (lod  by  the  priest. 
■  acknowledgment  of  sin  and  the  surrender  to 
1  is  completely  fulfilled  in  Christ's  ottering  oi 
|f    a„d    His' death   (cf    Lev  3  2.S.13;    16  21" 


of  il 

one 

otTer 

11( 

an 

the  1 

the< 

The 

Coil 

Hiuinv-i 

With  Fa  53  b;  2  Cor  5  21).  Our  Fords  intor- 
cessorv  quality  in  the  sacrifice  of  Himself  is  not  only 
indicated  bv'the  imputation  of  guilt  to  Him  as 
representing  the  sinner,  but  also  in  the  victory  ot 
His  life  over  death,  which  is  then  given  to  man  in 
(lod's  acceptance,  of  His  representative  and  sub- 

S  In  the  Ep.  to  the  He,  the  intercessory  character 
of  Our  Ford's  high-priestly  office  is  transferred  to 
the  heavenlv  condition  and  work  of  Christ,  where 
the  relation  of  Christ's  work  to  man's  condition  is 
regarded  as  being  still  continued  in  the-  heavenly 
place  (see  He  9  11-28).  This  entrance  into  heaven 
is  once  for  all,  and  in  the  person  of  the  high  priest 
the  wav  is  open  to  the  very  presence  of  Cod.  From 
one  point  of  view  (He  10  12)  the  priestly  service 
of  the  Ford  was  concluded  and  gathered  up  into 
Hi-  kingly  office  (vs  13.1  1-18).  Hut  from  another 
point  of  view,  we  ourselves  are  bidden  to  enter  into 
the  Holiest  Place;  as  if  in  union  with  Christ  we  too 
become  a  kingly  priesthood  (He  10  19-22;  and 
cf  1   Fet   2  9).  . 

It  must  not  he  forgotten,  however,  that  this  right 
of  entrance  into  the  most  Holy  Place  is  one  that 
depends  entirely  upon  our  vital  union  with  Christ, 
He  appears  in  heaven  for  us  and  we  with  Him,  and 
in  this  sense  He  fulfils  the  second  duty  of  His  high- 
priestly  office  as  intercessor,  with  the  added  con- 
ception drawn  from  the  legal  advocacy  of  the  Rom 
court.  The  term  trd  "Advocate"  in  1  Jn  2  2  is 
7rapck\7?Tos,  pardkletos,  which  in  Jn  14  16  is  trd 
"Comforter."  The  word  is  of  familiar  use  in  Or 
for  the  legal  advocate  or  patronus  who  appeared 
on  behalf  of  his  client.  Thus,  in  the  double  sense 
of  priestly  and  legal  representative,  Our  Lord  is  our 
intercessor  in   Heaven. 

Of  the  modes  in  which  Christ  carries  out  His  inter- 
cessory office,  we  can  have  no  knowledge  except  so 
far  as' we  may  fairly  deduce  them  from  the  phrase- 
ology and  suggested  ideas  of  Scripture.  As  high 
priest,  it  may  surely  be  right  for  us  to  aid  our  weak 
faith  by  assuring  ourselves  that  Our  Ford  pleads 
for  us,  while  at  the  same  time  we  must  be  careful 
not  to  deprave  our  thought  concerning  the  glorified 
Lord  by  the  metaphors  and  analogies  of  earthly 
relat  ionship. 

The  intercessory  work  of  Christ  may  thus  be 
represented:  He  represents  man  before  God  in  His 
perfect  nature,  His  exalted  office  and  His  completed 
work.  The  Scripture  word  for  this  is  (He  9  24) 
"to  appear  before  the  face  of  God  for  us."  There 
is  also  an  active  intercession.  This  is  the  office  of 
Our  Ford  as  advocate  or  parakletos.  That  this 
conveys  some  relation  to  the  aid  which  one  who  has 
broken  the  law  receives  from  an  advocate  cannot 
be  overlooked,  and  we  find  Christ's  intercession  in 


this  aspect  brought   into  connection  with  the  texts 
which  refer  to  justification  and  its  allied  ideas  (see 

Rom  8  34;    1  Jn  2  1).  *,,.,, 

In  Pkwkks  of  Christ  (q.v.),  the  intercessory 
character  of  many  of  Our  Ford's  prayers,  and  esp. 
that  of  .In  17,  is  considered.  ^  And  it 
2  Christ's  has  been  impossible  for  Christian 
Intercessory  thought  to  divest  itself  of  the  idea 
Work  from  that  the  heavenly  intercession  ot  Christ, 
the  Stand-  is  of  the  order  of  prayer.  It  is  nii- 
pointof  possible  for  us  to  know;    and  even  it 

Prayer  Chrisl  now  prays  to  the  Father,  it  can 

be  in  no  way  analogous  to  earthly 
pravers  The  thought  of  some  portion  of  Christen- 
dom dist  'met  lv  combined  prayer  in  the  heavenly  work 
of  the  Lord.  There  is  danger  in  extreme  views. 
Scriptural  expressions  must  not  be  driven  too  tar 
and  on  the  other  hand,  they  must  not  be  emptied 
of  all  their  contents.  Modern  Protestant  teaching 
has  in  its  protest  against  a  merely  physical  concep- 
tion of  Our  Lord's  state  and  occupation  in  heaven, 
almost  sublimed  reality  from  His  intercessory  work 
Hi  Lutheran  teaching  the  intercession  of  Our  Lord 
was  said  to  be  "vocal,"  "verbal"  and  "oral.  It,  has 
been  well  remarked  that  such  forms  of  prayer  re- 
quire flesh  and  blood,  and  naturally  the  teachers  ot 
the  Reformed  churches,  for  the  most  part,  have  con- 
tented themselves  (as  for  example  Hodge,  hyst. 
Thcol  11  593)  with  the  declaration  that  'the 
intercession  of  Christ  includes:  (1)  His  appearing 
before  God  in  our  behalf,  as  the  sacrifice  for  our 
sins,  as  our  high  priest,  on  the  ground  of  whose 
work  we  receive  the  remission  of  our  sins,  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  all  needed  good;  (2)  de- 
fence against  the  sentence  of  the  law  and  the  charges 
of  Satan,  who  is  the  great  accuser;  (3)  His  offering 
Himself  as  our  surety,  not  only  that  the  demands  of 
justice  shall  be  shown  to  be.  satisfied,  but  that  Mis 
people  shall  be  obedient  and  faithful;  (4)  the  obla- 
tion of  the  persons  of  the  redeemed,  sanctifying 
their  prayers,  and  all  their  services,  rendering  them 
acceptable  to  God,  through  the  savor  of  his  own 
merits."  ... 

Even  this  expression  of  the  elements  which  con- 
stitute the  intercession  of  the  Lord,  cautious  and 
spiritual  as  it  is  in  its  application  to  Christian 
thought  and  worship,  must  be  carefully  guarded 
from  a  too  complete  and  materialistic  use  With- 
out this  care,  worship  and  devout  thought  may 
become  degraded  and  fall  into  the  mechanical  forms 
bv  which  Our  Lord's  posilion  of  intercessor  has 
been  reduced  to  very  lit  tie  more  than  an  nnagmat  ive 
and  spectacular  process  which  goes  on  in  some 
heavenly  place.  It  must  not  be  forgotten  that  the 
metaphorical  and  symbolic  origin  of  the;  ideas  which 
constitute  Christ's  intercession  is  always  in  danger 
of  dominating  and  materializing  the  spiritual  real- 
ity of  His  intercessional  office.        Ll.  D.  Bevan 

INTEREST,  in'ter-est  (tJTTO ,  neshekh,  SE£, 
mashsha';  tokos,  tokos):     The  Heb  word  neshekh  is 

from  a  root  which  means  "to  bite";  thus  interest  is 
"something  bitten  off."  The  other  word,  mashsha  , 
means  "lending  on  interest."  The  Gr  term  is  from 
the  root  tlkto,  "to  produce"  or  "beget,"  hence  in- 
terest is  something  begotten  or  produced  by  money. 
The  Heb  words  are  usually  trd  "usury,"  but  this 
meant  the  same  as  interest,  all  interest  being  reck- 
oned as  usury. 

Long  before  Abraham's  time  money  had  been 
loaned  at  a  fixed  rate  of  interest  in  Babylonia  and 
almost  certainly  in  Egypt.  The  CH  gives  regula- 
t  ions  regarding  the  lending  and  borrowing  of  money, 
the  usual  interest  being  20  per  cent.  Sometimes 
it  was  only  llf  and  13J-,  as  shown  by  contract  tab- 
Ids.  In  one  case,  if  the  loan  was  not  paid  in  two 
months,  18   per   cent   interest   would   be   charged. 


1489 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Inter,  of  Christ 
Interpretation 


Corn,  dates,  onions,  etc,  were  loaned  at  interest. 
Thus  Moses  and  Israel  would  be  familiar  with  com- 
mercial loans  and  interest.  In  Israel  there  was  no 
system  of  credit  or  commercial  loans  in  Moses'  time 
and  after.  A  poor  man  borrowed  because  he  was 
poor.  The  law  of  Moses  (Ex  22  25)  forbade  loan- 
ing at  interest .  There  was  to  be  no  creditor  and  no 
taker  of  interest  among  them  (Lev  25  36.37)._  Dt 
permits  them  to  lend  on  interest  to  a  foreigner 
(Dt  23  19.20j,  but  not  to  a  brother  Israelite.  That 
this  was  considered  the  proper  thing  in  Israel  for 
centuries  is  seen  in  Ps  15  5,  while  Prov  28  8  im- 
plies that  it  was  an  unusual  thing,  interest  being 
generally  exacted  and  profit  made.  Ezekiel  con- 
demns it  as  a  heinous  sin  (Ezk  18  8.13.17)  and  holds 
up  the  ideal  of  righteousness  as  not  taking  interest 
(22  12).  Isa  24  2  implies  that  it  was  a  business 
in  that  age,  the  lender  and  borrower  being  social 
types.  Jeremiah  implies  that  there  was  not  always 
t'h(^  best  feeling  between  lenders  and  borrowers 
(15  10).  According  to  Neh  5  7.10,  rich  Jews  were 
lending  to  others  and  exacting  heavy  interest.  Ne- 
heniiah  condemns  such  conduct  and  forbids  its  con- 
tinuance, citing  himself  as  an  example  of  lending 
without  interest.  The  lenders  restored  1  per  cent 
of  that  exacted. 

In  the  NT,  references  to  interest  occur  in  the 
parable  of  the  Pounds  (Lk  19  23)  and  of  the  Talents 
(Mt  25  27).  Here  the  men  were  expected  to  put 
their  master's  money  out  at  interest,  and  condem- 
nation followed  the  failure  to  do  so.  Thus  the 
principle  of  receiving  interest  is  not  condemned  in 
the  OT,  only  it  was  not  to  be  taken  from  a  brother 
Israelite1.  In  the  NT  it  is  distinctly  encouraged. 
See  also  Usury.  J.J.  Reeve 

INTERMEDDLE,  in-ter-med"l  (2^7,  Karabh, 
"to  mix  up  [self]  with  something,"  "mingle  in," 
''share,"  "take  interest  in"):  The  word  occurs  only 
once  (Prov  14  10)  in  a  passage  descriptive  of  "the 
ultimate  solitude  of  each  man's  soul  at  all  times." 
"The  heart  knoweth  it  sown  bitterness." 

"Nor  even  the  tenderest  heart,  and  next  our  own, 
Knows  half  the  reasons  why  we  smile  and  sigh." 

(Cf  1  K  8  38.)  Something  there  is  in  every  sorrow 
which  no  one  else  can  share.  "And  a  stranger  doth 
not  intermeddle  with  its  joy,"  not  necessarily  in  an 
interfering  or  any  offensive  way,  but  simply  does 
not  share  or  take  any  interest  in  the  other's  joy. 

For  "intermeddleth  with"  (Prov  18  1  AV),  RV 
gives  "rageth  against"  (in  "quarrelleth  with"). 

M.  ().  Evans 

INTERMEDIATE,  in-ter-me'di-at,  STATE.    See 

EsCHATOLOGY  OF  THE   NT. 

INTERPRETATION,  in-tur-pre-ta'shun:  Is  a 
generic  term  and  may  refer  to  any  work  of  litera- 
ture. Referred  specifically  to  the  sacred 
1.  General  Script  ures,  the  science  of  interpretat  ion 
Principles  is  generally  known  as  hermeneuties, 
while  the  practical  application  of  the 
principles  of  this  science  is  exegesis.  In  nearly  all 
cases,  interpretation  has  in  mind  the  thoughts  of 
another,  and  then,  further,  these  thoughts  expressed 
in  another  language  than  that  of  the  interpreter.  In 
this  sense  it  is  used  in  Bib.  research.  A  person  has 
interpreted  the  thoughts  of  another  when  he  has 
in  his  own  mind  a  correct  reproduction  or  photo- 
graph of  the  thought  as  it  was  conceived  in  the  mind 
of  the  original  writer  or  speaker.  It  is  accordingly 
a  purely  reproductive  process,  involving  no  origi- 
nality of  thought  on  the  part  of  the  interpreter.  If 
the  latter  adds  anything  of  his  own  it  is  eisegesis 
and  not  exegesis.  The  moment  the  Bible  student 
has  in  his  own  mind  what  was  in  the  mind  of  the 
author  or  authors  of  the  Bib.   books  when  these 


were  written,  he  has  interpreted  the  thought  of  the 
Scriptures. 

The  interpretation  of  any  specimen  of  literature 
will  depend  on  the  character  of  the  work  under 
consideration.  A  piece  of  poetry  and  a  chapter  of 
history  will  not  be  interpreted  according  to  the  same 
principles  or  rules.  Particular  rules  that  are  legiti- 
mate in  the  explanation  of  a  work  of  fiction  would 
be  entirely  out  of  place  in  dealing  with  a  record  of 
facts.  Accordingly,  the  rules  of  the  correct  inter- 
pretation of  the  Scriptures  will  depend  upon  the 
character  of  these  writings  themselves,  and  the 
principles  which  an  interpreter  will  employ  in  his 
interpretation  of  the  Scriptures  will  be  in  harmony 
with  his  ideas  of  what  the  Scriptures  art;  as  to  origin, 
character,  history,  etc.  In  the  nature  of  the  case 
the  dogmatical  stand  of  the  interpreter  will  mate- 
rially influence  his  hermeneuties  and  exegesis.  In 
the  legitimate  sense  of  the  term,  every  interpreter 
of  the  Bible  is  "prejudiced,"  i.e.  is  guided  by  certain 
principles  which  he  holds  antecedently  to  his  work 
of  interpretation.  If  the  modern  advanced  critic 
is  right  in  maintaining  that  the  Bib.  books  do  not 
differ  in  kind  or  character  from  the  religious  books 
of  other  ancient  peoples,  such  as  the  Indians  or  the 
Persians,  then  the  same  principles  that  he  applies 
in  the  case  of  the  Rig  Veda  or  the  Zend  A  vesta  he 
will  employ  also  in  his  exposition  of  the  Scriptures. 
If,  on  the  oilier  hand,  the  Bible  is  for  him  a  unique 
collection  of  writings,  Divinely  inspired  and  a  reve- 
lation from  the  source  of  all  truth,  the  Bible  student 
will  hesitate  long  before  accepting  contradictions, 
errors,  mistakes,  etc,  in  the  Scriptures. 

The  Scriptures  are  a  Divine  and  human  product 
combined.  That  the  holy  men  of  God  wrote  as 
they  were  moved  by  the  Spirit  is  the 
2.  Special  claim  of  the  Scriptures  themselves. 
Principles  Just  where  the  line  of  demarkation  is 
to  be  drawn  between  the  human  and 
the  Divine  factors  in  the  production  of  the  sacred 
Scriptures  materially  affects  the  principles  of  inter- 
preting these  writings  (see  Inspiration).  That  tin; 
human  fad  or  was  sufficiently  potent  to  shape  the 
form  of  thought  in  the  Scriptures  is  evident  on  all 
hands.  Paul  does  not  write  as  Peter  does,  nor  John 
as  James;  the  individuality  of  the  writer  of  the 
different  books  appears  not  only  in  the  style,  choice; 
of  words,  etc,  but  in  the  whole  form  of  thought  also. 
There  are  such  things  as  a  Pauline,  a  Johannine 
and  a  Petrine  type  of  Christian  thought,  although 
there  is  only  one  body  of  Christian  truth  under- 
lying all  types.  In  so  far  as  the  Bible  is  exactly 
like  other  books,  it  must  be  interpreted  as  we  do 
other  works  of  literature.  The  Scriptures  are 
written  in  Heb  and  in  Gr,  and  the  principles  of 
forms  and  of  syntax  that  would  apply  to  the  ex- 
planation of  other  works  written  in  these  lan- 
guages and  under  these  circumstances  must  be 
applied  to  the  OT  and  NT  also.  Again,  the  Bible 
is  written  for  men,  and  its  thoughts  are  those  of 
mankind  and  not  of  angels  or  creatures  of  a  differ- 
ent or  higher  spiritual  or  intellectual  character; 
and  accordingly  there  is  no  specifically  Bib.  logic, 
or  rhetoric,  or  grammar.  The  laws  of  thought  and 
of  the  interpretation  of  thought  in  these  matters 
pertain  to  the  Bible  as  they  do  to  other  writings. 

But  in  regard  to  the  material  contents  of  the 
Scriptures,  matters  are  different  and  the  principles 
of  interpretation  must  be  different.  God  is  the 
author  of  the  Scriptures  which  He  has  given  through 
human  agencies.  Hence  the  contents  of  the 
Scriptures,  to  a  great  extent,  must  be  far  above  the 
ordinary  concepts  of  the  human  mind.  When 
John  declares  that  God  so  loved  the  world  that  He 
gave  His  only  begotten  Son  to  redeem  it,  the  inter- 
preter does  not  do  justice  to  the  writer  if  he  finds 
in  the  word  "God"  only  the  general  philosophical 


Interpretation        TjjK   INTERNATIONAL  STAND 
Ir-ha-heres 

conception  of  the  Deity  and  not  that  God  who  is 
,.  ,.lltll(,.  ,hrough  Christ;  font  was  the  latin 
thought  tlKUwasinthemmclofthewnterwhenle 
,„,„„,!  these  words.  Thus,  too,  K  is  a  false  m  cr- 
L-Cition  to  find  in  "<>ur  l'*sit hor  anything  bu 
his  specifically  Bib.  conception  of  Cod,  nor  is  it 
possible  for  anybody  but  a  believing  Christian  to 
utter  this  praver(Mt  6  9)  in  the  sense  which  Christ, 
who  taught  it  to  His  disciples  intended. 

\,,im  the  example  of  Christ  and  His  disciples 
in 'their  treatment  of  the  <)T  teaches  the  principle, 
that  the  ipse  dixit  of  a  Scriptural  passage  is  to  be 
interpreted  as  decisive  as  to  its  meaning  In  flu, 
■  Tout  loi)  citations  from  the  <>1  found  in  the  .\  [ 
there  is  not  one  in  which  i  he  mere  "It  is  written 
is  not  regarded  as  settling  its  meaning.  Whatever 
in.iv  be  a  Bible  student's  theory  ol  inspiration,  the 
teachings  and  the  examples  of  interpretation  found 
in  the  Scriptures  are  in  perfect  harmony  in  tins 
mallei'.  .        ,       . 

These  latter  facts,  too,  show  that  in  the  inter- 
pretation of  the  Scriptures  principles  must  be  ap- 
plied that  are  not  applicable  in  the  explanation  oi 
olht,.  |„)(1ks.  As  Cod  is  the  author  ot  the  Scrip- 
tures He  mav  have  had,  and,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  in 
certain  cases'  did  have  in  mind  more  than  the  human 
agents  through  whom  He  spoke  did  themselves 
understand.  The  fact  that,  in  the  NT,  persons 
like  Aaron  and  David,  institutions  like  the  law, 
the  sacrificial  svstem,  the  priesthood  and  the  like, 
are  interpreted'  as  typical  of  persons  and  things 
under  the  New  Covenant  shows  that  the  true 
significance,  e.g.  of  the  Levitical  system,  can  be 
found  only  when  studied  in  the  light  of  the  JN  1 
fulfilment.  ... 

Again,  the  principle  of  parallelism,  not  tor  illus- 
trative but  for  argumentative  purposes,  is  a  rule 
that  can,  in  thenatureof  the  case,  be  applied  to  the 
interpretation  of  the  Scriptures  alone  and  not  else- 
where. As  the  Scriptures  represent  one  body  of 
truth,  though  in  a  kaleidoscopic  variety  of  forms, 
a  statement  on  a  particular  subject  in  one  place 
can  be  accepted  as  in  harmony  with  a  statement,  on 
the  same  subject  elsewhere.  In  short,  in  all  of 
those  characteristics  in  which  the  Scriptures>  are 
unlike  other  literary  productions,  the  principles 
of  interpretation  of  the  Scriptures  must  also  be 
unlike  those  employed  in  other  cases. 

Owing  chiefly  to  the  dogmatical  basis  of  her- 
meneuties  as  a  science,  there  has  been  a  great  di- 
vergence of  views  in  the  history  of  the 
3.  Histori-  church  as  to  the  proper  methods  of 
cal  Data  interpretation.  It  is  one  of  the  char- 
acteristic and  instructive  features  of 
the  NT  writers  that  they  absolutely  refrain  from  the 
allegorical  method  of  interpretation  current  in  those 
times,  particularly  in  the  writings  of  Philo.  -Not 
even  Cal  4  22,  correctly  understood,  is  an  excep- 
tion, since  this,  if  an  allegorical  interpretation  at 
all,  is  an  argumentum  ad  hominem.  The  sober  and 
grammatical  method  of  interpretation  in  the  NT 
writers  stands  out,  too,  in  bold  and  creditable  con- 
trast to  that  of  the  early  Christian  exegetes,  even 
of  Origen.  Only  the  Syrian  fathers  seemed  to  be 
an  exception  to  the  fantasies  of  the  allegorical 
methods.  The  Middle  Ages  produced  nothing 
new  in  this  sphere;  but  the  Reformation,  with  its 
formal  principle  that  the  Bible  and  the  Bible  alone 
is  the  rule  of  faith  and  life,  made  the  correct  gram- 
matical interpretation  of  the  Scriptures  practically 
a  matter  of  necessity.  In  modern  times,  not  at  all 
prolific  in  scientific  discussions  of  hermeneutical 
principles  and  practices,  the  exegetical  methods  of 
different  interpreters  are  chiefly  controlled  by  their 
views  as  to  the  origin  and  character  of  the  Scrip- 
tural books,  particularly  in  regard  to  their  inspi- 
ration. 


AJID  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1490 


L.tkrature.— Terry,  Bib.  Hermfneutics,  New  York, 
isst  Here  the  literature  is  fully  given,  as  also  in  Weid- 
ncr's  Thiol,  line,  1,  260  tr. 

G.    H.    SCHODDE 

INTERPRETATION  OF  TONGUES.  See 
ToM.I'KS,  Interpretation  of. 

INTERROGATION,  in-ter-o-ga'shun  (^pci-n^a, 

vnerdtema):  This  word  is  not  found  at  all  in 
\V  and  once  only  in  ARV  (1  Pet  3  21),  where 
it  replaces  the  word  "answer"  of  AV.  This  change 
according  to  Alford  and  Bengel  is  correct.  "The 
interrogation  of  a  good  conscience"  may  refer  to 
the  question  asked  of  a  convert  before  baptism  (cf 
Acts  8  37),  or  the  appeal  of  the  convert  to  God  (cf 

1  Jn  3  20-21).  The  opportunity  to  do  this  was 
given  in  bapt  ism. 

INTER-TESTAMENTAL,  in-t  er-t  es-t  a-men't  al, 
HISTORY  AND  LITERATURE.       See  Between 

the  Testaments. 

INTREAT,  in-t  ret',  INTREATY,  in-t  ret 'i  (EN- 
TREAT): The  two  forms  are  derived  from  the  same 
vb.  In  Kill  the  spelling  was  indifferently  "m- 
treat"  or  "entreat."  In  editions  of  AV  since  1760 
"intreat"  is  used  in  the  sense  of  "to  beg";  "en- 
treat" in  the  sense  of  "deal  with."  As  examples  of 
"intreat"  see  Ex  8  S,  "Intreat  the  Lord"  (cd'ak); 
Ruth  1  16,  "Intreat  me  not  to  leave  thee"  {paghaK); 

2  Cor  8  4,  "praying  us  with  much  intreaty"  (Trapd- 
KXyo-is,  pardklesis).  In  Gen  25  21  "intreat"  is 
used  to  indicate  the  success  of  a  petition.  For 
entreat  see  Gen  12  16,  "He  entreated  Abraham 
well";  Acts  27  3,  "And  Julius  courteously  en- 
treated Paul"  ((piXa.vdpuTrws  xPV<T^/J-ev0S,  philanth.ro- 
pos  chresdmenos,  lit.  "to  use  in  a  philanthropic 
way");  cf  also  Jas  3  17,  where  euweiOrjs,  eupeitMs, 
lit.  "easily  persuaded,"  istrd  "easy  to  be  entreated." 

RV  changes  all  passages  of  AV  where  "intreat"  is 
found  to  "entreat,"  with  the  exception  of  those 
mentioned  below.  The  meaning  of  "entreat"  is 
"to  ask,"  "to  beseech,"  "to  supplicate":  Job  19  17 
reads  "and  my  supplication  to  the  children"  (han- 
nothi,  AV  "though  I  intreated  for  the  children," 
RVm  "I  make  supplication").  Jer  15  11  reads,  "I 
will  cause  the  enemy  to  make  supplication"  (hiph- 
gaHl),  instead,  AV  "I  will  cause  the  enemy  to  en- 
treat"  (RVm  "I  will  intercede  for  thee  with  the 
enemy").  1  Tim  5  1  changes  AV  "intreat"  to 
••exhort."  Phil  4  3  renders  AV  "entreat"  by  "be- 
seech." Russell  Benjamin  Miller 

INWARD,  in'werd,  MAN:  A  Pauline  term, 
nearly  identical  with  the  "hidden  man  of  the  heart" 
(1  Pet  3  4).  The  Gr  original,  6  eVw  (also  eo-udev) 
&vdpwTros,  ho  eso  {esotheri)  dnthropos  (Rom  7  22)  is 
lexigraphically  defined  "the  internal  man,"  i.e. 
"soul,"  "conscience."  It  is  the  immaterial  part 
of  man — mind,  spirit — in  distinction  from  the  "out- 
ward man"  which  "perishes"  (2  Cor  4  16  AV). 
As  the  seat  of  spiritual  influences  it  is  the  sphere  in 
which  the  Holy  Spirit  does  His  renewing  and  saving 
work  (Eph  3  16).  The  term  "inward  man"  can- 
not be  used  interchangeably  with  "the  new  man,'^ 
for  it  may  still  be  "corrupt,"  and  subject  to  "vanity' 
and  "alienated  from  the  life  of  God."  Briefly 
stated,  it  is  mind,  soul,  spirit — God's  image  in  man- 
man's  higher  nature,  intellectual,  moral,  and  spirit- 
ual. Dwight  M.  Pratt 

INWARD  PART:  A  symbolic  expression  in  the 
OT  represented  by  three  Heb  words:  "Hn  ,  hedher, 
"chamber,"  hence  inmost  bowels  or  breast;  FlT!^  , 
tuhoth,  "the reins";  2"1J?,  kerebh,  "midst,"  "middle," 
hence  heart.  Once  in  the  NT  (eo-wdev,  esothen, 
"from  within,"    Lk  11  39).      The    viscera    (heart, 


1491 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Interpretation 
Ir-ha-heres 


liver,  kidneys)  were  supposed  by  the  ancients  to  be 
the  seat  of  the  mind,  feelings,  affections:  the  high- 
est organs  of  the  psyche,  "the  soul."  The  term  in- 
cludes the  intellect  ("wisdom  in  the  inward  parts," 
Job  38  3G);  the  moral  nature  ("inward  part  is  very 
wickedness,"  Ps  5  9);  the  spiritual  ("my  law  in 
their  inward  parts,"  Jer  31  33).  Its  adverbial 
equivalent  in  Bib.  use  is  "inwardly."  Inward 
Man  (q.v.)  is  identical  in  meaning. 

D wight  M.  Pratt 
IOB,  yob  (Sli ,  yobh;  AV  Job) :  Third  son  of 
Issachar  (Gen  46  13).  In  |]  passages  (Nu  26  24; 
1  Ch  7  1)  the  name  is  Jashub  (31TZT,  yashubh), 
which  the  VSS  in  Gen  also  support  as  the  correct 
form. 

IPHDEIAH,  if-de'ya  (rVHE"! ,  yiphd'ydh,  "Jeh 
redeems";  AV  Iphedeiah) :  A  descendant  of  Benja- 
min (1  Ch  8  2.5). 

IPHTAH,  if'ta  (nns^ ,  yiphtah;  AV  Jiphtah): 
An  unidentified  town  in  the  Shephelah  of  Judah, 
named  with  Libnah,  Ether  and  Ashan  (Josh  15  43). 

IPHTAH-EL,  if'ta-el  (bSTnr^ ,  yiphtah-'el; 
AV  Jiphtah-el):  The  valley  of  Iphtah-el  lay  on 
the  N.  border  of  Zebulun  (Josh  19  14.27).  N.W. 
of  the  plain  of  el-Battauf  stands  a  steep  hill,  con- 
nected only  by  a  low  saddle  with  the  hills  on  the 
N.  The  name  Tell  Jefat  suggests  the  Jotapata  of 
Jos  (BJ,  III,  vi,  i;  vii,  i,  etc),  and  the  place  answers 
well  to  his  description.  It  probably  corresponds  to 
the  ancient  Iphtah-el.  In  that  cast1  the  valley  is 
most  probably  that  which  begins  at  Tell  Jefat, 
passes  round  the  S.  of  Jebel  Kaukab,  and,  as  Wddy 
'AbclllH,  opens  on  the  plain  of  Acre.     \Y.  Ewing 

IR,  ir  H^y,  Hr):  A  descendant  of  Benjamin 
(1  Ch  7  12),  called  Iri  in  ver  7. 

IRA,  I'ra  (KT^,  W;  Etpas,  Eiras): 

(1)  A  person  referred  to  in  2  S  20  26  as  "priest" 
(so  RV  correctly;  AV  "a  chief  ruler,"  ARV  "chief 
minister")  unto  David.  The  tr  of  RV  is  the  only 
possible  one;  but,  according  to  the  text,  Ira  was 
"a  Jairite,"  and  thus  of  the  tribe  of  Manasseh  (Nu 
32  41)  and  not  eligible  to  the  priesthood.  On  the 
basis  of  the  Pesh  some  would  correct  "Jairite"  of 
2  S  20  26  into  "Jattirite,"  referring  to  Jattir,  a 
priestly  city  within  the  territory  of  Judah  (Josh 
21  14).  Others  point  to  2  S  8  IS  m,  "David's 
sons  were  priests,"  as  an  indication  that  in  David's 
time  some  non-Levites  were  permitted  to  serve — 
in  some  sense — as  priests. 

(2)  An  "Ithrite,"  or  (with  a  different  pointing  of 
the  text)  a  "Jattirite,"  one  of  David's  "thirty" 
(2S  23  38  1  Ch  11  40);  possibly  identical  with  (1). 

(3)  Another  of  David's  "thirty,"  son  of  Ikkesh 
of  Tekoa  (2  S  23  26;  1  Ch  11  28)  and  a  captain 
of  the  temple  guard  (1  Ch  27  9).        F.  K.  Farr 

IRAD,  I'rad  (TY^,  Hradh;  LXN  TatSaS,  Gai- 
ddd) :  Grandson  of  Cain  and  son  of  Enoch  (( Jen 
4  18). 

IRAM,  I'ram  (Cl"1?  ;  Hram;  LXX  variously  in 
Gen):  A  "chief "  of  Edom  (Gen  36  43  ||  1  Ch  1  54). 

IR-HA-HERES,  ir-ha-he'rez  (Cnnn  "P? ,  Hr  ha- 
heres,  according  to  the  MT,  Aq,  Theodotion,  LXX, 

AV  and  RV;  according  to  some  Heb  MSS,  Sym- 
machus,  and  the  Vulg,  C"inn  "Y^,  %r  ha-heres):  A 
city  of  Egypt  referred  to  in  Isa  19  18.  Jewish 
quarrels  concerning  the  temple  which  Onias  built  in 
Egypt  have  most  probably  been  responsible  for  the 
altering  of  the  texts  of  some  of  the  early  MSS,  and 


it  is  not  now  possible  to  determine  absolutely  which 
have  been  altered  and  which  accord  with  the  original. 
This  difference  in  MSS  gives  rise  to  different  opinions 
among  authorities  here  to  be  noted.  Most  of  the 
discussion  of  this  name  arises  from  this  uncertainty 
and  is  hence  rather  profitless. 

The  starting-point  of  any  proper  discussion  of  Ir- 
ha-h  is  that  the  words  are  by  Isaiah  and  that  they 
are  prophecy,  predictive  prophecy.  They  belong 
to  that  portion  of  the  prophecies  of  Isa  which  by 
nearly  all  critics  is  allowed  to  the  great  prophet. 
Nothing  but  unfounded  speculation  or  an  unwill- 
ingness to  admit  that  there  is  any  predict  ive  proph- 
ecy can  call  in  question  Isaiah's  authorship  of  these 
words.  Then  the  sense  of  the  passage  in  which  t  hese 
words  occur  imperatively  demands  that  they  be 
accounted  predictive  prophecy.  Isaiah  plainly  refers 
to  the  future,  "shall  be  called" ;  and  makes  a  definite 
statement  concerning  what  shall  take  place  in  the 
future  (19  18-24).  •  The  reality  of  predictive 
prophecy  may  be  discussed  by  those  so  inclined, 
but  that  the  intention  of  the  author  here  was  to 
utter  predictive  prophecy  does  not  seem  to  be  open 
to  question.  For  the  verification  of  this  prediction 
by  its  fulfilment  in  history  we  shall  inquire  con- 
cerning: (1)  the  times  intended:  "that  day";  (2) 
the  "five  cities";   (3)  "Ir-ha-heres." 

The  prophet  gives  a  fairly  specific  description  of 

"that  day."     It  was  at  least  to  begin  when  "there 

shall  be  five  eit  ies  in  the  land  of  Egypt 

1.  The  that  speak  the  language  of  Canaan, 
Times  In-  and  swear  to  Jeh  of  hosts"  (ver  18), 
tended:  and  "In  that  day  shall  there  be  an 
"That  Day"  altar  to  Jeh  in  the  midst  of  the  land  of 

Egypt ,  and  a  pillar  at  the  border  there- 
of to  Jeh"  (ver  19).  There  was  to  be  also  some 
inroad  made  upon  the  heathenism  of  Egypt  by 
the  message  of  the  Lord  (vs  21  f),  and  about  that 
time  a  deliverer  should  arise  in  Egypt  (ver  20),  and 
all  this  should  take  place  before  the  power  of  the 
land  of  Assyria  should  pass  away  (vs  23  f). 

The  first  historical  fulfilment   of  these  words  is 
found  at  the  period  when  Onias  built  his  imitation  of 

the  Temple  of  Jerusalem  at  the  place 

2.  The  called  by  the  Greeks  Leontopolis  (Tell 
"Five  el-Yehudiyeh),  and  the  worship  of 
Cities"           Jeh  was  set  up  at  Elephantine,  and  the 

Jews  were  a  great  power  at  Alexandria 
and  at  Tahpanhes.  While  any  of  these  latter  three 
might  have  contained  the  "pillar,"  the  "altar"  would 
thus  be  either  at  Leontopolis  or  the  other  one  of  the 
"five  cities"  which  cannot  be  named  with  much 
probability.  The  great  deliverer  would  seem  to  be 
Alexander.  Some  think  that  the  conversion  of  the 
Egyptians  indicated  in  vs  21.22  is  furthered,  though 
still  not  completed,  in  the  Christian  invasion  of  the 
1st  cent.,  and  again  in  the  success  of  modern  Chris- 
tian missions  in  Egypt. 

It  will  be  seen  that  it  does  not  follow  from  what 
has  been  said  that  Leontopolis  was  Ir-ha-h  as  some 

seem  to  think.     It  is  not  said  by  the 

3.  "Ir-ha-  prophet  that  the  place  where  was  the 
heres"  "altar"  was  called  Ir-ha-h,  even  if  it 

were  certain  that  the  altar  was  at 
Leontopolis.  Nevertheless,  Leontopolis  may  be 
Ir-ha-h.  ■  The  problem  is  not  in  the  first  place  the 
identification  of  the  name,  but  the  determination  of 
which  one  of  the  "five  cities"  was  destroyed.  The 
expression  "shall  be  called  the  city  of  destruction" 
seems  clearly  to  indicate  that  Ir-ha-h  is  not  a  name 
at  all,  but  merely  a  descriptive  appellation  of  that 
city  which  should  "be  destroyed."  It  still  remains 
to  inquire  whether  or  not,  this  was  an  independent 
appellation,  or  whether,  more  probably,  it  bore 
some  relation  to  the  name  of  that  city  at  the  time 
at  which  the  prophet  wrote,  a  play  upon  the  sound, 
or  the  significance  of  the  name  or  both  of  these, 


■m,  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1492 


Iri 
Isaac 

either  through  resemblance  or  contrast.  ."  ^»- 
ius  is  right,  as  he  seems  to  be,  in  the  opinion  that 
..j'n  the  idiom  of  lsa  h-ha-h  means  simply  thcerty 
th-il  shall  be  destroyed,'  "  then  the  original  problem 
()f 'finding  which  «me  of  the  cities  was  ^royod 
iVms  lob."  the  whole  problem.  Still,  in  the  highly- 
wrought  language  of  Isaiah  and  according  to .t  he  gen- 
ius „f ,he  Ileb  tongue,  1  here  is  probably  a  play  upon 
W()I,h  It  is  hen'  that  the  consideration  ol  the 
nam,.  itself  properly  comes  in  and  probs ^>^v  K"""'" 
usri'ditlv  Speeulation,bvGesennis,Duhni,Cho}ii< 
and  others,  has  proposed  various  different  readings 
„f  tl.is  name,  some  of  them  requiring  two  or  three 
changes  in  the  text  to  bring  it  to  its  present  state. 
Speculation  can  always  propose  readings.  On  was 
sometimes  called  "1  lores"  and  meant  'house  ol  he 
s,m"  which  would  be  both  t  H  and  transliterated 
:,,,,;  Me  1)  ha-hcrc*  and  might  have  Ir  ("city  )  pre- 
Naville    tiirough  hisstudvol    the  great   Mat 


ris  papyrus,  believed  t 


hat  the  old  KgyP  eity  which 


,,,■  was  called  Leontopolis  (Tell  el-Y  ehudiych) 
was  iinmediatelv  connected  with  On  and  called 
-Houseof  Km  "  also  "House  of  theSun.  rhus  this 
name  might  bo  both  transliterated  and ti* 'into  the 
[leh  ha-hen*  and  have  'Ir  prefixed.  Hie  difference 
between 'this  expression  and  "Ir-ha-h  '  which  Isaiah 
used  is  only  the  difference  between  h  and/;. 
So  that  Ir-ha-h  is  most  probably  a  predictive 
prophecy  concerning  the  disaster  that  was  to  over- 
lake  one  of  the  "five  cities,"  with  a  play  upon  the 
n.lIIU.  of  the  city,  and  that  city  is  either  On,  the 
later  Heliopolis,  or  the  ancient  sacred  city  about  4 
miles  to  the  X.  of  On,  where  Onias  was  to  build  Ins 
temple  and  which  later  became  Leontopolis  (Tell- 
cl-YrhwIii/ch).     No  more  positive  identification  of 


[r-ha-h  is  yet  possible. 


M.  G.  Kyle 


iri,  l'n  — : 


(i.     See  lit;   Trias. 


IRIJAH,  i-ii'ja  (7"P^n? ,  yir'lyayh,  "Jeh  sees"): 
A  captain  at  the  gate  of  Benjamin  in  Jerus,  who 
arrested  Jeremiah  the  prophet  on  suspicion  of  in- 
tending to  desert  to  the  Chaldaeans  (Jer  37   13.14). 

IR-NAHASH,  ur-na'hash.  ir-na'hash  (t'n:  I"1?, 
\Y  uahaufi)'-  A  town  of  Judah  of  which  Tehinnah 
is  called  the  ••father,"  probably  meaning  "founder" 
(1  Ch  4  12).  EVm  suggests  the  tr  "city  of  Na- 
hash." 

IRON,  i'um  (*p,5,  barzel;  o-iSripos,  sideros): 
It  is  generally  believed  that  the  art  of  separating 
iron  from  its  ores  and  making  it  into  useful  forms 
was  not  known  much  earlier  than  1000  BC,  and 
that  the  making  of  brass  (bronze)  antedates  it  by 
many  centuries,  in  spite  of  the  frequent  Bib.  ref- 
erences where  brass  and  iron  occur  together.  This 
conjecture  is  based  upon  the  fact  that  no  specimen 
of  worked  iron  has  been  found  whose  antiquity  can 
be  vouched  for.  The  want  of  such  instruments, 
however,  can  be  attributed  to  the  ease  with  which 
iron  corrodes.  Evidence  that  iron  was  used  is 
found,  for  example,  in  the  hieroglyphics  of  the  tomb 
of  Raineses  III,  where  the  blades  of  some  of  the 
weapons  are  painted  blue  while  others  are  painted 
red,  a  distinction  believed  to  be  due  to  the  fact  that 
some  were  made  of  iron  or  steel  and  some  of  brass. 
No  satisfactory  proof  has  yet  been  presented  that 
the  marvelous  sculpturing  on  the  hard  Egyp  granite 
was  done  with  tempered  bronze.  It  seems  more 
likely  that  steel  tools  were  used.  After  the  dis- 
covery of  iron,  it  was  evidently  a  long  time  in  re- 
placing bronze.  This  was  probably  due  to  the 
difficulties  in  smelting  it.  An  old  mountaineer  once 
described  to  the  writer  the  process  of  iron  smelting 
as  it  was  carried  on  in  Mt.  Lebanon  in  past  centu- 
ries.    As  a  boy  lie  had  watched  his  father,  who  was 


a  smelter,  operate  one  of  the  last  furnaces  to  be 
fired  For  each  firing,  many  cords  of  wood,  esp. 
ereen  oak  branches,  were  used,  and  several  days  ol 
strenuous  pumping  at  the  eight  bellows  was  neces- 
sary to  supply  the  air  blast.  As  a  result  a  small 
lump  of  wrought  iron  was  removed  from  the  bottom 
of  tht-  furnace  after  cooling.  The  iron  thus  won 
was  carried  to  Damascus  where  it  was  made  into 
steel  by  workers  who  kept  their  methods  secret, 
'lids  process,  which  has  not  been  worked  now  for 
yearn  was  undoubtedly  the  same  as  was  used  by  the 
ancients  It  is  not  at  all  unlikely  that  the  Lebanon 
iron  transformed  into  steel,  was  what  was  referred 
,o  as  -northern  iron"  in  Jer  15  12  (AV).  In  many 
districts  the  piles  of  slag  from  the  ancient  furnaces 
are  still  evident.  .  . 

\<ide  from  the  limited  supply  of  iron  ore  in  Alt 
Lebanon  (cf  Dt  8  9),  probably  no  iron  was  found 
in  Syria  and  Pal.     It  was  brought  from    farshish 
(Ezk  27   12)  and  Vedan  and  Javan  (l^zk  At   U), 
and  probably  Egypt  (Dt  4  20)  . 

The  first  mention  of  iron  made  in  the  Bible  is  in 
Gen  4  22    where  Tubal-Cain  is  mentioned  as    'the 
forger  of 'every   cutting   instrument    of   brass   and 
iron."     It  is  likely  that  the  Jews  learned  the  art  of 
metallurgy     from    the    Phoenicians     (2  Ui  2   14) 
(see  Crafts).     Iron  was  used  in  Bib.  times  much 
as  it  is  today.     For  a  descript  ion  of  a  smith  at  work 
seeEcclus  38  28.      Huge  city  gates,  overlaid  with 
strips  of  iron  (Ps  107    16;    lsa  45  2),  held  in  place 
by  crude  square-headed  nails  (1  Ch  22  3),  are  still 
a' familiar  sight  in  the  larger  cities  of  1  al  and  teyria 
(Acts  12  10).     Threshing  instruments  were  made 
of  iron   (Am  1  3);    so  also  harrows   (2  b  12  31), 
axes(ib:  2  K  6  6;  see  Ax),  branding  irons  (1    1  lm 
4  2),  and  other  tools  (1  K  6  7).     There  were  iron 
weapons  (Nu  35  16;    Job  20  24)    armor  (2  S  23 
7),  horns  (1  K  22   11),  fetters  (Ps  105   18),  char- 
iots (Josh  17  10),  yokes  (Jer  28  14)    breastplates 
(Rev  9  9),  pens  (chisels)    (Job  19  24;    Jer  17  1), 
sheets  or  plates  (Ezk  4  3),  gods  (Dnl  5  4),  weights 
(1  S  17  7),  bedsteads  (Dt  3  11).      Iron  was  used 
extensively  in  building  the  temple.     Sec  Metals. 
Figurative:    "The  iron  furnace"   is  used   meta- 
phorically   for    affliction,    chastisement    (Dt  4  20; 
Ezk  22  18-22).     Iron  is  also  employed  fig.  to  repre- 
sent   barrenness    (Dt  28  23),    slavery    ("yoke    of 
iron,"  Dt  28  48),  strength  ("bars  of  iron,     Job  40 
18),   severity    ("rod  of   iron,"    Ps  2  9),   captivity 
(Ps  107  10),  obstinacy    ("iron  sinew,      lsa  48  4), 
fortitude  ("iron  pillar,"  Jer  1  18),  moral  deteriora- 
tion   (Jer  6  28),     political    strength     (Dnl   2   33), 
destructive  power  ("iron  teeth,"  Dnl  7  7);  the  cer- 
tainty with  which  a  real  enemy  will  ever  show  his 
hatred  is  as  the  rust  returning  upon  iron  (Ecclus 
12  10  AV,  RV  "brass");  great  obstacles  ("walls  of 
iron,"  2  Mace  11  9).  James  A.  Patch 

IRON,  i'ron  ("p^T. ,  yir'on):  One  of  the  fenced 
cities  in  the  territory  of  Naphtali,  named  with 
Migdal-el  and  En-hazor  (Josh  19  38).  It  is  repre- 
sented by  the  modern  Yarun,  a  village  with  the 
ruins  of  a  synagogue,  at  one  time  used  as  a  monas- 
tery, fully  6  miles  W.  of  Kedes. 

IRPEEL,  ur'pe-el,  ir'pe-el  (^SETl,  yirp>'el):   An 

unidentified  city  in  Benjamin  (Josh  18  27).  It 
may  possibly  be  represented  by  Rajat,  a  ruin  to  the 
N.  of  el-Jib,  the  ancient  Gibeon. 

IRREVERENCE,  i-rev'er-ens.  See  Crime, 
Chimes. 

IRRIGATION,  ir-i-ga'shun:  No  equivalent  for 
this  word  is  found  in  Bib.  writings,  although  the  use 
of  irrigation  for  maintaining  vegetable  fife  is  fre- 
quently implied  (Eccl  2  5.6;    lsa  58  11).     To  one 


1493 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Iri 
Isaac 


familiar  with  the  methods  of  irrigation  practised  in 
Pal,  Syria  and  Egypt,  the  passage,  "where  thou 
sowedst  thy  seed,  and  wateredst  it  with  thy  foot,  as 
a  garden  of  herbs"  (Dt  11  10),  is  easily  explained. 
The  water  is  brought  in  channels  to  the  gardens, 
where  it  is  distributed  in  turn  to  the  different  square 
plots  bounded  by  banks  of  earth,  or  along  the  rows 
of  growing  vegetables  planted  on  the  sides  of  the 
trenches.  In  stony  soil  the  breach  in  the  canal 
leading  to  a  particular  plot  is  opened  and  closed 
with  a  hoe.  Any  obstruction  in  the  trench  is 
similarly  removed,  while  in  the  soft,  loamy  soil  of 
the  coastal  plain  or  in  the  Nile  valley  these  opera- 
tions can  be  done  with  the  foot,  a  practice  still 
commonly  seen. 


Egyptian  Water  Wheel. 

The  remains  of  the  great  irrigation  works  of  the 
ancient  Egyptians  and  Babylonians  leave  no  doubt 
as  to  the  extent  to  which  they  used  water  to  redeem 
the  deserts.  In  Pal  and  Syria  there  was  less  need 
(Dt  10  7;  11  11)  for  irrigation.  Here  there  is  an 
annual  fall  of  from  30  to  40  in.,  coming  principally 
during  the  winter.  This  is  sufficient  for  the  main 
crops.  The  summer  supply  of  vegetables,  as  well 
as  the  fruit  and  mulberry  trees,  requires  irrigation. 
Hardly  a  drop  of  many  mountain  streams  is  allowed 
to  reach  the  sea,  but  is  used  to  water  the  gardens  of 
the  mountain  terraces  and  plains.  This  supply 
is  now  being  supplemented  by  the  introduction  of 
thousands  of  pumps  and  oil  engines  for  raising  the 
water  of  the  wells  sufficiently  to  run  it  through  the 
irrigation  canals.  Where  a  spring  is  small,  its 
supply  is  gathered  into  a  birket,  or  cistern,  and  then 
drawn  off  through  a  large  outlet  into  the  trenches, 
sometimes  several  days  being  required  to  fill  the 
cistern.  In  Eccl  2  0,  Solomon  is  made  to  say,  "I 
made  me  pools  of  water,  to  water  therefrom  the 
forest."  This  passage  helps  to  explain  the  uses  of 
the  so-called  Pools  of  Solomon,  S.  of  Jerus.  In 
this  same  district  are  traces  of  the  ancient  terraces 
which  were  probably  watered  from  these  pools. 
See  Agriculture;  Garden.      James  A.   Patch 

.  IR-SHEMESH,    ur-she'mesh,    ir-she'mesh    (T? 
tCQlp ,  'Zr  shemesh,  "city  of  the  sun").     See  Beth- 

SHEMESH  ;   HERES. 

IRU,  i'rdo  pTy,  Hru):  Eldest  son  of  Caleb  (1  Ch 
4  15);  probably  to  be  read  Ir,  the  syllable  -u  being 
the  conjunction  "and"  belonging  to  the  following 
word. 

ISAAC,  I'zak: 

I.      Name 

1.  Root,  Forms,  Analogues 

2.  Implication 

II.     Family  and  Kindred 

1.  Birth  and  Place,  in  the  Family 

2.  Relation  to  the  Religious  Birthright 
A.   Significance  of  Marriage 

III.     Story  of  Life 

1.  Previous  to  Marriage 

2.  Subsequent  to  Marriage 


IV.     Biblical  References 

1.  In  the  OT 

2.  In  the  NT 

V.     Views  Other  than  the  Historical 

/.   Name. — This  name  has  the  double  spelling, 
priST1. }  yighdk,  and  pniZP,    yishak   ('laadK,  Isadk), 
corresponding    to    the  two    forms    in 
1.  Root,  which  appears  the  root  meaning  "to 

Forms  and  laugh" — a  root  that  runs  through  nearly 
Analogues  all  the  Sem  languages.  In  Heb  both 
gahak  and  sahak  have  their  cognate 
nouns,  and  signify,  in  the  simple  stem,  "to  laugh," 
in  the  intensive  stem,  "to  jest,  play,  dance,  fondle," 
and  the  like.  The  noun  yighar,  meaning  "fresh 
oil,"  from  a  root  galxir  ("to  be  bright,  conspicuous"), 
proves  that  nouns  can  be  built  on  precisely  the  model 
of  yighdk,  which  would  in  that  case  signify  "the 
laughing  one,"  or  something  similar.  Yet' Bart h 
(Die  N  ominalbildung  in  den  semitischen  Sprachen, 
§154,  b  and  c)  maintains  that  all  proper  names  be- 
ginning with  yodh  prefixed  to  the  root  are  really 
pure  imperfects,  i.e.  verbal  forms  with  some  subject 
to  be  understood  if  not  actually  present.  Hence 
Isaac  would  mean  "laughs":  either  indefinite,  "one 
laughs,"  or  "he  laughs,"  viz.  the  one  understood  as 
the  subject.  There  are  some  50  Heb  names  that 
have  a  similar  form  with  no  accompanying  subject. 
Of  these  sometimes  the  meaning  of  the  root  is  quite 
obscure,  sometimes  it  is  appropriate  to  any  sup- 
posable  subject.  Each  is  a  problem  by  itself;  for 
the  interpretation  of  any  one  of  them  there  is 
little  help  to  be  gained  from  a  comparison  with 
the  others. 

What  subject,  then,  is  to  be  understood  with  this 
imperfect  vb.  yighak?     Or  is  no  definite  subject  to 
be  supplied?      (1)    'El,   God,  may  be 
2.  Impli-        supplied:     "God    laughs."     Such    an 
cation  expression  might,  be  understood  of  the 

Divine  benevolence,  or  of  the'  fearful 
laughter  of  scorn  for  His  enemies  (Ps  2  4),  or, 
euphemistically,  of  the  Divine  wrath,  the  "terrible 
glance,"  as  of  Moloch,  etc  (so  Meyer,  Israeliten  and 
Hire  Nachbarstdmme,  255).  (2)  Some  human  per- 
son: "he  laughs."  So,  for  example,  he  himself,  viz. 
the  child  who  receives  the  name;  or,  the  father;  or, 
the  brother  (not  the  mother,  which  would  require 
tighak).  In  the  light  now  of  these  possibilities  we 
turn  to  tin1  narratives  of  Isaac's  birth  and  career  and 
find  t he  following  subjects  suggested:  (a)  father, 
Gen  17  17;  (b)  indefinite,  "one  laughs"  (not  "she 
laughs,"  see  above),  Gen  18  12-15;  21  0;  (c) 
brother,  Gen  21  9;  (d)  himself,  (Jen  26  8.  Of 
these  passages  the  last  two  show  the  vb.  in  the  in- 
tensive stem  in  the  signification  of  (c)  "mock"  (?), 
and  (d)  "dally."  We  find  this  same  vb.  in  these 
senses  in  Gen  19  14  and  39  14.17,  in  the  stories  of 
Lot  and  of  Joseph,  and  it  is  possible  that  here  also 
in  the  story  of  Isaac  it  has  no  more  connection  with 
the  name  Isaac  than  it  has  there  with  the  names  Lot 
and  Joseph.  However  this  may  be,  there  is  ob- 
viously one  interpretation  of  the  name  Isaac,  which, 
required  in  two  of  the  passages,  is  equally  appro- 
priate in  them  all,  viz.  that  with  the  indefinite  sub- 
ject, "one  laughs."  Consideration  of  the  sources 
to  which  these  passages  are  respectively  assigned 
by  the  documentary  hypothesis  tends  only  to  con- 
firm this  result. 

//.  Family  and  Kindred. — The  two  things  in 
Isaac's  life  that  arc  deemed  worthy  of  extensive 
treatment  in  the  sacred  narrative  are  his  birth  and 
his  marriage.  His  significance,  in  fact,  centers  in 
his  transmission  of  what  went  before  him  to  what 
came  after  him.  Hence,  his  position  in  his  father's 
family,  his  relation  to  its  greatest  treasure,  the  reli- 
gious birthright ,  and  his  marriage  with  Rebekah 
are  the  subjects  that  require  special  notice  in  this 
connection. 


Isaac 
Isaiah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1494 


The  birth  of   Isaac  is  represented  as  peculiar  in 

these  respects:    the  age  of  his  parents,  the  purity  of 

his  lineage,  t  lie  special  Divine  promises 

1.  Birth  accompanying.  What  in  Abraham's 
and  Place  life  is  signalized  by  the  Divine  "call" 
in  the  from  his  father's  house,  and  what  in 
Family            Jacob's    life    is    brought     about    by    a 

series  of  providential  interpositions, 
seems  in  Isaac's  case  to  become  his  by  his  birth. 
His  mother,  who  is  not  merely  of  the  same  stock  as 
Abraham  but  actually  his  half-sister,  is  the  legal 
wife.  As  her  issue  Isaac  is  qualified  by  the  laws  of 
inheritance  recognized  in  their  native  land  to  be- 
come his  father's  heir.  But  Ishmael,  according  to 
those  laws,  has  a  similarly  valid  claim  (see  Abra- 
ham, I  V,  2),  and  it  is  only  by  express  command  t  hat 
Abraham  is  led  to  abandon  what  was  apparently 
both  custom  and  personal  preference,  to  "cast  out  the 
bondwoman  and  her  son,"  and  to  acquiesce  in  the 
arrangement  that  "in  Isaac  shall  thy  seed  be  called." 
But  the  birthright  of  Isaac  was  of  infinitely  more 
importance  than  the  birthright  in  the  family  of  any 
other  wealthy  man  of  that   day.     All 

2.  Relation  that  limitless  blessing  with  which 
to  the  Re-  Abraham  set  forth  under  Cod's  leader- 
ligious  ship  was  promised  not  only  to  him  but 
Birthright       to  his  "seed";    it  was  limitless  in  time 

as  well  as  in  scope.  To  inherit  it  was 
of  more  consequence  to  Isaac  than  to  inherit  any 
number  of  servants,  flocks  or  wells  of  his  father's 
acquisition.  A  sense  of  these  relative  values  seems 
to  have  been  a  part  of  Isaac's  spiritual  endowment, 
and  this,  more  than  anything  else  related  of  him, 
makes  him  an  at  t  ract  ive  figure  on  1  he  pages  of  Gen. 
The  raising  up  of  a  "seed"  to  be  the  bearers  of 
these  promises  was  the  prime  concern  of  Isaac's 
life.     Not    by   intermarriage  with   the 

3.  Signifi-  Canaanites  among  whom  he  lived,  but 
cance  of  by  marriage  with  one  of  his  own  peo- 
Marriage       pie,   in   whom  as  much  as  in  himself 

should  be  visibly  embodied  the  separ- 
ateness  of  the  chosen  family  of  Cod — thus  primarily 
was  Isaac  to  pass  on  to  a  generation  as  pure  as  his 
own  the  heritage  of  the  Divine  blessing.  Rebekah 
enters  the  tent  of  Isaac  as  truly  the  chosen  of  God 
as  was  Abraham  himself. 

///.  Story  of  Life. — Previous  to  his  marriage 
Isaac's  life  is  a  part  of  the  story  of  Abraham;  after 
his  marriage  it  merges  into  that  of  his  children.  It 
is  convenient,  therefore,  to  make  his  marriage  the 
dividing-line  in  the  narrative  of  his  career. 

A  child  whose  coming  was  heralded  by  such  signal 
marks  of  Divine  favor  as  was  Isaac's  would  be,  even 

apart  from  other  special  considera- 
1.  Previous  lions,  a  welcome  and  honored  member 
to  Marriage  of    the    patriarchal    household.     The 

covenant -sign  of  circumcision  (which 
Isaac  was  the,  first  to  receive  at  the  prescribed  age 
of  X  days),  the  great  feast  at  his  weaning,  and  the 
disinheritance  of  Ishmael  in  his  favor,  are  all  of 
them  indications  of  the  unique  position  that  this 
child  held,  and  prepare  the  reader  to  appreciate 
the  dept  h  of  feeling  involved  in  1  he  sacrifice  of  Isaac, 
the  story  of  which  follows  thereupon.  The  age  of 
Isaac  at  the  time  of  this  event  is  not  stated,  but  the 
fact  that  he  is  able  to  carry  the  wood  of  the  offering 
shows  that  lie  had  probably  attained  his  full  growth. 
The  single  question  he  asks  his  father  and  his  other- 
wise unbroken  silence  combine  to  exhibit  him  in  a 
favorable  light,  as  thoughtful,  docile  and  trustful. 
The  Divine  interposition  to  save  the  lad  thus  de- 
voted to  Cod  constitutes  him  afresh  the  bearer  of 
the  covenant-promise  and  justifies  its  explicit 
renewal  on  this  occasion.  From  this  point  onward 
the  biographer  of  Isaac  evidently  has  his  marriage 
in  view,  for  the  two  items  that  preceded  the  long 
24th  ch,  m  which  Rebekah's  choice  and  coming  are 


rehearsed,  are,  first,  the  brief  genealogical  para- 
graph that  informs  the  reader  of  the  development 
of  Nahor's  family  just  as  far  as  to  Rebekah,  and 
second,  the  ch  that  tells  of  Sarah's  death  and  burial 
—an  event  clearly  associated  in  the  minds  of  all 
with  the  marriage  of  Isaac  (see  24  3.36.67).  Di- 
vine interest  in  the  choice  of  her  who  should  be  the 
mother  of  the  promised  seed  is  evident  in  every  line 
of  t  he  ch  that  dramatizes  the  bet  rot  hal  of  Isaac  and 
Rebekah.  Their  first  meeting  is  described  at  its 
close  with  the  tender  interest  in  such  a  scene  nat- 
ural to  every  descendant  of  the  pair,  and  Isaac  is 
sketched  as  a  man  of  a  meditative  turn  (ver  63) 
and  an  affectionate  heart-  (ver  07). 

The  dismissal  of  the  sons  of  Abraham's  concu- 
bines to  the  "East-country"  is  associated  with  the 
statement  that  Isaac  inherited  all  that 
2.  Subse-  Abraham  had;  yet  it  has  been  re- 
quent  to  marked  that,  besides  supplying  them 
Marriage  with  gifts,  Abraham  was  doing  them 
a  further  kindness  in  thus  emancipating 
them  from  continued  subjection  to  Isaac,  the  future 
head  of  the  clan.  After  Abraham's  death  we  are  ex- 
pressly informed  that  God  "blessed  Isaac  his  son"  in 
fulfilment  of  previous  promise.  The  section  entitled 
"the  Idl'ilhdth  [generations]  of  Isaac"  extends  from 
25  l!)to35  29.  At  the  opening  of  it  Isaac  is  dwell- 
ing at  Beer-lahai-roi  (25  1 1),  then  at  Gerar  (26  1.6) 
and  "the  valley  of  Gerar"  (26  17),  then  at  Beer- 
sheba  (26  23;  28  10),  all  localities  in  the  Negeb  or 
"South-country."  But  after  the  long  narrative  of 
the  fortunes  of  Jacob  and  his  family,  occupying 
many  years,  we  find  Isaac  at  its  close  living  where 
his  father  Abraham  had  lived,  at  Hebron. 

For  20  years  Isaac  and  Rebekah  remained  child- 
less; it  was  only  upon  the  entreaty  of  Isaac  that 
God  granted  them  their  twin  sons.  A  famine  was 
the  usual  signal  for  emigration  to  Egypt  (cf  Gen 
12  10;  42  2);  and  Isaac  also  appears  to  have  been 
on  his  way  thither  for  the  same  cause,  when,  at 
Gerar,  he  is  forbidden  by  God  to  proceed,  and  occa- 
sion is  found  therein  to  renew  to  him  the  covenant- 
promise  of  his  inheritance:  land,  posterity,  honor 
and  the  Divine  presence  (26  1-4). 

But  Isaac  had  also  received  from  his  father  tradi- 
tions of  another  sort ;  he  too  did  not  hesitate  to  say 
to  the  men  of  Gerar  that  his  wife  was  his  sister,  with 
the  same  intent  to  save  his  own  life,  but  without 
the  same  justification  in  fact,  as  in  the  case  of 
Abraham's  earlier  stratagem.  Yet  even  the  dis- 
covery by  the  king  of  Gerar  of  this  duplicity,  and 
repeated  quarrels  about  water  in  that  dry  country, 
did  not  suffice  to  endanger  Isaac's  status  with  the 
settled  inhabitants,  for  his  large  household  and  great 
resources  made  him  a  valuable  friend  and  a  danger- 
ous enemy. 

The  favoritism  which  Isaac  showed  for  one  son 
and  Rebekah  for  the  other  culminated  in  the  painful 
scene  when  the  paternal  blessing  was  by  guile  ob- 
tained for  Jacob,  and  in  the  subsequent  enforced 
absence  of  Jacob  from  his  parental  home.  Esau, 
too,  afforded  no  comfort  to  his  father  and  mother, 
and  ere  long  he  also  withdrew  from  his  father's  clan. 
The  subsequent  reconciliation  of  the  brothers  per- 
mitted them  to  unite  at  length  in  paying  the  last 
honors  to  Isaac  on  his  decease.  Isaac  was  buried 
at  Hebron  where  his  parents  had  been  buried  (Gen 
49  31),  and  where  his  place  of  sepulture  is  still 
honored. 

IV.  Biblical  References. — There  is  a  great  con- 
trast between  Abraham  and  Jacob  on  the  one  hand, 
and  Isaac  on  the  other,  with  respect  to  their  promi- 
nence in  the  lit.  of  the  nation  that  traced  to  them  its 
descent.  To  be  sure,  when  t he  patriarchs  as  a  group 
are  to  be  named,  Isaac  takes  his  place  in  the  stereo- 
typed  formula  of  "Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob,"  or 
"Israel"  (so  23  t  in  the  OT,  7  t  in  the  NT). 


1495 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Isaac 
Isaiah 


But  apart  from  this  formula  Isaac  is  referred  to 

in  the  OT  only  as  follows.     During  the  lifetime  of 

Jacob  the  names  of  Abraham  and  Isaac 

1.  In  the  are  repeatedly  linked  in  the  same  way 
OT  as   are   all   three   subsequently:     they 

form  for  that  age  the  dynasty  of  the 
covenant.  But  several  times  Jacob  calls  Jeh  the 
God  (or,  the  Fear;  see  infra)  of  Isaac,  because  Isaac 
is  his  own  immediate  predecessor  in  this  chain  of 
the  faithful.  Isaac  is  called  the  "gift"  of  God  to 
Abraham,  in  the  farewell  address  of  Joshua,  just  as 
Jacob  and  Esau  are  called  God's  "gifts"  to  Isaac 
(Josh  24  3  f;  cf  Koran,  Sura  6  84).  The  "house 
of  Isaac"  is  used  by  Amos  as  a  ||  expression  for 
"Israel,"  and  "the  high  places  of  Isaac"  for  "the 
sanctuaries  of  Israel"  (Am  7  16. 9),  in  the  same  way 
as  "Jacob"  is  often  used  elsewhere  (LXX  in  ver  16 
reads  "Jacob").  Other  references  to  Isaac  are 
simply  as  to  his  father's  son  or  his  children's  father. 
He  fares  better  in  the  NT.  For,  besides  the  gene- 
alogical references,  Isaac's  significance  as  the  first  to 

receive  circumcision   on   the  8th  day 

2.  In  is  remembered  (Acts  7  8);  his  posi- 
the  NT           tion  as  first  of  the  elect  seed  is  set  forth 

(Rom  9  7);  his  begetting  of  two  sons 
so  unlike  in  their  relation  to  the  promise  as  were 
Esau  and  Jacob  is  remarked  (Rom  9  10);  the  facts 
of  his  being  heir  to  the  promise,  a  child  of  old  age, 
and,  though  but  one,  the  father  of  an  innumerable 
progeny,  are  emphasized  in  He  11  (vs  9-12),  which 
also  discovers  the  deeper  significance  of  his  sacrifice 
and  restoration  to  his  father  (vs  17-19;  cfJas  2  21); 
and  in  the  same  context  is  noticed  the  faith  in  God 
implied  in  Isaac's  blessing  of  his  sons.  But  Isaac 
receives  more  attention  than  anywhere  else  in  that 
famous  passage  in  Gal  (4  21-31),  in  which  Paul 
uses  Isaac  and  his  mother  as  allegorical  representa- 
tions of  Christians  who  are  justified  by  faith  in  the 
promise  of  (iod,  and  are  the  free-born  heirs  of  all 
the  spiritual  inheritance  implied  in  that  promise. 
Even  Isaac's  persecution  by  Ishmael  has  its  counter- 
part in  the  attitude  of  the  enemies  of  Paul's  gospel 
toward  him  and  his  doctrines  and  converts. 

V.  Views  Other  than  the  Historical. — Philo,  the  chief 
allegorizer  of  Scriptural  narratives,  has  little  to  say  of 
Isaac,  whom  he  calls  "the  self-instructed  nature."  But 
modern  critics  have  dissolved  his  personality  by  repre- 
senting him  as  the  personification  of  an  ethnic  group. 
"All  Israel,"  writes  Wellhausen  (Prol.,  6th  ed,  316),  "is 
grouped  with  the  people  of  Edom  under  the  old  name 
Isaac  (Am  7  9.16)  ....  the  material  here  is  not 
mythical  [as  in  Gen  1-11]  hut  national."  And  just  as 
Israel  plus  Edom  had  little  or  no  significance  in  national 
customs  or  political  events,  when  compared  on  the  one 
hand  with  Israel  alone  (=.Iacob),  and  with  Israel  plus 
Edom  plus  Moab  and  Amnion  (  =  Abraham)  on  the  other 
hand;  so  likewise  the  figure  of  Isaac  is  colorless  and  his 
story  brief,  as  compared  with  the  striking  figures  of 
Jacob  on  the  one  hand  and  of  Abraham  on  the  other 
hand,  and  the  circumstantial  stories  of  their  lives. 

Other  scholars  will  have  none  of  this  national  view, 
because  they  believe;  Isaac  to  be  the  name  of  an  ancient 
deity,  the  local  numen  of  Beersheba.  Stark,  whom 
others  have  followed,  proposes  to  interpret  the  phrase 
tn1  "the  Fear  of  Isaac"  in  Gen  31  42.53  as  the  name  of 
this  god  used  by  his  worshippers,  the  Terror  Isaac,  Isaac 
the  terrible  god.  For  the  sense  of  Isaac  in  that  case  see 
above  under  I,  2,  (1).  Meyer  (loc.  cit.)  defends  the 
transfer  of  the  name  from  a  god  to  the  hero  of  a  myth, 
by  comparing  the  sacrifice  of  Isaac  ("the  only  story  in 
which  Isaac  plays  an  independent  role"!)  with  the  Or 
myth  of  Iphigenia's  sacrifice  (Hesiod,  Euripides,  etc),  in 
which  the  by-name  of  a  goddess  (lphigenia)  identified 
with  Artemis  has  passed  to  the  intended  victim  rescued 
by  Artemis  from  death. 

The  most  recent  critical  utterances  reject  both  the 
foregoing  views  of  Isaac  as  in  conflict  with  the  data  of 
Gen.  Thus  (iunkel  (Schriften  den  AT,  5te  Lieferung, 
1910,  41)  writes:  "Quite  clearly  the  names  of  Abraham, 
Isaac,    and    all    the   patriarchal   women   are   not   tribal 

names The  interpretation  of  the  figures  of  Gen 

as  nations  furnishes  by  no  means  a  general  key."  And 
again:  "Against  the  entire  assumption  that  the  principal 
patriarchal  figures  are  originally  gods,  is  above  all  to  be 
noted  that  the  names  Jacob  and  Abraham  are  proved 
by  the  Bab  to  be  personal  names  in  current  use,  and  at 
the  same  time   that  the   sagas  about  them  can  in  no 


wise  be  understood  as  echoes  of  original  myths.  Even 
Winckler's  more  than  bold  attempt  to  explain  these 
sagas  as  original  calendar-myths  must  be  pronounced  a 
complete  failure."  Yet  Gunkel  and  those  who  share 
his  position  are  careful  to  distinguish  their  own  view 
from  that  of  the  "  apologetes,"  and  to  concede  no  more 
than  the  bare  fact  that  there  doubtless  were  once  upon  a 
time  persons  named  Abraham,  Isaac,  etc.  For  these 
critics  Isaac  is  simply  a  name  about  which  have  crystal- 
lized cycles  of  folk-stories,  that  have  their  parallels  in 
other  lands  and  languages,  but  have  received  with  a  Heb 
name  also  a  local  coloring  and  significance  on  the  lips  of 
successive  Heb  story-tellers,  saga-builders  and  finally 
collectors  and  editors;  "Everyone  who  knows  the  history 
of  sagas  is  sure  that  the  saga  is  not  able  to  preserve 
through  the  course  of  so  many  centuries,  a  true  picture" 
of  the  patriarchs.      See  also  Abraham,  end. 

J.  Oscar  Boyd 
ISAAC,   TESTAMENT   OF.     See  Apocalyptic 
Literature. 

ISAIAH,  I-za'ya,  i-zi'a: 

1.  Name 

2.  Personal  History 

3.  Call 

4.  Literary  Genius  and  Style 

5.  Traditions  concerning  His  Martyrdom 

6.  Period 

7.  Analysis  and  Contents 

8.  Isaiah's  Prophecies  Chronologically  Arranged 

9.  The  Critical   Problem 

(1)  The  History  of  Criticism 

(2)  The  Disintegration  of  "  Deutero-Isaiah" 

(3)  Recent  Views 

(4)  The  Present  State  of  the  Question 

(5)  Reasons  for  Dissecting  the  Book 

(6)  Arguments  for  One  Isaiah 

(a)  The  Circle  of  Ideas 

(b)  The  Literary  Style 

(c)  Historical  References 

(d)  The  Predictive  Element 

(e)  Cyrus  a  Subject  of  Prediction 

LlTKUATURE 

Of  all  Israel's  celebrated  prophets,  Isaiah  is  the 
king.  The  writings  which  bear  his  name  are  among 
the  profoundest  in  all  literature.  One  great  theme 
— salvation  by  faith — stamps  them  all.  Isaiah  is 
the  St.  Paul  of  the  OT. 

In     Heb     WW] ,     ysha'yahu,     and     iWF&l, 

yeshayyuh;    Gr  'Ho-cuas,   Esa'ias;    Lat    Esaias   and 

Isaias.     His    name    was    symbolic    of 

1.  Name       his  message.     Like  "Joshua,"  it  means 

"Jeh  saves,"  or  "Jeh  is  salvation,"  or 
"salvation  of  Jeh." 

Isaiah  was  the  son  of  Amoz  (not  Amos).  He 
seems  to  have  belonged  to  a  family  of  some  rank, 

as  may  be  inferred  from  his  easy  access 

2.  Personal  to  the  king   (Isa  7  3),  and  his  close 
History  intimacy  with  the  priest.  (8  2).     Tradi- 
tion says  he  was  the  cousin  of  King 

Uzziah.  He  lived  in  Jerus  and  became  court 
preacher.  He  was  married  and  had  two  sons: 
Shear-jashub,  his  name  signifying  "a  remnant 
shall  return"  (7  3),  and  Maher-shalal-hash-baz, 
"hasting  to  the  spoil,  hurrying  to  the  prey,"  sym- 
bolic  of  Assyria's  mad  hist  of  conquest  (8  3).  Jew- 
ish tradition,  based  upon  a  false  interpretation  of 
7  14,  declares  he  was  twice  married. 

In  the  year  that  King  Uzziah  died,  Isaiah,  ap- 
parently while  worshipping  in  the  temple,  received 
a  call  to  the  prophetic  office   (ch  6). 

3.  Call  He  responded  with  noteworthy  alac- 

rity, and  accepted  his  commission, 
though  he  knew  from  the  outset  that  his  task  was  to 
be  one  of  fruitless  warning  and  exhortation  (6  9-13). 
Having  been  reared  in  Jerus,  he  was  well  fitted  to 
become  the  political  and  religious  counselor  of  the 
nation,  but  the  experience  which  prepared  him  most 
for  his  important  work  was  the  vision  of  the  majestic 
and  thrice-holy  God  which  he  saw  in  the  temple  in 
the  death-year  of  King  Uzziah.  There  is  no  good 
reason  for  doubting  that  this  was  his  inaugural 
vision,  though  some  regard  it  as  a  vision  which  came 
to  him  after  years  of  experience  in  preaching  and  as 
intended  to  deepen  his  spirituality.     While  this  is 


Isaiah 


I  III'.   INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1490 


t  lie  only  explicit   "visioi 
hook,  from  first  to  last ,  i 
a  "vision."     1  lis  horizon,  hot  li 
was  pract  ically  unbounded. 
as  1  )elitzsch  savs,  lie  w  as  "I  li 
Israel." 

for  versatility  of  expression 
imagery  Isaiah  had  no  superioi 
His  style  marks  tin 
4.  Literary  literary  art.  Botl 
Genius  and  descriptions  are  most  finished  and 
Style  sublime.      He    is    a    perfect     artist     in 

words.  Beauty  and  strength  are 
characteristic  of  his  entire  book.  Kpigrams  and 
metaphors,  particularly  of  flood,  storm  and  sound 
(1  13;  5  18.22;  8  S;  10  22;  28 
interrogation  and  dialogue  (6  S; 
sis  and  alliteration  (1  IS;  3  21; 
bole  and  parable  (2  7;  5  1-7; 
paranomasia,  or  play  upon  word 


Isaiah  saw,  yet  his  ent  ire 

is  the  title  (1    1  I  suggests, 

olit  ical  and  spirit  ual, 

ll   a    very  t  rue  sense, 

universal  prophet  of 

i    and    brilliancy    of 

not    even  a  rival. 

climax  of  Hebrew 

his    periods    and 


:u 


lit 


erize   Isaiah's  i>< 
lebrew  literature. 
<  of  vocabulary 
kitl    uses    1 ,.").' 5f> 


5.  Tradi- 
tions con- 
cerning His 
Martyrdom 


17.20;  30  28.30), 
10  8.9),  antithe- 
17  10.12),  hyper- 
28  2.'3  29),  'even 
i  (5  7;  7  9),  char- 
>k  as  the  great  masterpiece  of 
He  is  also  famous  for  his  rich- 
and  synonyms.  For  example, 
words;  Jeremiah,  1,053;  the 
Psalmists 2, 170;  while  Isaiah  uses  2, 180.  Isaiah  was 
also  an  orator:  Jerome  likened  him  to  Demosl  henes; 
and  a  poet:  he  frequently  elaborates  his  messages 
in  rhythmic  or  poetic  si  vie  (12  1  0;  25  1  5;  26 
1-12;'  38  10  20;  42  1  1;  49  1  9;  50  4-9;  52 
13—53  12;  60-62;  66  5  24);  and  in  several  in- 
stances slips  into  elegiac  rhythm,  e.g.  in  37  22-29 
there  is  a  fine  taunting  poem  on  Sennacherib,  and 
in  14  4-23  another  on  the  king  of  Babylon.  As 
Driver  observes,  "Isaiah's  poet  ical  genius  is  superb." 

Nothing  definite  or  historical  is  known  concerning  the; 
prophet's  end.  Toward  the  close  of  the  2d  cent.  AD, 
however,  there  was  a  tradition  to  the 
effect  that  he  suffered  martyrdom  in  the 
heathen  reaction  which  occurred  under 
King  Manasseh,  because  of  certain 
speeches  concerning  God  and  the  Holj 
City  which  tiis  contemporaries  alleged 
were  contrary  to  the  law.  Indeed  the 
Jewish  Mishna  explicitly  states  that 
Manasseh  slew  him.  Justin  Martyr  also  (150  AD),  in 
his  controversial  dialogue  with  the  Jew  Trypho,  re- 
proaches the  Jews  with  this  accusation,  "  whom  ye  sawed 
asunder  with  a  wooden  saw'":  this  tradition  is:  further 
confirmed  by  a  Jewish  Apocalypse  of  the  2d  cent.  AD, 
entitled.  The  Ascension  of  Isaiah,  and  by  Epiphanius  in 
his  so-called  Lives  of  the  Prophets.  It  is  barely  possible 
that  there  is  an  allusion  to  his  martyrdom  in  Ho  11  'M , 
which  reads,  "They  were  stoned,  they  were  sawn  asunder." 
but  this  is  by  no  means  certain.  *  In  any  case  Isaiah 
probably  survived  the  great  catastrophe  of  the  siege  of 
Jerus  by  Sennacherib  in  701  BO,  and  possibly  also  the 
death  of  Hezekiah  in  (i!><>  HO;  for  in  2  (Mi  32  :•!-'  it  is 
stated  that  Isaiah  wrote  a  biography  of  King  Hezekiah. 
If  so,  his  prophetic  activity  extended  over  a  period  of 
more  than  40  years.  Dr.  G.  A.  Smith  extends  it  to 
"more  than  50"  {.Jerusalem,  II,  ISO;  cf  Whitehouse 
"Isaiah,"  A'<  w  c,  „i.  Bible,  1.  72). 

According  to  the  title  of  his  book  (1  1),  Isaiah 
prophesied  during  the  reigns  of   Lzziah,   Jotham, 

Ahaz  and  Hezekiah,  kings  of  Judah. 
6.  Period       He    dates   his    inaugural    vision    (6  1) 

in  I'zziah's  death-year,  which  was 
approximately  740  BC.  This  marks,  therefore,  the 
beginning  of  his  prophetic  ministry.  And  we  know- 
that  he  was  still  active  as  late  as  'the  siege  of  Jerus 
by  Sennacherib  in  701  BC.  Hence  the  minimum 
period  of  his  activity  as  a  prophet  was  from  740  to 
701  BC.  As  a  young  man  Isaiah  witnessed  the  rapid 
development  of  Judah  into  a  strong  commercial 
and  military  state;  for  under  Lzziah  Judah  at- 
tained a  degree  of  prosperity  and  strength  never 
before  enjoyed  since  the  days  of  Solomon.  Walls, 
towers,  fortifications,  a  large  standing  army,  a  port 
for  commerce  on  the  Red  Sea,  increased  inland 
trade,  tribute  from  the  Ammonites,  success  in  war 
with  the  Philis  and  the  Arabians — all  these  became 
Judah's  during  I'zziah's  long  and  prosperous  reign 
of  o2  years.     But   along  with   power  and   wealth 


came  also  avarice,  oppression,  religious  formality 
and  corruption.  The  temple  revenues  indeed  were 
greatly  increased,  but  religion  and  life  were  too 
frequently  dissociated;  the  nation's  progress  was 
altogether  material.  During  the  reign  of  Jotham 
7  10  730  BC),  who  for  several  years  was  probably 
associated  wit  h  his  fat  her  as  co-regent .  a  new  power 
began  to  appear  over  the  eastern  horizon.  The. 
Assyrians,  with  whom  Ahab  had  come  in  contact 
al  the  battle  of  Karkar  in  So  I  BC,  and  to  whom 
Jehu  had  paid  tribute  in  842  BC,  began  to  manifest 
anew  their  characteristic  lust  of  conquest.  Tiglath- 
pileser  III,  who  is  called  "I'ul"  in  2  Ix  15  19  and 
reigned  over  Assyria  from  745  to  727  BC,  turned 
his  attention  westward,  and  in  738  BC  reduced 
Arpad,  Calno,  Carchemish,  Hamath  and  Damascus, 
causing  them  to  pay  tribute.  His  presence  in  the 
West  led  IVkah,  king  of  North  Israel,  and  Rezin, 
king  of  Damascus,  to  form  an  alliance  in  order  to 
resist  further  encroachment  on  the  part  of  Assyria. 
When  Ahaz  refused  to  join  their  confederacy  t  hex- 
resolved  to  dethrone  him  and  set  in  his  stead  the 
son  of  Tabeel  upon  the  throne  of  David  (2  Ix  16  5; 
Isa  7  0).  The  struggle  which  ensued  is  commonly 
known  as  the  Syro-Ephraimilic  war  (734  BC)  - 
one  of  the  great  events  in  Isaiah's  period.  Ahaz 
in  panic  sent  to  Tiglath-pileser  for  help  (2  Ix  16  7), 
who  of  course  responded  with  alacrity.  The  result 
was  that  the  great  Assyrian  warrior  sacked  ( laza 
and  carried  till  of  Galilee  and  Gilead  into  captivity 
(734)  and  finally  took  Damascus  (732  BC).  Ahaz 
was  forced  to  pay  dearly  for  his  protection  and 
Judah  was  brought  very  low  (2  Ix  15  29;  16 
7-9;  2  Oh  28  19;  Isa  7  1).  The  religious  as 
well  as  the  political  effect  of  Ahaz'  policy  was  de- 
cidedly baneful.  To  please  Tiglath-pileser,  Ahaz 
went  to  Damascus  to  join  in  the  celebration  of  his 
victories,  and  while  there  saw  a  Syrian  altar,  a 
pattern  of  which  he  sent  to  Jerus  and  had  a  copy 
set  up  in  the  temple  in  place  of  the  brazen  altar  of 
Solomon.  Thus  Ahaz,  with  all  the  influence  of  a 
king,  introduced  idolatry  into  Jerus,  even  causing 
his  sons  to  pass  through  the  fire  (2  K  16  10  10; 
2  Ch  28  3). 

Hezekiah  succeeded  Ahaz,  beginning  to  rule  at 
the  age  of  25  and  reigning  29  years  (727-099  BC). 
Isaiah  was  at  least  15  years  his  senior.  The  young 
king  inherited  from  his  father  a  heavy  burden. 
The  splendor  of  I'zziah's  and  Jot  ham's  reigns  was 
rapidly  fading  before  the  ever-menacing  ami  avari- 
cious Assyrians.  Hezekiah  begun  his  reign  with 
reformation.  ''He  removed  the  high  places,  and 
brake  the  pillars,  and  (ait  down  the  Asherah"  (2  Ix 
18  4.22).  He  even  invited  the  surviving  remnant 
of  North  Israel  to  join  in  celebrating  the  Passover 
(2  Ch  30  1).  But  Israel's  end  was  drawing  near. 
Hoshea,  the  vacillating  puppet-king  of  North  Israel 
(730-722  BC),  encouraged  by  Egypt,  refused  longer 
to  pay  Assyria  his  annual  tribute  (2  K  17  4); 
whereupon  Shalmanescr  IV,  who  had  succeeded 
Tiglath-pileser,  promptly  appeared  before  the  gates 
of  Samaria  in  724  BC,  and  for  3  weary  years  be- 
sieged the  city  (2  Ix  17  5).  Finally,  the  city  was 
captured  by  Sargon  II,  who  succeeded  Shalmaneser 
IV  in  722  BC,  and  27,292  of  Israel's  choicest  people 
(according  to  Sargon's  own  description)  were  de- 
ported to  Assyria,  and  colonists  were  brought  from 
Babylon  and  other  adjacent  districts  and  placed  in 
the  cities  of  Samaria  (2  Ix  17  0.24).  Thus  the 
kingdom  of  North  Israel  passed  into  oblivion,  and 
Judah  was  left  ever  after  quite  exposed  to  the  direct 
ravages,  political  and  religious,  of  her  Assyrio-Bab 
neighbors.  In  fact  Judah  herself  barely' escaped 
destruction  by  promising  heavy  tribute.  This  was 
the  second  great  political  crisis  during  Isaiah's  min- 
istry. Other  crises  were  soon  to  follow.  One  was 
the  desperate  illness  of  King  Hezekiah,  who  faced 


1497 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Isaiah 


assured  death  in  714  BC.  Being  childless,  he  was 
seriously  concerned  for  the  future  of  the  Davidic 
dynasty.  He  resorted  to  prayer,  however,  and  God 
graciously  extended  his  life  15  years  (2  K  20;  Isa 
38).  His  illness  occurred  during  the  period  of  Baby- 
lon's independence  under  Merodach-baladan,  the 
ever-ambitious,  irresistible  and  uncompromising 
enemy  of  Assyria,  who  for  12  years  (721-700  BCj 
maintained  independent  supremacy  over  Babylon. 
Taking  advantage  of  Hezekiah's  wonderful  cure, 
Merodach  seized  the  opportunity  of  sending  an 
embassy  to  Jerus  to  congrat  ulate  him  on  his  recovery 
(712  BC),  and  at  the  same  time  probably  sought 
to  form  an  alliance  with  Judah  to  resisl  Assyr  su- 
premacy (2  K  20  12  ff;  Isa  39).  Nothing,  how- 
ever, came  of  the  alliance,  for  the  following  year 
Sargon's  army  reappeared  in  Philistia  in  order  to 
discipline  Ashdod  for  conspiracy  with  the  king  of 
Egypt  (711  BC).  The  greatest  crisis  was  yet  to 
come.  Its  story  is  as  follows:  Judah  and  her 
neighbors  groaned  more  and  more  under  the  heavy 
exactions  of  Assyria.  Accordingly,  when  Sargon 
was  assassinated  and  Sennacherib  came  to  the 
throne  in  705  BC,  rebellion  broke  out  on  all  sides. 
Merodach-baladan,  who  had  been  expelled  by  Sar- 
gon in  709  BC,  again  took  Babylon  and  held  it  for 
at  least  six  months  in  703  BC.  Hezekiah,  who  was 
encouraged  by  Egypt  and  all  Philistia,  except  Padi 
of  Ekron,  the  puppet -king  of  Sargon,  refused  longer 
to  pay  Assyria  tribute  (2  K  18  7).  Meanwhile  a 
strong  pro-Egyp  party  had  sprung  up  in  Jerus.  In 
view  of  all  these  circumstances,  Sennacherib  in 
701  BC  marched  westward  with  a  vast  army, 
sweeping  everything  before  him.  Tyre  was  in- 
vested though  not  taken;  on  the  other  hand, Joppa, 
Eltekeh,  Ekron,  Ashkelon,  Ammon,  Moab,  and 
Edom  all  promptly  yielded  to  his  demands.  Heze- 
kiah was  panic  stricken  and  hastened  to  bring  rich 
tribute,  stripping  even  the  temple  and  the  palace 
of  their  treasures  to  do  so  (2  K  18  13-16).  But 
Sennacherib  was  not  satisfied.  He  overran  Judah, 
capturing,  as  he  tells  us  in  his  inscription,  40  walled 
towns  and  smaller  villages  without  number,  carry- 
ing 200,150  of  Judah's  population  into  captivity  to 
Assyria,  and  demanding  as  tribute  800  talents  of 
silver  and  30  talents  of  gold,  in  all  over  $1,500,000; 
he  took  also,  he  claims,  Hezekiah's  daughters  and 
palace  women,  seized  his  male  and  female  singers, 
and  carried  away  enormous  spoil.  But  the  end 
was  not  yet.  Sennacherib  himself,  with  the  bulk 
of  the  army,  halted  in  Philistia  to  reduce  Lachish; 
thence  he  sent  a  strong  detachment  under  his  com- 
mander-in-chief, the  Rabshakeh,  to  besiege  Jerus 
(2  K  18  17—19  8;  Isa  36  2-37  8).  As  he  de- 
scribes this  blockade  in  his  own  inscription:  "I 
shut  up  Hezekiah  in  Jerus  like  a  bird  in  a  cage." 
The  Rabshakeh,  however,  failed  to  capture  the  city 
and  returned  to  Sennacherib,  who  meanwhile  had 
completely  conquered  Lachish,  and  was  now  warring 
against  Libnah.  A  second  expedition  against 
Jerus  was  planned,  but  hearing  that  Tirhakah  (at 
that  time  the  commander-in-chief  of  Egypt's  forces 
and  only  afterward  ''king  of  Ethiopia")  was  ap- 
proaching, Sennacherib  was  forced  to  content  him- 
self with  sending  messengers  with  a  letter  to  Heze- 
kiah, demanding  immediate  surrender  of  the  city 
(2  K  19  9fT;  Isa  37  9ff).  Hezekiah,  however, 
through  Isaiah's  influence  held  out ;  and  in  due 
time,  though  Sennacherib  disposed  of  Tirhakah's 
army  without  difficulty,  his  immense  host  in  some 
mysterious  way — by  plague  or  otherwise — was 
suddenly  smitten,  and  the  great  Assyr  conqueror 
was  forced  to  return  to  Nineveh;  possibly  because 
Merodach-baladan  had  again  appeared  in  Baby- 
lonia. Sennacherib  never  again  returned  to  Pal, 
so  far  as  we  know,  during  the  subsequent  20  years 
of  his  reign,  though  he  did  make  an  independent 


expedition  into  North  Arabia  (091-089  BC).  This 
invasion  of  Judah  by  Sennacherib  in  701  BC  was 
the  great  political  event  in  Isaiah's  ministry.  Had 
it  not  been  for  the  prophet's  statesmanship,  Jerus 
might  have  capitulated.  As  it  was,  only  a  small, 
insignificantly  small,  remnant  of  .Judah's  popula- 
tion escaped.  Isaiah  had  at  this  time  been  preach- 
ing 40  years.  How  much  longer  he  labored  is  not 
known. 

There  are  six  general  divisions  of  the  book:  (1) 
chs  1-12,  prophecies  concerning  Judah  and  Jerus, 

closing  with  promises  of  restoration 
7.  Analysis  and  a  psalm  of  thanksgiving;  (2)  chs 
and  13-23,  oracles  of  judgment   and  salva- 

Contents        tion,    for    the    most    part    concerning 

those  foreign  nations  whose  fortunes 
affected  Judah  and  Jerus;  (3)  chs  24-27,  Jeh's  world- 
judgment  in  the  redemption  of  Israel;  (4)  chs  28- 
35,  a  cycle  of  prophetic  warnings  against  alliance 
with  Egypt,  closing  with  a  prophecy  concerning 
Edom  and  a  promise  of  Israel's  ransom;  (5)  chs 
36-39,  history,  prophecy  and  song  intermingled; 
serving  both  as  an  appendix  to  chs  1-35,  and  as  an 
introduction  to  chs  40-66;  (6)  chs 40-66,  prophecies 
of  comfort  and  salvation,  and  also  of  the  future 
glory  awaiting  Israel. 

By  examining  in  detail  these  several  divisions 
we  can  trace  better  the  prophet's  thought.  Thus, 
chs  1-12  unfold  Judah's  social  sins  (chs  1-6),  and 
her  political  entanglements  (chs  7-12);  ch  1  is  an 
introduction,  in  which  the  prophet  strikes  the  chief 
notes  of  his  entire  book:  viz.  thoughtlessness  (vs 
2-9),  formalism  in  worship  (vs  10-17),  pardon  (vs 
18-23)  and  judgment  (vs  24-31).  Chs  2-4  contain 
three  distinct  pictures  of  Zion:  (a)  her  exaltation 
(2  2-4),  (6)  her  present  idolatry  (2  5—4  1),  and 
(c)  her  eventual  purification  (4  2-0).  Ch  5  con- 
tains an  arraignment  of  Judah  and  Jerus,  composed 
of  three  parts:  (<■;)  a  parable  of  Jeh's  vineyard  (vs 
1-7);  (b)  a  series  of  six  woes  pronounced  against 
insatiable  greed  (vs  8-10),  dissipation  (vs  11-17), 
daring  defiance  against  Jeh  (vs  18.19),  confusion 
of  moral  distinctions  (ver  20),  political  self-conceit 
(ver  21),  and  misdirected  heroism  (vs  22.23);  and 
('■)  an  announcement  of  imminent  judgment.  The 
Assyrian  is  on  the  way  and  there  will  be  no  escape 
(vs  24-30).  Ch  6  recounts  the  prophet's  inaugural 
vision  and  commission.  It  is  really  an  apologetic, 
standing  as  it  does  after  the  prophet 's  denunciations 
of  his  contemporaries.  When  they  tacitly  object 
to  his  message  of  threatening  and  disaster,  he  is 
able  to  reply  that,  having  pronounced  "woe"  upon 
himself  in  the  year  that  King  t'zziah  died,  he  had 
the  authority  to  pronounce  woe  upon  them  (6  5). 
Plainly  Isaiah  tells  them  that  Judah's  sins  are  well- 
nigh  hopeless.  They  are  becoming  spiritually  in- 
sensible. They  have  eyes  but  they  cannot  see. 
Only  judgment  can  avail:  "the  righteous  judgment 
of  a  forgotten  God"  awaits  them.  A  "holy  seed," 
however,  still  existed  in  Israel's  stock  (6  13). 

Coming  to  chs  7-12,  Isaiah  appears  in  the  role  of 
a  practical  statesman.  He  warns  Ahaz  against 
political  entanglements  with  Assyria.  The  seel  ion 
7  1 — 9  7  is  a  prophecy  of  Immanuel,  history  and 
prediction  being  intermingled. 

They  describe  the  Syro-Ephraimitic  uprising  in  73G 
BC,  when  Pekah  of  North  Israel  and  Rezin  of  Damascus, 
in  attempting  to  defend  themselves  against  the  Assyr- 
ians, demanded  that  Ahaz  of  Jerus  should  become  their 
ally.  Hut  Ahaz  preferred  the  friendship  of  Assyria, 
and  refused  to  enter  into  alliance  with  them.  Anil  in 
order  to  defend  himself,  he  applied  to  Assyria  for  assist- 
ance, sending  ambassadors  with  many  precious  treasures. 
both  royal  and  sacred,  to  bribe  Tiglath-pileser.  It  was 
at  this  juncture  that  Isaiah,  at  Jeh's  bidding,  expostulates 
with  Ahaz  concerning  the  fatal  step  he  is  about  to  take, 
and  as  a  practical  statesman  warns  Ahaz.  "the  king 
of  No-Faith,"  that  the  only  path  of  safety  lies  in  loyalty 
to  Jeh  and  keeping  clear  of  foreign  alliances;  that  "  God  is 
with  us"  for  salvation;    and  that  no  "conspiracy"  can 


Isaiah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1498 


possibly  bo  successful  unless  (iod  loo  is  against  us. 
When,  "however,  the  prophet's  message  of  promise  and 
salvation  llnds  no  welcome,  he  commits  it  to  his  disciples, 
hound  up  and  sealed  for  future  use;  assuring  his  hearers 
that  unto  them  a  child  is  born  and  unto  them  a  son  is 
given,  in  whose  dav  the  empire  of  David  will  be  estab- 
lished' upon  a  basis  of  justice  and  righteousness.  The 
Messianic  scion  is  the  ground  of  the  prophet's  hope; 
which  hope,  though  unprecedented,  he  thus  early  in  his 
ministry  commits,  written  and  sealed,  to  his  inner  circle 
of  "  disciples."      Sec.  further,  Immaxi  kl. 

The  sect  ion  9  S — 10  4  contains  an  announcement 
to  North  Israel  of  accumulated  wrath  and  impend- 
ing ruin,  with  a  refrain  (9  12.17.LM;  10  4).  Here, 
in  an  artistic  poem  composed  of  four  strophes,  the 
prophet  describes  the  great  calamities  which  Jeh 
has  sent  down  upon  North  Israel  but  which  have 
gone  unheeded:  foreign  invasion  (9  8-12),  defeat 
in  battle  (9  13  17),  anarchy  (9  IS  21),  and  impend- 
ing captivity  (10  1-4).  Yet  Jeh's  judgments  have 
gone  unheeded:  "For  all  this  his  anger  is  not  turned 
away,  but  his  hand  is  stretched  out  still."  Divine 
discipline  lias  failed;  only  judgment  remains. _ 

lit  10  5  34,  Assyria  is  declared  to  be  an  instru- 
ment of  Jeh,  the  rod  of  Jeh's  anger.  Chs  11-12 
predict  Israel's  return  from  exile,  including  a  vision 
of  the  Messiah's  reign  of  ideal  peace.  Lor  Isaiah's 
vision  of  the  nation's  future  reached  far  beyond 
mere  exile.  To  him  the  downfall  of  Assyria  was  the 
signal  for  t  he  commencement  of  a  new  era  in  Israel's 
history.  Assyria  has  no  future,  her  downfall  is 
fatal;  Judah  has  a  future,  her  calamities  are  only 
disciplinary.  An  Ideal  Prince  will  be  raised  up  in 
whose  advent  all  Nature  will  rejoice,  even  dumb 
animals  (11  1-10).  A  second  great  exodus  will 
take  place,  for  the  Lord  will  set  His  hand  again  "the 
second  time"  to  recover  the  remnant  of  His  people 
"from  the  four  corners  of  the  earth"  (11  11.12). 
In  that  day,  "Ephraim  shall  not  envy  Judah,  and 
Judah  shall  not  vex  Ephraim"  (11  13).  On  the 
contrary,  the  reunited  nation,  redeemed  and  occu- 
pying their  rightful  territory  (11  14-16),  shall  sing 
a  hvmn  of  thanksgiving,  proclaiming  the  salvation 
of  Jeh  to  all  the  earth  (ch  12). 

Chs  13-23  contain  oracles  of  judgment  and  sal- 
vation, for  the  most  part  concerning  those  foreign 
nations  whose  fortunes  affected  Judah  and  Jerus. 
They  are  grouped  together  by  the  editor,  as  similar 
foreign  oracles  are  in  Jer  46-51  and  Ezk  25-32. 
Isaiah's  horizon  was  world-wide.  First  among  the 
foreign  prophecies  stands  the  oracle  concerning 
Babylon  (13  1 — 14  23),  in  which  he  predicts  the 
utter  destruction  of  the  city  (13  2-22),  and  sings 
a  dirge  or  taunt-song  over  her  fallen  king  (14  4-23). 
The  king  alluded  to  is  almost  beyond  doubt  an 
Assyr  (not  a  Bab)  monarch  of  the  8th  cent.;  the 
brief  prophecy  immediately  following  in  14  24-27 
concerning  Assyria  tacitly  confirms  this  interpre- 
tation. Another  brief  oracle  concerning  Babylon 
(21  1-10)  describes  the  city's  fall  as  imminent. 
Both  oracles  stand  or  fall  together  as  genuine 
prophecies  of  Isaiah.  Both  seem  to  have  been 
written  in  Jerus  (13  2;  21  9.10).  It  cannot  be 
said  that  either  is  absolutely  unrelated  in  thought 
and  language  to  Isaiah's  age  (14  13;  21  2);  each 
foretells  the  doom  to  fall  on  Babylon  (13  19;  21  9) 
at  the  hands  of  the  Modes  (13  17;  21  2);  and  each 
describes  the  Israelites  as  already  in  exile — but  not 
necessarily  all  Israel. 

The  section  14  21-27  tells  of  the  certain  de- 
struction of  the  Assyrian. 

The  passage  14  28  32  is  an  oracle  concerning 
Philistia. 

Chs  15-16  are  ancient  oracles  against  Moab, 
whose  dirgelike  meter  resembles  that  of  chs  13-14. 
It  is  composed  of  two  separate  prophecies  belong- 
ing to  two  different  periods  in  Isaiah's  ministry 
(16  13.14).  The  three  points  of  particular  interest 
in  the  oracle  are:    (1)  the  prophet's  tender  sym- 


pathy for  Moab  in  her  affliction  (15  5;  16  11). 
Isaiah  mingles  his  own  tears  with  t  hose  of  the  Moab- 
ites.  As  Delitzsch  says,  "There  is  no  prophecy  in 
the  Book  of  Isa  in  which  the  heart  of  the  prophet 
is  so  painfully  moved  by  what  his  spirit  beholds 
and  his  mouth  must  prophecy."  (2)  Moab's  pa- 
il hot  ic  appeal  for  shelter  from  her  foes;  part  icularly 
the  ground  on  which  she  urges  it,  namely,  the  Mes- 
sianic hope  that  the  Davidic  dynasty  shall  always 
stand  and  be  able  to  repulse  its  foes  (16  5).  The 
prophecy  is  an  echo  of  9  5-7.  (3)  The  promise  that 
a  remnant  of  Moab,  though  small,  shall  be  saved 
(16  14).  Wearied  of  prayer  to  Chomosh  in  his 
high  places,  the  prophet  predicts  that  Moab  will 
seek  the  living  Cod  (16   12). 

The  passage  17  1-11  is  an  oracle  concerning 
Damascus  and  North  Israel,  in  which  Isaiah  predicts 
the  fate  of  the  two  allies — Syria  and  Ephraim — in 
the  Syro-Ephraimitic  war  of  734  BC,  with  a  promise 
that  only  a  scanty  remnant  will  survive  (17  6). 
In  17  12-14,  the  prophet  boldly  announces  the  com- 
plete annihilation  of  Judah's  unnamed  foes — the 
Assyrians. 

Ch  18  describes  Ethiopia  as  in  great  excitement, 
sending  ambassadors  hither  and  thither — possibly 
all  the  way  to  Jerus — ostensibly  seeking  aid  in 
making  preparations  for  war.  Assyria  had  already 
taken  Damascus  (732  BC)  and  Samaria  (722  BC), 
and  consequently  Egypt  and  Ethiopia  were  in  fear 
of  invasion.  Isaiah  bids  the  ambassadors  to  return 
home  and  quietly  watch  Jeh  thwart  Assyria's  self- 
confident  attempt  to  subjugate  Judah;  and  he  adds 
that  when  the  Ethiopians  have  seen  Cod's  hand  in 
the  coming  deliverance  of  Judah  and  Jerus  (701 
BC),  they  will  bring  a  present  to  Jeh  to  His  abode 
in  Mount  Zion. 

Ch  19,  which  is  an  oracle  concerning  Egypt,  con- 
tains both  a  threat  (vs  1-17)  and  a  promise  (vs  18- 
25),  and  is  one  of  Isaiah's  most  remarkable  foreign 
messages.  Egypt  is  smitten  and  thereby  led  to 
abandon  her  idols  for  the  worship  of  Jeh  (vs  19-22). 
Still  more  remarkable,  it  is  prophesied  that  in  that 
day  Egypt  and  Assyria  will  join  with  Judah  in  a 
triple  alliance  of  common  worship  to  Jeh  and  of 
blessing  to  others  (vs  23-25).  Isaiah's  missionary 
outlook  here  is  wonderful! 

Ch  20  describes  Sargon's  march  against  Egypt 
and  Ethiopia,  containing  a  brief  symbolic  prediction 
of  Assyria's  victory  over  Egypt  and  Ethiopia.  By 
donning  a  captive's  garb  for  three  years,  Isaiah 
attempts  to  teach  the  citizens  of  Jerus  that  the 
siege  of  Ashdod  was  but  a  means  to  an  end  in  Sar- 
gon's plan  of  campaign,  and  that  it  was  sheer  folly 
for  the  Egyp  party  in  Jerus,  who  were  ever  urging 
reliance  upon  Egypt,  to  look  in  that  direction  for 
help.  21  11.12  is  a  brief  oracle  concerning  Seir  or 
Edom,  "the  only  gentle  utterance  in  the  OT  upon 
Israel's  hereditary  foe."  Edom  is  in  great  anxiety. 
The  prophet's  answer  is  disappointing,  though  its 
tone  is  sympathetic.  21  13  ff  is  a  brief  oracle  con- 
cerning Arabia.  It  contains  a  sympathetic  appeal 
to  the  Temanites  to  give  bread  and  water  to  the 
caravans  of  Dedan,  who  have  been  driven  by  war 
from  their  usual  route  of  travel. 

Ch  22  is  concerning  the  foreign  temper  within 
the  theocracy.  It  is  composed  of  two  parts:  (1) 
an  oracle  "of  the  valley  of  vision,"  i.e.  Jerus  (vs 
1-14);  and  (2)  a  philippic  against  Shebna,  the 
comptroller  of  the  palace.  Isaiah  pauses,  as  it 
were,  in  his  series  of  warnings  to  foreign  nations  to 
rebuke  the  foreign  temper  of  the  frivolous  inhabit- 
ants of_  Jerus,  and  in  particular  Shebna,  a  high 
official  in  the  government.  The  reckless  and  God- 
ignoring  citizens  of  the  capital  are  pictured  as  in- 
dulging themselves  in  hilarious  eating  and  drinking, 
when  the  enemy  is  at  that  very  moment  standing 
before  the  gates  (,f  the  city.     Shebna,  on  the  other 


1499 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Isaiah 


hand,  seems  to  have  been  an  ostentatious  foreigner, 
perhaps  a  Syrian  by  birth,  quite  possibly  one  of 
the  Egyp  party,  whose  policy  was  antagonistic  to 
that  of  Isaiah  and  the  king.  Isaiah's  prediction  of 
Shebna's  fall  was  evidently  fulfilled  (36  3;  37  2). 
Ch  23  is  concerning  Tyre.  In  this  oracle  Isaiah 
predicts  that  Tyre  shall  be  laid  waste  (vcr  1),  her 
commercial  glory  humbled  (ver  9),  her  colonies 
become  independent  of  her  (ver  10),  and  she  herself 
forgotten  for  "seventy  years"  (ver  15);  but  "after 
the  end  of  seventy  years,"  her  trade  will  revive,  her 
business  prosperity  will  return,  and  she  will  dedi- 
cate her  gains  in  merchandise  as  holy  to  Jeh  (ver  IS). 

The  third  great  section  of  the  Book  of  Isa  em- 
braces chs  24-27,  which  tell  of  Jeh's  world-judgment, 
issuing  in  the  redemption  of  Israel.  These  prophe- 
cies stand  closely  related  to  chs  13-23.  They  ex- 
press the  same  tender  emotion  as  that  already 
observed  in  15  5;  16  11,  and  sum  up  as  in  one 
grand  finale  the  prophet's  oracles  to  Israel's  neigh- 
bors. For  religious  importance  they  stand  second 
to  none  in  the  Book  of  Isa,  teaching  the  necessity 
of  Divine  discipline  and  the  glorious  redemption 
await  ing  the  faithful  in  Israel.  They  are  a  spiritual 
commentary  on  the  great  Assyr  crisis  of  the  8th 
cent.;  they  are  messages  of  salvation  intended,  not 
for  declamation,  but  for  meditation,  and  were  prob- 
ably addressed  more  particularly  to  the  prophet's 
inner  circle  of  "disciples"  (8  10).  These  chapters 
partake  of  the  nature  of  apocalypse.  Strictly 
speaking,  however,  they  are  prophecy,  not  apoca- 
lypse. No  one  ascends  into  heaven  or  talks  with 
an  angel,  as  in  Dnl  7  and  Rev  4.  They  are 
apocalypse  only  in  the  sense  that  certain  things 
are  predicted  as  sure  to  come  to  pass.  Isaiah  was 
fond  of  this  kind  of  prophecy.  He  frequently  lifts 
his  reader  out  of  the  sphere  of  mere  history  to 
paint  pictures  of  the  far-off,  distant  firture  (2  2-4; 
4  2-6;    11  6-16;    30  27-33). 

In  ch  24  the  prophet  announces  a  general  judg- 
ment of  the  earth  (i.e.  the  land  of  Judah),  and  of 
"the  city"  (collective,  for  Judah's  towns),  after 
which  will  dawn  a  better  day  (vs  1-15).  The 
prophet  fancies  he  hears  songs  of  deliverance,  but 
alas!  they  are  premature;  more  judgment  must 
follow.  Inch  25  the  prophet  transports  himself 
to  the  period  after  the  Assyr  catastrophe  and, 
identifying  himself  with  the  redeemed,  puts  into 
their  mouths  songs  of  praise  and  thanksgiving  for 
their  deliverance.  Vs  6-8  describe  Jeh's  bountiful 
banquet  on  Mount  Zion  to  all  nations,  who,  in 
keeping  with  2  2-4,  come  up  to  Jerus,  to  celebrate 
"a  feast  of  fat  things,"  rich  and  marrowy.  While 
the  people  are  present  at,  the  banquet,  Jeh  gra- 
ciously removes  their  spiritual  blindness  so  that 
they  behold  Him  as  the  true  dispenser  of  life  and 
grace.  He  also  abolishes  violent  death,  that  is  to 
say,  war  (cf  2  4),  and  its  sad  accompaniment, 
"tears,"  so  that  "the  earth"  (i.e.  the  land  of  Judah) 
is  no  longer  the  battlefield  of  the  nations,  but  the 
blessed  abode  of  the  redeemed,  living  in  peace  and 
happiness.  The  prophet's  aim  is  not  political  but 
religious. 

In  26  1-19  Judah  sings  a  song  over  Jerus,  the 
impregnable  city  of  God.  The  prophet,  taking 
again  his  stand  with  the  redeemed  remnant  of  the 
nation,  vividly  portrays  their  thankful  trust  in  Jeh, 
who  has  been  unto  them  a  veritable  "Rock  of 
Ages"  (ver  4  m).  With  hope  he  joyfully  exclaims, 
Let  Jeh's  dead  ones  live!  Let  Israel's  dead  bodies 
arise!  Jeh  will  bring  life  from  the  dead!  (ver  19). 
This  is  the  first  clear  statement  of  the  resurrection 
in  the  OT.  But  it  is  national  and  restricted  to 
Israel  (cf  ver  14),  and  is  merely  Isaiah's  method  of 
expressing  a  hope  of  the  return  of  Israel's  faithful 
ones  from  captivity  (cf  Hos  6  2;  Ezk  37  1-14; 
Dnl  12  2). 


In  26  20—27  13  the  prophet  shows  that  Israel's 
chastisements  are  salutary.  He  begins  by  exhort- 
ing his  own  people,  his  disciples,  to  continue  a  little 
longer  in  the  solitude  of  prayer,  till  God's  wrath 
has  shattered  the  world-powers  (26  20 — 27  1). 
He  next  predicts  that,  the  true  vineyard  of  Jeh  will 
henceforth  be  safely  guarded  against  the  briars  and 
thorns  of  foreign  invasion  (27  2-0).  And  then, 
after  showing  that  Jeh's  chastisements  of  Israel 
were  light,  compared  with  His  judgments  upon 
other  nations  (27  7-11),  he  promises  that  if  Israel 
will  only  repent,  Jeh  will  spare  no  pains  to  gather 
"one  by  one"  the  remnant  of  His  people  from 
Assyria  and  Egypt  (cf  11  11);  and  together  they 
shall  once  more  worship  Jeh  in  the  holy  mountain 
at  Jerus  (27  12.13). 

The  prophet's  fundamental  standpoint  in  chs 
24-27  is  the  same  as  that  of  2  2-4  and  chs  13-23. 
Yet  the  prophet  not  infrequently  throws  himself 
forward  into  the  remote  future,  oscillating  back- 
ward and  forward  between  his  own  t imes  and  those 
of  Israel's  restoration.  It  is  esp.  noteworthy  how 
lie  sustains  himself  in  a  long  and  continued  trans- 
portation of  himself  to  the  period  of  Israel's  redemp- 
tion. He  even  studies  to  identify  himself  with  the 
new  Israel  which  will  emerge  out  of  the  present 
chaos  of  political  events.  His  visions  of  Israel's 
redemption  carry  him  in  ecstasy  far  away  into  the 
remote  future,  to  a  time  when  the  nation's  suffer- 
ings are  all  over;  so  t  hat  when  he  writ  es  down  what 
he  saw  in  vision  he  describes  it  as  a  discipline  that  is 
past.  For  example,  in  25  1-8  the  prophet,  trans- 
ported to  the  end  of  time,  celebrates  in  song  what 
lie  saw,_  and  describes  how  the  fall  of  the  world- 
empire  is  followed  by  the  conversion  of  the  heathen. 
In  26  8.9  he  looks  back  into  the  past  from  the  stand- 
point of  the  redeemed  in  the  last  days,  and  tells  how 
Israel  longingly  waited  for  the  manifestation  of 
God's  righteousness  which  has  now  taken  place, 
while  in  27  7-9  he  places  himself  in  the  midst  of 
the  nation's  sufferings,  in  full  view  of  their  glorious 
future,  and  portrays  how  Jeh's  dealings  with  Israel 
have  not  been  the  punishment  of  wrath,  but  the 
discipline  of  love.  This  kind  of  apocalypse,  or 
prophecy,  indeed,  was  to  be  expected  from  't  he  very 
beginning  of  the  group  of  prophecies,  which  are 
introduced  with  the  word  "Behold!"  Such  a  man- 
ner of  hit roduct  ion  is  peculiar  to  Isaiah,  and  of  itself 
leads  us  to  expect  a  message  which  is  unique. 

The  practical  religious  value  of  these  prophecies 
to  Isaiah's  own  age  would  be  very  great.  In  a 
period  of  war  and  repeated  foreign  invasion,  when 
but  few  men  were  left  in  the  land  (24  6.13;  26  IS), 
and  Judah's  cities  were;  laid  waste  and  desolate 
(24  10.12;  25  2;  26  5;  27  10),  and  music  and 
gladness  were  wanting  (24  8),  when  the  nation  still 
clung  to  their  idols  (27  9)  and  the  Assyrians'  work 
of  destruction  was  still  incomplete,  other  calami- 
ties being  sure  to  follow  (24  10),  it  would  certainly 
be  comforting  to  know  that  forgiveness  was  still 
possible  (27  9),  that  Jeh  was  still  the  keeper  of  His 
vineyard  (27  3.4),  that  His  judgments  were  to  last 
but  for  a  little  moment  (26  20),  and  that  though 
His  people  should  be  scattered,  He  would  soon  care- 
fully gather  them  "one  by  one"  (27  12.13),  and 
that  in  company  with  other  nations  they  would 
feast  together  on  Mt.  Zion  as  Jeh's  guest's  (25  0. 
7.10),  and  that  Jerus  should  henceforth  become 
the  center  of  life  and  religion  to  all  nations  (24  23; 
25  6;  27  13).  Such  faith  in  Jeh,  such  exhortations 
and  such  songs  and  confessions  of  the  redeemed, 
seen  in  vision,  would  be  a  source  of  rich  spiritual 
comfort  to  the  few  suffering  saints  in  Judah  and 
Jerus,  and  a  guiding  star  to  the  faithful  disciples 
of  the  prophet's  most  inner  circle. 

Chs  28-35  contain  a  cycle  of  prophetic  warnings 
against  alliance  wit  h  Egypt,  closing  with  a  prophecy 


Isaiah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1500 


concerning  Edom  and  ;i  promise  of  Israel's  ransom. 
As  in  5  S  23,  the  prophet  indulges  in  a  scries  of  six 

woes:  .  .         ,  .    nQ 

(1)  Woe  to  drunken,  scoffing  politicians  (en  Ao). 
This  is  one  of  the  great  chapters  of  Isaiah's  book. 
In  the  opening  section  (vs  1  -0)  the  prophet  points 
in  warning  to  the  proud  drunkards  of  Ephraim 
whose  crown  (Samaria)  is  rapidly  fading.  He  next 
turns  to  the  scoffing  politicians  of  Jerus,  rebuking 
esp.  the  bibulous  priests  who  stumble  in  judgment, 
and  the  staggering  prophets  who  err  in  vision  (vs 
7-22);  closing  with  a  most  instructive  parable  from 
agriculture,  teaching  that  Cod's  judgments  are  not 
arbitrary;  that  as  the  husbandman  does  not  plow 
and  harrow  his  fields  the  whole  year  round,  so  God 
will  not  punish  His  people  forever;  and  as  the 
husbandman  does  not  thresh  all  kinds  of  gram  with 
equal  severity,  no  more  will  Cod  discipline  His 
people  beyond  their  deserts  (vs  23-20). 

(2)  Woe  to  formalists  in  religion  (29  1-14). 
Isaiah's  second  woe  is  pronounced  upon  Ariel,  the 
altar-hearth  of  Cod,  i.e.  Jerus,  the  sacrificial  center 
of  Israel's  worship.  David  had  first  inaugurated 
the  true  worship  of  Jeh  in  Zion.  But  now  Zion's 
worship  has  become  wholly  conventional,  formal, 
and  therefore  insincere;  it  is  learned  by  rote  (ver 
13;  cf  1  10-15;  Mic  6  6-8).  Therefore,  says 
Isaiah,  Jeh  is  forced  to  do  an  extraordinary  work 
among  them,  in  order  to  bring  them  back  to  a  true 
knowledge  of  Himself  (ver  14). 

(3)  Woe  to  those  who  hide  their  plans  from  Cod 
(29  15-24).  What  their  plans  are,  which  they  are 
devising  in  secret,  the  prophet  does  not  yet  disclose; 
but  he  doubtless  alludes  to  their  intrigues  with  the 
Egyptians  and  their  purpose  to  break  faith  with  the 
Assyrians,  to  whom  they  were  bound  by  treaty  to 
pay  annual  tribute.  Isaiah  bravely  remonstrates 
with  them  for  supposing  that  any  policy  will  suc- 
ceed which  excludes  the  counsel  and  wisdom  of  the 
Holy  One.  They  are  but  clay;  He  is  the  potter. 
At  this  point,  though  somewhat  abruptly,  Isaiah 
turns  his  face  toward  the  Messianic  future. _  In  a 
very  little  while,  he  says,  Lebanon,  which  is  now 
overrun  by  Assyria's  army,  shall  become  a  fruitful 
field,  and  the  blind  and  deaf  and  spiritually  weak 
shall  rejoice  in  the  Holy  One  of  Israel. 

(4)  Woe  to  the  pro-Egyp  party  (ch30).  Isaiah's 
fourth  woe  is  directed  against  the  rebellious  poli- 
ticians who  stubbornly,  and  now  openly,  advocate 
making  a  league  wit  h  Egypt .  They  have  at  lengt  h 
succeeded  apparently  in  winning  over  the  king  to 
their  side,  and  an  embassy  is  already  on  its  way  to 
Egypt,  bearing  across  the  desert  of  the  exodus  rich 
treasures  with  which  to  purchase  the  friendship  of 
t  heir  former  oppressors.  Isaiah  now  condemns  what 
he  can  no  longer  prevent.  Egypt  is  a  Rahab  "sit- 
still,"  i.e.  a  mythological  sea-monster,  menacing  in 
mien  but  laggard  in  action.  When  the  crisis  comes, 
she  will  sit  still,  causing  Israel  only  shame  and 
confusion. 

(5)  Woe  to  those  who  trust  in  horses  and  chariots 
(chs  31-32).  Isaiah's  fifth  woe  is  a  still  more 
vehement  denunciation  of  those  who  trust  in  Egypt's 
horses  and  chariots,  and  disregard  the  Holy  One  of 
Israel.  Those  who  do  so  forget  that  the  Egyp- 
tians are  but  men  and  their  horses  flesh,  and  that 
mere  flesh  cannot,  avail  in  a  conflict  with  spirit. 
Eventually  Jeh  means  to  deliver  Jerus,  if  the  chil- 
dren of  Israel  will  but  turn  from  their  idolatries  to 
Him;  and  in  that  day,  Assyria  will  be  vanquished. 
A  new  era  will  dawn  upon  Judah.  Society  will 
be  regenerated.  The  renovation  will  begin  at  the 
to]>.  Conscience  also  will  be  sharpened,  and  moral 
distinctions  will  no  longer  be  confused  (32  1-<S). 
As  Delitzsch  puts  it,  ''The  aristocracy  of  birth  and 
wealth  will  be  replaced  by  an  aristocracy  of  char- 
acter."    The  careless  and  indifferent  women,  too, 


in  that  day  will  no  longer  menace  the  social  welfare 
of  the  state  (32  9-14);  with  the  outpouring  of  Jeh's 
spirit  an  ideal  commonwealth  will  emerge,  in  which 
social  righteousness,  peace,  plenty  and  security  will 
abound  (32   15-20). 

((>)  Woe  to  the  Assyr  destroyer  (ch  33).  Isaiah's 
last  woe  is  directed  against  the  treacherous  spoiler 
himself,  who  has  already  laid  waste  the  cities  of 
Judah,  and  is  now  beginning  to  lay  siege  to  Jerus 
(701  BC).  The  prophet  prays,  and  while  he  prays, 
behold !  the  might  y  host  s  of  1  fie  Assyrians  are  routed 
and  the  long-besieged  but  now  triumphant  inhabit- 
ants of  Jerus  rush  out,  like  locusts  upon  the  spoil 
which  the  vanishing  adversary  has  been  forced  to 
leave  behind.  The  destroyer's  plan  to  reduce 
Jerus  has  come  to  naught .  The  whole  earth  beholds 
the  spectacle  of  Assyria's  defeat  and  is  filled  with 
awe  and  amazement  at,  the  mighty  work  of  Jeh. 
Only  the  righteous  may  henceforth  dwell  in  Jerus. 
Their  eyes  shall  behold  the  Messiah-king  in  his 
beauty,  reigning  no  longer  like  Hezekiah  over  a 
limited  and  restricted  territory,  but  over  a  land 
unbounded,  whose  inhabitants  enjoy  Jeh's  peace 
and  protection,  and  are  free  from  all  sin,  and  there- 
fore from  all  sickness  (vs  17-24).  With  this  beau- 
tiful picture  of  the  Messianic  future,  the  prophet's 
woes  find  an  appropriate  conclusion.  Isaiah  never 
pronounced  a  woe  without  adding  a  corresponding 
promise. 

In  chs  34-35,  the  prophet  utters  a  fierce  cry  for 
justice  against  "all  the  nations,"  but,  against  Edom 
in  particular.  His  tone  is  that  of  judgment.  Edom 
is  guilty  of  high  crimes  against  Zion  (34  8  f),  there- 
fore she  is  doomed  to  destruction.  On  the  other 
hand,  the  scattered  ones  of  Israel  shall  return  from 
exile  and  "obtain  gladness  and  joy,  and  sorrow  and 
sighing  shall  flee  away"  (ch  35). 

Chs  36-39  contain  history,  prophecy  and  song 
intermingled.  These  chapters  serve  both  as  an 
appendix  to  chs  1-35  and  as  an  introduction  to  chs 
40-66.  In  them  three  important  historical  events 
are  narrated,  in  which  Isaiah  was  a  prominent 
factor:  (1)  thedouble  attempt  of  Sennacherib  to  ob- 
tain possession  of  Jerus  (chs  36-37);  (2)  Hezekiah's 
sickness  and  recovery  (ch  38) ;  (3)  the  embassy  of 
Merodach-baladan  (ch  39).  _  With  certain  im- 
portant omissions  and  insertions>  these^  chapters 
are  duplicated  almost  verbatim  in  2  K  18  13 — 
20  19.  They  are  introduced  with  the  chronological 
note,  "Now  it  came  to  pass  in  the  fourteenth  year 
of  king  Hezekiah."  Various  attempts  have  been 
made  to  solve  the  mystery  of  this  date;  for,  if  the 
author  is  alluding  to  the  siege  of  701  BC,  difficulty 
arises,  because  that  event  occurred  not  in  Heze- 
kiah's "14th"  but  26th  year,  according  to  the  Bib. 
chronology  of  his  life;  or,  if  with  some  we  date 
Hezekiah's  accession  to  the  throne  of  Judah  as  720 
BC,  then  the  siege  of  701  BC  occurred,  as  is  evi- 
dent ,  in  Hezekiah's  19th  year.  It  is  barely  possible 
of  course  that  "the  14th  year  of  king  Hezekiah" 
was  the  14th  of  the  "15  years"  which  were  added 
to  his  life,  but  more  probably  it  alludes  to  the  14th 
of  his  reign.  On  the  whole  it  is  better  to  take  the 
phrase  as  a  general  chronological  caption  for  the 
entire  section,  with  special  reference  to  ch  38,  which 
tells  of  Hezekiah's  sickness,  which  actually  fell  in 
his  14th  year  (714  BC),  and  which,  coupled  with 
Sargon's  expected  presence  at  Ashdod,  was  the 
great  personal  crisis  of  the  king's  life. 

Sennacherib  made  two  attempts  in  701  BC  to 
reduce  Jerus:  one  from  Lachish  with  an  army 
headed  by  the  Rabshakeh  (36  2—37  8),  and  an- 
other from  Libnah  with  a  threat  conveyed  by  mes- 
sengers (37  9ff).  The  brief  section  contained  in 
2  K  18  14-16  is  omitted  from  between  vs  1  and  2 
of  Isa  36,  because  it  was  not  the  prophet's  aim  at 
this    time    to    recount    the    nation's    humiliation. 


1501 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Isaiah 


Isaiah's  last  "word"  concerning  Assyria  (37  21-35) 
is  one  of  the  prophet's  grandest  predictions.  It  is 
composed  of  three  parts:  (1)  a  taunt-song,  in  ele- 
giac rhythm,  on  the  inevitable  humiliation  of  Sen- 
nacherib (vs  22-29);  (2)  a  short  poem  in  different 
rhythm,  directed  to  Hezekiah,  in  order  to  encourage 
his  faith  (vs  30-32) ;  (3)  a  definite  prediction,  in  less 
elevated  style,  of  the  sure  deliverance  of  Jerus  (vs 
33-35).     Isaiah's  prediction  was  literally  fulfilled. 

The  section  38  9-20  contains  Hezekiah's  Song 
of  Thanksgiving,  in  which  he  celebrates  his  re- 
covery from  some  mortal  sickness.  It  is  a  beautiful 
plaintive  "writing";  omitted  altogether  by  the 
author  of  the  Book  of  K  (cf  2  K  20).  Hezekiah 
was  sick  in  714  BC.  Two  years  later  Merodach- 
baladan,  the  veteran  arch-enemy  of  Assyria,  having 
heard  of  his  wonderful  recovery,  sent  letters  and  a 
present  to  congratulate  him.  Doubtless,  also, 
political  motives  prompt ed  the  recalcitrant  Baby- 
lonian. But  be  that  as  it  may,  Hezekiah  was  great  ly 
flattered  by  the  visit  of  Merodach-baladan's  en- 
voys, and,  in  a  moment  of  weakness,  showed  them 
all  his  royal  treasures.  This  was  an  inexcusable 
blunder,  as  the  sight  of  his  many  precious  posses- 
sions would  naturally  excite  Bab  cupidity  to  possess 
Jerus.  Isaiah  not  only  solemnly  condemned  the 
king's  conduct,  but  he  announced  with  more  than 
ordinary  insight  that  the  days  were  coming  when 
all  the  accumulated  resources  of  Jerus  would  be 
carried  away  to  Babylon  (39  3-6;  cf  Mic  4  10). 
This  final  prediction  of  judgment  is  the  most  mar- 
velous of  all  Isaiah's  minatory  utterances,  because 
he  distinctly  asserts  that,  not  the  Assyrians,  who 
were  then  at  the  height  of  their  power,  but  the 
Babylonians,  shall  be  the  instruments  of  the  Divine 
vengeance  in  consummating  the  destruction  of 
Jerus.  There  is  absolutely  no  reason  for  doubting 
the  genuineness  of  this  prediction.  In  it ,  indeed,  we 
have  a  prophetic  basis  for  chs  40-66,  which  follow. 

Coming  now  to  chs  40-66,  we  have  prophecies 
of  comfort,  salvation,  and  of  the  future  glory  await- 
ing Israel.  These  chapters  naturally  fall  into  three 
sections:  (1)  chs  40-48,  announcing  deliverance 
from  captivity  through  Cyrus;  (2)  chs  49-57,  de- 
scribing the  sufferings  of  the  "Servant"  of  Jeh,  this 
section  ending  like  the  former  with  the  refrain, 
"There  is  no  peace,  saith  my  Cod,  to  the  wicked" 
(57  21;  cf  48  22);  (3)  chs  58-66,  announcing  the 
final  abolition  of  all  national  distinctions  and  the 
future  glory  of  the  people  of  God.  Ch  60  is  the 
characteristic  chapter  of  this  section,  as  ch  53  is 
of  the  second,  and  ch  40  of  the  first. 

Entering  into  greater  detail,  the  first  section 
(chs  40-48)  demonstrates  the  deity  of  Jeh  through 
His  unique  power  to  predict.  The  basis  of  the 
comfort  which  the  prophet  announces  is  Israel's 
incomparable  God  (ch  40).  Israel's  all-powerful 
Jeh  in  comparison  with  other  gods  is  incomparable. 
In  the  prologue  (40  1-11)  he  hears  the  four  voices: 
(1)  of  grace  (vs  1.2);  (2)  of  prophecy  (vs  3-5); 
(3)  of  fait  h  (vs  6-8) ,  and  (4)  of  evangelism  (vs  9-1 1 ) . 
Then,  after  exalting  the  unique  character  of  Israel's 
all-but-forgotten  God  (vs  12-26),  he  exhorts  them 
not  to  suppose  that  Jeh  is  ignorant  of,  or  indiffer- 
ent to,  Israel's  misery.  Israel  must  wait  for  sal- 
vation. They  are  clamoring  for  deliverance  pre- 
maturely. Only  wait,  he  repeats;  for  with  such  a 
God,  Israel  has  no  reason  to  despond  (vs  27-31). 

In  ch  41  he  declares  that  the  supreme  proof  of 
Jeh's  sole  deity  is  His  power  to  predict.  He  in- 
quires, "Who  hath  raised  up  one  from  the  east?" 
Though  the  hero  is  left  unnamed,  Cyrus  is  doubt- 
less in  the  prophet's  mind  (cf  44  28;  45  1).  He 
is  not,  however,  already  appearing  upon  the  horizon 
of  history  as  some  fancy,  but  rather  ■predicted  as 
sure  to  come.  The  verb  tenses  which  express  com- 
pleted action  are  perfects  of  certainty,  and  are  used 


in  precisely  the  same  manner  as  those  in  3  8;  5  13; 
21  9.  The  answer  to  the  inquiry  is,  "I,  Jeh,  the 
first,  and  with  the  last,  I  am  he"  (41  4).  Israel  is 
Jeh's  servant.  The  dialogue  continues;  but  it  is 
no  longer  between  Jeh  and  the  nations,  as  in  vs  1-7, 
but  between  Jeh  and  the  idols  (vs  21-29).  Ad- 
dressing the  dumb  idols,  Jeh  is  represented  as  saying, 
Predict  something,  if  you  are  real  deities.  As  for 
myself,  I  am  going  to  raise  up  a  hero  from  the  north 
who  will  subdue  all  who  oppose  him.  And  I  an- 
nounce my  purpose  now  in  advance  "from  the  be- 
ginning," "beforetime,"  before  there  is  the  slightest 
ground  for  thinking  that  such  a  hero  exists  or  ever 
will  exist  (ver  26),  in  order  that  the  future  may 
verify  my  prediction,  and  prove  my  sole  deity.  I, 
Jeh,  alone  know  the  future.  In  vs  25-2!),  the 
prophet  even  projects  himself  into  the  future  and 
speaks  from  the  standpoint  of  the  fulfilment  of  his 
prediction.  This,  as  we  saw  above,  was  a  char- 
acteristic of  Isaiah  in  chs 24 -27. 

In  42  1 — 43  13  the  prophet  announces  also  a 
spiritual  agent  of  redemption,  namely,  Jeh's  "Serv- 
ant." Not  only  a  temporal  agent  (Cyrus)  shall 
be  raised  up  to  mediate  Israel's  redemption,  which 
is  the  first  step  in  the  process  of  the  universal  sal- 
vation contemplated,  but  a  spiritual  factor.  Jeh's 
"Servant"  shall  be  employed  in  bringing  the  good 
tidings  of  salvation  to  the  exiles  and  to  the  Gentiles 
also.  In  42  1-9  the  prophet  describes  this  ideal 
figure  and  the  work  he  will  execute.  The  glorious 
future  evokes  a  brief  hymn  of  thanksgiving  for  the 
redemption  which  the  prophet  beholds  in  prospect 
(42  10-17).  Israel  has  long  been  blind  and  deaf 
to  Jeh's  instructions  (42  18.19),  but  now  Jeh  is 
determined  to  redeem  them  even  at  the  cost  of  the 
most  opulent  nations  of  the  world,  that  they  may 
publish  His  law  to  all  peoples  (42  18—43  13). 

In  13  14 — 44  23  forgiveness  is  made  the  pledge 
of  deliverance.  Jeh's  determination  to  redeem 
Israel  is  all  of  grace.  Salvation  is  a  gift.  Jeh  has 
blotted  out  their  transgressions  for  His  own  sake 
(43  25).  "This  passage,"  Dillmann  observes, 
"marks  the  highest  point  of  grace  in  the  OT." 
Gods  of  wood  and  stone  are  nonentities.  Those 
who  manufacture  idols  are  blind  and  dull  of  heart, 
and  are  "feeding  on  ashes."  The  section  44  9-20  is 
a  most  remorseless  exposure  of  the  folly  of  idolatry. 

In  44  24 — 45  25  the  prophet  at  length  names  the 
hero  of  Israel's  salvation  and  describes  his  mission. 
He  is  Cyrus.  He  shall  build  Jerus  and  lay  the 
foundations  of  the  temple  (44  28);  he  shall  also 
subdue  nations  and  let  the  exiles  go  free  (45  1.13). 
He  speaks  of  Cyrus  in  the  most  extraordinary, 
almost  extravagant  terms.  He  is  Jeh's  "shepherd" 
(44  28),  he  is  also  Jeh's  "anointed,"  i.e.  Messiah 
(45  1),  "the  man  of  my  counsel"  (46  11),  whom 
Jeh  has  called  by  name,  and  surnamed  without  his 
ever  knowing  Him  (45  3.4);  the  one  "whom  Jeh 
loveth"  (48  14),  whose  right  hand  Jeh  upholdeth 
(45  1),  and  who  will  perform  all  Jeh's  pleasure 
(44  28);  though  but  "a  ravenous  bird  from  the 
east"  (46  ll).)LThe  vividness  with  which  the 
prophet  speaks  of  Cyrus  leads  some  to  suppose  that 
the  latter  is  already  upon  the  horizon.  This,  how- 
ever, is  a  mistake.  Scarcely  would  a  contemporary 
have  spoken  in  such  terms  of  the  real  Cyrus  of  538 
BC.  The  prophet  regards  him  (i.e.  the  Cyrus  of 
his  own  prediction,  not  the  Cyrus  of  history)  as 
the  fulfilment  of  predictions  spoken  long  before. 
That  is  to  say,  in  one  and  the  same  context,  Cyrus 
is  both  predicted  and  treated  as  a  proof  that  pre- 
diction is  being  fulfilled  (44  24-28;  45  21).  Such 
a  phenomenon  in  prophecy  can  best  be  explained 
by  supposing  that  the  prophet  projected  himself 
into  the  future  from  an  earlier  age.  Most  ex- 
traordinary of  all,  in  45  14-17,  the  prophet  soars 
in  imagination  until  he  sees,  as  a  result  of  Cyrus' 


Isaiah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  RIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1502 


victories,  the  conquered  nations  renouncing  their 
idols,  and  attracted  to  Jeh  as  the  Saviour  of  all  man- 
kind'(45  22).  On  any  theory  of  origin,  tiie  indict  ive 
element  in  these  prophecies  is  written  large. 

('lis  46  47  describe  further  the  distinctive  work  of 
Cyrus,  though  Cyrus  himself  is  hut  once  referred 
to.  Particular  emphasis  is  laid  on  the  complete 
collapse  of  the  Hah  religion;  the  prophet  being 
apparently  more  concerned  with  the  humiliation  of 
Babylon's  idols  than  with  the  fall  of  the  city  itself. 
Of  course  the  destruction  of  the  city  would  imply 
the  defeat  of  her  gods,  as  also  the  emancipation  of 
Israel.  Hut  here  again  all  is  in  the  future;  in  fact 
Jell's  incomparable,  superiority  and  unique  deity 
are  proven  by  His  power  to  predict  "the  end  from 
the  beginning"  and  bring  His  prediction  to  pass 
(46   10.11). 

Ch  47  is  a  dirge  over  the  downfall  of  the  imperial 
city,  strongly  resembling  the  taunt-song  over  the 
king  of  Babylon  in  14  4  21. 

Ch  48  is  a  hortatory  summary  and  recapitulation 
of  the  argument  contained  in  chs  40-47,  the  prophet 
again  emphasizing  the  following  points:  (1)  Jeh's 
unique  power  to  predict;  (2)  that  salvation  is  of 
grace;  (3)  that  Cyrus'  advent  will  be  the  crowning 
proof  of  Jeh's  abiding  presence  among  His  people; 
(4)  that  Cod's  chastisements  were  only  disciplinary; 
and  (5)  that  even  now  there  is  hope,  if  they  will  but 
accept  of  Jeh's  proffered  salvation.  Alas!  that 
there  is  no  peace  or  salvation  for  the  godless  (48 
20-22).  Thus  ends  the  first  division  of  Isaiah's 
remarkable  "vision"  of  Israel's  deliverance  from 
captivity  through  Cyrus. 

The  second  section  (chs  49-57)  deals  with  the 
spiritual  agent  of  salvation,  Jeh's  suffering  "Serv- 
ant." With  ch  49  the  prophet  leaves  off  attempt- 
ing further  to  prove  the  sole  deity  of  Jeh  by 
means  of  prediction,  and  drops  entirely  his  descrip- 
tion of  Cyrus'  victories  and  the  overthrow  of  Baby- 
lon, in  order  to  set  forth  in  greater  detail  the  charac- 
ter and  mission  of  the  suffering  "Servant"  of  Jeh. 
Already,  in  chs  40-48,  he  had  alluded  several  times 
to  this  unique  and  somewhat  enigmatical  personage, 
speaking  of  him  both  collectively  and  as  an  indi- 
vidual (41  8-10;  42  1-9.18-22;  43  10;  44  1-5. 
21-28;  45  4;  48  20-22);  but  now  he  defines  with 
greater  precision  both  his  prophetic  and  priestly 
functions,  his  equipment  for  his  task,  his  sufferings 
and  humilial  ion,  and  also  his  final  exalt  ation.  Alto- 
get  her  in  these  prophecies  he  mentions  the  "Serv- 
ant" some  20  t.  But  there  are  four  distinctively 
so-called  "Servant -Songs"  in  which  the  prophet 
seems  to  rise  above  the  collective  masses  of  all 
Israel  to  at  least  a  personification  of  the  pious  within 
Israel,  or  better,  to  a  unique  Person  embodying 
within  himself  all  that  is  best  in  the  Israel  within 
Israel.  They  are  the  following:  (1)42  1-9,  a  poem 
descriptive  of  the  Servant's  gentle  manner  and 
world-wide  mission;  (2)  49  1-13,  describing  the 
Servant's  mission  and  spiritual  success ;  (3)  50  4-11, 
the  Servant's  soliloquy  concerning  His  perfection 
through  suffering;  and'  (4)  52  13—53  12,  the  Serv- 
ant's vicarious  suffering  and  ultimate  exaltation. 
In  this  last  of  the  four  "Servant-Songs"  we  reach 
the  climax  of  the  prophet's  inspired  symphony,  the 
acme  of  Heb  Messianic  hope.  The  profoundest 
thoughts  in  the  OT  revelation  are  to  be  found  in 
this  section.  It  is  a  vindication  of  the  "Servant,"  so 
clear  and  so  true,  and  wrought  out  with  such  pathos 
and  potency,  that  it  holds  first  place  among  Mes- 
sianic predictions.  Polycarp  called  it  "the  golden 
passional  of  the  OT."  It  has  been  realized  in  Jesus 
Christ. 

Chs  58-66  describe  the  future  glory  of  the  people 
of  Cod.  Having  described  in  chs  40-48  the  tem- 
poral agent  of  Israel's  salvation,  Cyrus,  and  in  chs 
49-57   the  spiritual  agent  of  their  salvation,   the 


"Servant"  of  Jeh,  the  prophet  proceeds  in  this  last 
section  to  define  the  conditions  on  which  salvation 
may  be  enjoyed.  He  begins,  as  before,  with  a 
double  imperative,  "Cry  aloud,  spare  not"  (cf  40  1; 
49   1). 

In  ch  58  he  discusses  true  fasting  and  faithful 
Sabbath  observance. 

In  ch  59  he  beseeches  Israel  to  forsake  their  sins. 
It,  is  their  sins,  he  urges,  which  have  hidden  Jeh's 
face  and  retarded  the  nation's  salvation.  In  vs 
9  If  the  prophet  identifies  himself  with  the  people 
and  leads  them  in  their  devotions.  Jeh  is  grieved 
over  Israel's  forlorn  condition,  and,  seeing  their 
helplessness,  He  arms  himself  like  a  warrior  to 
interfere  judicially  (vs  15-19).  Israel  shall  be 
redeemed.  With  them  as  the  nucleus  of  a  new  na- 
tion, Jeh  will  enter  anew  into  covenant  relation,  and 
put  His  Spirit  upon  them,  which  will  abide  with 
them  henceforth  and  forever  (vs  20-21). 

Chs  60-61  describe  the  future  blessedness  of  Zion. 
The  long-looked-for  "light"  (cf  59  9)  begins  to 
dawn:  "Arise,  shine;  for  thy  light  is  come,  and  the 
glory  of  Jeh  is  risen  upon  thee"  (60  1).  The 
prophet  pauses  at  this  point  to  paint  a  picture  of 
the  redeemed  community.  As  in  2  3.4,  the  Gentiles 
are  seen  flocking  to  Zion,  which  becomes  the  mis- 
tress of  the  nations.  Foreigners  build  her  walls, 
and  her  gates  are  kept  open  continually  without 
fear  of  siege.  The  Gentiles  acknowledge  that  Zion 
is  flu;  spiritual  center  of  the  world.  Even  Israel's 
oppressors  regard  her  as  "the  city  of  Jeh,"  as  "an 
eternal  excellency,"  in  which  Jeh  sits  as  its  ever- 
lasting light  (60  10-22). 

In  ch  61,  which  Drummond  has  called  "the  pro- 
gram of  Christianity,"  the  "Servant"  of  Jeh  is  again 
introduced,  though  anonymously,  as  the  herald  of 
salvation  (vs  1-3).  The  gospel  monologue  of  the 
"Servant"  is  followed  by  a  promise  of  the  restora- 
tion and  blessedness  of  Jerus  (vs4-ll).  Thus  the 
prophecy  moves  steadily  forward  toward  its  goal 
in  Jesus  Christ  (cf  Lk  4  18-21). 

In  62  1 — 63  6  Zion's  salvation  is  described  as 
drawing  near.  The  nations  will  be  spectators  of 
the  great  event.  A  new  name  which  will  better 
symbolize  her  true  character  shall  be  given  to  Zion, 
namely,  Hephzi-bah,  "My  delight  is  in  her";  for 
Jerus  shall  no  more  be  called  desolate.  On  the 
other  hand,  Zion's  enemies  will  all  be  vanquished. 
In  a  brief  poem  of  peculiar  dramatic  beauty  (63 
1-6),  the  prophet  portrays  Jeh's  vengeance,  as  a 
victorious  warrior,  upon  all  those  who  retard  Israel's 
deliverance.  Edom  in  particular  was  Israel's  in- 
satiate foe.  Hence  the  prophet  represents  Jeh's 
judgment  of  the  nations  as  taking  place  on  Edom's 
unhallowed  soil.  Jeh,  whose  mighty  arm  has 
wrought  salvation,  returns  as  victor,  having  slain 
all  of  Israel's  foes. 

In  63  7 — 64  12,  Jeh's  "servants"  resort  to  prayer. 
They  append  to  Jeh  as  the  Begetter  and  Father  of  the 
nations  (63  16;  64  8).  With  this  thought  of  the 
fatherhood  of  God  imbedded  in  his  language,  Isaiah 
had  opened  his  very  first  oracle  to  Judah  and 
Jerus  (cf  12).  As  the  prayer  proceeds,  the  lan- 
guage becomes  increasingly  tumultuous.  The 
people  are  thrown  into  despair  because  Jeh  seems 
to  have  abandoned  them  altogether  (63  19).  They 
recognize  that  the  condition  of  Jerus  is  desperate. 
"Our  holy  and  our  beautiful  house,  where  our  fathers 
praised  thee,  is  burned  with  fire ;  and  all  our  pleasant 
places  are  laid  waste"  (64  11).  Such  language, 
however,  is  the  language  of  fervent  prayer  and  must 
not  be  taken  with  rigid  literalness,  as  63  18  and  3  8 
plainly  show. 

Finally,  in  chs  65-66,  Jeh  answers  His  people's 
supplications,  distinguishing  sharply  between  His 
own  "servants"  and  Israel's  apostates.  Only  His 
chosen   "seed"   shall  be  delivered    (65  9).     Those 


1503 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Isaiah 


who  have  obdurately  provoked  Jeh  by  sacrificing 
in  gardens  (65  3;  66  17),  offering  libations  to 
Fortune  and  Destiny  (65  11),  sitting  among  the 
graves  to  obtain  oracles  from  the  dead,  and,  like 
the  Egyptians,  eating  swine's  flesh  and  broth  of 
abominable  things  which  were  supposed  to  possess 
magical  properties,  lodging  in  vaults  or  crypts  in 
which  heathen  mysteries  were  celebrated  (65  4), 
and  at  the  same  time  fancying  that  by  celebrating 
such  heathen  mysteries  they  are  holier  than  others 
and  thereby  disqualified  to  discharge  the  ordinary 
duties  of  life  (65  5) — such  Jeh  designs  to  punish, 
measuring  their  work  into  their  bosom  and  destroy- 
ing them  utterly  with  the  sword  (65  7.12).  On  the 
other  hand,  the  "servants"  of  Jeh  shall  inherit  His 
holy  mountains.  They  shall  rejoice  and  sing  for 
joy  of  heart,  and  bless  themselves  in  the  God  of 
Amen,  i.e.  in  the  God  of  Truth  (65  9.14.16).  Jeh 
will  create  new  heavens  and  a  new  earth,  men  will 
live  and  grow  old  like  the  patriarchs;  they  will 
possess  houses  and  vineyards  and  enjoy  them;  for 
an  era  of  idyllic  peace  will  be  ushered  in  with  the 
coming  of  the  Messianic  age,  in  which  even  the 
natures  of  wild  animals  will  be  changed  and  the 
most  rapacious  of  wild  animals  will  live  together  in 
harmony  (65  17-25).  Religion  will  become  spirit- 
ual and  decentralized,  mystic  cults  will  disappear, 
incredulous  scoffers  will  be  silenced.  Zion's  popu- 
lation will  be  marvelously  multiplied,  and  the  people 
will  be  comforted  and  rejoice  (66  1-14).  Further- 
more, all  nations  will  flock  to  Zion  to  behold  Jeh's 
glory,  and  from  one  new  moon  to  another,  and  from 
one  Sabbath  to  another,  all  flesh  will  come  up  to 
worship  in  Jerus  (66  15-23). 

It  is  evident  that  the  Book  of  Isa  closes,  prac- 
tically as  it  begins,  with  a  polemic;  against  false 
worship,  and  the  alternate  reward  of  the  righteous 
and  punishment  of  the  wicked.  The  only  essential 
difference  between  the  prophet's  earlier  and  later 
oracles  is  this:  Isaiah,  in  his  riper  years,  on  the  basis 
of  nearly  half  a  century's  experience  as  a  preacher, 
paints  a  much  brighter  eschatological  picture  than 
was  possible  in  his  early  ministry.  His  picture  of 
the  Messianic  age  not  only  transcends  those  of  his 
contemporaries  in  the  8th  cent.  BC,  but  he  pene- 
trates regions  beyond  the  spiritual  horizon  of  any 
and  all  OT  seers.  Such  language  as  that  contained 
in  66  1.2,  in  particular,  anticipates  the  great  prin- 
ciple enunciated  by  Jesus  in  Jn  4  24,  namely,  that 
"God  is  a  Spirit :  and  they  that  worship  him  must 
worship  in  spirit  and  truth."  To  attempt  to  date 
such  oracles  as  these  on  the  basis  of  internal  evi- 
dence is  an  absolute  impossibility.  Humanly  speak- 
ing, one  age  could  have  produced  such  revelations 
quite  as  easily  as  another.  But  no  age  could  have 
produced  them  apart  from  the  Divine  spirit. 

The  editorial  arrangement  of  Isaiah's  prophecies 
is  very  suggestive.  In  the  main  they  stand  in 
chronological  order.  That  is  to  say, 
8.  Isaiah's  all  the  dates  mentioned  are  in  strict 
Prophecies  historical  sequence;  e.g.  6  1,  "In  the 
Chronologi-  year  that  king  Uzziah  died"  (740  BC); 
cally  Ar-  7  1,  "In  the  days  of  Ahaz"  (736  ff 
ranged  BC);    14  28,   "In  the  year  that  king 

^  Ahaz  died"  (727  BC);  20  1,  "In  the 
year  that  Tartan  came  unto  Ashdod,  when  Sargon 
the  king  of  Assyria  sent  him"  (711  BC);  36  1,  "In 
the  14th  year  of  king  Hezekiah"  (701  BC).  These 
points  arc;  all  in  strict  chronological  order.  Taken 
in  groups,  also,  Isaiah's  great  individual  messages 
are  likewise  arranged  in  true  historical  sequence; 
thus,  chs  1-6  for  the  most  part  belong  to  the  last 
years  of  Jotham's  reign  (740-736  BC]);  chs  7-12, 
to  the  period  of  the  Syro-Ephraimitie  war  (734  BC) ; 
ch  20,  to  tin;  year  of  Sargon's  siege  of  Ashdod  (711 
BC);  chs  28-32,  to  the  invasion  of  Judah  by  Sen- 
nacherib (701  BC);   while  the  distinctively  promis- 


sory portions  (chs  40-66),  as  is  natural,  conclude 
the  collection.  In  several  minor  instances,  how- 
ever, there  are  notable  departures  from  a  rigid 
chronological  order.  For  example,  ch  6,  which 
describes  the  prophet's  initial  call  to  preach,  follows 
the  rebukes  and  denunciations  of  chs  1-5;  but  this 
is  probably  due;  to  its  being  used  by  the;  prophet 
as  an  apologetic.  Again,  the  oracles  against  foreign 
nations  in  chs  13-23  belong  to  various  dates,  being 
grouped  together,  in  part,  at  least,  because  of  their 
subject-matter.  Likewise,  chs  38-39,  which  give 
an  account  of  Hezekiah's  sickness  and  Merodach- 
baladan's  embassy  to  him  upon  his  recovery  (714- 
712  BC),  chronologically  precede  chs  36-37,  which 
describe  Sennacherib's  investment  of  Jerus  (701 
BC).  This  chiastie  order,  however,  in  the  last 
instance,  is  due  probably  to  the  desire  to  make  chs 
36-37  (about  Sennacherib,  king  of  Assyria)  an 
appropriate  conclusion  to  chs  1-35  (which  say 
much  about  Assyria),  and,  on  the  other  hand,  to 
make  chs  38-39  (about  Merodach-baladan  of  Baby- 
lon) a  suitable  introduction  to  phs  40-66  (which 
speak  of  Babylon). 

The  attempt  to  date  Isaiah's  individual  messages 
on  the  basis  of  internal  criteria  alone,  is  a  well-nigh 
impossible  task;  and  yet  no  other  kind  of  evidence; 
is  available.  Often  passages  stand  side  by  side 
which  point  in  opposite  directions;  in  fact,  certain 
sections  seem  to  be  composed  of  various  fragments 
dating  from  different  periods,  as  though  prophecies 
widely  separated  from  each  other  in  time  had  been 
fused  together.  In  such  cases  much  weight  should 
be  given  to  those  features  which  point  to  an  early 
origin,  because  of  the  predominatingly  predictive 
character  of  Isaiah's  writings. 

Isaiah  always  had  an  eye  upon  the  future.  His 
semi-historical  and  biographical  prophecies  are  nat- 
urally the  easiest  to  date;  on  the  other  hand,  the 
form  of  his  Messianic  and  eschatological  discourses 
is  largely  due  to  his  own  personal  temper  and  psy- 
chology, rather  than  to  the  historical  circumstances 
of  the  time.  The  following  is  a  table  of  Isaiah's 
prophecies  chronologically  arranged: 
Chs  BO 

1-6  written  probably  c  740-73(> 

7-12  "  "  c  734-732 

15    1—16    12;   17         "  "  c  734 

13  1—14   2:5  "  "  between  732-722 

14  24-27  "  "  "  732-722 
14   2S  -32                         "                "                                  c  727 

23  "  "    shortly  before     722 

24-27  "  "  "  '         "  722 

28    1-0  "  "  "  "  722 

19  "  "  c  720 

38  "       "  C  714 

39  "      "  c  712 

21  1  1.12.13-17     "       "  c  711 

22  15-25  "       "  c  711 

21  1-10  "       "  c  70!) 

22  1  10  "  "  c  709 
28  7 — 33  24  "  "  shortly  before  701 
18  "  "  e  701 
34-35  "  "  c  701 
36-37  "  "  soon  after  701 
40H56                             "              "            "        "  701 

The  prophet's  standpoint  in  chs  40-66  is  that  of 
Isaiah  himself.  For  if  Isaiah,  before  734  BC,  in 
passages  confessedly  his  own,  could  describe  Judah's 
cities  as  already  "burned  with  tire,"  Zion  as  de- 
serted as  "a  booth  in  a  vineyard"  (1  7.S),  Jerus  as 
"ruined,"  Judah  as  "fallen"  (3  8),  and  Job's  people 
as  already  "gone  into  captivity"  (5  13),  surely 
after  all  the  destruction  and  devastation  wrought 
on  Judah  by  Assyria  in  the;  years  722,  720,  711,  and 
701  BC,  the  same  prophet  with  the  same  poetic 
license  could  declare  I  hat  the  temple  had  been 
"trodden  down"  (63  IS)  and  "burned  with  fire," 
and  all  Judah's  pleasant  places  "laid  waste"  (64 
11);  and,  in  perfect  keeping  with  his  former  prom- 
ises, could  add  that  "they  shall  repair  the  waste 
cities,  the  desolations  of  many  generations"  (61  1; 
cf 44  20;   58   12). 


Isaiah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1504 


Or  again,  if  Isaiah  the  son  of  Amoz  could  comfort 

Jems  with  promises  of  protection  when  the  Assyrian 
(734  IK')  should  conic  like  an  overflowing  river 
(8  9.10;  10  24.2"));  and  conceive  a  beaut  if  ul  parable 
of  comfort  like  that  contained  in  28  23-20;  and 
insert  among  his  warnings  and  exhortations  of  the 
gloomy  year  702  BC  so  many  precious  promises  of 
a  brighter  future  which  was  sure  to  follow  Sen- 
nacherib's invasion  (29  17  24;  30  29-33;  31  8.9); 
and,  in  the  very  midst  of  the  siege  of  701  BC,  con- 
ceive of  such  marvelous  Messianic  visions  as  those 
in  33  17  21  with  which  to  dispel  the  dismay  of  his 
compatriots,  surely  the  same  prophet  might  he  con- 
ceived of  as  seizing  t  he  opportunity  to  comfort  those 
in  Zion  who  survived  the  great  catastrophe  of  701 
BC.  The  prophet  who  had  done  the  one  was  pre- 
pared to  do  the  other. 

There  was  one  circumstance  of  the  prophet's 
position  after  701  BC  which  was  new,  and  which 
is  too  often  overlooked,  a  circumstance  which  he 
could  not  have  employed  to  anything  like  the  same 
degree  as  an  argument  in  enforcing  his  message 
prior  to  the  Assyrian's  overthrow  and  the  deliver- 
ance of  Jerus.  It  was  this:  the  fulfilment  of  former 
predictions  as  proof  of  Jeh's  deity.  From  such  pas- 
sages we  obtain  an  idea  of  the  prophet's  true  his- 
torical posit  ion  (42  9;  44  8;  45  21;  46  10;  48  3). 
Old  predictions  have  already  been  fulfilled  (6  11-13; 
29  8;  30  31;  31  8;  37  7.30),  on  the  basis  of  which 
the  prophet  ventures  to  predict  new  and  even  more 
astounding  things  concerning  the  overthrow  of 
Babylon  by  Cyrus,  and  Israel's  deliverance  through 
him' from  their  captors  (43  6).  Isaiah's  book  is 
signally  full  of  predictions  (7  S.lOff;  8  4.8;  9  11.12; 
10  20  if;  14  24  27;  16  14;  17  9.12-14;  20  4-6; 
21  16;  22  19  if;  23  15;  38  5),  some  of  winch, 
written  down  and  sealed,  were  evidently  committed 
by  the  prophet  to  his  inner  circle1  of  disciples  to  be 
used  and  verified  by  them  in  subsequent  crises  (8 
16).  Failure  to  recognize  this  element  in  Isaiah's 
book  is  fatal  to  a  true  interpretation  of  the  prophet's 
real  message1. 

"For    about    twenty-five    centuries,"    as    A.    B. 
Davidson  observes  {OT  Prophecy,  1903,  244),  "no 
one  dreamt  of  doubting  that  Isaiah  the 
9.  The  son  of  Amoz  was  the  author  of  every 

Critical  part  of  the  book  that  goes  under  his 

Problem  name;  and  those  who  still  maintain 
the  unity  of  authorship  are  accus- 
tomed to  point,  with  satisfaction,  to  the  unanimity 
of  the  Christian  church  on  the  matter,  till  a  few 
German  scholars  arose,  about  a  century  ago,  and 
called  in  question  the  unity  of  this  book."  Tradi- 
tion is  unanimous  in  favor  of  t lie  unity  of  the  book. 

(1)  The  history  of  criticism. — The  critical  dis- 
integration of  the  book  began  with  Koppe,  who  in 
1780  first  doubted  the  genuineness  of  ch  50.  Nine 
years  later  Doederlein  suspected  the  whole  of  chs 
40  66.  lie  was  followed  by  Rosenmueller,  who 
was  the  first  to  deny  to  Isaiah  the  prophecy  against, 
Babylon  in  13  1  14  23.  Eichhorn,  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  last  century,  further  eliminated  the 
oracle  against  Tyre  in  ch  23,  and  he,  with  Gesenius 
and  Ewald,  also  denied  the  Isaianic  origin  of  chs 
24  27.  Gesenius  also  ascribed  to  some  unknown 
prophet  chs  15  and  16.  Rosenmueller  then  went 
farther,  and  pronounced  against  chs  34  and  35,  and 
not  long  afterward  (1840)  Ewald  questioned  chs 
12  and  33.  Thus  by  the  middle  of  the  19th  cent, 
some  37  or  38  chapters  were  rejected  as  no  part  of 
Isaiah's  actual  writings.  In  1S79-S0,  the  cele- 
brated Leipzig  professor,  Franz  Delitzsch,  who  for 
years  previous  had  defended  the  genuineness  of  the 
entire  book,  finally  yielded  to  the  modern  critical 
position,  and  in  the  new  edition  of  his  commentary 
published  in  1889,  interpreted  chs  40-66,  though 
with  considerable  hesitation,  as  coming  from  the 


close  of  the  period  of  Bab  exile.  About  the  same 
time  (1888-90),  Drs.  Driver  and  G.  A.  Smith  gave 
popular  impetus  to  similar  views  in  Great  Britain. 
Since  1890,  the  criticism  of  Isa  has  been  even  more 
trenchant  and  microscopic  than  before.  Duhm, 
Stade,  Guthe,  Hackmann,  Cornill  and  Marti  on  the 
Continent,  and  Cheyne,  Whitehouse,  Box,  (daze- 
brook,  Kennett,  Gray,  Peake,  and  others  in  Great 
Britain  and  America  have  questioned  portions 
which  hitherto  were  supposed  to  be  genuine. 

(2)  The  disintegration  of  "Deutero-Isaiah." — 
Even  the  unity  of  chs  40-66,  which  were  supposed 
to  be  the  work  of  the  "Second"  or  "Deutero-Isaiah," 
is  now  given  up.  What  prior  to  1X90  was  supposed 
to  be  the  unique  product  of  some  celebrated  but 
anonymous  seer  who  lived  in  Babylonia  about  550 
BC  is  today  commonly  divided  and  subdivided  and 
in  large  part  distributed  among  various  writers  from 
Cyrus  to  Simon  (038-104  BC).  At  first  it  was 
thought,  sufficient  to  separate  chs  63-66  as  a  later 
addition  to  "Deutero-Isaiah's"  prophecies;  but 
more1  recently  it  has  become  the  fashion  to  dis- 
tinguish between  chs  40-55,  which  are  claimed  to 
have  been  writ  ten  by  "Deutero-Isaiah"  in  Babylonia 
about  549-538  BC,  and  chs  56-66,  which  are  now 
alleged  to  have  been  composed  by  a  "Trito-Isaiah" 
about  460    145  BC. 

(3)  Recent  views.—- Among  the  latest  to  investi- 
gate the  problem  is  Professor  R.  H.  Kennett  of 
Cambridge,  Eng.,  who,  in  his  Schweich  Lectures 
(The  Composition  of  the  Book  of  Isa  in  the  Light 
of  Hist  anil  Archaeology,  1910,  84  ff),  sums  up  the 
results  of  investigations  as  follows:  (a)  all  of  chs 
3,  5,  6,  7,  20  and  31,  and  large  portions  of  chs  1,2,4, 
8,  9,  10,  14,  17,22  and  23,  maybe  assigned  to  Isaiah, 
the  son  of  Amoz;  (6)  all  of  chs  13,  40  and  47,  and 
large  portions  of  chs  14,  21,  41,  43,  44,  45,  46  and 
48,  may  be  assigned  to  the  time  of  Cyrus;  (c)  all 
of  chs  i5,  36,  37  and  39,  and  portions  of  chs  16  and 
38,  may  be  assigned  to  the  period  between  Nebu- 
chadnezzar and  Alexander  the  Great,  but  cannot 
be  dated  precisely;  (d)  the  passage  23  1-14  may 
be  assigned  to  the  time  of  Alexander  the  Great; 
(e)  all  of  chs  11,  12,  19,  24-27,  29,  30,  32-35,  42, 
49-66,  and  portions  of  chs  1,  2,  4,  8,  9,  10,  16,  17,  18, 
23,  41,  44,  45,  48  may  be  assigned  to  the  2d  cent. 
BC  (107-140  BC). 

Professor  C.  F.  Kent,  also  (.Sermons,  Epistles,  and 
Apocalypses  of  Israel's  Prophets,  1910,  27  ff),  makes  the 
following  critical  observations  on  chs  40-66.  He  says: 
"The  prophecies  of  Haggai  and  Zechariah  ....  afford 
by  far  the  best  approach  for  the  study  of  the  difficult 

problems    presented    by    Isa  40-66 Chs  56-66 

are    generally    recognized    as    post-exilic In    Isa 

56  and  the  following  chapters  there  are  repeated  refer- 
ences to  the  temple  and  its  service,  indicating  that  it  had 
already  been  restored.     Moreover,  these  references  are 

not  coiifiiied  to  the  latter  part  of  the  book The 

fact,  on  the  one  hand,  that  there  are  few,  if  any,  allu- 
sions to  contemporary  events  in  these  chapters,  and  on 
the  other  hand,  that  little  or  nothing  is  known  of  the 
condition  and  hopes  of  the  Jews  during  this  period  (the 
closing  years  of  the  Bab  exile)  makes  the  dating  of  these 

prophecies    possible,    although  far  from   certain 

Also,  the  assumption  that  the  author  of  these  chapters 
lived  in  the  J5ab  exile  is  not  supported  by  a  close  exam- 
ination of  the  prophecies  themselves.  Possibly  their 
author  was  one1  of  the  few  who,  like  Zerubbabel,  had 
been  born  in  Babylon  and  later  returned  to  Pal.  He  was 
also  dealing  with  such  broad  and  universal  problems  that 
he  gives  few  indications  of  his  date  and  place  of  abode; 
but  all  the  evidence  that  is  found  points  to  Jerus  as  the 

place  where  he  lived  and  wrote; The   prophet's 

interest  and  point  of  view  center  throughout  in  Jerus, 
and  lie  shows  himself  far  more  familiar  with  conditions 
in  Pal  than  in  distant  Babylon.  Most  of  his  illustra- 
tions are  drawn  from  the  agricultural  life  of  Pal.  His 
vocabulary  is  also  that  of  a  man  dwelling  in  Pal,  and  in 
this  respect  is  in  marked  contrast  with  the  synonyms 
employed  by  Ezekiel,  the  prophet  of  the  Bab  exile." 

That  is  to  say,  two  of  the  most  recent  investi- 
gators of  the  Book  of  Isa  reach  conclusions  quite 
at  variance  with  the  opinions  advocated  in  1890, 
when  Delitzsch  so  reluctantly  allowed  that  chs  40- 


1505 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Isaiah 


66  may  have  sprung  from  the  period  of  Bab  exile. 
Now,  it  is  found  that  these  last  27  chs  were  written 
after  the  exile,  most  probably  in  Pal,  rather  than 
in  Babylonia  as  originally  claimed,  and  are  no 
longer  considered  addressed  primarily  to  the  suffer- 
ing exiles  in  captivity  as  was  formerly  urged. 

(4)  The  present  state  of  the  question. — The  present 
state  of  the  Isa-question  is,  to  say  the  least,  con- 
fusing. Those  who  deny  the  integrity  of  the  book 
may  be  divided  into  two  groups,  which  we  may  call 
moderates  and  radicals.  Among  the  moderates 
may  be  included  Drs.  Driver,  G.  A.  Smith,  Skinner, 
Kirkpatrick,  Koenig,  A.  B.  Davidson,  Barnes  and 
Whitehouse.  These  all  practically  agree  that  the 
following  chs  and  vs  are  not  Isaiah's:  11  10-16; 
12;  13  1—14  23;  15  1—16  12;  21  1-10;  24  27; 
34-35;  36-39;  40-66.  That  is  to  say,  some  44 
chs  out  of  the  whole  number,  66,  were  not  written  by 
Isaiah;  or,  approximately  800  out  of  1,292  vs  are 
not  genuine.  Among  the  radicals  are  Drs.  Cheyne, 
Duhm,  Hackmann,  Guthe,  Marti,  Kennett  and 
Gray.  These  all  reject  approximately  1,030  vs 
out  of  the  total  1,292,  retaining  the  following  only 
as  the  genuine  product  of  Isaiah  and  his  age:  1  2-26. 
29-31;  2  6-19;  3  1.5.8.9.12-17;  4  1;  5  1-14.17-29; 
6;  7  1-S.22;  9  8—10  9;  10  13  14.27-32;  17  1-14; 
18;  20;  22  1-22;  28  1-4.7-22;  29  1-6.9.10.13-15; 
30  1-17;  31  1-4.  That  is,  only  about  262  vs  out  of 
the  total  1,292  are  allowed  to  be  genuine.  This  is, 
we  believe,  a  fair  statement  of  the  Isa-question  as 
it  exists  in  the  hands  of  divisive  critics  today. 

On  the  other  hand  there  have  been  those  who 
have  defended  and  who  still  defend  the  essential 
unity  of  Isaiah's  entire  book,  e.g.  Strachey  (1874), 
Nagelsbach  (1877),  Bredenkamp  (1887),  Douglas 
(1S95),  W.  H.  Cobb  (1883-1908),  W.  H.  Green 
(1892),  Vos  (1898-99),  Thirtle  (1907),  Margoliouth 
(1910)  andO.T.  Allis  (1912). 

(5)  Reasons  for  dissecting  the  book. — The  funda- 
mental axiom  of  criticism  is  the  dictum  that  a 
prophet  always  spoke  out  of  a  definite  historical 
situation  to  the  present  needs  of  the  people  among 
whom  he  lived,  and  that  a  definite  historical  sit- 
uation shall  be  pointed  out  for  each  prophecy.  This 
fundamental  postulate,  which  on  the  whole  is  reason- 
able and  perfectly  legitimate  if  not  overworked, 
underlies  all  modern  criticism  of  OT  prophecy.  It 
is  not  possible,  however,  always  to  trace  a  mere 
snatch  of  sermonic  discourse  to  a  definite  historical 
situation  apart  from  its  context.  Moreover,  the 
prophets  often  spoke  consciously,  not  only  to  their 
own  generation,  but  also  to  the  generations  to  come. 
Isaiah  in  particular  commanded,  "Bind  thou  up 
the  testimony,  seal  the  law  among  my  disciples" 
(8  16);  that  is,  preserve  my  teachings  for  the  future. 
Again  in  30  8,  he  says,  "Now  go,  ....  inscribe  it 
in  a  book,  that  it  may  be  for  the  time  to  come  for  ever 
arid  ever."  And  also  in  42  23,  "Who  is  there  among 
you  that  will  give  ear  to  this?  that  will  hearken  and 
hear  for  the  time  to  come  ?" 

Certain  false  presuppositions  often  govern  critics 
in  their  disintegration  of  the  book.  Only  a  few 
examples  need  be  given  by  way  of  illustration: 
(a)  According  to  some,  "the  conversion  of  the 
heathen"  lay  quite  beyond  the  horizon  of  any  8th- 
cent.  prophet;  consequently,  Isa  2  2-4  and  all 
similar  passages  which  foretell  the  conversion  of 
those  outside  the  chosen  people  are  to  be  relegated 
to  an  age  subsequent  to  Isaiah,  (b)  To  others, 
"the  picture  of  universal  peace"  in  Isa  11  1-9  is  a 
symptom  of  late  date,  and  therefore  this  section 
and  all  kindred  ones  must  be  deleted,  (c)  To  others, 
the  thought  of  "universal  judgment"  upon  "the 
whole  earth"  in  14  26  and  elsewhere  quite  tran- 
scends Isaiah's  range  of  thought,  {d)  To  others 
still,  the  apocalyptic  character  of  chs  24-27  repre- 
sents a  phase  of  Heb  thought  which  prevailed  in 


Israel  only  after  Ezekiel.  (e)  Even  to  those  who 
are  considered  moderates  "the  poetic  character"  of 
a  passage  like  ch  12,  and  the  references  to  a  "return" 
from  captivity,  as  in  11  11-16,  and  the  promises 
and  consolations  such  as  are  found  in  ch  33  are 
cited  as  grounds  for  assigning  these  and  similar 
passages  to  a  much  later  age.  Radicals  deny  in 
toto  the  existence  of  all  Messianic  passages  among 
Isaiah's  own  predictions,  relegating  all  Messianic 
hope  to  a  much  later  age. 

But  to  deny  to  the  Isaiah  of  the  8th  cent,  all 
catholicity  of  grace,  all  universalism  of  salvation  or 
judgment,  every  highly  developed  Messianic  ideal, 
every  rich  note  of  promise  and  comfort,  all  sublime 
faith  in  the  sacrosanct  character  of  Zion,  as  some 
do,  is  unwarrantably  to  create  a  new  Isaiah  of 
greatly  reduced  proportions,  a  mere  preacher  of 
righteousness,  a  statesman  of  not  very  optimistic 
vein,  and  the  exponent  of  a  cold  ethical  religion 
without  the  warmth  and  glow  of  the  messages 
which  are  actually  ascribed  to  the  prophet  of  the 
8th  cent, 

As  a  last  resort,  certain  critics  have  appealed  to 
2  Ch  36  22.23  as  external  evidence  that  chs  40-66 
existed  as  a  separate  collection  in  the  Chronicler's 
age.  But  the  evidence  obtained  from  this  source 
is  so  doubtful  that  it  is  well-nigh  valueless.  For  it 
is  not  the  prediction  of  Isa  concerning  Cyrus  to 
which  the  Chronicler  points  as  Jeremiah's,  but  the 
"70  years"  of  Bab  supremacy  spoken  of  in  ver  21, 
which  Jeremiah  actually  did  predict  (cf  Jer  25  11; 
29  10).  On  the  other  hand,  chs  40-66  were  cer- 
tainly ascribed  to  Isaiah  as  early  as  180  BC,  for 
Jesus  Ben-Sirach,  the  author  of  Ecclus,  speaks  of 
Isaiah  as  the  prophet  who  "saw  by  an  excellent 
spirit  that  which  should  come  to  pass  at  the  last,  and 
comforted  them  that  mourned  in  Zion"  (Ecclus 
48  20  ff;  cf  Isa  40  Iff).  Furthermore,  there  is 
absolutely  no  proof  that  chs  1-39,  or  chs  40-66,  or 
any  other  section  of  Isaiah's  prophecies  ever  existed 
by  themselves  as  an  independent  collection;  nor  is 
there  any  substantial  ground  for  supposing  that  the 
promissory  and  Messianic  portions  have  been  sys- 
tematically interpolated  by  editors  long  subse- 
quent to  Isaiah's  own  time.  The  earlier  prophets 
presumably  did  more  than  merely  threaten. 

(6)  Arguments  for  one  Isaiah. — It  is  as  unreason- 
able to  expect  to  be  able  to  prove  the  unity  of  Isa 
as  to  suppose  that  it  has  been  disproved.  Internal 
evidence  is  indecisive  in  either  case.  There  are 
arguments,  however,  which  corroborate  a  belief 
that  there  was  but  one  Isaiah.  Here  are  some  of 
those  which  might  be  introduced: 

(a)  The  circle;  of  ideas,  which  are  strikingly  the 
same  throughout  the  entire  book:  For  example, 
take  the  characteristic  name  for  God,  which  is 
almost  peculiar  to  Isaiah,  "the  Holy  One  of  Israel." 
This  title  for  Jeh  occurs  in  the  Book  of  Isa  a  total 
of  25  t,  and  only  6  t  elsewhere  in  the  OT,  one  of 
which  is  a  ||  passage  in  K.  This  unique  epithet, 
"the  Holy  One  of  Israel,"  interlocks  all  the  various 
portions  with  one  another  and  stamps  them  with 
the  personal  imprimatur  of  him  who  saw  the  vision 
of  the  majestic  God  seated  upon  His  throne,  high 
and  lifted  up,  and  heard  the  angelic  choirs  singing: 
"Holy,  holv,  holy,  is  Jeh  of  hosts:  the  whole  earth 
is  full  of  his  glory"  (6  3).  The  presence  of  this 
Divine  title  in  all  the  different  sections  of  the  book 
is  of  more  value  in  identifying  Isaiah  as  the  author 
of  all  these  prophecies  than  though  his  name  had 
been  inserted  at  the  beginning  of  every  chapter,  for 
the  reason  that  his  theology — his  conception  of 
God  as  the  Holy  One — is  woven  into  the  very  fiber 
and  texture  of  the  whole  book.  It  occurs  12  t  in 
chs  1-39,  and  13  t  in  chs  40-66;  and  it  is  simply 
unscientific  to  say  that  the  various  alleged  authors 
of  the  disputed  portions  all  employed  the  same  title 


Isaiah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


lo()G 


through  imitation  (cf  1  4;  5  19.24;  10  20;  12  G; 
17  7;  29  10;  30  ll.12.lf);  31  1 ;  37  2:;;  also 
41  14.10.20;  43  IU4;  45  11;  47  1;  48  17;  49  7; 
54  f>;  55  .">;  60  0.14;  elsewhere,  only  in  2  K  19 
22;     l's  71  22;    78    11;    89   IS;    Jer  50  20;    51  »). 

Another  unique  idea  which  occurs  with  consid- 
erable repetition  in  the  Book  of  lsa  is  the  thought 
of  a  "highway"  (ef  11  10;  35  S;  40  3;  43  19; 
49  11;  57  li;  62  10).  Another  characteristic 
idea  is  that  of  a  "remnant"  (cf  1  0;  10  20.21.22; 
11  11.10;  14  22.30;  15  0;  16  11;  17  3;  21  17; 
28  .".;  37  31;  46  3;  cf  65  S.9).  Another  striking 
t  rait  of  the  book  is  the  position  occupied  by  "/ion" 
in  the  prophet's  thoughts  (cf  2  3;  4  .">;  18  7;  24  23; 
28  10;  29  S;  30  19;  31  0:  33  5.20;  34  S;  46  13; 
49  11;  51  3.10;  52  1 ;  59  20;  60  14;  62  1.11; 
66  S).  Still  another  is  the  oft-repeated  expression, 
"Jiangs  of  a  woman  in  travail''  (<■(  13  S;  21  3;  26 
17. IS;  42  11;  54  1;  66  7).  These,  and  many  others 
less  (list inctive,  psychologically  stamp  the  book  with 
an  individuality  which  it  is  difficult  to  account  for, 
if  it  be  broken  up  into  count  less  fragments  and  dis- 
tributed, as  some  do,  over  the  centuries. 

(/>)  The  literary  style:  As  negative  evidence, 
literary  style  is  not  a  very  safe  argument;  for,  as 
Professor  McCurdy  says,  "In  the  case  of  a  writer 
of  Isaiah's  environments,  style  is  not  a  sure  cri- 
terion of  authorship"  {History,  Prophecy  and  the 
Monuments,  II,  317, n.).  Yet  it  is  certainly  remark- 
able that  the  clause  "for  the  mouth  of  Jeh  hath 
spoken  it"  should  be  found  3  t  in  the  Book  of  lsa, 
and  nowhere  else  in  the  OT  (cf  1  20;  40  5;  58  14). 
And  it  is  noteworthy  that  the  phrase,  "streams  of 
water,"  should  occur  twice  in  lsa  and  nowhere  else 
(cf  30  25;  44  4  in  the  Heb).  And  very  peculiar 
is  the  tendency  on  the  prophet's  part  to  emphatic 
reduplication  (cf  2  7.S;  6  3;  8  9;  24  10.23;  40  L 
43  11.25;  48  15;  51  12;  57  19;  62  10).  In 
fact,  it  is  not  extravagant  to  say  that  Isaiah's  style 
differs  widely  from  that  of  every  other  OT  prophet, 
and  is  as  far  removed  as  possible  from  that  of  Eze- 
kiel  and  the  post-exilic  prophets. 

(r)  Historical  references:  Take,  for  example, 
first,  the  prophet's  constant  reference  to  Judah  and 
Jerus,  his  country  and  its  capital  (1  7-9;  3  81 
24  19;  25  2;  40  2.9;  62  4);  likewise,  to  the  temple 
and  its  ritual  of  worship  and  sacrifice.  In  1  11-15, 
when  all  was  prosperous,  the  prophet  complained 
that,  the  people  were  profuse  and  formal  in  their 
ceremonies  and  sacrifices;  in  43  23.24,  on  the  con- 
trary, when  the  country  had  been  overrun  by  the 
Assyrian  and  Sennacherib  had  besieged  the  city, 
the  prophet  reminds  them  thai  they  had  not  brought, 
to  Jeh  the  sheep  of  their  burnt  offerings,  nor  honored 
Him  with  their  sacrifices;  while  in  66  1-3. (i. 20, 
not  only  is  the  existence  of  the  Tempi*'  and  the  ob- 
servance of  the  ritual  presupposed,  but,  those  are 
sentenced  who  place  their  trust  in  the  material 
temple,  and  the  outward  ceremonials  of  temple- 
worship.  As  for  the  "exile,"  the  prophet's  attitude 
to  it  throughout  is  that  of  both  anticipation  and 
realization.  Thus,  in  57  1,  judgment  is  only  threat- 
ened, not  yet  inflicted:  "The  righteous  'is  taken 
away  from  the  evil  to  come."  Thai  is  to  say,  the 
exile  is  described  as  still  future.  On  1  lie 'other 
hand,  in  3  8,  "Jerus  is  ruined,  and  Judah  is  fallen," 
which  seems  to  describe  the  exile  as  in  the  past; 
yet,  as  everybody  admits,  these  are  the  words  of 
Isaiah  of  the  Nth  cent.  In  11  11.12,  the  prophet 
says,  "The  Lord  will  set  his  hand  again  the  second 
tune  to  recover  the  remnant  of  his  people 
from  the  four  corners  of  the  earth."  To  interpret 
such  a  statement  literally  and  mechanically  without 
regard  to  Sth-cent.  conditions,  or  to  Isaiah's  mani- 
fest attitude  to  the  exile,  leads  to  confusion.  No 
prophet  realized  so  keenly  or  described  so  vividly 
the  destiny  of  the  Hebrews. 


(it)  The  predictive  element :  This  is  the  strongest 
proof  of  the  unity  of  the  Book  of  lsa.  Prediction 
is  the  very  essence  of  prophecy  (cf  Dt  18  22); 
Isaiah  was  preeminently  a  prophet  of  the  future. 
With  unparalleled  suddenness,  he  repeatedly  leaps 
from  despair  to  hope,  from  threat  to  promise,  and 
from  the  actual  to  the  ideal.  What  Professor  Kent 
says  of  "Deutero-Isaiah"  may  with  equal  justice 
be  said  of  Isaiah  himself:  "While  in  touch  with  his 
own  age,  the  great  unknown  prophet  lives  in  the  at- 
mosphere of  the  past  and  the  future"  (Sermons, 
Epistles,  (mil  Apocalypses  of  Israel's  Prophets,  28). 
Isaiah  spoke  to  his  own  age,  but  he  also  addressed 
himself  to  the  ages  to  follow.  His  verb  tenses  an; 
characteristically  futures  and  prophetic  perfects. 
Of  his  book  A.  B.  Davidson's  words  are  particu- 
larly true:  "If  any  prophetic  book  be  examined 
....  it  will  appear  that  the  ethical  and  religious 
teaching  is  always  secondary,  and  that  the  essential 
thing  in  the  book  or  discourse  is  the  prophet's  out- 
look into  the  future"  (Ill)Ii,  art.  "Prophecy  and 
Prophets,"  IV,    119). 

Isaiah  was  exceptionally  given  to  predicting:  thus  (a) 
before  the  Syro-Ephraimitic  war  (734  BC),  lie  predicted 
that  within  05  years  Ephraim  should  be  broken  to  pieces 
(7  si;  and  that  before  the  child  Maher-shalal-hash-baz 
should  have  knowledge  to  cry,  ".My  fattier."  or  "My 
mother,"  the  riches  of  Damascus  and  the  spoil  of  Sa- 
maria should  be  carried  away  (8  4;  cf  7  10).  These  arc, 
however,  but  two  of  numerous  predictions,  as  shown 
above,  among  his  earlier  prophecies  (cf  1  27.2N;  2  --4; 
6    13;     10   20-23;     11    6-16;     17    14). 

(8)  Shortly  before  the  downfall  of  Samaria  in  722  IK1, 
Isaiah  predicted  that  Tyre  should  lie  forgotten  70  years, 
and  that  after  the  end  of  70  years  her  merchandise  should 
be  holiness  to  Jell  (23    1 5.  IS;. 

(y)  In  like  manner  prior  to  the  siege  of  Ashdod  in 
711  BC,  he  proclaimed  that  within  3  years  Moab  should 
be  brought  into  contempt  (16  14),  and  that  within  a 
year  all  the  glory  of  Kedar  should  fail  (21  10). 

(&)  And  not  long  prior  to  the  siege  of  Jerus  by  Sen- 
nacherib in  701  BO,  he  predicted  that  in  an  instant, 
suddenly,  a  multitude;  of  Jerusalem's  foes  should  be  as 
dust  (29  5);  that  yet  a  very  little  while  and  Lebanon 
should  be  turned  into  a  fruitful  field  (29  17j:  and  that 
Assyria  should  be  dismayed  and  fall  by  the  sword, 
but  not  of  men  (30  17.31;  31  8).  And  more,  that  for 
days  beyond  a  year,  the  careless  women  of  Jerus  should 
be  troubled  (32  10.10-20);  and  that  the  righteous  in 
Zion  should  see  Jerus  a  quiet  habitation,  and  return  and 
come  with  sinking  (33  17  IT ;  35  4.10);  but  that  Sen- 
nacherib, on  the  contrary,  should  hear  tidings  and  return 
without  shooting  an  arrow  into  the  city  (37  7.20-29. 
33—35). 

In  like  manner,  also,  after  the  siege  of  Jerus  by  Sen- 
nacherib in  701  BO  was  over,  the  prophet  seems  to  have 
continued  to  predict;  and,  in  order  to  demonstrate  to 
the  suffering  and  unbelieving  remnant  about  him  the 
deity  of  Jeh  and  the  folly  of  idolatry,  pointed  to  the 
predictions  which  he  had  already  made  in  the  earlier 
years  of  his  ministry,  and  to  the  fact  that  they  had  been 
fulfilled.  Thus,  he  says,  "Who  hath  declared  it  from 
the  beginning,  that  we  may  know?  and  beforetime,  that 
we  may  say.  He  is  right?"  (41  21-23.26);  "Behold,  the 
former  things  are  come  to  pass,  and  new  things  do  I 
declare;  before  they  spring  forth  1  tell  you  of  them" 
(42  0.23);  "Who  among  them  can  declare  this,  and 
show  us  former  things  [i.e.  things  to  come  in  the  imme- 
diate future]  ?....!  have  declared,  and  I  have  saved, 
and  I  have  showed"  (43  0.12);  "Who,  as  I,  shall  call, 
and  shall  declare  it  .  .  .  .  ?  And  the  things  that  are 
coming,  and  that  shall  come  to  pass,  let  them  [the  idols] 

declare Have   I    not  declared   unto   thee  of  old, 

and    showed    it  ?      And    ye    are    my     witnesses 

That  saith  of  Cyrus,  He  is  my  shepherd,  and  shall  per- 
form all  my  pleasure,  even  saying  of  Jerus,  She  shall  be; 
built;  and  of  the  temple.  Thy  foundation  shall  be  laid" 
(44  7.8.27.28);    "It  is  I.  Jeh,  who  call  thee  by  thy  name, 

even   the   God   of   Israel I    have  called   thee  by 

thy  name:    I  have  surnamed  thee,  though  thou  hast  not 

known    me Ask   me  of   the   things    that  are   to 

come I  have  raised  him  [Cyrus]  up  in  right- 
eousness, and  ....  he  shall  build  my  city,  and  he 
shall  let  my  exiles  go  free"  (45  3.4.11.13);  "  Declaring  the 
end  from  the  beginning,  and  from  ancient  times  things 
that  are  not  yet  done;  ....  calling  a  ravenous  bird 
!<  yrus]  from  the  east,  the  man  of  my  counsel  from  a  far 
country;  yea,  I  have  spoken,  I  will  also  bring  it  lo 
pass      (46    10.11);    "I   have  declared  the  former   things 

from  of  old and  I  showed  them:    suddenly  1  did 

them,  and   they  came   to  pass I   have  declared 

it  .       from  of  old;    before  it  came  to  pass  I  showed 

it  thee;  lest  thou  shouldest  say,  Mine  idol  hath  done 
them     (48  3.5);    "I  have  showed  thee  new  things  from 


1507 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Isaiah 


this  time,  even  hidden  things Yea,  from  of  old 

thine  ear  was  not  opened Who  among  them  hath 

declared  these  things  ?  ....  I,  even  I,  have  spoken;  yea, 
I  have  called  him;  ....  from  the  beginning  I  have  not 
spoken  in  secret"  (48  0-8. 14-16).  Such  predictions  are 
explicit  and  emphatic. 

(e)  Cyrus  a  subject  of  prediction:  From  all  the 
above-mentioned  explicit  and  oft-repeated  pre- 
dictions one  thing  is  obvious,  namely,  that  great 
emphasis  is  laid  by  the  prophet  on  prediction 
throughout  the  entire  Book  of  lsa.  And  it  must  be 
further  allowed  that  "Cyrus"  is  represented  by  the 
author  as  predicted,  from  any  point  of  view.  The 
only  question  is,  Does  the  prophet  emphasize  the 
fact  that  he  himself  is  predicting  the  coming  of 
Cyrus?  or  that  former  predictions  concerning  Cyrus 
are  now,  as  the  prophet  writes,  coming  to  pass 
before  his  readers'  eyes?  Canon  Cheyne's  remark 
upon  this  point  is  instructive.  He  says:  "The 
editor,  who  doubtless  held  the  later  Jewish  theory 
of  prophecy,  may  have  inferred  from  a  number  of 
passages,  esp.  41  26;  48  3.(5.14,  that  the  first  ap- 
pearance of  Cyrus  had  been  predicted  by  an  ancient 
prophet,  and  observing  certain  Isaianic  elements  in 
the  phraseology  of  these  chapters,  may  have  identi- 
fied the  prophet  with  Isaiah"  {Intro  to  the  Book  of 
lsa,  238). 

Dr.  G.  A.  Smith  likewise  allows  that  Cyrus  is  the  ful- 
filment of  former  predictions. 

He  says:  "  Xor  is  it  possible  to  argue,  as  some  have 
tried  to  do,  that  the  prophet  is  predicting  these  tilings 
as  if  they  had  already  happened.  For  as  part  of  an 
argument  for  the  unique  divinity  of  the  God  of  Israel, 
Cyrus,  'alive  and  irresistible,'  and  already  accredited 
with  success,  is  pointed  out  as  the  unmistakable  proof 
that  former  prophecies  of  a  deliverance  for  Israel  are 
already  coming  to  pass.  Cyrus,  in  short,  is  not  pre- 
sented as  a  prediction,  but  as  a  proof  that  a  prediction 
is  being  fulfilled"  (II DB.  art.  "Isaiah,"  493).  And 
further  ho  says:  "The  chief  claim,  therefore,  which  chs 
40  tr  make  for  the  God  of  Israel  is  His  power  to  direct 
the  history  of  the  world  in  conformity  to  a  long-predicted 
and  faithfully  followed  purpose.  This  claim  starts  from 
the  proof  that  Jeh  has  long  before  predicted  events  now 
happening  or  about  to  happen,  with  Cyrus  as  their 
center.  Hut  this  is  much  more  than  a  proof  of  isolated 
predictions,  though  these  imply  omniscience.  It  is  a 
declaration  of  the  unity  of  history  sweeping  to  the  high 
ends  which  have  been  already  revealed  to  Israel — an 
exposition,  in  short,  of  the  Omnipotence,  Consistence, 
and  Faithfulness  of  the  Providence  of  the  one  true  God" 
(ib,  496). 

It  is  obvious,  therefore,  in  any  case,  whet  Iter  these 
chaptera^are  early  or  late,  that  Cyrus  is  the  subject 
of  prediction.  It  really  makes  little  difference  at, 
which  end  of  history  one  takes  his  stand,  whether 
in  the  St h  cent.  BC  with  Isaiah,  or  in  the  6th  cent. 
BC  with  "Deutero-Isaiah."  Cyrus,  to  the  author 
of  these  chs,  is  the  subject  of  prediction.  In  other 
words,  whether  indeed  the  author  is  really  pre- 
dicting Cyrus  in  advance  of  ail  apparent  fulfilment, 
or  Cyrus  is  the  fulfilment  of  some  ancient  prediction 
by  another,  does  not  alter  the  fact  that  Cyrus  was 
the  subject  of  prediction  on  the  part  of  somebody. 
Accordingly,  as  was  stated  at  the  outset,  the  whole 
question  is,  which  does  the  prophet  emphasize,  (a) 
the  fact  that  he  himself  is  predicting?  or,  (b)  that, 
former  predictions  by  someone  else  are  now  before 
his  eyes  coming  to  pass?  The  truth  is,  the  prophet 
seems  to  live  in  the  atmosphere  of  the  past  and  the 
future  as  well  as  in  the  present,  all  of  which  art; 
equally  vivid  to  his  prophetic  mind.  This  is  a  pecul- 
iar characteristic  of  Isaiah.  It  is  seen  in  the  ac- 
count he  gives  of  his  inaugural  vision  (ch  6),  of 
which  Delitzsch  remarks  that  it  is  "like  a  predic- 
tion in  the  process  of  being  fulfilled."  The  same  is 
true  of  chs  24-27.  There  the  prophet  repeatedly 
projects  himself  into  the  future,  and  speaks  from  the 
standpoint  of  the  fulfilment  of  his  predictions.  It, 
is  esp.  true  of  chs  40-48.  At  one  time  the  prophet 
emphasizes  the  fact  that  he  is  predicting,  and  a  little 
later  he  describes  his  predictions  as  coining  to  pass. 
When,  accordingly,  a  decision  is  made  as  to  when 


the  author  predicted  Cyrus,  it  is  more  natural  to 
suppose  that  he  was  doing  so  long  before  Cyrus' 
actual  appearance.  This,  in  fact,  is  in  keeping 
with  the  test  of  true  prophecy  contained  in  Dt  18 
22:  "When  a  prophet  speaketh  in  the  name  of  Jeh, 
if  the  thing  follow  not,  nor  come  to  pass,  that  is  the 
thing  which  Jeh  hath  not  spoken;  the  prophet  hath 
spoken  it  presumptuously,  thou  shall  not  be  afraid 
of  him."  Besides,  there  is  a  similar  explicit  pre- 
diction in  the  OT,  namely,  that  of  King  Josiah, 
who  was  foretold  by  name  two  centuries  before  he 
came  (1   K  13  2;   cf  2   K  23   15.16). 

Dr.  W.  H.  Cobb  in  the  Journal  of  Bib.  Literature 
and  Exegesis,  1901,  79,  pleads  for  a  "shrinkage  of 
Cyrus,"  because  Cyrus  figures  only  in  chs  40-48, 
and  is  then  dismissed.  Dr.  Thirtle,  on  the  other 
hand,  argues  that  the  name  "Cyrus"  is  a  mere 
appellative,  being  originally  not,  Koresh  (Cyrus), 
but  horesh  ("workman,"  "artificer,"  "image- 
breaker"),  and  that  44  27.28  is  a  gloss  (cf  OT 
Problems,  244-64).  But  in  opposition  to  these 
views  the  present  writer  prefers  to  write  Cyrus 
large,  and  to  allow  frankly  that  he  is  the  subject  of 
extraordinary  prediction.  For  the  very  point  of 
the  author's  argument  is,  hat  he  is  predicting  events 
which  Jeh  alone  is  capable  of  foretelling  or  bringing 
to  pass;  in  other  words,  1  hat  prescience  is  the  proof 
of  Jeh's  deity.  Isaiah  lived  in  an  age  when  Jeh's 
secrets  were  first  revealed  privately  unto  His  serv- 
ants the  prophets  (cf  Am  3  7).  Political  condi- 
tions were  unsettled  and  kaleidoscopic,  and\there 
was  every  incentive  to  predict.  That,  Isaiah  actu- 
ally uttered  wonderful  predictions  is  attested, 
furthermore,  both  by  Jesus  Ben-Sirach  in  Ecclus 
48  20-25  (written  c  ISO  BC),  and  by  Jos  in  his 
Ant,  XI,  i,  1,  2  (elating  from  c  100  AD) ;  and  these 
are  ancient  traditions  worthy  of  credence. 

Recently,  Mr.  Oswald  T.  Allis,  after  a  thorough 
and     exhaustive     critical     investigation     of     "the 
numerico-climactic  structure"  of  the  poem  in  lsa 
44  24-28,  concludes  that  "the  most   striking  and 
significant  features  of  the  poem  favor  the  view  that 
while  the  utterance  was  significant  in  and  of  itself, 
it  was  chiefly  significant  in  view  of  the  exceptional 
circumstance  under  which  it  was  spoken,  i.e.  in  view 
of  its  early  date.     The  chronological  arrangement 
of  the  poem  assigns  the  Restoration  and  Cyrus  to 
the  future.     The  perspective  of  the;  poem,  together 
with  the  abrupt  change  of  person  in  the  2d  strophe, 
argues  that  the  future  is   a   remote   future.      And 
finally    the    carefully    constructed    double    climax 
attaches  a  significance   to   the  definiteness  of   the 
utterance  which  is  most  easily  accounted  for  if  this 
future  was  so  remote  that  a  definite"  disclosure  con- 
cerning it  would  be  of  extraordinary  importance." 
And  he  further  alleges  that   "it  is  impossible,   if 
justice  is  done  to  the  plain  declarations  of  Scrip- 
ture, to  limit  the  prophetic  horizon  of  the  prophet 
Isaiah  to  the  precxilic  period  and  that  ....  when 
the  form  of  the  poem  is  recognized,  there  is  every 
reason  to  assign  it  to  a  preexilic  prophet,  to  Isaiah, 
since  the  form  of  the  poem  is  admirably  calculated 
to  emphasize  the  fact  that  Cyrus  and  the  Restora- 
tion belong  to  a  distant  future,  and  to  make  it,  clear 
that  it  is  just  because  of  this  fact  that  the  definite- 
ness of  the  prophecy,  the  mention  of  Cyrus  by  name, 
is  so  remarkable  and  of  such  unique  significance" 
(Bib.  and  Theol.  Studies,  by  the  members  of  the 
Faculty  of  Princeton  Theological  Seminary,  Cen- 
tennial vol,  1912,  628-29). 

After  all,  why  should  men  object  to  prediction 
on  so  large  a  scale?  Unless  there  is  definiteness 
about  any  given  prediction,  and  unless  it  tran- 
scends ordinary  prognostication,  there  is  no  especial 
value  in  it.  Should  it  be  objected,  however,  that 
prediction  of  so  minute  a  character  is  "abhorrent 
to  reason,"  the;  answer  is  already  at  hand;    it  may 


Isaiah,  Ascen.  of  Tin<:  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 
Ishmael  . - — 


1508 


be  abhorrent  to  reason,  but  it  is  a  handmaid  to  faith. 
Faith  has  to  do  with  the  future,  even  as  prediction  has 
to  do  with  the  future;  and  the  OT  is  preeminently 
a  hook  which  encourages  faith.  There  is  really  no 
valid  objection  to  the  prediction  of  Cyrus.  For 
the  one  outstanding  differentiating  characteristic 
of  Israel's  religion  is  predictive  prophecy.  The 
Hebrews  certainly  predicted  the  coining  of  a  Mes- 
siah. Indeed,  the  Hebrews  were  the  only  people 
of  antiquity  whose  "Golden  Age"  lay  in  the  future 
rather  than  in  the  past.  Accordingly,  to  predict 
t  he  coining  of  a  Cyrus  as  the  human  agent  of  Israelis 
salvat  ion  is  but  t  he  reverse  side  of  the  same  prophet's 
picture  of  the  Divine  agent,  namely,  the  obedient, 
Suffering  Servant  of  Jeh,  who  would  redeem  Israel 
from  its  sin.  Deny  to  Isaiah  the  son  of  Amoz  the 
prediction  concerning  Cyrus,  and  it  is  but  logical 
to  go  farther  and  to  deny  to  him  the  Messianic  hope 
which  is  usually  associated  with  his  name.  Deny 
to  Isaiah  the  son  of  Amoz  the  predictions  concern- 
ing a  return  from  captivity,  and  the  prophecies  of 
his  book  are  robbed  of  their  essential  character 
and  unique  perspective.  Emasculate  those  portions 
of  the  Book  of  Isa  which  unveil  the  future,  and  they 
are  reduced  to  a  mere  vaticinium  ex  eventu,  and 
their  religious  value  as  Divine  oracles  is  largely  lost. 
Literature. — So  much  lias  been  written  on  Isaiah's 
prophecies  that  only  a  selected  list  can  be  given  here: 

I.  Commentaries  on  Isa:  Owen  O.  Whitehousc,  The 
New  Century  Bible.  2  vols,  1905;  J.  Skinner,  The  Cam- 
bridge Bible  for  Schools  and  Colleges,  2  vols,  1896-98; 
W.  E.  Barnes,  The  Churchman's  Bible,  2  vols,  1901-3; 
G.  A.  Smith,  The  Expositor's  Bible,  2  vols,  1888-90; 
Franz  DelitZSCh,  Clark's  Foreign  Theological  Library, 
2  vols,  1892;  C.  von  Orelli,  Clark's  Foreign  Theological 
Library,  189.5;  T.  K.  Cheyne,  The  Prophecies  of  Isaiah, 
2  vols  1S92;  (1.  W.  Wade,  Westminster  Commentaries, 
1911;  G.  II.  Box,  The  Book  of  Isa,  1909;  (i.  B.  Gray, 
ICC.  I,  chsi-xxvii,  1912;  II,  chs xxviii-lxvi  (forthcoming), 
by  G.  B.  Cray  and  A.  S.  Peake;  .1.  E.  McFadyen,  "Book 
of  the  Prophecies  of  Isaiah"  {The  Bible  for  Home  and 
School),  1910;  G.  Campbell  Morgan,  The  Analyzed 
Bible,  2  vols,  1910;  Alex.  Maclaren,  Expositions  of  Holy 
Scripture,  2  vols,  1906;  H.  G.  Mitchell,  Isaiah:  A  Study 
of  chs  1-12,  1897;  Nagelsbach  in  Lange's  Bihelwerk, 
Eng.  ed,  1878;  J.  A.  Alexander,  1865;  H.  Ewald,  Eng.  ed, 
1876-81;  John  Calvin,  Eng.  ed,  18.50;  R.  Lowth,  1778; 
Vitringa,  1732;  W.  Gesenius,  1820-21;  F.  Hitzig,  1833;  C. 
J.  Bredenkamp,  18S7;  A.  Dillmann,  1890,  as  revised  by 
Kittel,  1898;  B.  Duhm.  in  Nowack's  Handkommentar  zum 
AT,  1892;  K.  Marti,  1900;  A.  Condamin  (Rom  Cath.), 
1905. 

II.  Introduction  and  Criticism:  S.  R.  Driver,  Isaiah, 
His  Life  ami  Times,  in  "The  Men  of  the  Bible  Series," 
1888;  T.  K.  Cheyne,  Intro  to  the  Book  of  Isa,  1895;  W. 
R.  Smith,  The  Prophets  of  Israel,  2d  ed,  1890;  A.  F.  Kirk- 
patrick,  The  Doctrine  of  the  Prophets,  1892;  J.  W.  Thirtle, 
OT  Problems,  1907;  W.  E.  Barnes,  An  Exam.  of!sa24-27, 
1891;  G.  Douglas,  Isaiah  One  and  His  Book  One,  1895; 
J.  Kennedy,  A  Popular  Argument  for  the  Unity  of  Isa, 
1891;  E.  Koenig,  The  Exiles'  Book  of  Consolation,  1899; 
G.  C.  Workman,  The  Servant  of  Jeh,  1907;  M.  G.  Glaze- 
brook,  Studies  in  the  Book  of  Isa,  1910;  R.  II.  Kennett, 
The  Composition  of  the  Book  of  Isa  in  the  Light  of  History 
and  Archaeology,  1910;  R.  R.  Ottloy,  Isa  according  to 
the  Sept,  1904;  Hackmann,  Die  Zukunftserwartung  des 
Jesaia,  1893;  J.  Mcinhold,  Die  J esajaerzdhluugen,  Jesaja 
36-39,  1898;  o.  T.  Allis,  "  The  Transcendence  of  Jeh,  God 
of  Israel,  Isa  44  24-28,"  in  Bib.  and  Theol.  Studies, 
Princeton's  Centennial  Commemoration  vol,  1912,  579— 
634;  J.  Hastings,  The  Great  Texts  of  the  Bible,  1910;  C. 
S.  Robinson,  The  Gospel  in  Isa.  1895;  E.  Sievers,  Me- 
trisrhe  Studicn.  1901;  G.  L.  Robinson,  The  Book  of  Isa, 
1910;  H.  Guthe,  Dos  Zukunftsbild  des  Jesaia,  1885; 
Feldmann,  Der  Knecht  Gottes,  1907;  W.  Urwick,  The 
Servant  of  Jeh,  1877;  K.  Cramer,  The  Historical  Back- 
ground of  Isa  56-66,  1905;  A.  B.  Davidson,  OT  Prophecy, 
1903. 

III.  Arts,  in  Journals  and  Dictionaries:  W.  H.  Cobb 
in  JBL,  1891,  II;  1895,  I  and  II;  1898,1;  1901,1;  1908, 
I;  F.  Brown,  JBL,  1890.  I;  W.  II.  Cobb,  in  the  BS,  1882; 
G.  A.  Smith,  art.  "Isaiah"  in  II DB,  1899;  T.  K.  Cheyne, 
in  the  EB.  1901,  and  in  the  Enc  Brit,  11th  ed,  1910; 
.las.  Robertson,  in  the  Illustrated  Bible  Diet.,  1908;  E. 
Koenig,  in  the  Standard  Bible  Did.,  1909;  A.  Klostermann 
and  .1.  A.  Kelso,  in  The  New  Sch-Herz,  1910;  A.  Kloster- 
mann in  the  RE,  1900;  G.  Vos,  Presbyterian  and  Reformed 
Renew.  1898;  D.  S.  Margoliouth,  in  The  Temple  Diet., 
1910;  C.  A.  Briggs,  art.  "  Analysis  of  Isa  40-62  "  in  Harper 

Memorial    Volume. 

George  L.  Robinson 
ISAIAH,  ASCENSION  OF.     See  Apocalyptic 
Literature. 


ISCAH,  iz'ka,  is'ka  (H??"1 ,  yi?kah):  Daughter  of 
Haran  and  sister  of  Milcah  the  wife  of  Nahor  (Gen 
11  29).  Tradition  identifies  her  with  Sarah  Abram's 
wife;   but  without  sufficient  reason. 

ISCARIOT,  is-kar'i-ot.     See  Judas  Iscariot. 

ISDAEL,  is'da-el  ('Io-Sa^X,  Isdatl):  In  1  Esd  5 
33;   called  "Giddel"  in  Ezr  2  56. 

ISH  (tO"^,  'ish):  In  the  following  Heb  proper 
names,  a  prefix  meaning  "man  of,"  or,  collectively, 
"men  of":  Ish-bosheth,  Ishhod,  Ish-fob  (but  RV 
correctly  "the  men  of  Tob").  See  also  Eshuaal; 
Eshban;  Iscariot. 

ISHBAAL,  ish'ba-al.    See  Ish-bosheth. 

ISHBAH,  ish'ba  (nS©"! ,  yishbah):  A  member  of 
the  tribe  of  Judah,  father  of  Eshtemoa  (1  Ch  4  17). 

ISHBAK,  ish'bak  (p3Tp"! ,  yishbah) :  A  name  in 
the  list  of  sons  of  Abraham  by  Keturah  (Gen  25 
2  P  1  Ch  1  32).  These  names  probably  represent 
tribes;  the  tribe  of  Ishbak  has  not  been  certainly 
identified. 

ISHBI-BENOB,  ish-bl-be'nob  p:n  "1?Tp1 ,  yishbi 
bh"nobh)\  One  of  the  four  "born  to  the  giant  in 
Gath"  who  were  slain  by  David  and  his  men  (2  S 
21  15-22).  Ishbi-benob  was  slain  by  Abishai,  and 
David's  life  saved  by  the  act  (vs  16.17). 

ISH-BOSHETH,  ish-bo'sheth  (TflpSTW,  'ish- 
bosheth,  "man  of  shame";  'Ieo-pWG*',  Iesbosthe): 
Called  b?3ttN:,  'eshba'al,  "man  of  Baal"  (1  Ch  8 
33),  and  ^Tpl,  yishwi,  "man  of  Jeh"(?),  perhaps  for 
Vnptf,  'isheyo  (1  S  14  49).  Cf  Eshbaal  and 
Ishvi  (AV  "Ishui").  We  probably  have  the  right 
meaning  of  the  name  in  Eshbaal  and  Ishvi,  the 
words  Baal  and  Jeh  being  frequently  interchanged. 
The  change  to  Ish-bosheth,  "man  of  shame,"  in 
2  S,  where  the  story  of  his  shameful  murder  is  re- 
lated, may  be  better  explained  as  reference  to  this 
(see  Mephibosheth,  whose  name  was  also  changed 
from  Merib-baal  for  similar  reasons),  than  to  find 
here  a  suggestion  of  Baal-worship,  but  see  HPN, 
121,  where  the  change  is  explained  as  a  correction  of 
the  scribes,  in  consequence  of  prophetic  protests. 

One  of  the  sons  of  Saul  (1  Ch  8  33;  9  39;  IS 
14  49)  who,  when  his  father  and  brothers  were 
slain  in  the  battle  of  Gilboa  (1  S  31  1  ff),  was  pro- 
claimed king  over  Israel  by  Abner,  the  captain  of 
Saul's  host,  at  Mahanaim  (2S2  8ff).  Ish- 
bosheth  was  40  years  old  at  this  time  and  reigned 
over  Israel  2  years  (2  S  2  10).  Judah,  however, 
proclaimed  David  its  king.  The  consequence 
was  war  (2  S  2  12  ff).  The  house  of  David  pre- 
vailed against  the  house  of  Saul  (2  S  3  1),  but  the 
war  did  not  come  to  a  close  until  Abner,  angry  on 
account  of  the  rebuke  he  suffered  from  I.  for  his 
unlawful  intimacy  with  Rizpah,  Saul's  concubine, 
joined  David  (2  S  3  Off).  David's  condition  to 
return  to  him  Michal,  his  wife,  before  peace  could 
be  made,  was  fulfilled  by  I.  (2  S  3  14  f),  but  it  was 
not  until  after  Abner's  death  that  I.  seems  to  have 
given  up  hopes  of  retaining  his  power  (2  S  4  1  ff). 
The  shameful  murder  of  I.  by  his  own  captains  is 
recorded  in  2  S  4  5  ff .  David  punished  the  mur- 
derers who  had  expected  reward  and  buried  I.  in 
the  grave  of  Abner  at  Hebron  (2  S  4  12  f). 

Arthur  L.  Breslich 

ISHHOD,  ish'hod  ("limpS,  'ish'hodh,  "man  of 
majesty"):  A  man  of  the  tribe  of  Manasseh  (1  Ch 
7  18.  AV  "Ishod"). 


1509 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  J^mae!^"11'  °f 


ISHI,  ish'I  pyBS"!,  yish%  "salutary"): 

(1)  A  Jerahmeelite  (1  Ch  2  31);  the  genealogy 
may  denote  his  membership  by  blood,  or  only  by 
adoption,  in  the  tribe  of  Judah. 

(2)  AJudahite  (1  Ch  4  20). 

(3)  A  Simeonite,  whose  sons  led  500  of  their  tribe 
against  the  Amalekites  in  Mt.  Seir  (1  Ch  4  42). 

(4)  One  of  the  chiefs  of  Manasseh  E.  of  the  Jor- 
dan (1  Ch  5  24). 

ISHI,  ish'I,  I'shI  plITS?,  'ishi,  "my  husband"; 
LXX  6  dvf|p  [lov,  ho  antr  mou) :  The  name  symbolic 
of  Jeh's  relation  to  Israel  which  Hosea  (2  16)  de- 
clares shall  be  used  when  Baali,  "my  lord,"  has 
become  hateful  on  account  of  its  associations  with 
the  worship  of  the  Baals. 

ISHIAH,  i-shl'ya.  See  Isshiah. 

ISHIJAH,  I-shi'ja.     See  Isshijah. 

ISHMA,  ish'ma  (X12Tp^ ,  yishma1 ,  from  the  root 
yusham,  "to  lie  waste,"  therefore  meaning  "deso- 
late"): A  brother  of  Jezreel  and  Idbash,  "the  sons 
of  the  father  of  Etam"  (1  Ch  4  3).  They  were 
brothers  of  Hazzelelponi. 

ISHMAEL,  ish'ma-el  (biCFttflh  ,  yishma'e'l,  "God 
heareth,"  or  "God  may,"  "shall  hear";  'Icr|xaT|\, 
Ismail) : 

(1)  The  son  of  Abraham  by  Hagar,  the  Egyp 
slave  of  his  wife  Sarah.  The  circumstances  con- 
nected with  his  birth  reveal  what  seems  to  us  to  be 
a  very  strange  practice.  It  was  customary  among 
ancient  peoples  to  correct  the  natural  defect  of 
barrenness  by  substituting  a  slave  woman.  In  our 
narrative,  this  is  shown  to  be  authorized  and  brought 
about  by  the  legitimate  wife  with  the  understanding 
that  the  offspring  of  such  a  union  should  be  regarded 
as  her  own:  "It  may  be  that  I  shall  obtain  children 
by  her,"  lit.  "that  I  shall  be  builded  by  her"  (Gen 
16  2). 

The  hopes  of  Sarah  were  realized,  for  Hagar  gave 

birth  to  a  son,  and  yet  the  outcome  was  not  fully 

pleasing  to  Abraham's  wife;  there  was 

1.  Birth  one    serious   drawback.     As    soon    as 

Hagar  "saw  that  she  had  conceived," 
her  behavior  toward  her  mistress  underwent  a  radi- 
cal change;  she  was  "despised  in  her  eyes."  But 
for  the  intervention  of  the  angel  of  Jeh,  the  boy 
might  have  been  born  in  Egypt.  For,  being  dealt 
with  hardly  (or  humbled)  by  Sarah,  the  handmaid 
fled  toward  that  country.  On  her  way  she  was  told 
by  the  angel  to  return  to  her  mistress  and  submit 
herself  "under  her  hands."  She  obeyed,  and  the 
child  who  was  to  be  as  "a  wild  ass  among  men"  was 
born  when  his  father  was  86  years  old  (Gen  16  7-16). 
At  the  age  of  13  years  the  boy  was  circumcised 
(Gen  17  25)  in  accordance  with  the  Divine  com- 
mand received  by  Abraham:    "Every 

2.  Circum-    male    among    you     shall   be    circum- 
cision cised"  (Gen  17  10).     Thus  young  Ish- 

mael  was  made  a  party  to  the  cove- 
nant into  which  God  had  entered  with  the  lad's 
father.  The  fact  that  both  Abraham  and  his  son 
were  circumcised  the  same  day  (Gen  17  26)  un- 
doubtedly adds  to  the  importance  of  Ishmael's  par- 
taking of  the  holy  rite.  He  was  certainly  made  to 
understand  how  much  his  father  loved  him  and  how 
deeply  he  was  concerned  about  his  spiritual  welfare. 
We  may  even  assume  that  there  was  a  time  when 
Abraham  looked  upon  Ishmael  as  the  promised  seed. 
His  error  was  made  clear  to  him  when  God  promised 
him  the  birth  of  a  son  by  Sarah.  At  first  this 
seemed  to  be  incredible,  Abraham  being  100  years 
of  age  and  Sarah  90.  And  yet,  how  could  he  dis- 
believe the  word  of  God?     His  cherished,  though 


mistaken,  belief  about  Ishmael,  his  doubts  regarding 
the  possibility  of  Sarah's  motherhood,  and  the  first 
faint  glimmer  of  the  real  meaning  of  God's  promise, 
all  these  thoughts  found  their  expression  in  the 
fervid  wish:  "O  that  Ishmael  might  live  before 
thee!"  (Gen  17  18).  Gradually  the  truth  dawned 
upon  the  patriarch  that  God's  thoughts  are  not  the 
thoughts  of  men,  neither  their  ways  His  ways.  But 
we  have  no  reason  to  believe  that  this  entire  changing 
of  the  mental  attitude  of  Abraham  toward  Ishmael 
reacted  unfavorably  on  his  future  treatment  of  this 
son  "born  of  the  flesh"  (cf  Gen  21  11).  If  there 
were  troubles  in  store  for  the  boy  likened  by  the 
angel  of  Jeh  to  a  wild  ass,  it  was,  in  the  main,  the 
youngster's  own  fault. 

When  Isaac  was  weaned,  Ishmael  was  about  16 

years  of  age.     The  weaning  was  made  an  occasion 

for  great  celebration.     But  it  seems  the 

3.  Banish-  pleasure  of  the  day  was  marred  by  the 
ment  objectionable    behavior    of    Ishmael. 

"And  Sarah  saw  the  son  of  Hagar  the 
Egyp  ....  mocking"  (Gen  21  9).  Her  jealous 
motherly  love  had  quickened  her  sense  of  obser- 
vation and  her  faculty  of  reading  the  character  of 
children.  We  do  not  know  exactly  what  the  word 
used  in  the  Heb  for  "mocking"  really  means.  The 
LXX  and  the  Vulg  render  the  passage:  "When 
Sarah  saw  the  sen  of  Hagar  ....  playing  with 
Isaac,"  and  St.  Paul  followed  a  later  tradition  when 
he  says:  "He  that  was  born  after  the  flesh  perse- 
cuted him  that  was  born  after  the  Spirit"  (Gal  4 
29).  Lightfoot  (in  his  notes  to  the  Ep.  to  the  Gal) 
says:  "At  all  events  the  word  seems  to  mean  mock- 
ing, jeering."  At  any  rate,  the  fact  remains  that 
Sarah  objected  to  the  bringing  up  of  the  son  of 
promise  together  with  the  "mocker,"  and  so  both 
mother  and  son  were  banished  from  the  tents  of 
Abraham. 

Now  there  came  a  most  critical  time  in  the  life  of 
young  Ishmael.  Only  some  bread  and  a  bottle  of 
water  were  "put  on  the  shoulder"  of  Hagar  by 
Abraham  when  he  expelled  her  with  her  son.  Aim- 
lessly, as  it  seems,  the  two  walked  about  in  the 
wilderness  of  Beersheba.  The  water  was  soon 
spent,  and  with  it  went  all  hope  and  energy.  The 
boy,  being  faint  with  thirst  and  tired  out  by  his 
constant  walking  in  the  fierce  heat  of  the  sun,  seemed 
to  be  dying.  So  his  mother  put  him  rapidly  down 
in  the  shade  of  some  plant.  (We  do  not  share 
the  opinion  of  some  writers  that  the  narrative  of 
Gen  21  8  ff  represented  Ishmael  as  a  little  boy 
whom  his  mother  had  carried  about  and  finally 
flung  in  the  shade  of  some  shrub.  Even  if  this 
passage  is  taken  from  a  different  source,  it  is  cer- 
tainly not  in  conflict  with  the  rest  as  to  the  age  of 
Ishmael.)  After  this  last  act  of  motherly  love — 
what  else  could  she  do  to  help  the  boy? — she  re- 
tired to  a  place  at  some  distance  and  resignedly  ex- 
pected the  death  of  her  son  and  perhaps  her  own. 

For  the  2d  time  in  her  life,  she  had  a  marvelous 
experience.  "God  heard  the  voice  of  the  lad"  and 
comforted  the  unhappy  mother  most  wonderfully. 
Through  His  angel  He  renewed  His  former  promise 
regarding  her  son,  and  then  He  showed  her  a  well  of 
water.  The  lad's  life  was  saved  and,  growing  up, 
he  became  in  time  an  archer.  He  lived  in  the 
wilderness  of  Paran  and  was  married  by  his  mother 
to  an  Egyp  wife  (Gen  21  21). 

When  Abraham  died,  his  exiled  son  returned  to 

assist  his  brother  to  bury  their  father  (Gen  25  9). 

In  the  same  chapter  we  find  the  names 

4.  His  of  Ishmael's  12  sons  (vs  12  ff)  and  a 
Children        brief  report  of  his  death  at  the  age  of 

137  years  (ver  17).  According  to  Gen 
28  9  he  also  had  a  daughter,  Mahalath,  whom  Esau 
took  for  his  wife;  in  Gen  36  3  her  name  is  given 
as  Basemath. 


Ishmael  THE 

Israel,  History  of 


INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1510 


The   charactei 
(Arabian  nomad 


5.  De- 
scendants 

him"  (Gen 
roaming  the 
dependence, 


and 

Jeh: 

men; 

man, 

16   12 

wilds 


am 


of  Ishmael  and  his  descendants 
*  or  Bedouins)  is  very  accurately 
vividly  depicted  by  the  angel  of 
"He  shall  be  as  a  wild  ass  among 
hand  shall  be  against  every 
every  man's  hand  against 
These'  nomads  are,  indeed, 
lie  desert,  jealous  of  their  in- 
quarrelsome  and  adventurous.  We 
nay  wen  think  of  their  progenitor  as  of  a  proud, 
undaunted  and  rugged  son  of  the  desert 
counterpart  of  the  poor  boy  lying 
fatigue  and  exposure  under  th< 
ness  of  Beersheba. 

•rson  and  the  history  of  Ishmael,  t  lie  son  of  Abra- 

,ni  after  the  flesh,"   is  of  special  interest    to  the 

student  of  the  N'T  because  St.  Paul  uses  him, 

in  the  K p   to  the  Gal,  as  a  type  of  t  hose  .lews 


ilf  dead   from 
shrub  in  the  wilder- 


Tht 

ham. 


6.  In  the 
NT 


•liiig  to  the  paternal  religion  in  such  a 
manner  as  to  be  unable  to  discern  t  he  tran- 
sient character  of  the  OT  institutions,  and 
psd  those  of  the  Mosaic  law.  By  doing  so  they  could  not 
be  made  to  see  the  true  meaning  of  the  law,  and  instead 
of  embracing  the  grace  of  God  as  the  only  means  of  ful- 
filling the  law,  they  most  bitterly  fought  the  central  doc- 
trine of  Christianity  and  even  persecuted  its  advocates. 
Like  Ishmael  thev  were  born  of  Hagar,  the  handmaid  or 
slave  woman;  like  him,  they  were  Abraham's  sons  only 
"after  the  flesh  "and  their  ultimate  fate  is  foreshadowed 
in  the  casting  out  of  Hagar  and  her  son.  They  could  not 
expect  to  maintain  the  connection  with  the  true  Israel 
and  even  incase  they  should  acclaim  Christ  (heir  Messiah 
they  were  not  to  be  the  leaders  of  the  church  or  tho  ex- 
pounders of  Us  teachings  (Gal  4  21  -28). 

(2)  The  son  of  Nethaniah  (Jer  40  8—41  IS;    ef 
2  K  25  2:5-2o).     It   is  a  dreary  story  of  jealousy 
and  treachery  which  Jeremiah  has  recorded  in  chs 
40,  41  of  his  book.     Alter  the  destruction  of  Jems 
and   the  deportation  of  the  better  class  of  Jewish 
citizens,  it  was  necessary  to  provide  for  some  sort, 
of  a  government  in  the  depopulated  country.    Pub- 
lie  order  had  to  be  restored  and  maintained;    the 
crops  of  the  fields  were  endangered  and  had  to  be 
taken  care  of.     It  was  thus  only  common  political 
prudence  that  dictated  to  the  king  of  Babylon  the 
setting  up  of  a  governor  for  the  remnant  of  Judah. 
He  chose  Gedaliah,  the  son  of  Ahikam,  for  the  diffi- 
cult   position.     The    new    officer   selected    for    his 
place  of  residence  the  city  of  Mizpah,  where  lie  was 
soon  joined  by  .Jeremiah.     All  the  captains  of  the 
Jewish  country  forces  came  to  Mizpah  with  their 
men  and  put  themselves  under  Gedaliah's  orders 
(Jer  40  13).     Ishmael  the  son  of  Nethaniah,  the 
son  of  Elishama  "of  the  seed  royal"   (2  K  25  25) 
was  among  their  number — all  of  which  must  have 
been  rather  gratifying  to  the  new  governor.     But 
he   was   destined    to   bo   cruelly   disappointed.     A 
traitor  was  among  the  captains  that  had  gathered 
around  him.     Yet    the  governor  might  have  pre- 
vented his  dastardly  scheme.     Johanan,  the  son  of 
Kareah,  and  other  loyal  captains  warned  him  of  the 
treachery  of  Ishmael,  telling  him  he  was  induced 
by  Baalis,  the  Ammonite  king,  to  assassinate  the 
governor.     But    the    governor's    faith    in    Ishmael 
was  not   to  be  shaken;   he  even  looked  upon  Joha- 
nan's  report   as  false  and  calumnious  (Jer  40  16). 
About    2  months  after  the  destruction  of  Jerus, 
Ishmael  was  ready  to  strike  the  mortal  blow.     With 
10  men  he  came  to  Mizpah,  and  there,  at  a  banquet 
given  in  his  honor,  he  killed  Gedaliah  and  till  the 
Jews  and  Chaldaeans  that  were  with  him.     He  suc- 
ceeded in  keeping  1  he  matter  secret,  for,  2  days  after 
the  horrible  deed,  he  persuaded  a  party  of  80  pious 
Jews  to  enter  the  city  and  killed  till  but  10  of  them, 
throwing  their  bodies  into  a  pit.     These  men  were 
coming  from  the  ruins  of  the  Temple  with  the  offer- 
ings  which    they   had    intended    to   leave   at    Jerus. 
Now  they  had  found  out,  to  their  great  distraction, 
thai    the  city  was  laid  waste  and   the  Temple  de- 
stroyed.    So  they  passed  by  Mizpah,  their  beards 
shaven,  their  clothes  rent ,  and  with  cuts  about  their 


persons  (Jer  41  5).  We  may,  indeed,  ask  indig- 
nantly, Why  this  new  atrocity?  The  answer  may 
be  found  in  the  fact  that  Ishmael  did  not  kill  all  of 
the  men.  He  spared  10  of  them  because  they 
promised  him  souk;  hidden  treasures.  This  shows 
his  motive.  He  was  a  desperate  man  and  just  then 
carrying  out  a  desperate  undertaking.  He  killed 
those  peaceful  citizens  because  of  their  money,  and 
money  he  needed  to  realize  his  plans.  They  were 
those' of  a  traitor  to  his  country,  inasmuch  as  he 
intended  to  deport  the  inhabitants  of  Mizpah  to  the 
land  of  his  high  confederate,  the  kitig  of  the  Am- 
monites. Among  the  captives  were  Jeremiah  and 
the  daughters  of  the  Jewish  king.  But  his  efforts 
came  to  naught.  When  Johanan  and  the  other 
captains  were  told  of  Ishmael's  unheard-of  actions, 
thev  immediately  pursued  the  desperate  adven- 
turer and  overtook  him  by  the  "great  waters  that 
are  in  Gibeon."  Unfortunately,  they  failed  to 
capture  Ishmael;  for  he  managed  to  escape  with 
eight  men  to  the  Ammonites.  See,  further,  Geda- 
liah. ■  ,      i  r 

(3)  V  descendant  of  Benjamin  and  the  son  ot 
Azel  (1  Ch  8  38;    cf  9  44). 

(4)  The  father  of  Zebadiah  who  was  "the  ruler 
of  t  he  house  of  Judah,  in  all  t  he  king's  [Jehoshaphat , 
2  Ch  19  8]  matters"  (2  Ch  19  11). 

(.))  The  son  of  Jehohanan,  and  a  "captain  of 
hundreds,"  who  lived  at  the  time  of  Jehoiada  and 
Joash    (2  Ch  23  1). 

((i)  One  of  the  sons  of  Pashhur  the  priest.  He 
was  one  of  those;  men  who  had  married  foreign 
women  and  were  compelled  to  "put  away  their 
wives"  (Ezr  10  22).  William  Baur 

ISHMAEL  ('Io-iJ.arfjX,  Ismail) : 

(1)  AV  "Ismael"  (Jth  2  23),  the  son  of  Abraham 

by  Hagar. 

(2)  1  Esd  9  22  (AV,RV  "Ismael"),  corresponding 
o  Ishmael  in  Ezr  10  22.     See  preceding  art. 

ISHMAELITES,  ish/ma-el-Its  (D^XTaTp. ,  yish- 
m^e'lim) :  The  supposed  descendant  s  of  Ishmael,  t  he 
son  of  Abraham  and  Hagar,  whom  Abraham  sent 
away  from  him  after  the  birth  of  Isaac  (Gen  21 
14-21).  The  sons  of  Ishmael  are  given  in  Gen  25 
13.14;  they  were  twelve  in  number  and  gave  rise 
to  as  many  tribes,  but  the  term  Ishmaelite  has  a 
broader  signification,  as  appears  from  Gen  37  28. 
36,  where  it  is  identified  with  Midianite.  From 
Gen  16  12  it  may  be  inferred  that  it  was  applied 
to  the  Bedawin  of  the  desert  region  E.  of  the  Jordan 
generally,  for  the  character  there  assigned  to  Ish- 
mael, "His  hand  shall  be  against  every  man,  and 
every  man's  hand  against  him,"  fits  the  habits  of 
Bedawin  in  all  ages.  Such  was  the  character  of  the 
Midianites  as  described  in  Jgs  7,  who  are  again 
identified  with  the  Ishmaelites  (8  24).  These  ref- 
erences show  that  the  Ishmaelites  were  not  confined 
to  the  descendants  of  the  son  of  Abraham  and 
Hagar,  but  refer  to  the  desert  tribes  in  general,  like 
"the  children  of  the  east"   (Jgs  7  12). 

II.  Porter 

ISHMAIAH,  ish-ma'ya  Qrf^tn.,  yishma'yah, 
"Jeh  is  hearing"): 

(1)  A  man  of  Gibeon,  chief  of  David's  30  great 
warriors,  who  came  to  him  at  Ziklag  (1  Ch  12  4, 
AV  "Ismaiah"). 

(2)  Chief  of  the  armed  contingent  of  the  tribe 
of  Zebulun,  which  served  David  in  the  monthly 
order  of  the  tribes  (1    Ch   27    19). 

ISHMEELITES,    ish'mc-el-Its    r'?S«?£r\    yish- 

/ir'r'll).      See     ISHMAELITES. 

ISHMERAI,  ish'me"-ri  ("HttEP  ,  yishm'ray,  from 
shdrnar,  meaning  "to  hedge  about,"  i.e.  "to  guard," 


t 


loll 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Jshmael 
Israel,  History  of 


and  therefore  a  "guard,"'  "protector"):  A  descend- 
ant of  Benjamin,  son  of  Epaal,  resident  of  Jerus, 
one  of  the  "heads  of  fathers'  houses  throughout 
their  generations,  chief  men"  (1  Ch  8  18). 

ISHOD,  I'shod,  ish'od  piHlpS,  'ish'hodh):  AV 
1  Ch  7  IS  for  Ishhod  (q.v.). 

ISHPAH,  ish'pa  (nSOi,  yishpah,  "firm," 
"strong"):  A  man  of  the  tribe  of  Benjamin,  of  the 
house  of  Beriah  (1  Ch  8  1(5). 

ISHPAN,  ish'pan  ("pip"1 ,  yishpan,  lit.  "lie  will 
hide"):  Descendant  of  Benjamin,  son  of  Shashak, 
one  of  "the  chief  men,  heads  of  fathers'  houses"; 
lived  at  Jerus  (1  Ch  8  22). 

ISH-SECHEL,  ish'so-kel  (bzV  TTX  ,  'ish  sekhel, 
"man  of  discretion"):  Ezra,  at  one  time  in  need 
of  ministers  for  the  house  of  Clod,  sent  "unto  Iddo 
the  chief  at  the  place  Casiphia."  "And  according 
to  the  good  hand  of  our  God  upon  us  they  brought 
us  a  man  of  discretion  [m  "Ish-sechel"],  of  the  sons 
of  Mahli,  the  son  of  Levi,  the  son  of  Israel"  (Ezr 
8  IS).     This  is  the  only  reference  to  Ish-sechel. 

ISH-TOB,  ish'tob  pVj  1»->X,  'ish  tobh,  ARV  "the 
men  of  Tob"):  A  place  in  Pal,  probably  a  small 
kingdom,  large  enough,  however,  to  supply  at  least 
1 2,000  men  of  valor  to  the  children  of  Amnion  in 
their  struggle  against  Joab,  David's  general  (2  S 
10  6.8).     See  Ish. 

ISHUAH,   ish'u-a,   ISUAH,  is'n-a   (rntth ,  yish- 

va/i,  lit.  "he  will  level";.  See  Ishuai;  '  Ishvah; 
Ish  vi. 

ISHUAI,  ish'u-I,  ISHUI,    ish'u-i   Clip"! ,   yishwl, 

"level";.      See  ISHVI. 

ISHVAH,  ish'va  (~)'p.,  yishwah,  "even,"  "level"; 
AV  Ishuah  and  Isuahj :  Second  son  of  Asher  (Gen 
46  17;  1  Ch  7  30).  As  only  the  families  of  his 
brothers   Ishvi,   etc,   are  mentioned   in   Nu  26  44, 

the  supposition  is  that  he  left  no  issue. 

ISHVI,  ish'vl  pltpl,  yishwl,  "equal"): 

(1)  The  third  son  of  Asher  (Gen  46  17;  1  Ch 
7  30),  and  founder  of  the  family  of  the  Ishvites  (Nu 
26  44,  AV  "Jesuit.es"),  AV  "Isui,"  "Jesui ,"  and 
"Ishui." 

(2)  The  name  is  also  found  among  the  sons  of 
Saul  (1  S  14  49),  AV  "Ishui." 

ISLAND,  i'land,  ISLE,  II  ([1]  \X  ,  '7,  "island"  or 
"isle";  ARV  has  "coast"  or  "coast -land"  in  Isa 
20  6;  23  2.6;  RVm  has  "coast -lands"  in  Gen  10 
5;  Isa  11  11;  24  15;  59  18;  Jer  25  22;  Ezk  39  6; 
Did  11  IS;  Zeph  2  11;  RVm  has  "sea-coast"  in 
Jer  47  4.      [2J  pi.  D^X  ,   'lyim,  AV  "wild  beasts  of 

the  islands,"  RV  "wolves,"  RVm  "howling  creatures" 

[Isa  13  22;  34  14;  Jer  50  39],  [3]  vt\<xlov,  nesion, 
"small  island"  [Acts  27  16].  [4]  vrjaos,  ntsos,  "island" 
[Acts  13  6;  27  26;  28  1.7.9.11;  Rev  1  9;  6  14;  16 
20]):  Except  as  noted  above,  'I  in  RV  is  trd  "isle" 
or  "island."  Arvad  (q.v.),  a  Phoen  island-city  N. 
of  Tripoli,  Syria,  is  mentioned  in  Gen  10  IS;  1  Ch 
1  16;  Ezk  27  8.11.  This  and  Tyre  were  the  only 
important  islands  on  the  coast,  both  of  them  very 
small.  We  find  references  to  Kittim  or  Chittim, 
Cyprus  (Gen  10  4;  Nu  24  24;  1  Ch  1  7;  Isa 
23  1.12;  Jer  2  10;  Ezk  27  6;  Dnl  11  30);  to 
Ehshah,  perhaps  Carthage  (Gen  10  4;  1  Ch  1  7; 
Ezk  27  7);  to  "isles  of  the  nations"  (Gen  10  5; 
Zeph  2  11);    to  "isles  of  the  sea"  (Est  10  1;    Isa 


11  11;  24  15;  Ezk  26  IS);  to  "Tarshish  and  the 
isles"  (Ps  72  10;  cf  Isa  66  19);  to  "isle  [RVm 
"sea-coast"]  of  Caphtor"  (Jer  47  4).  Communica- 
tion with  these  islands  or  distant  coasts  is  kept  up 
by  the  Tyrians  (Ezk  27  3.15).  The  Jews  were  not, 
a  maritime  people,  and  in  early  times  their  geo- 
graphical knowledge  was  very  limited.  Of  32  OT 
passages  referring  to  "island"  or  "isle,"  25  are  in 
Isa,  Jer,  and  Ezk.  In  the  NT,  besides  the  passages 
noted  above,  and  Patmos  (Rev  1  9),  various  islands 
are  mentioned  by  name  in  connection  with  the  voy- 
ages of  St.  Paul,  e.g.  Cyprus,  Crete,  Lesbos,  Samos, 
Samot brace,  Chios,  Melita,  Sicily  (Syracuse,  Acts 
28  12).  "Jackals"  is  a  perfectly  possible  tr  of 
lyim  (AV  "wild  beasts  of  the  islands,"  RV 
"wolves,"  RVm  "howling  creatures").  See  Coast- 
Gkoghaphy;    Jackal;    Wolf. 

Alfred  Ely  Day 
ISLES  OF  THE  GENTILES  (Gen  10  5):  ARV 
"isles  [m  "coast-lands"]  of  the  nations,"  said  of  the 
territories  of  the  sons  of  Japheth.  The  reference  is 
to  the  coasts  of  the  Western  Mediterranean,  with 
their  islands  (cf  "isles  of  the  sea,"  Est  10  1;  Ezk 
26  IS,  etc).     See  Table  of  Nations. 

ISMACHIAH,  is-ma-ki'a  OrPDEpi.,  yismakh- 
yahu,  "Jeh  will  sustain") :  One  "of  the  "overseers 
under  the  hand  of  Conaniah  and  Shirnei  his  brother, 
by  the  appointment  of  Hezekiah  the  king,  and 
Azariah  the  ruler  of  the  house  of  God"  (2  Oh  31  13). 

ISMAEL,  is'ma-el.     See  Ishmael. 

ISMAERUS,  is-ma-e'rus  (To-fxccnpos,  Ismderos): 
AV  "Omaerus"  (1  Esd  9  34),  corresponding  to 
Amram  in  Ezr  10  34. 

ISMAIAH,  is-ma'ya.     See  Ishmaiah. 

ISPAH,  is'pa.     See  Ishpah. 

ISRAEL,  iz'ra-el.     See  Jacob. 

ISRAEL,  HISTORY  OF  THE  PEOPLE: 

I  INTRODUCTORY 

1.  Sources 

(1)  The  OT 

(2)  Josephus 

(3)  The  Monuments 

2.  Religious  Character  of  the  History 

I.     Origins  of  Israel  in  Pre-Mosaic  Times 

1.  Original  Home 

2.  Ethnographical  Origin 

3.  Patriarchal  Origins  and  History 

(1)  Patriarchal  Conditions— Gen  14 

(2)  Ideas  of  God 

(3)  Descent  into  Egypt 
II.     Nationality    under  Moses 

1.  Israel  in  Egypt 

(1)  Chronology 

(2)  Moses 

2.  Historical  Character  of  the  Exodus 

(1)  Egyptian  Version  of  the  Exodus 

(2)  Geographical  Mattel's 

(3)  The  Wilderness  Sojourn 

(4)  Entrance  into  Canaan 
III.     Period   of  the  Judges 

1.  General  Character  of  Period 

2.  The  Different  Judges 

3.  Chronology  of  the  Period 

4.  Loose  Organization  of  the  People 
I\.     The   Kingdom:    Israel   Judah 

1.  Samuel 

2.  The  Kingdom  of  Saul 

3.  David 

4.  Solomon 

5.  Division  of  the  Kingdom 

6.  Sources  of  the  History  of  the  Kingdom 

7.  Chronological  Matters 

V.     Period   of  the   Separated    Kingdoms 

1.  Contrasts  and  Vicissitudes  of  the  Kingdoms 

2.  The  Successive  Reigns— Jeroboam   I,  etc 

3.  The  Literary  Prophets 

VI.     Time  of  the  Babylonian  Exile 

1.  Influence  of  the  Exile 

2.  Daniel 

3.  Elephantine  Papyri 


,„«,,  His,o,y  o,  THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1512 


VII       Return  from  the  Exile  am.  the  Restoration 
1.    Career  of  Cyrus 
■'     |."irst    Return  under  /erubbabel 
ill    Building  of  the  Temple 
(2)    Hagtfai  and  Xeehanah 
3.    Kzra  and  Neheiniah 

Malachi  ITlu    qTI„ 

VIII.     The    Jews    under     Alexander     and    His    Suc- 

1.   Spread  of  Hellenism 
■>.   The  Hasmoneans 
:\.    Herod 
IX.      The    Romans 

1     Division  of  Territory 

'•    Destruction  of  Jerusalem   by  the   Romans 

Later  Insurrection  of  Uar-Coeliba 
:?.    Spiritual   Life  of  Period 
Appearance  of  Jesus  (  hnst 
Liter  \tike 

Introductory.  -The  chief  and  best  source,  from 
which  we  can  learn  who  litis  people  was  and  what 
was  its  history  is  the  Bible  it  sell,  esp. 
1   Sources     the  OT,  which  tells  us  the  story  of  this 
people  from  its  earliest  beginnings. 
(1)  In  theOT  — The  origins  of  Israel  are  narrated 
in  Geir   the  establishment  of  the  theocracy,  in  the 
other  books  of  the  Pent ;   the  entrance  into  Canaan, 
in  the  Hook  of  Josh;  the  period  preceding  the  kings, 
in  the  Book  of  Jgs;  the  establishment  of  themon- 
archy  and  its  development,  in  the  Books  of  b,  and 
the  opening  chapters  of  the  Books  of  K,  which  latter 
report  also  the  division  into  two  kingdoms  and  the 
history  of  these  down  to  their  overthrow.     The 
Books  of  Ch  contain,  ||  with  the  books  already  men- 
tioned, a  survey  of  the  historical  development  from 
idarn  down  to  the  Bab  captivity,  but  confine  this 
account   to  the  theocratical  center  of  this  history 
and  its  sphere.     Connected  with  Ch  are  found  the 
small  Books  of  Ezr  and  Neh,  which  probably  origi- 
nally constituted  a  part  of  Ch,  but  which  pass  over 
the  "Exile  and  begin  at  once  with  the  story  of  the 
Return.     Then,  too,  these  two  books  contain  only 
certain  episodes  in  the  history  of  the  Return,  which 
were  of  importance  for  the  restoration  of  the  Jewish 
theocracy,  so  that  the  story  found  in  them  is  any- 
thing but  complete.     With  the  5th  cent.  BC  the 
Bib.  narrative  closes  entirely.     For  the  succeeding 
centuries  we  have  nothing  but  some  scattered  data; 
hut   for  the  2d  pre-Christian  cent,  we  have  a  new 
source  in  the  Books  of  the  Mace,  which  give  a  con- 
nected account  of  the  struggles  and  the  rule  of  the 
\snioneans,  which  reach,  however,  only  from  174 
to  135  BC. 

The  historical  value  of  the  OT  books  is  all  the 
greater  the  nearer  the  narrator  or  his  sources  stand 
in  point  of  time  to  the  events  that  are  recorded; 
e.g.  the  contents  of  the  Books  of  K  have  in  general 
greater  value  as  historical  sources  than  what  is 
reported  in  the  Books  of  Ch,  written  at  a  much  later 
period.  Yet  it  is  possible  that  a  later  chronicler 
could  have  made  use  of  old  sources  which  earlier 
narrators  had  failed  to  employ.  This  is  the  actual 
state  of  affairs  in  connection  with  a  considerable 
number  of  matters  reported  by  the  Bib.  chroniclers, 
which  supplement  the  exceedingly  meager  extracts 
furnished  by  the  author  of  the  Books  of  K.  Then, 
further,  the  books  of  the  prophets  possess  an  ex- 
traordinary value  as  historical  sources  for  the  special 
reason  that  they  furnish  illustrations  of  the  histori- 
cal situation  and  events  from  the  lips  of  contempora- 
ries. As  an  example  we  can  refer  to  the  externally 
flourishing  condition  of  the  kingdom  of  Judah  under 
King  Uzziah,  concerning  which  the  Books  of  K  report 
practically  nothing,  but  of  which  Ch  give  (let ails 
which  are  confirmed  by  the  testimony  of  Isaiah. 

(2)  Josephus. — A  connected  account  of  the  his- 
tory of  Israel  has  been  furnished  by  Flavins  Jose- 
phus. His  work  entitled  Jewish  Antiquities,  how- 
ever, as  far  as  trustworthiness  is  concerned,  is  again 
considerably  inferior  to  the  Books  of  Ch,  since  the 
later  traditions  of  the  Jews  to  a  still  greater  extent 


influenced  his  account.  Only  m  those  cases  in 
which  he  could  make  use  of  foreign  older  sources, 
such  as  the  Egyp  Manet  ho  or  l'hoen  authors,  does 
he  furnish  us  wit  h  valuable  material.  Then  for  the 
last  few  centuries  preceding  his  age,  he  fills  out  a 
certain  want .  Esp.  is  he  the  best  authority  for  the 
events  which  he  himself  passed  through  and  which 
he  reports  in  his  work  on  the  Jewish  \\  ars,  even  if 
he  is  not  free  from  certain  personal  prejudices 
(see  Josephus,  Flavius).  For  the  customs  and 
usages  of  the  later  Jewish  times  the  traditions  de- 
posit ed  in  t  he  Talm  an;  also  to  be  considered.  Much 
less  than  to  Jos  can  any  historical  value  be  credited 
to  the  Alexandrian  Jew,  Philo.  The  foreign  authors, 
eg.  the  Gr  and  the  Lat  historians,  contain  data 
only  for  the  story  of  the  nations  surrounding  Israel, 
but  not  for  1  he  early  history  of  Israel  it  self. 

(3)  The  Monuments.— On  the  other  hand,  the 
early  history  of  Israel  has  been  wonderfully  en- 
riched in  recent  times  through  the  testimonies  of 
the  monument  s.  In  Pal  itself  the  finds  in  historical 
data  and  monuments  have  been,  up  to  the  present 
time,  rather  meager.  Yet  the  excavations  on  the 
sites' of  ancient  Taanach,  Megiddo,  Jericho,  Gezer 
and  Samaria  have  brought  important  material  to 
light  and  we  have  reasons  to  look  for  f urt  her  archae- 
ological and  literary  finds,  which  may  throw  a  clear 
light  on  many  points  that  have  remained  dark  and 
uncertain.  Also  in  lands  round  about  Pal,  impor- 
tant documents  (the  Moabite  Stone;  Phoen  inscrip- 
tions) have  already  been  found.  Esp.  have  the 
discovery  and  interpretation  of  the  monuments 
found  in  Egypt ,  Assyria  and  Babylonia  very  materi- 
ally advanced  our  knowledge  of  the  history  ot  Israel. 
Not  only  has  the  connection  of  the  history  of  this 
people  with  universal  history  been  clearly  illumi- 
nated by  these  finds,  but  the  history  of  Israel  itself 
has  gained  in  tangible  reality.  In  some  detail 
matters,  traditional  ideas  have  given  way  to  clearer 
conceptions;  e.g.  the  chronology  of  the  01 ,  through 
Assyriological  research,  has  been  set  on  a  safer 
foundat  ion.  But  till  in  all,  t  hese  archaeological  dis- 
coveries have  confirmed  the  confidence  that  has 
been  placed  in  the  Bib.  historical  sources. 

It  is  true  that  the  rules  applied  to  profane  history 
cannot,  without  modification,  be  applied  to  the  his- 
torical writings  of  the  Hebrews,  the 
2.  Religious  Bib.  narrators  are  concerned  about 
Character  something  more  than  the  preservation 
of  the  of  historical  facts  and  data.     Just  as 

History  lit  t  le  is  it  their  purpose  to  glorify  their 

people  or  their  rulers,  as  this  is  done 
on  the  memorial  tablets  of  the  Egyp,  the  Assyr, 
and  the  Bab  kiims.  Looked  at  merely  from  the 
standpoint  of  profane  history,  there  are  many  omis- 
sions in  the  OT  historical  books  that  are  found 
objectionable.  Somet  imes  whole  periods  are  passed 
over  or  treated  very  briefly.  Then,  too,  the  political 
pragmatism,  the  secular  connection  in  the  move- 
ments of  the  nat  ions  and  historical  events,  are  often 
scarcely  mentioned.  The  standpoint  of  the  writer 
is  the  religious.  This  appears  in  the  fact  that  this 
history  begins  with  the  creation  of  the  world  and 
reports  primitive  traditions  concerning  the  origin 
of  mankind  and  their  earliest  history  in  the  light  of 
the  revelation  of  the  God  of  Israel,  and  that  it 
makes  this  nat  ional  history  a  member  in  the  general 
historical  development  of  mankind.  Nor  was  this 
first  done  by  the  author  of  the  Pent  in  its  present 
shape.  Already  the  different  documentary  sources 
found  combined  in  the  Pent,  namely  E,  J  and  P, 
depict  the  history  of  Israel  according  to  the  plan 
which  the  Creator  of  the  world  had  with  this  people. 
Also,  when  they  narrate  the  national  vicissitudes 
of  Israel,  the  writers  are  concerned  chiefly  to  exhibit 
clearly  the  providential  guidance  of  God.  They 
give  special  prominence  to  those  events  in  which 


1513 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Israel,  History  of 


the  hand  of  God  manifests  itself,  and  describe  with 
full  detail  the  lives  of  those  agents  of  whom  Jeh 
made  use  in  order  to  guide  His  people,  such  as 
Moses,  Samuel,  David,  Solomon  and  others.  But 
it  is  not  the  glory  of  these  men  themselves  that 
the  writers  aim  to  describe,  but  rather  their  im- 
portance for  the  spiritual  and  religious  greatness  of 
Israel.  Let  us  note  in  this  connection  only  the 
extreme  brevity  with  which  the  politically  success- 
ful wars  of  David  are  reported  in  2  S ;  and  how  f rag- 
mentary  are  the  notices  in  which  the  author  of  the 
Books  of  K  reports  the  reigns  of  the  different  kings; 
and  how  briefly  he  refers  for  all  the  other  details 
of  these  kings  to  books  that,  unfortunately,  have 
been  lost  for  us.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  how  full 
are  the  details  when  the  Bible  gives  us  its  account 
of  the  early  history  of  a  Samuel  or  of  a  David,  in 
which  the  providential  guidance  and  protection  of 
Jeh  appear  in  such  a  tangible  form;  or  when  it 
describes  the  building  of  the  temple  by  Solomon, 
so  epoch-making  for  the  religious  history  of  Israel, 
or  the  activity  of  such  leading  prophets  as  Elijah 
and  Elisha.  Much  less  the  deeds  of  man  than  the 
deeds  of  God  in  the  midst  of  His  people  constitute 
the  theme  of  the  narrators.  These  facts  explain,  too, 
the  phenomenal  impartiality,  otherwise  unknown  in 
ancient  literatures,  with  which  the  weaknesses  and 
the  faults  of  the  ancestors  and  kings  of  Israel  are 
reported  by  the  Bib.  writers,  even  in  the  case  of  their 
most  revered  kings,  or  with  which  even  the  most  dis- 
graceful defeats  of  the  people  are  narrated. 

It  cannot  indeed  be  denied  that  this  religious  and 
fundamental  characteristic  is  not  found  to  the  same 
degree  in  all  the  books  and  sources.  The  oldest 
narratives  concerning  Jacob,  Joseph,  the  Judges, 
David  and  others  reveal  a  naive  and  childlike  natur- 
alness, while  in  the  Books  of  Ch  only  those  things 
have  been  admitted  which  are  in  harmony  with  the 
regular  cult  us.  The  stories  of  a  Samson,  Jeph- 
thah,  Abimelech,  Barak,  and  others  impress  us 
often  as  the  myths  or  stories  of  old  heroes,  such  as 
we  find  in  the  traditions  of  other  nations.  But  the 
author  of  the  Book  of  Jgs,  who  wrote  the  introduc- 
tion to  the  work,  describes  the  whole  story  from  the 
standpoint  of  edification.  And  when  closely  ex- 
amined, it  is  found  that  the  religious  element  is  not 
lacking,  even  in  the  primitive  and  naive  OT  narra- 
tive. This  factor  was,  from  the  outset,  a  unique 
characteristic  of  the  people  and  its  history.  To  this 
factor  Israel  owed  its  individuality  and  existence 
as  a  separate  people  among  the  nations.  But  in 
course  of  time  it  became  more  and  more  conscious 
of  its  mission  of  being  the  people  of  Jeh  on  earth, 
and  it  learned  to  understand  its  entire  history 
from  this  viewpoint.  Accordingly,  any  account  of 
Israel's  history  must  pay  special  attention  to  its 
religious  development.  For  the  significance  of  this 
history  lies  for  us  in  this,  that  it  constitutes  the 
preparation  for  the  highest  revelation  in  Christ 
Jesus.  In  its  innermost  heart  and  kernel  it  is  the 
history  of  the  redemption  of  mankind.  This  it  is 
that  gives  to  this  history  its  phenomenal  character. 
The  persons  and  the  events  that  constitute  this 
history  must  not  be  measured  by  the  standards  of 
everyday  life.  If  in  this  history  we  find  the  provi- 
dential activities  of  the  living  God  operative  in  a 
unique  way,  this  need  not  strike  us  as  strange,  since 
also  the  full  fruit  of  this  historical  development, 
namely  the  appearance  of  Jesus  Christ,  transcends 
by  far  the  ordinary  course  of  human  history.  On 
the  other  hand,  this  history  of  Israel  is  not  to  be 
regarded  as  a  purely  isolated  factor.  Modern  re- 
searches have  shown  how  intimately  this  history 
was  interwoven  with  that  of  ot  her  nations.  Already, 
between  the  religious  forms  of  the  OT  and  those  of 
other  Sem  peoples,  there  have  been  found  many 
relations.     Religious    expressions    and    forms    of 


worship  among  the  Israelites  often  show  in  lan- 
guage and  in  cultus  a  similarity  to  those  of  the  an- 
cient Canaanites,  the  Phoenicians,  the  Syrians,  the 
Babylonians,  and  the  Egyptians.  But  it  is  a  mis- 
take to  believe  that  the  history  and  the  religion  of 
Israel  are  merely  an  offspring  of  the  Bab.  As  the 
Israelites  clung  tenaciously  to  their  national  life, 
even  when  they  were  surrounded  by  powerful 
nations,  or  were  even  scattered  among  these  na- 
tions, as  in  the  Exile,  thus  too  their  religion,  at 
least  in  its  official  representatives,  has  been  able  at 
all  times  to  preserve  a  very  high  originality  and 
independence  under  the  influence  of  the  Divine 
Spirit,  who  had  filled  it. 

/.    Origins  of  Israel  in  Pre -Mosaic  Times. — The 

Israelites  knew  at  all  times  that  Canaan  was  not 

their   original   home,    but   that    their 

1.  Original  ancestors  had  immigrated  into  this 
Home  land.     What    was    their    earlier    and 

earliest  home?  Tradition  states  that 
they  immigrated  from  Haran  in  the  upper  Eu- 
phrates valley.  But  it  is  claimed  that  they  came 
to  Haran  from  Ur  of  the  Chaldecs,  i.e.  from  a  city 
in  Southern  Babylonia,  now  called  Mugheir.  This 
city  of  Ur,  now  well  known  from  Bab  inscriptions, 
was  certainly  not  the  original  home  of  the  ancestors 
of  Israel.  They  rather  belonged  to  a  purely  Sem 
tribe,  which  had  found  its  way  from  Northern 
Arabia  into  these  districts.  A  striking  confirma- 
tion of  this  view  is  found  in  a  mural  picture  on  the 
rock-tombs  of  Benihassan  in  Upper  Egypt.  The 
foreigners,  of  whom  pictures  are  here  given  (from 
the  time  of  the  Xllth  Dynasty),  called  Amu, 
namely  Bedouins  from  Northern  Arabia  or  from 
the  Sinai  peninsula,  show  such  indisputable  Jewish 
physiognomies  that  they  must  have  been  closely 
related  to  the  stock  of  Abraham.  Then,  too,  the 
leader  of  the  caravan,  Ebsha'a  (Abishua),  has  a  name 
formed  just  like  that  of  Abraham.  When,  in  later 
times,  Moses  fled  to  the  country  of  the  Midianites, 
he  doubtless  was  welcomed  by  such  tribal  relatives. 
The  Israelites  at  all  times  laid  stress  on  their 
ethnographical    connection    with     other     nations. 

They  knew  that  they  were  intimately 

2.  Ethno-  related  to  a  group  of  peoples  who  have 
graphical  the  name  of  Hebrews.  But  they 
Origin  traced  their  origin  still  farther  back 

to  the  tribal  founder,  Shem.  Lin- 
guistics and  ethnology  confirm,  in  general,  the  closer 
connection  between  the  Sem  tribes  mentioned  in 
Gen  10  21  ff.  Undeniable  is  this  connection  in  the 
cases  of  Assur,  Aram,  and  the  different  Arabian 
tribes.  A  narrower  group  of  Semites  is  called 
Hebrews.  This  term  is  used  in  Gen  in  a  wider  sense 
of  the  word  than  is  the  case  in  later  times,  when  it 
was  employed  as  a  synonym  for  Israel.  According 
to  its  etymology,  the  word  signified  "those  beyond," 
those  who  live  on  the  other  side  of  the  river  or  have 
come  over  from  the  other  side.  The  river  meant  is 
not  the  Jordan,  but  the  Euphrates.  About  the 
same  time  that  the  ancestors  of  Israel  were  immi- 
grating into  Canaan  and  Egypt,  other  tribes  also 
emigrated  westward  and  were  called,  by  the  Ca- 
naanites and  by  the  Egyptians,  Hbhrlm.  This  term 
is  identical  with  Habiri,  found  in  the  Am  Tab,  in 
which  complaint  is  made  about  the  inroads  of  such 
tribes.  The  Israelites  cannot  have  been  meant 
here,  but  related  tribes  are.  Possibly  the  Egyp 
Apriu  is  the  same  word. 

The  Israelites  declared  that  they  were  descended  from 
a  particular  family.     On  account  of  the  patriarchal  char- 
acter of  their  old   tribal  life,   it  is  not  a 

3.  Patri-  matter  of  doubt  that,  as  a  fact,  the  tribe 
nrrhfll  did  grow  out  of  a  single  family.  The  tri- 
|r  .  .  ,  bal  father,  Abraham,  was  without  a  doubt 
Origins  and  the  head  of  the  small  tribe,  which  through 
History  its  large  family  of  children  developed  into 

different  tribes.  Only  we  must  not  forget 
that  such  a  tribe  could  rapidly  be  enlarged  by  receiving 


Israel.  History  of  Til H   INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1514 


into  it  also  serfs  and  clients  (of  (Son  14  14).  Those  last- 
mentioned  also  regarded  the  liead  of  the  tribe  as  their 
father  and  considered  themselves  as  his  "sons."  without 
really  being  his  descendants.  Possibly  the  tribe  that 
immigrated  llrst  to  llai'an  and  from  there  to  Canaan 
was  already  more  numerous  than  would  seem  to  be  the 
case  according  to  tradition,  which  takes  into  considera- 
tion only  the  leading  personalities.  Secondly,  wo  must 
remember  that  the  Israelites,  because  of  their  patriarchal 
life,  had  become  accustomed  to  clothe  all  the  relations  of 
nations  to  nations  in  the  scheme  of  the  family.  In  this 
way  such  genealogies  of  nations  as  are  found  in  (Sen  10 
and  11  originated.  Here  peoples,  cities  and  countries  have 
also  been  placed  in  the  genealogies,  without  the  author 
himself  thinking  of  individual  persons  in  this  connection, 
who  had  borne  the  names,  e.g.  of  Mizraim  (Egypt), 
Cash  (Ethiopia),  etc,  and  were  actually  sons  of  Ham. 
The  purpose  of  the  genealogy  in  this  form  is  to  express 
only  the  closer  or  more  remote  relationship  or  connection 
to  a  group  of  nations.  (Sen  25  1  ff  also  is  a  telling 
example,  showing  how  independently  these  groups  are 
united.  A  new-  wife  (Koturah)  does  not  at  this  place 
lit  into  the  family  history  of  Abraham.  Rut  the  writer 
still  wants  to  make  mention  of  an  Arabian  group,  which 
was  also  related  to  Israel  by  blood,  but  in  fact  stood 
more  distant  from  the  Israelites  than  did  the  [shmaelites. 
Out  of  this  systematic  further  development  of  the  living 
tradition,  however,  one  difficulty  arises.  It  is  not  in  all 
places  easy,  indeed  not  always  possible,  to  draw  the 
line  between  what  is  reliable  tradition  and  what  is  a  freer 
continuation.  Hut  it  is  a  misinterpretation  of  the  his- 
torical situation,  when  the  entire  history  of  the  patri- 
archs is  declared  to  be  incredible,  and  when  in  such 
sharply  defined  personalities  as  Abraham,  Jacob,  Joseph, 
and  others,  only  personifications  of  tribes  are  found,  the 
later  history  of  which  tribes  is  said  to  be  embodied  in  the 
lives  of  these  men;  e.g.  the  name  Abraham  cannot 
have  been  the  impersonal  name  of  a  tribe  or  of  a  god.  It 
is  found  its  the  name  of  a  person  on  old  Bab  tablets  (Abu 
ra  m  u  I :  but  originally  in  the  nomadic  tribe  was  doubtless 
pronounced  'dbhl  ram.  i.e.  "My  father  [God]  is  exalted." 
The  same  is  true  of  the  name  Jacob  (really  Jakob-el); 
cf  Joseph  (Joseph-el),  Ishmael,  and  others,  which  find 
their  analogies  in  old  Arabian  names. 

(1)  Patriarchal  conditions — Gen  14. — Further,  the 
conditions  of  life  which  are  presupposed  in  the 
history  of  1  lie  Patriarchs  are  in  perfect  agreement 
with  those  which  from  the  Am  Tab  we  learn  existed 
in  Canaan.  While  formerly  it  was  maintained 
that  it  would  have  been  impossible  for  a  single  tribe 
to  force  its  way  into  Canaan  at  that  time  when  the 
country  was  thickly  populated,  it  is  now  known 
that  at  thai  very  time  when  the  ancestors  of  the 
Israelites  entered,  similar  tribes  also  found  their 
way  into  the  laud,  sometimes  in  a  peaceable  way, 
sometimes  by  force.  Egypt  for  the  time  being  had 
control  of  the  land,  but  its  supremacy  was  at  no 
place  very  strong.  And  the  Hbhrlm,  as  did  others 
who  forced  their  way  into  the  country,  caused  the 
inhabitants  much  trouble.  Esp.  does  Gen  14,  the 
only  episode  in  which  a  piece  of  universal  history 
finds  its  way  into  the  story  of  the  tribal  ancestors, 
I  urn  out  to  bo  a  document  of  great  value,  which 
reflects  beautifully  the  condition  of  affairs  in  Asia- 
Such  expeditions  for  conquest  in  the  direction  of 
the  Mediterranean  lands  were  undertaken  at  an 
early  period  by  Bab  rulers,  Sargon  I  of  Akkad  and 
his  son  Naram  Sin.  The  latter  undertook  an  expe- 
dition to  the  land  of  Magan  along  the  exact  way  of 
the  expedition  described  in  Gen  14,  this  taking 
place  in  the  days  of  Amraphel,  i.e.  Hammurabi. 
The  fact  that  the  latter  was  himself  under  an  Ela- 
mitic  superior  is  in  perfect  agreement  with  the  story 
of  the  inscriptions,  according  to  which  the  famous 
Hammurabi  of  Babylon  had  first  freed  himself 
from  the  supremacy  of  Elam.  The  fact  that  Ham- 
murabi, according  to  accepted  chronology,  ruled 
shortly  after  the  year  2000  BC,  is  also  in  agreement 
with  Bib.  chronology,  which  places  Abraham  in 
this  very  time.  These  expeditions  into  the  country 
Martu,  as  the  Babylonians  call  Syria,  had  for  their 
purpose  chiefly  to  secure  booty  and  to  levy  tribute. 
That  the  allied  kings  themselves  took  part  in  this 
expedition  is  not  probable.  These  were  punitive 
expeditions  undertaken  with  a  small  force. 

This  ch  14  of  (Sen  seems  to  be  a  translation  of  an  old 
cuneiform  tablet.  As  a  rule  the  stories  of  the  patri- 
archal age  for  a  long  time  were  handed  down  orally,  and 


naturally  were  modified  to  a  certain  extent.  Then,  too, 
scholars  have  long  since  discovered  different  sources,  out 
of  which  the  story  in  its  present  form  has  been  compiled. 
This  fact  explains  some  irregularities  in  the  story:  e.g. 
the  chronological  data  of  the  document  P,  which  ar- 
ranges its  contents  systematically,  do  not  always  har- 
monize with  the  order  of  events  as  reported  by  the  other 
two  leading  documents,  E  and  J.  the  first  of  which  is  per- 
haps the  Ephraimitic  and  the  second  the  Judaic  version 
of  the  story.  Hut.  under  all  circumstances,  much  greater 
than  the  difference  are  the  agreements  of  tiie  sources. 
They  contain  the  same  picture  of  this  period,  which 
certainly  has  not  been  modified  to  glorify  the  partici- 
pants. It  is  easily  seen  that  the  situation  of  the  fathers, 
when  they  were  stranger's  in  the  land,  was  anything  but 
comfortable.  A  poetical  or  perfectly  fictitious  popular 
account  would  have  told  altogether  different  deeds  of 
heroism  of  the  founder  of  the  people.  The  weaknesses 
and  the  fatdts  of  the  fathers  and  mothers  in  the  patri- 
archal families  are  not  passed  over  in  silence.  Hut  the 
fact  that  Jell,  whom  they  trusted  at  all  times,  helped 
them  through  and  did  not  suffer  them  to  be  destroyed, 
but  in  them  laid  the  foundation  for  the  future  of  His 
people,  is  the  golden  cord  that  runs  through  the  whole 
history.  And  in  this  the  difference  between  the  indi- 
vidual characters  finds  a  sharp  expression;  e.g.  Abra- 
ham's magnanimity  and  tender  feeling  of  honor  in  refer- 
ence' to  his  advantage  in  worldly  matters  find  their  ex- 
pression in  narratives  which  are  ascribed  to  altogether 
different  sources,  as  Gen  13  8  ff  (J);  14  22  ff  (special 
source):  23  7  ff  (P).  In  what  an  altogether  different 
way  Jacob  insists  upon  his  advantage!  This  consist- 
ency in  the  way  in  which  the  different  characters  are 
portrayed  must  awaken  confidence  in  the  historical 
character  of  the  narratives.  Then,  too,  the  harmony 
with  Hgyp  manners  and  customs  in  the  story  of  Joseph, 
even  in  its  minutest  details,  as  these  have  been  empha- 
sized particularly  by  the  Egyptologist  Ebers,  speaks  for 
this  historical  trustworthiness. 

(2)  Ideas  of  God. — Further,  the  conception  of  God 
as  held  by  these  fathers  was  still  of  a  primitive  char- 
acter, but  it  contains  the  elements  of  the  later  re- 
ligious development  (see  Israel,  Religion  of). 

(3)  Descent  into  Egypt. — During  a  long  period  of 
famine  the  sons  of  Jacob,  through  Divine  provi- 
dence, which  made  use  of  Joseph  as  an  instrument, 
found  refuge  in  Egypt,  in  the  marshes  of  which 
country  along  the  lower  Nile  Sem  tribes  had  not 
seldom  had  their  temporary  abodes.  The  land  of 
Goshen  in  the  N.E.  part  of  the  Delta,  Ed.  Naville 
( The  Shrine  of  Saft-el-Hennehand  the  Land  of  Goshi  n, 
London,  1887)  has  shown  to  be  the  region  about 
Phakusa  (Saft-el-Henneh).  These  regions  had  at 
that  time  not  yet  been  made  a  part  of  the  strictly 
organized  and  governed  country  of  Egypt,  and 
could  accordingly  still  be  left  to  such  nomadic 
tribes.  For  the  sons  of  Jacob  were  still  wandering 
shepherds,  even  if  they  did,  here  and  there,  after 
the  manner  of  such  tribes,  change  to  agricultural 
pursuits  (Gen  26  12).  If,  as  is  probable,  at  that 
time  a  dynasty  of  Sem  Hyksos  was  ruling  in  lower 
Egypt,  it  is  all  the  more  easily  understood  that 
kindred  tribes  of  this  character  were  fond  of  settling 
along  these  border  districts.  On  account  of  the 
fertility  of  the  amply  watered  districts,  men  and 
animals  could  increase  rapidly,  and  the  virile  tribe 
could,  in  the  course  of  a  few  centuries,  grow  into  a 
powerful  nation.  One  port  ion  of  the  tribes  pastured 
their  flocks  back  and  forth  on  the  prairies;  another 
builded  houses  for  themselves  among  the  Egyptians 
and  engaged  in  agricultural  pursuits  and  in  garden- 
ing (Nu  11  5).  Egyp  arts  and  trades  also  found 
their  way  among  this  people,  as  also  doubtless  the 
art  of  writing,  at  least  in  the  case  of  certain  indi- 
viduals. In  this  way  their  sojourning  in  this 
country  became  a  fruitful  factor  in  the  education 
of  the  people.  This  stay  explains  in  part  the  fact 
that  the  Israelites  at  all  times  were  more  receptive 
of  culture  and  were  more  capable  than  their  kins- 
men, the  Edomites,  Ammonites  and  Moabites,  and 
others  in  this  respect.  Moses,  like  Joseph,  had 
learned  all  the  mysteries  of  Egyp  wisdom.  On 
the  other  hand,  the  sojourn  in  this  old,  civilized 
country  was  a  danger  to  the  religion  of  the  people 
of  Israel.  According  to  the  testimony  of  Josh  24 
14;     Ezk  20  7  ff;     23  8.19,    they    adopted    many 


1515 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Israel,  History  of 


heathen  customs  from  their  neighbors.  It  was 
salutary  for  them,  that  the  memory  of  this  sojourn 
was  embittered  for  them  by  hard  oppression. 

//.  Nationality  under  Moses. — It  is  reported  in 
Ex  1  S  that  a  new  Pharaoh  ascended  the  throne, 
who  knew  nothing  of  Joseph.  This 
1.  Israel  doubtless  means  that  a  new  dynasty 
in  Egypt  came  into  power,  which  adopted  a  new 
policy  in  the  treatment  of  the  Sem 
neighbors.  The  expulsion  of  the  Hyksos  had  pre- 
ceded this,  and  the  opposition  to  the  Semitics  had 
become  more  acute.  The  new  government  devel- 
oped a  strong  tendency  to  expansion  in  tin;  direct  ion 
of  the  N.E.  Under  these  circumstances  it  is  not  sur- 
prising that  the  laws  of  the  empire  were  vigorously 
enforced  in  these  border  districts  and  that  an  end 
was  made  to  t  he  libert  ies  of  the  unwelcome  shepherd 
tribes.  This  led  to  constantly  increasing  measures  of 
severity.  In  this  way  the  people  became  more  and 
more  unhappy  and  finally  were  forced  to  emigrate. 

(1)  Chronology. — It  is  still  the  current  convic- 
tion that  the  Pharaoh  of  the  oppression  was 
Barneses  II,  a  king  who  was  extraordinarily  am- 
bitious of  building,  whose  long  reign  is  by  Eduard 
Meyer  placed  as  late  as  1310  to  1244  BC.  His 
son  Merenptah  would  then  be  the  Pharaoh  of  the 
Exodus.  But  on  this  supposition,  Bib.  chronology 
not  only  becomes  involved  in  serious  difficulties, 
since  then  the  time  of  the  Judges  must  be  cut  down 
to  unduly  small  proportions,  but  certain  definite 
data  also  speak  in  favor  of  an  earlier  date  for  the 
Exodus  of  Israel.  Merenptah  boasts  in  an  inscrip- 
tion that  on  an  expedition  to  Syria  he  destroyed  the 
men  of  Israel  (which  name  occurs  here  for  the  first 
time  on  an  Egyp  monument).  And  even  the  father 
of  Rameses  II,  namely  Seti,  mentions  Asher  among 
those  whom  he  conquered  in  Northern  Pal,  that  is, 
in  the  district  afterward  occupied  by  this  tribe. 
These  data  justify  the  view  that  the  Exodus  already 
look  place  in  the  time  of  the  XVIIIth  Dynasty, 
a  thing  in  itself  probable,  since  the  energetic  rulers 
of  this  dynasty  naturally  have  inaugurated  a  new 
method  of  treating  this  province.  The  oppression 
of  Israel  would  then,  perhaps,  be  the  work  of  Thot  li- 
mes III  (according  to  Meyer,  1501-1447  BC),  and 
the  Exodus  would  take  place  under  his  successor, 
Amenophis  II.  In  harmony  with  this  is  the  claim 
of  Manetho,  who  declares  that  the  "Lepers,"  in 
whom  we  recognize  the  Israelites  (see  below),  were 
expelled  by  King  Amenophis. 

The  length  of  the  sojourn  of  the  Israelites  in 
Egypt,  according  to  Gen  15  13  (P),  was  in  round 
numbers  400  years;  more  exactly,  according  to  Ex 
12  40  f  (P),  430  years.  But  the  last-mentioned 
passage  in  LNX  reads,  "the  sojourn  of  the  sons  of 
Jacob,  when  they  lived  in  Egypt  and  in  the  land  of 
Canaan."  (The  same  reading  is  found  in  the  Sam 
text,  only  that  the  land  of  Canaan  precedes  that  of 
Egypt.)  Since1,  according  to  this  source  (P),  the 
Patriarchs  lived  215  years  in  Canaan,  the  sojourn  in 
Egypt  would  be  reduced  also  215  years.  This  is  the 
way  in  which  the  synagogue  reckons  (cf  Gal  3  17), 
as  also  Jos  (Ant,  II,  xv,  2).  In  favor  of  this  shorter 
period  appeal  is  made  to  the  genealogical  lists,  which, 
however,  because  they  are  incomplete,  cannot  decide 
the  matter.  In  favor  of  a  longer  duration  of  this 
sojourn  we  can  appeal,  not  only  to  Gen  16  13  (LXX 
has  the  same!),  but  also  to  the  large  number  of  those 
who  left  Egypt  according  to  Nu  1  and  26  (P),  even 
if  t  he  number  of  600,000  men  there  ment  ioned,  which 
would  presuppose  a  nation  of  about  two  million  souls, 
is  based  on  a  later  calculation  and  gives  us  an  impos- 
sible conception  of  the  Exodus. 

(2)  Moses. — While  no  account  has  been  preserved 
concerning  the  sojourn  of  the  Israelites  in  Egypt, 
the  history  of  the  Exodus  itself,  which  signifies  the 
birth  of  Israel  as  a  nation,  is  fully  reported.     In  this 


crisis  Moses  is  the  prophetical  mediator  through 
whom  the  wonderful  deed  of  God  is  accomplished. 
All  the  deeds  of  God,  when  interpreted  by  this 
prophet,  become  revelations  for  the  people.  Moses 
himself  had  no  other  authority  or  power  than  that 
which  was  secured  for  him  through  his  office  as  the 
organ  of  God.  He  was  the  human  instrument  to 
bring  about  the  synthesis  between  Israel  and  Jeh 
for  all  times.  He  had,  in  doing  this,  indeed  pro- 
claimed the  old  God  of  the  fathers,  but  under  the 
new,  or  at  any  rate  hitherto  to  the  people  unknown, 
name  of  Jeh,  which  is  a  characteristic  mark  of  the 
Mosaic  revelations  to  such  an  extent,  that  the  more 
accurate  narrators  (E  and  P)  begin  to  make  use 
of  this  name  only  from  this  period  of  time  on.  In 
the  name  of  this  absolute  sovereign,  God,  Moses 
claims  liberty  for  Israel,  since  this  people  was  Jeh's 
firstborn  (Ex  4  22).  The  contest  which  Moses 
canies  on  in  the  name  of  this  God  with  Pharaoh 
becomes  more  and  more  a  struggle  between  this 
God  and  the  gods  of  Egypt,  whose  earthly  repre- 
sentative Pharaoh  is.  The  plagues  which  come  over 
Egypt  are  all  founded  on  the  natural  conditions  of 
the  country,  but  they  occur  in  such  extraordinary 
strength  and  rapidity  at  Moses'  prediction,  and 
even  appear  at  his  command,  that  they  convince 
the  people,  and  finally  Pharaoh  himself,  of  the 
omnipotence  of  this  God  on  the  soil  of  this  country. 
In  the  same  way  the  act  of  deliverance  at  the  Red 
Sea  can  be  explained  as  the  cooperation  of  natural 
causes,  namely  wind  and  tide.  But  the  fact  that 
these  elementary  forces,  just  at  this  critical  time, 
proved  so  serviceable  to  the  people  of  God  and  de- 
structive to  their  enemies,  shows  unmistakably  the 
miraculous  activity  of  God.  This  the  Israelites 
experienced  still  further  on  the  journey  through  the 
desert,  when  they  were  entirely  dependent  on  Di- 
vine leadership  and  care.  The  outcome  of  these 
experiences,  and  at  the  same  time  its  grandest 
demonstration,  was  the  conclusion  of  the  covenant 
at  Mt.  Sinai.  From  this  time  on  Jeh  was  Israel's 
God  and  Israel  was  the  people  of  Jeh.  This  God 
claimed  to  be  the  only  and  absolute  ruler  over  the 
tribes  that  were  now  inwardly  united  into  one 
nation.  From  this  resulted  as  a  matter  of  course, 
that  Moses  as  the  recognized  organ  of  this  God  was 
not  only  the  authority,  who  was  to  decide  in  all  dis- 
putes concerning  right,  but  also  the1  one  from  whom 
a  new  and  complete  order  of  legal  enactments  pro- 
ceeded.    Moses  became  the  lawgiver  of  Israel. 

Even  if  the  history  of  the  origin  of  the  OT  covenant  is 
unique  in  character,  it  is  nevertheless  profitable  to  take 
note  of  an  analogy  which  is  found  in  a  related  people 
and  which  is  adapted  to  make  much  in  Israel's  history 
clearer.  Mohammed  also,  after  he;  had  at  the  critical 
point  of  his  career  persuaded  his  followers  lo  migrate 
from  their  homes,  soon  after,  in  Medina,  concluded  a 
covenant,  according  to  which  he,  as  the  recognized 
speaker  of  Allah,  claimed  for  himself  tin;  right  to  decide 
in  all  disputes.  He,  too,  in  his  capacity  as  the  prophet 
of  Cod,  was  consulted  as  an  infallible  authority  in  all 
questions  pertaining  to  the  cult  us,  the  civil  and  the  crimi- 
nal laws,  as  also  in  matters  pertaining  to  politics  and  to 
war.  And  his  decisions  and  judgments,  uttered  in  the 
name  of  Allah,  were  written  down  and  afterward  col- 
lected. This  Koran,  too.  became  tin1  basis  of  sacred  law. 
And  by  causing  the  hitherto  divided  and  antagonistic 
tribes  to  subject  themselves  to  Allah,  Mohammed  united 
these  his  followers  into  a  religious  communion  and  in  this 
way,  too,  into  a  national  body.  Mohammed  has  indeed 
copied  the  prophecy  of  earlier  times,  but  the  work  of 
Moses  was  original  in  character  and  truly  inspired  by 
God. 

The  historical  character  of  the  exodus  out  of 
Egypt  cannot  be  a  matter  of  doubt,  though  some 

suspect  that  the  entire  nation  did  not 
2.  Histori-  take  part  in  the  march  through  the 
cal  Char-  Red  Sea,  but  that  certain  tribes  had 
acter  of  the  before;  this  already  migrated  toward 
Exodus  the  East.     We  must  not   forget  that 

the  song  of  victory  in  Ex  15  does  not 
mention  a  word  about  Pharaoh's  being  himself  de- 


Israel,  History  of  Till':  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1510 


stroyed  in  going  through  the  Sea.  It  is  only  the 
Intel's  136  15  thai  presupposes  this  as  a  certainty. 
Thai  an  entire  nation  cannot  emigrate  in  a  single 
nighl  cannot  he  maintained  in  view  of  the  fact  that 
the  inhabitants  of  the  same  Wadi-Tumildt,  through 
which  Israel  marched,  so  late  as  the  last  century, 
emigrated  in  a  single  night  and  for  similar  reasons 
(cf  Sayce,  Monuments,  249). 

(1)  Egyptian  version  of  the  Exodus. — The  fact 
that  the  Egyp  monuments  report  nothing  of  this 
episode,  so  disgraceful  to  that  people,  is  a  matter 
of  course,  in  view  of  the  official  character  of  these 
accounts  and  of  their  policy  of  passing  over  in  abso- 
lute silence  all  disagreeable  facts.  And  yet  in  the 
popular  tradition  of  the  people,  which  Manetho 
has  handed  down,  there  has  been  preserved  some 
evidence  of  this  event .  It  is  indeed  true  that  what 
this  author  reports  about-  the  Hyksos  (see  above) 
does  not  belong  here,  as  this  people  is  not,  as  Jos 
thinks,  identical  wit  lithe  Israelites.  However  (CAp, 
I,  xxvi,  5ff),he  narrates  a  story  which  may  easily 
be  the  tradition  concerning  the  exodus  of  the  chil- 
dren of  Israel  as  changed  by  popular  use.  King 
Amenophis,  we  are  told,  wanted  to  see  the  gods. 
A  seer,  who  bore  the  same  name,  promised  that  his 
wish  would  be  gratified  under  the  condition  that  the 
country  would  be  cleansed  of  lepers  and  all  others 
that  were  unclean;  and  it  is  said  that  he  accord- 
ingly drove  80,000  such  persons  into  the  stone 
quarries  E.  of  the  Nile.  As  the  seer  was  afraid 
that  these  measures  would  be  displeasing  to  the  gods 
and  bring  upon  the  land  a  subjection  of  13  years  to 
the  supremacy  of  foreigners,  he  gave  up  to  these 
lepers  the  former  city  of  the  Hyksos,  Avaris  by 
name.  Here  they  appointed  a  priest  by  the  name 
of  Osarsiph,  later  called  Moses,  as  their  chief,  who 
gave  them  a  special  body  of  laws  and  in  these  did 
not  spare  the  sacred  animals.  He  also  carried  on 
war  against  the  Egyptians,  the  Hyksos  helping 
him,  and  he  even  governed  Egypt  for  13  years, 
after  which  he  and  his  followers  were  driven  out 
into  Syria.  Similar  stories  are  found  in  Chaero- 
mon,  Lysimachus,  and  others  (CAp,  I,  xxxii,  3G; 
cf  Tacitus,  Hist.  v. 3-5).  When  we  remember  that 
it  is  nonsense  to  permit  lepers  to  work  in  stone 
quarries  and  that  the  Egyptians  also  otherwise 
call  the  Semites  Aatu,  i.e.  "plague,"  1  hen  this  story 
must  be  regarded  as  referring  to  such  a  non-Egyp 
nation.  Hecataeus  of  Abdera  has  a  report  of  this 
matter  which  is  much  more  like  the  Bib.  story,  to 
the  effect,  namely,  that  a  plague  which  had  broken 
out  in  Egypt  led  the  people  to  believe  that  thegods 
were  angry  at  the  Egyptians  because  they  had  neg- 
lected the  religious  cultus;  for  which  reason  they 
expelled  all  foreigners.  A  part  of  these  is  said  to 
have  migrated  under  the  leadership  of  Moses  to 
Judaea  and  there  to  have  founded  the  city  of  Jerus 
(cf  Diodorus  Siculusxl.3;  cf  xxxvi.l). 

(2)  Geographical  matters. — The  Red  Sea,  through 
which  the  Israelites  went  under  the  leadership  of 
Moses,  is  without  a  doubt  the  northern  extension  of 
this  body  of  water,  which  in  former  times  reached 
farther  inland  than  the  present  Gulf  of  Suez;  cf 
Edouard  Naville,  The  Store-City  of  Pithom  and  (he 
Route  of  the  Exodus,  1885;  and  The  Route  of  the 
Exodus,  1891.  This  savant  is  entitled  to  the  credit 
of  having  identified  the  station  Sukkoth  on  the  basis 
of  the  monuments;  it  is  the  modern  Tell-Mashuta 
and  identical  with  Pithom,  which  was  the  name  of 
the  sanctuary  at  that  place.  Later  the  city  was 
called  Heroopolis.  The  route  accordingly  went 
through  the  modern  Wadi-Tumildt  to  the  modern 
Bitter  Sea.  X.  of  Suez.  It  is  a  more  difficult  task 
to  trace  the  route  geographically  on  the  other  side 
of  the  Sea.  For  it  is  a  question  whether  "the 
Mountain  of  Jeh,"  which  formed  the  goal  of  the 
journey,  is  to  be  located  on  the  Sinai  peninsula,  or 


in  the  land  of  the  Edomites,  or  even  on  the  western 
coast  of  Arabia.  A.  H.  Sayce  and  others  reject  the 
traditional  location  of  Sinai  on  the  peninsula  named 
after  this  mountain,  and  declare  that  the  Israelites 
marched  directly  eastward  toward  the  Gulf  of 
Akaba.  The  reasons  for  1  his  are  found  in  the  work 
of  Sayce,  The  Verdict  of  the  Monuments,  263  IT. 
Hut  even  if  on  this  supposition  a  number  of  diffi- 
culties fall  away,  there  nevertheless  are  many  argu- 
ments in  favor  of  the  traditional  location  of  Sinai, 
esp.  the  grandeur  of  the  chain  itself,  for  which  a 
rival  worth  mentioning  has  not  been  discovered  in 
the  land  of  the  Edomites  or  in  Northwestern  Arabia. 
The  Sinai  traveler,  E.  II.  Palmer,  has  also  shown 
how  splendidly  the  surroundings  of  the  Sinai  chain, 
esp.  the  Jebel  Musa  with  the  lias  Sufsafeh,  is 
adapted  for  the  purpose  of  concluding  a  covenant. 

(3)  The  wilderness  sojourn. — The  duration  of  the 
sojourn  in  the  "desert"  is  everywhere  (as  in  Am 
5  25)  given  as  40  years.  In  harmony  with  this  is 
the  fact  that  only  a  few  of  those  who  had  come  out 
of  Egypt  lived  to  enter  Canaan.  The  greater  part 
of  these  40  years  the  Israelites  seem  to  have  spent 
at  Kadesh.  At  any  rate,  there  was  a  sanctuary  at 
that  place,  at  which  Moses  administered  justice, 
while  the  different  tribes  probably  were  scattered 
over  the  prairies  and  over  the  tillable  districts.  The 
central  sanctuary,  which  Moses  established,  was  the 
Tabernacle,  which  contained  the  Ark  of  the  Cove- 
nant, the  sanrlissimuni.  This  sacred  ark  with  the 
cherubim  above  it  represents  the  throne  of  God, 
who  is  thought  to  be  enthroned  above  the  cherubim. 
The  ark  itself  is,  as  it  were,  His  footstool.  As  in 
Egyp  sanctuaries  not  infrequently  the  most  sacred 
laws  are  deposited  beneath  the  feet  of  the  statue  of 
the  gods,  thus  the  sacred  fundamental  laws  of  God 
(the  Decalogue),  on  two  tablets,  were  deposited  in 
this  ark.  This  Ark  of  the  Covenant  presupposes 
an  invisible  God,  who  cannot  be  represented  by  any 
image.  The  other  laws  and  ordinances  of  Moses 
covered  the  entire  public  and  private  legislation, 
given  whenever  the  need  for  these  made  it  necessary 
to  determine  such  matters.  In  giving  these  laws 
Moses  connected  his  system  with  the  old  traditional 
principles  already  current  among  the  tribes.  This 
fact  is  confirmed  by  the  legal  CH,  which  contains 
remarkable  parallels,  esp.  to  Ex  20 — 23  19.  But 
Moses  has  elevated  the  old  traditional  laws  of  the 
tribes  and  has  given  them  a  more  humane  character. 
By  putting  every  enactment  in  the  light  of  the  reli- 
gion of  Jeh,  and  by  eliminating  everything  not  in 
harmony  with  this  religion,  he  has  raised  the  people 
spiritually  and  morally  to  a  higher  plane. 

Among  the  people,  the  undercurrents  of  super- 
stition and  of  immorality  were  indeed  still  strong. 
At  the  outset  Moses  had  much  to  contend  with  in 
the  opposition  of  the  badly  mixed  mass  of  the  peo- 
ple. And  the  fact  that  he  was  able  for  the  period 
of  40  years  to  hold  the  leadership  of  this  stubborn 
people  without  military  force  is  a  phenomenal 
work,  which  shows  at  all  hands  the  wonderful  co- 
operation of  Jeh  Himself.  However,  he  did  not 
indeed  succeed  in  raising  the  entire  people  to  the 
plane  of  his  knowledge  of  God  and  of  his  faith  in 
God.  This  generation  had  to  die  in  the  wilderness, 
because  it  lacked  the  sanctified  courage  to  take  pos- 
session of  the  land  of  promise.  But  the  foundation 
had  been  laid  for  the  theocracy,  which  must  not  in 
any  way  be  identified  with  a  hierarchy. 

(4)  Entrance  into  Canaan. — It  was  Joshua,  the 
successor  of  Moses,  who  was  enabled  to  finish  the 
work  and  to  take  possession  of  the  land.  Not  far 
from  Jericho  he  led  the  people  over  the  Jordan  and 
captured  this  city,  which  had  been  considered  im- 
pregnable. After  that,  with  his  national  army,  he 
conquered  the  Canaanitish  inhabitants  in  several 
decisive  battles,  near  Gibeon  and  at  the  waters  of 


"ISRAEL"   STELE   IN  MUSEUM   AT  CAIRO 


1517 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Israel,  History  of 


Merom,  and  then  went  buck  and  encamped  at 
Gilgal  on  the  Jordan.  After  this  he  advanced  with 
his  tribe  of  Ephraim  into  the  heart  of  the  land,  while 
the  southern  tribes  on  their  part  forced  their  way 
into  the  districts  assigned  to  them.  Without 
reasons  this  account  has  been  attacked  as  unre- 
liable, and  critics  have  thought  that  originally  the 
different  tribes,  at  their  own  initiative,  either  peace- 
ably or  by  force,  had  occupied  their  land.  But  it 
is  entirely  natural  to  suppose  that  the  inhabitants 
of  the  country  who  had  allied  themselves  to  resist 
this  occupation  by  Israel,  had  first  to  be  made  sub- 
missive through  several  decisive  defeats,  before 
they  would  permit  the  entrance  of  the  tribes  of 
Israel,  which  entrance  accordingly  often  took  place 
without  a  serious  struggle.  That  the  occupation 
of  the  land  was  not  complete  is  shown  in  detail  in 
Jgs  1.  Also  in  those  districts  in  which  Israel  had 
gained  the  upper  hand,  they  generally  did  not  wage 
the  war  of  annihilation  that  Moses  had  commanded, 
but  were  content  with  making  the  Canaanites,  by 
the  side  of  whom  they  settled,  bondmen  and  sub- 
jects. This  relation  could,  in  later  time,  easily  be 
reversed,  esp.  in  those  cases  in  which  the  original 
inhabitants  of  the  country  were  in  the  majority. 
Then,  too,  it  must  be  remembered  that  the  latter 
enjoyed  a  higher  state  of  civilization  than  the  Is- 
raelites. It  was  accordingly  an  easy  matter  for 
the  Israelites  to  adopt  the  customs  and  the  ideas 
of  the  Canaanites.  But  if  this  were  done,  their 
religion  was  also  endangered.  Together  with  the 
sacred  "holy  places"  (bamoth)  of  the  original  in- 
habitants, the  altars  and  the  sanctuaries  there 
found  also  came  into  possession  of  the  Israelites. 
Among  these  there  were  some  that  had  been  sacred 
to  the  ancestors  of  Israel,  and  with  which  old  mem- 
ories were  associated.  As  a  consequence,  it  readily 
occurred  that  Israel  appropriated  also  old  symbols 
and  religious  ceremonies,  and  even  the  Baals  and 
the  Astartes  themselves,  however  little  this  could 
be  united  in  principle  with  the  service  of  Jeh.  But 
if  the  Israelites  lost  their  unique  religion,  then  their 
connection  with  the  kindred  tribes  and  their  na- 
tional independence  were  soon  matters  of  history. 
They  were  readily  absorbed  by  the  Canaanites. 

///.  Period  of  the  Judges. — In  such  a  period  of 
weakened  national  and  religious  life,  it  could  easily 
happen  that  Israel  would  again  lose 
1.  General  the  supremacy  that  it  had  won  by  the 
Character  sword.  It  was  possible  that  the 
of  Period  Canaanites  could  again  bring  into 
their  power  larger  parts  of  the  land. 
Also  energetic  and  pushing  nomadic  tribes,  such  as 
the  Ammonites,  the  Moabites,  or  other  warlike 
peoples,  such  as  the  Philis,  could  bring  the  country 
under  subjection,  as  actually  did  occur  in  the  period 
of  the  Judges.  The  Book  of  Jgs  reports  a  number 
of  such  instances  of  the  subjection  of  Israel,  which 
did  not  extend  over  the  whole  land,  and  in  part 
occurred  in  different  sections  of  the  country  at  the 
same  time.  Judah  and  Simeon,  the  two  tribes  in 
the  south,  as  a  rule  took  no  part  in  these  contests, 
and  had  their  own  battles  to  fight ;  and  the  same  is 
true  of  the  tribes  E.  of  the  Jordan,  among  whom 
Northern  Manasseh  and  Ephraim  were  in  closest 
alliance.  After  a  longer  or  shorter  period  of  op- 
pression, there  followed  in  each  case  a  revival  of  the 
national  spirit  against  such  oppression.  And  in  all 
these  cases  the  popular  hero  who  became  the  liber- 
ator appealed  to  the  religious  consciousness  that 
formed  a  bond  of  union  between  all  the  Israelitish 
tribes  and  their  common  God  Jeh.  In  however 
wild  a  manner  the  youthful  vigor  of  the  people  may 
have  found  its  expression  on  these  occasions,  they 
are  nevertheless  conscious  of  the  fact  that  they  are 
waging  a  holy  war,  which  in  every  case  also  ended 
with  the  victory  over  the  heathen  spirit  and  false 


worship  that  had  found  their  way  into  Israel.  The 
most  precious  historical  monument  from  these 
limes  is  the  song  of  Deborah  (Jgs  5),  which,  like  a 
mirror,  reflects  faithfully  the  conditions  of  affairs, 
and  the  thoughts  of  that  age. 

Jgs  17-21  belong  to  the  beginning  of  this  period. 
The  first  of  these  old  stories  narrates  the  emigration 
of  a  large  portion  of  the  tribe  of  Dan  to  the  extreme 
north  of  the  country  and  the  origin  of  idolatry  in 
that  region  (chs  17,  18).  But  the  second  story, 
too,  both  in  form  and  contents,  is,  at  least  in  part, 
very  old  and  its  historical  value  is  amply  protected 
against  the  attacks  of  modern  critics  by  Hos  9  9; 
10  9.  This  story  reports  a  holy  war  of  revenge 
against  the  tribe  of  Benjamin,  which  was  unwilling 
to  render  satisfaction  for  a  nefarious  crime  that  had 
been  committed  at  Gibeah  in  its  territory.  In  the 
feeling  of  close  solidarity  and  of  high  responsibility 
which  appears  in  connection  with  the  punishment  of 
this  crime,  we  still  see  the  influence  of  the  periods 
of  Moses  and  Joshua. 

First  it  is  narrated  of  a  king  of  Aram-naharaim 
that  he  had  oppressed  Israel  for  a  period  of  8  years 

(Jgs  3  8).     This    probably    means    a 
2.  The  king  of  the   Mitanni    (Sayce,   Monu- 

Different  merits,  297,  304),  who  at  that  time 
Judges  were  trying  to  force  their  way  through 

Canaan  into  Egypt.  It  was  Othniel, 
the  Kenazite,  belonging  to  a  tribe  that  was  related 
to  Judah,  who  delivered  Israel.  A  second  liber- 
ator was  the  Benjamite  Ehud,  who  delivered  the 
southeastern  portion  of  the  country  from  the  servi- 
tude of  Eglon,  the  king  of  the  Moabites,  by  putting 
the  latter  to  death  (Jgs  3  12  ff).  On  a  greater 
scale  was  the  decisive  battle  against  the  Canaan- 
it  ish  kings  in  the  north,  when  these  had  formed  an 
alliance  and  had  subjected  Israel  for  a  period  of 
20  years.  At  the  appeal  of  Deborah,  Barak  con- 
quered Sisera,  the  hostile  king  and  leader  of  a 
mighty  army  of  chariots,  in  the  plain  of  Kishon 
(Jgs  4,  5).  In  the  same  region  the  battle  of  Gideon 
was  fought  with  the  plundering  Bedouin  swarms 
of  the  Midianites,  who  had  repeatedly  oppressed 
Israel  (chs  6-8).  Abimelech,  an  unworthy  son  of 
the  God-fearing  hero,  after  the  death  of  his  father, 
had  established  a  local  kingdom  in  Shechem, 
which  stood  for  oidy  a  short  time  and  came  to  a 
disgraceful  end.  Little  more  than  the  names  are 
known  to  us  of  Tola,  of  the  tribe  of  Issachar,  and 
of  Jair,  in  Gilead  (10  1  ff).  More  fully  is  the  story 
of  Jephthah  told,  who  delivered  the  country  from 
the  Ammonites  coming  from  the  east  (ch  11),  with 
which  was  also  connected  a  struggle  with  the  jealous 
Ephraimites  (ch  12);  and  still  more  fully  are  the 
details  reported  of  the  personal  contests  of  the 
Nazirite  Samson,  belonging  to  the  tribe  of  Dan, 
against  the  Philis  making  their  inroads  from  the 
south,  and  who  for  many  years  proved  to  be  the 
most  dangerous  enemies  of  Israel. 

All  these  heroes,  and  a  ivw  others  not  so  well 
known,  are  called  judges,  and  it  is  regularly  re- 
ported how  long  each  of  these  "judged"  Israel. 
They  were  not  officials  in  the  usual  sense  of  the 
term,  but  were  liberators  of  the  people,  who,  at 
the  inspiration  of  Jeh,  gave  the  signal  for  a  holy 
war.  After  the  victory  they,  as  men  of  Jeh, 
then  enjoyed  distinction,  at  least  in  their  own 
tribes;  and  in  so  far  as  if  was  through  their  doing 
that  the  people  had  been  freed,  they  were  the  high- 
est authorities  in  political,  legal,  and  probably,  too, 
in  religious  questions.  They  are  called  judges  in 
conscious  contradistinction  from  the  kingly  power, 
which  in  Israel  was  recognized  as  the  exclusive 
prerogative  of  Jeh,  so  that  Gideon  declined  it  as 
improper  when  the  people  wanted  to  make  him 
king  (8  22f).  The  people  recognized  the  Spirit 
of  Jeh  in  the  fierce  energy  which  came  over  these 


Israel,  History  of  THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1518 


men  :uul  impelled  (hem  to  arouse  (heir  people  out 
of  their  disgraceful  lethargy.  For  this  reason,  too, 
they  could  afterward  be  trusted  in  making  their 
judicial  decisions  in  harmony  with  the  mind  and 
the  Spirit  of  <  '.od.  as  this  had  been  done  already  by 
the  prophetess  Deborah  in  the  time  of  oppression. 
Vet,  at  least  in  the  ease  of  Samson  (nol withstand- 
ing 16  31  I,  it  is  not  probable  that  he  ever  was  en- 
gaged in  the  administration  of  justice.  It  is  not 
even  reported  of  him  that  he  fought  at  the  head  of 
the  people,  but  lie  carried  on  his  contests  with  the 
of  himself  individually,  even  if,  as 
of  God,  he  were   a  witness  for  the 


I'hilis  in  behal 
one  consecrated 
power  of  ( lod. 

The  chronology  of  the  period  of  th 


Judg< 


hibits  some  peculiar  difficulties.     If  we  add  together 

the  data   that    are  given  in  succession 

3.  Chro-  in   the   Book  of  Jgs,  we  get    from  Jgs 
nology  of       3S    -16  31,  410  years  altogether.    But 
the  Period     this  number  is  too  large  to  make  it  har- 
monize with  the  480  years  mentioned 

in  1  K  6  1.  Jewish  tradition  (e.g.  Saltier  H)Uim) 
accordingly  does  not  include  the  years  of  oppression 
in  this  sum,  but  makes  them  a  part  of  the  period 
of  the  individual  judges.  In  this  way  about,  111 
years  are  eliminated.  But  evidently  the  redactor 
of  the  Book  of  Jgs  did  not  share  this  view.  Modern 
critics  are  of  the  opinion  that  the  writer  has  dove- 
tailed two  chronological  methods,  one  of  which 
counted  on  the  basis  of  periods  of  forty  years  each, 
while  the  other  was  more;  exact  and  contained  odd 
numbers.  In  this  way  we  can  shorten  t  his  period  as 
does  the  Sedher  'Olum.  At  any  rate,  it  is  justifiable, 
and  is  suggested  by  10  7,  to  regard  the  oppression 
by  the  Ammonites  (10  <S  if)  and  the  oppression  by 
the  Philis  (13  Iff)  as  contemporaneous.  And 
other  events,  too,  which  in  the  course  of  the  narra- 
tive are  related  as  following  each  other,  may  have 
taken  place  at  the  same  time  or  in  a  somewhat 
different  sequence,  as  the  author  used  different 
source's  for  the  different  events.  But  for  this  very 
reason  his  story  deserves  to  be  credited  as  historical. 
Such  characters  as  Deborah,  Jephthah,  Ehud, 
Gideon,  Abimelech  and  Samson  are  described  as 
tangible  historical  realities.  Even  if,  in  the  case 
of  the  last-mentioned,  oral  tradition  lias  added 
decorative  details  to  the  figure,  yet  Samson  cannot 
possibly  be  a  mere  mythological  character,  but  must 
have  been  a  national  hero  characteristic  of  this 
period,  in  whom  are  represented  the  abundance  of 
physical  and  mental  peculiarities  characteristic  of 
the  youthful  nation,  as  also  their  good-natured 
indifference  and  carelessness  over  against  their 
treacherous  enemies. 

The  lack  of  a  central  political  power  made  itself 

felt  all  the  more  in  the  period  of  the  Judges,  since, 

because'  of  the  scattered   condition  of 

4.  Loose  the  people  in  the  country  that  had 
Organiza-  been  so  minutely  parceled  out,  and 
tion  of  the  because  of  the  weakening  of  the  reli- 
People  gious  enthusiasm  of  the  preceding  age, 

the  deeper  unity  of  heart  and  mind 
was  absent.  It  is  indeed  incorrect  to  imagine  that 
at  this  time  there  was  a  total  lack  of  governmental 
authority.  A  patriarchal  organization  had  been 
in  force  from  the  beginning.  The  father  of  the 
family  was  the  lawful  head  of  those  belonging  to 
him:  and  a  larger  clan  was  again  subject  to  an 
"elder,"  with  far-reaching  rights  in  the  adminis- 
tration of  law,  but  also  with  the  duty  to  protect 
his  subordinates,  and  in  case  of  want  to  support 
them.  I  "nfort  unately  we  are  nowhere  informed  how 
these  elders  were  chosen  or  whether  their  offices 
were  hereditary.  Only  a  very  few  passages,  such 
as  Isa  3  6  f ,  throw  a  certain  light  on  the  subject. 
This  institution  of  the  elders  Moses  had  already 
found  established  and  had  developed  farther  (Ex 


18  13  ff).  It-  was  retained  in  all  the  periods  of 
Israel's  history.  When  the  people  began  to  live 
together  in  larger  centers,  as  a  natural  consequence 
bodies  of  such  city  elders  were  established.  The 
tribes,  too,  had  "elders"  at  their  head.  But  for 
;i  united  action  of  the  whole  nation  this  arrange- 
ment did  not  suffice;  and  esp.  in  the  case  of  war 
the  people  of  Israel  felt  that  they  were  at  a  dis- 
advantage compared  with  their  enemies,  who  had 
kings  to  lead  them.  For  this  reason  the  desire  for 
a  king  steadily  grew  in  Israel.  The  dictators  of  the 
period  of  1  he  Judges  satisfied  their  needs  only  for  the 
t  hue  being. 

IV.  The  Kingdom:  Israel-Judah. — In  the  time 
when  the  Israelites  were  oppressed  by  the  Philis 
the  need  of  a  king  was  esp.  felt.  As  Samson  had 
come  to  his  death  in  servitude,  the  people  them- 
selves thus,  at  the  close  of  this  period  of  glorious 
victories,  were  under  the  supremacy  of  a  warlike 
race,  which  had  only  in  recent  times  settled  on  the 
western  coast  of  Pal,  and  from  this  base  was  forcing 
its  conquests  into  the  heart  of  the  country. 

After  the  most    disastrous  defeats,  during  which 

even  the  Ark  of  the  Covenant  was  lost,  there  arose 

for  the  people,  indeed,  a  father  and  a 

1.  Samuel     deliverer  in  the  person  of  Samuel,  who 

saved  them  during  the  most  critical 
period.  What  his  activity  meant  for  the  uplift  of 
the  people  cannot  be  estimated  too  highly.  He 
was,  above  all,  during  peace  the  faithful  watchman 
of  the  most  sacred  possessions  of  Israel,  a  prophet 
such  as  the  people  had  not  seen  since  the  days  of 
Moses;  and  he  doubtless  was  the  founder  of  those 
colonies  of  prophetical  disciples  who  were  in  later 
times  so  influential  in  the  development  of  a  theo- 
cratical  spirit  in  Israel.  He  guarded  the  whole 
nation  also  with  all  his  power,  by  giving  to  them 
laws  and  cultivating  piety  in  the  land. 

But  as  Samuel,  too,  became  old  and  the  people 
concluded  for  good  reasons  that  his  rule  would  have 

no     worthy    successors,     their    voice 

2.  The  could  no  longer  be  silenced,  and  they 
Kingdom  demanded  a  king.  Samuel  tried  in 
of  Saul           vain  to  persuade  the  people  to  desist 

from  their  demand,  which  to  him 
seemed  to  be  an  evidence  of  distrust  in  the  provi- 
dence of  Jeh,  but  was  himself  compelled,  by  inspi- 
ration of  God,  to  submit  to  their  wishes  and  anoint 
the  new  king,  whom  Jeh  pointed  out  to  him. 
It  is  indeed  maintained  by  the  critics  that  there 
are  several  accounts  extant  in  S  concerning  the 
selection  of  Saul  to  the  kingdom,  and  that  these 
accounts  differ  in  this,  that  the  one  regards  the 
kingdom  as  a  blessing  and  the  other  as  a  curse. 
The  first  view,  which  is  said  to  be  the  older,  is 
claimed  to  be  found  in  1  S  9  1-10.16,  and  11; 
while  the  second  is  said  to  be  in  8;  10  17-27;  11 
12-14.  Whatever  may  be  the  facts  in  regard  to 
these  sources,  this  is  beyond  any  doubt,  that  Samuel, 
the  last  real  theocratic  leader,  established  the 
kingdom.  But  just  as  little  can  the  fact  be  doubted, 
that  he  took  this  step  with  inner  reluctance,  since 
in  his  eyes  this  innovation  meant  the  discarding  of 
the  ideals  of  the  people  to  which  he  himself  had 
remained  true  during  his  lifetime.  The  demand  of 
the  people  was  the  outgrowth  of  worldly  motives, 
but  Jeh  brought  it  about,  that  the  "Anointed  of 
Jeh''  signified  an  advance  in  the  history  of  the 
kingdom  of  God. 

Saul  himself,  at  first,  in  a  vigorous  and  efficient 
manner,  solved  the  immediate  problems  and  over- 
came t  he  enemies  of  his  people.  But  he  soon  began 
to  conceive  of  his  kingdom  after  the  manner  of 
heathen  kingdoms  and  did  not  subject  himself  to 
Jeh  and  His  appointed  representative.  There  soon 
arose  an  open  conflict  between  him  and  Samuel; 
and  the  fact  that  the  Spirit  of  God  had  departed 


1519 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Israel,  History  of 


from  him  appears  in  his  melancholy  state  of  mind, 
which  urged  him  on  to  constantly  increasing  deeds 
of  violence.  That  under  these  circumstances  God's 
blessing  also  departed  from  him  is  proved  by  the 
collapse  of  his  life's  work  in  his  final  failures  against 
the  Philis. 

In  contrast  with  this,  David,  his  successor,  the 

greatest  king  that  Israel  ever  had,  had  a  correct 

conception   of   this   royal   office,    and 

3.  David        even    in   his   most   brilliant   successes 

did  not  forget  that  he  was  called  to 
rule  only  as  "the  servant  of  Jeh"  (by  which  name 
he,  next  to  Moses,  is  called  oftenest  in  the  Bible). 
As  a  gifted  ruler,  he  strengthened  his  kingdom  from 
within,  which,  considering  the  heterogeneous  char- 
acter of  the  people,  was  not  an  easy  matter,  and 
extended  it  without  by  overpowering  jealous  neigh- 
bors. In  this  way  it  was  he  who  became  the  real 
founder  of  a  powerful  kingdom.  The  conquest  of 
Jerus  and  its  selection  as  the  capital  city  also  are  an 
evidence  of  his  political  wisdom.  It  is  indeed  true 
that  he,  too,- had  his  personal  failings  and  that  he 
made  many  mistakes,  which  caused  him  political 
troubles,  even  down  to  his  old  age.  But  his  humil- 
ity at  all  times  made  him  strong  enough  again  to 
subject  himself  to  the  hand  of  Jeh,  and  this  humility 
was  based  on  the  attitude  of  his  spirit  toward  Jeh, 
which  shows  itself  in  his  Pss.  In  1  his  way  he  really 
came  to  be  a  connecting  link  between  Cod  and  his 
people,  and  upon  this  foundation  the  prophets  built 
further,  who  prophesied  a  still  closer  union  of  the 
two  under  a  son  of  David. 

While  Saul  was  a  Benjamite,  David  was  of  the 
tribe  of  Judah,  and  was  for  a  short  time  the  king  of 
this  tribe  in  Hebron,  before  tin;  other  tribes,  be- 
coming tired  of  the  misrule  of  a  descendant  of  Saul, 
also  voluntarily  chose  him  as  their  king.  He  soon 
after  this  established  as  the  center  of  his  new  king- 
dom the  city  of  Jerus,  which  really  was  situated  on 
the  territory  that  had  been  assigned  to  Benjamin; 
and  he  also  set  this  city  apart  as  the  religious  center 
of  the  people  by  transferring  the  Ark  of  the  Cove- 
nant to  this  place.  In  this  way  David,  through  his 
wisdom  and  his  popular  bravery,  succeeded  in 
uniting  the  tribes  more  firmly  under  his  supremacy, 
and  esp.  did  he  bring  t  he  1  ribe  of  Judah,  which  down 
to  this  time  had  been  more  for  itself,  into  closer 
connection  with  the  others.  Israel  under  David 
became  a  prominent  kingdom.  This  position  of 
power  was,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  distasteful  to  their 
neighbors  round  about.  The  Philis  tried  to  dest  roy 
the  ambitious  kingdom,  but  were  themselves  re- 
peatedly and  definitely  overpowered.  But  other 
neighboring  people,  too,  who,  notwithstanding  the 
fact  that  David  did  not  assume  an  offensive  atti- 
tude toward  them,  assumed  a  hostile  attitude  toward 
him,  came  to  feel  his  superiority.  Particularly 
severe  and  tedious  was  the  war  against  the  allied 
Ammonites  and  Syrians;  and  although  the  Edom- 
ites,  too,  regarded  this  as  a  favorable  time  for  at- 
tacking Israel,  this  struggle  also  ended  in  a  complete 
triumph  for  David.  The  surrounding  countries 
became  subject  to  him  from  the  Mediterranean 
Sea  to  Hamath  (2  S  8  9),  and  from  the  territory 
of  the  Lebanon,  the  inhabitants  of  which  assumed 
a  friendly  attitude,  to  the  borders  of  Egypt,  which 
also  recognized  the  new  rule. 

Solomon,  the  son  of  David,  developed  inwardly 
the  powerful  kingdom  which  he  had  inherited.     To 

his  father  he  seemed  to  be  the  right 

4.  Solomon  man   for  tins  because  of   his  peaceful 

temperament  and  his  high  mental 
abilities.  He  justified  the  hopes  placed  in  him. 
Out  of  love  to  Jeh  he  built  the  temple  on  Mt.  Zion, 
regulated  the  affairs  of  state  and  the  administra- 
tion of  justice,  and  by  commercial  treaties  with  the 
Phoenicians    (King    Hiram)    brought   about   great 


prosperity  in  the  land.  His  was  the  "golden" 
period  in  Israel.  The  culture  and  civilization,  too, 
of  the  people  were  materially  advanced  by  Solomon 
as  he  widened  their  horizon  and  introduced  the  lit- 
erature of  Proverbs,  which  had  up  to  this  time  been 
more  extensively  cultivated  by  the  neighboring 
people  (Edom,  Arabia,  Egypt).  He  even  developed 
this  literature  into  a  higher  type.  On  the  other 
hand,  the  brilliant  reign  of  Solomon  brought  serious 
dangers  to  the  new  kingdom.  Hisliberal-mindedness 
in  the  treatment  of  his  foreign  wives,  in  permitting 
them  to  retain  their  heathen  worship,  probably 
because  he  thought  that  in  the  end  it  was  the  same 
Divinity  which  these  women  worshipped  under  a 
different  form,  endangered  the  theocracy  with  its 
serious  cult  us  and  its  strict  morality.  Through 
this  conduct  the  king  necessarily  forfeited  the  sym- 
pathy of  the  most  pious  Israelites.  At  the  same 
time,  his  love  for  magnificent  structures  surpassed 
the  measure  which  was  regarded  as  correct  for  the 
"Anointed  of  Jeh."  Then,  too,  his  efforts,  in  them- 
selves justifiable,  to  establish  a  more  perfect  organ- 
ization of  the  monarch}^,  produced  a  great  deal  of 
dissatisfaction.  Solomon  did  not  understand,  as  did 
his  father,  how  to  respect  the  inherited  liberty-loving 
tendencies  of  his  people.  The  heavy  services  and 
t  axation,  to  which  t  he  people  were  compelled  to  sub- 
mit, were  deeply  felt,  most  of  all  by  the  Ephraimites, 
who  at  times  had  exhibited  a  jealous  spirit,  and  could 
not  forget  their  lost  hegemony. 

So  long,  indeed,  as  the  wise  Solomon  and  his  ad- 
visers were  at  the  helm,  the  various  rebellious  tend- 
encies    could     not     make    themselves 

5.  Division  felt.  But  after  his  death  the  catas- 
of  the  trophe  came.  His  son,  Kehoboam,  at 
Kingdom        the    Diet    in   Shechem,   at   which  the 

Ephraimites  placed  before  him  a  kind 
of  capitulation  before  his  coronation,  showed  that 
he  did  not  at  all  understand  the  situation.  His 
domineering  attitude  brought  things  to  a  head,  and 
he  must  have  been  glad  that  at  least  the  tribe  of 
Judah  remained  faithful  to  him.  The  northern 
tribes  chose  for  their  king  Jeroboam  (I),  who  before 
this  had  already  taken  part  in  rebellious  agitations, 
as  tin1  kingdom  had  been  predicted  to  him  by  the 
prophet  Ahijah  (1  K  11  2  ff).  Israel  was  torn  into 
two  parts. 

With  this  rupture  the  powerful  kingdom  estab- 
lished by  David  had  reached  its  end.     In  regard 

to   this  flourishing   period   in    Israel's 

6.  Sources  history  we  are,  on  the  whole,  well 
of  the  His-  informed  through  the  sources.  Esp. 
tory  of  the  in  2  S  9-20  and  1  K  2,  3,  we  have 
Kingdom  a  narrator  who  must  have  been  a  con- 
temporary   of    the    events    recorded. 

Klostermann  surmises  that  this  may  have  been 
Ahimaaz,  the  son  of  Zadok  (2  S  15  27);  while 
Duhm,  Budde,  Sellin  and  others  believe  it  to  have 
been  the  priest  Abiathar.  Less  unity  is  in  evidence 
in  the  first  Book  of  S,  containing  the  history  of  the 
youth  of  David,  which  evidently  was  often  de- 
scribed. The  Books  of  Ch  have  only  secondary 
value  for  the  life  of  David.  These  books  narrate 
in  full  detail  the  story  of  the  preparations  made  by 
David  for  the  erection  of  the  temple  and  of  his 
organization  of  the  Levites.  In  regard  to  the  reign 
of  Solomon,  the  Books  of  K  report  more  fully. 
Concerning  the  later  kings,  they  generally  give  only 
meager  extracts  from  more  complete  sources,  which 
excerpts,  however,  have  been  shown  to  be  reliable. 
The  interest  which  the  narrator  has  in  telling  his 
story  is  the  religious.  Esp.  does  he  carefully  note 
the  fact  as  to  the  relation  of  the  different  kings  to 
the  cultus.  Special  sources  have  been  used  in  com- 
piling the  detailed  stories  of  the  great  prophets 
Elijah  and  Elisha,  which  are  inserted  in  the  history 
of  the  two  kingdoms.     On  the  other  hand,  the  Books 


Israel,  History  of  TIIK  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1520 


of  Ch  pass  over  entirely  all  reference  to  the  work  of 
the  prophets  of  the  Northern  Kingdom,  as  they 
ignore  the  cut  ire  history  of  the  Kphraimitie  kingdom 
since  the  interest  of  these  books  is  centered  on  the 
sanctuary  in  Jerus.  Also  in  the  ease  of  the  Judaean 
history,  the  much  older  Hooks  of  K  deserve  the 
precedence.  Vet  we  owe  to  the  writer  of  Ch  a 
number  of  contributions  to  this  history,  esp.  where 
he  has  made  a  fuller  use  of  the  sources  than  has 
been  done  by  the  author  of  the  Hooks  of  K.  The 
suspicion  that  everything  which  Ch  contains, 
beyond  what  is  to  be  found  in  K,  is  unhistorical, 
lias  turned  out  to  be  groundless.  Thus,  e.g.,  it 
would  he  impossible  to  understand  the  earlier 
prophecies  of  Isaiah  under  Jot  ham  at  all,  if  it  did 
not  appear  from  Ch  to  what  prosperity  and  influ- 
ence the  people  of  Jerus  had  by  that  time  again 
attained,  for  it  is  only  ("hi  hat  give  us  an  account 
of  the  flourishing  reign  of  his  predecessor  bzziah, 
who  is  treated  but  briefly  in  K. 

The   chronology   of   the   earlier   portions  of   the 
period  of  the  Kings  is  dependent  on  the  date  of  the 

division  of  the  kingdom.  This  date 
7.  Chrono-  can  be  decided  on  the  basis  of  the 
logical  careful     chronological     data     of     the 

Matters  Hooks  of  K,  which  do  not  indeed  agree 

in  all  particulars,  but  are  to  be  adjusted 
by  the  Assyr  chronology.  If  we,  with  Kamp- 
hausen,  Oettli  and  Kittel,  regard  the  year  937  BC 
as  ihe  time  of  the  division  of  the  kingdom,  then 
Solomon  ruled  from  977  to  937;  David,  from  1017  to 
977.  The  length  of  the  reign  of  Saul  is  not  known, 
as  the  text  of  1  S  13  1  is  defective-.  It  is  very 
probable  that  we  can  credit  him  with  about  twenty 
years,  according  to  Jos  (Ant,  X,  viii,  4),  i.e.  from 
about  1037-1017.  In  this  ease  David  transferred 
the  seat  of  government  to  Jerus  about  the  year 
1010,  and  the  complet  ion  of  the  erect  ion  of  the  temple 
of  Solomon  look  place  in  966.  But  this  basal  date 
of  937  is  not  accepted  as  correct  by  all  scholars. 
Klostermann  places  the  date  of  the  rupture  of  the 
kingdom  in  the  year  97S;  Koehler,  in  973.  For 
later  chronological  data,  Assyr  sources  are  an  im- 
portant factor.  The  Assyrians  were  accustomed 
to  call  each  year  after  the  name  of  an  official  (limu), 
and  eponym  lists  are  extant  for  228  years.  In 
these  reference  is  made  to  an  eclipse  of  the  sun, 
which  astronomically  has  been  set  1  led  as  having 
taken  place  on  July  15,  703.  We  have  in  this  list 
then  the  period  from  893  to  606.  On  this  basis, 
it  is  made  possible  to  determine  the  exact  dates  of 
the  different  military  expeditions  of  the  Assyr 
rulers  and  their  conflicts  with  the  kings  of  Judah 
and  Israel,  on  the  presupposition,  however,  that 
the  Assyr  inscriptions  here  used  really  speak  of 
these  kings,  which  in  a  number  of  cases  is  denied. 
Valuable  help  for  determining  the  chronology  of 
this  period  is  the  fall  of  Samaria  in  the  year  722" and 
the  expedition  of  Sennacherib  against  Jerus  in  701, 
and  then  the  fall  of  Jerus  in  587  and  586.  The 
distribution  of  the  years  between  these  dates  to 
the  individual  kings  is  in  places  doubtful,  as  the 
numbers  in  the  text  are  possibly  corrupt,  and  in  the 
synchronistic  data  of  the  Books  of  K  mistakes  may 
have  been  made. 

V.   Period  of  the   Separated  Kingdoms. — The 
two  separated   kingdoms  differed  materially.     The 

kingdom  of  Ephraim  was  the  more 
1.  Contrasts  powerful  of  the  two.  It  embraced, 
and  Vicis-  according  to  an  inaccurate  usage  of 
situdes  of  the  words,  1()  tribes;  and  to  this 
the  King-  kingdom  the  vassals,  such  as  Moab, 
doms  as    a    rule     remained     subject,     until 

they  emancipated  themselves.  But, 
on  the  other  hand,  this  Northern  Kingdom  was 
less  firm  spiritually.  Even  the  resident  city  of 
the  king   changed  frequently,  until  Omri  founded 


the  city  of  Samaria,  which  was  well  adapted  for 
this  purpose.  The  dynasties,  too,  were  oidy  of 
short  duration.  It,  occurred  but  rarely  that  one 
family  was  able  to  maintain  its  supremacy  on  the 
throne  through  several  generations.  A  revolu- 
tionary character  remained  fixed  in  this  kingdom 
and  became  its  permanent  weakness.  On  the  other 
hand,  the  smaller  and  often  overpowered  kingdom 
of  Judah,  which  faithfully  adhered  to  the  royal  line 
of  David,  passed  through  dangerous  crises  and  had 
many  unworthy  rulers.  But  the  legitimate  royal 
house,  which  had  been  selected  by  Jeh,  constituted 
spiritually  a  firm  bond,  which  kept  the  people 
united,  as  is  seen,  e.g.,  by  a  glance  at  the  addresses 
of  Isaiah,  who  is  thoroughly  filled  with  the  con- 
viction of  the  importance  of  the  house  of  David,  no 
matter  how  unworthy  the  king  who  happened  to 
rule  might  appear  to  him.  In  a  religious  respect, 
also,  the  arbitrary  break  with  Zion  proved  to  be  fatal 
for  ihe  Northern  Kingdom. 

Jeroboam. — It  is  true  that  faithful  prophets  of 
Jeh,  such  as  the  Abijah  of  Shiloh  mentioned  above, 

and  Shemaiah  (1  K  12  22  ff),  pro- 
2.  The  Sue-  claimed  that  the  fateful  division  of  the 
cessive  kingdom    was    a    Divinely    intended 

Reigns  judgment    from  Jeh.      But  they  soon 

were  compelled  to  reach  the  conclusion 
that  Jeroboam  did  not  regard  himself  as  a  servant 
of  Jeh,  but  as  a  sovereign  who,  through  his  own 
power  and  through  the  favor  of  the  people,  had 
secured  the  rule,  and  hence  could  arbitrarily  decide 
all  matters  in  reference  to  the  cultus  and  the  sacred 
sanctuaries  of  the  people.  According  to  his  own 
will,  and  for  political  reasons,  Ik;  established  the 
new  national  sanctuary  at  Bethel,  and  another  at 
Dan.  At  both  shrines  he  caused  Jeh  to  be  wor- 
shipped under  the  image  of  a  calf,  which  was  to 
const  it  ute  a  paganizing  opposition  to  the  Ark  of  the 
Covenant  on  Alt.  Zion,  even  if  it  was  the  idea  that 
Jeh,  the  God  of  the  Covenant,  was  to  be  worshipped 
in  these  new  images.  In  doing  this,  the  king  followed 
ancient  national  customs,  which  had  broken  with 
the  purity  of  the  Mosaic  religion  (concerning  image- 
worship  in  Dan  we  have  heard  before.  See  Golden 
Calf).  His  sojourn  in  Egypt,  too,  where  he  had 
lived  as  a  fugitive,  had  doubtless  furnished  the  king 
incentives  in  this  direction.  He  created  a  priest- 
hood that  was  submissive  to  his  wishes,  and  dis- 
regarded the  opposition  of  the  few  prophets  who 
protested  against  the  policy  of  the  king.  His  suc- 
cessors, too,  walked  "in  the  ways  of  Jeroboam." 
The  independent  prophets,  however,  did  not  die 
out,  but,  rather,  prophecy  developed  its  greatest 
act  ivit y  in  this  very  Northern  Kingdom.  As  a  rule, 
in  its  work  it  stood  in  opposition  to  the  government, 
but  at  times  it  succeeded  in  gaining  the  recognition 
of  the  rulers. 

Omri. — The  earliest  times  of  the  divided  king- 
doms are,  from  a  political  point  of  view,  character- 
ized by  the  fact  that  the  kingdoms  on  the  Euphrates 
and  the  Tigris,  namely  Assyria  and  Babylon,  still 
had  enough  to  do  with  themselves,  and  did  not  yet 
make  any  inroads  into  the  Mediterranean  lands;  but, 
rather,  it  was  the  Syrians  who  first  caused  a  good 
deal  of  trouble  to  the  Northern  Kingdom.  Jero- 
boam did  not  succeed  in  founding  a  dynasty. 
Already  his  son  Nadab  was  eliminated  by  a  usurper 
Baasha.  The  latter's  son  too,  Elah,  was  murdered, 
after  a  reign  of  two  years.  It  was  not,  however,  his 
murderer  Zimri,  or  Tibni,  who  strove  to  secure  the 
kingdom  for  himself,  but  Omri  who  became  king 
(1  K  16),  and  who  also  attained  to  such  prominence 
abroad  that  the  cuneiform  inscriptions  for  a  long 
t  ime  after  call  Israel  "the  land  of  Omri."  His  ability 
as  a  ruler  was  seen  in  the  fact  that  the  establish- 
ment of  Samaria  as  the  capital  city  was  his  work. 
The  inscription  on  the  Mesha  stone  reports  that  he 


1521 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Israel,  History  of 


also  established  the  sovereignty  of  Israel  vigorously 
on  the  east  side  of  the  Jordan. 

Ahab. — His  son  Ahab,  too,  was  an  energetic  and 
brave  ruler,  who  succeeded  in  gaining  a  number  of 
victories  over  the  Syrians,  who  were  now  beginning 
to  assume  the  offensive  in  a  determined  manner. 
Then,  too,  he  was  politic  enough  to  win  oven-  to  his 
interests  the  kingdom  of  Judah,  with  which  his 
predecessors  had  lived  in  almost  constant  warfare. 
In  this  policy  he  succeeded,  because  the  noble  and 
large-hearted  king  Jehoshaphat  was  more  receptive 
to  such  fraternal  relations  than  was  good  for  him. 
An  expedition  jointly  undertaken  by  these  two 
kings  against  Syria  brought  Jehoshaphat,  into  ex- 
treme danger  and  ended  with  the  death  of  Ahab. 

Ahab's  fate  was  his  wife  Jezebel,  the  daughter 
of  the  Phoen  king  Ethbaal  (Ithobal,  according  to 
Jos,  Ant,  VIII,  xiii,  2  and  CAp,  I,  18),  who  had 
been  a  priest  of  Astarte.  This  intermarriage  with 
a  fanatical  heathen  family  brought  untold  and  end- 
less misfortune  over  all  Israel.  This  bold  and 
scheming  woman  planned  nothing  less  than  the 
overthrow  of  the  religion  of  Jeh,  and  the  substi- 
tution for  it  of  the  Baal  and  the  Astarte  cultus.  As 
a  first  step  she  succeeded  in  having  the  king  tolerate 
this  religion.  The  leading  temple  in  the  new  resi- 
dent city,  Samaria,  was  dedicated  to  the  Baal 
cultus.  Already  this  introduction  of  a  strange  and 
lascivious  ethnic  religion  was  a  great  danger  to  the 
religion  and  the  morals  of  the  people.  Hosts  of 
Baal  priests,  ecstatic  dervishes,  traversed  the 
country.  Soon  the  queen  undertook  to  persecute 
the  faithful  worshippers  of  Jeh.  The  fact  1  hat  1  hese 
men  protested  against  the  tolerance  of  this  foreign 
false  religion  was  interpreted  as  disobedience  on 
their  part  to  the  king.  Many  faithful  prophets 
were  put  to  death.  At  this  critical  period,  when 
the  existence  of  the  religion  of  Jeh  was  at  stake, 
the  prophet  Elijah,  the  Tishbite,  appeared  on  the 
stage,  and  through  a  bitter  struggle  reestablished 
the  worship  of  Jeh.  However,  the  fateful  influence 
thai  this  woman  exerted  was  thereby  not  yet  de- 
stroyed.    It  extended  to  Judah  also. 

h'i  hoboam. — In  the  kingdom  of  Judah,  apart  from 
the  apostasy  of  different  tribes,  which  left  him  only 
the  vigorous  tribe  of  Judah  and  portions  of  Benja- 
min, Dan,  Simeon,  and  Levi,  Rehoboam  experienced 
also  other  calamities,  namely,  a  destructive  invasion 
and  tribute  imposition  by  King  Shishak  of  Egypt 
(Egyp  Sheshonk,  founder  of  the  XXIId  Dynasty; 
1  K  14  25  f;  cf  2  Ch  12  2ff).  While  under  Sol- 
omon the  relations  of  Israel  to  the  Egyp  court 
had  in  the  beginning  been  very  friendly,  this  was 
changed  when  a  new  dynasty  came  to  the  throne. 
After  Jeroboam  had  failed  in  his  first  revolutionary 
project,  he  had  found  refuge  at  the  court  of  Shishak 
(1  K  11  40).  It  is  possible  that  Jeroboam  made 
the  Egyp  king  lustful  for  the  treasures  of  Jerus. 
The  Egyptians  did  not,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  stop  at 
the  Ephraimitic  boundaries,  but  in  part  also  in- 
vaded the  territory  of  Jeroboam;  but  their  chief 
objective  was  Jerus,  from  which  they  carried  away 
the  treasures  that  had  been  gathered  by  Solomon. 
On  the  temple  wall  of  Karnak  this  Pharaoh  has 
inscribed  the  story  of  this  victory  and  booty.  From 
the  names  of  the  cities  found  in  this  inscription, 
we  learn  that  this  expedition  extended  as  far  as 
Megiddo  and  Taanach. 

Abijah. — Rehoboam  was  succeeded  by  his  son 
Abijah,  or  Abijahu,  according  to  Ch  (the  Abijam 
of  K  is  hardly  correct).  He  ruled  only  3  years. 
But  even  during  this  short  reign  Ik;  was  compelled 
to  engage  in  a  severe  struggle  with  Jeroboam  (1  K 
15  6;   see  details  in  2  Ch  13). 

Asa. — In  every  respect  the  reign  of  the  God- 
fearing Asa,  who  sought  to  destroy  the  heathenism 
that  had  found  its  way  into  the  cultus,  was  more 


fortunate.  He  also  experienced  Jeh's  wonderful 
help  when  the  Cushite  Zerah  made  an  incursion 
into  his  land  (2  Ch  14  8ff),  i.e.  probably  Osor- 
kon  I,  who,  however,  did  not  belong  to  an  Ethiopian 
dynasty.  Possibly  he  is  called  an  Ethiopian  be- 
cause he  came  into  the  country  with  Nubian  troops. 
Less  honorable  was  his  conduct  in  the  conflict  with 
Baasha.  When  he  was  sorely  pressed  by  the  latter 
he  bought,  through  the  payment  of  a  large  tribute, 
the  assistance  of  the  Syrian  king,  Ben-hadad  I,  who 
up  to  this  time  had  been  an  ally  of  Baasha.  This 
bribing  of  foreigners  to  fight  against  their  own 
covenant  people,  which  was  afterward  often  re- 
peated, was  rebuked  by  a  bold  prophet  in  the 
presence  of  the  pious  king,  but  the  prophet  was 
compelled  to  suffer  abuse  for  his  open  testimony 
(2  Ch  16  7ff). 

Jehoshaphat. — A  much  more  noble  conduct  charac- 
terized the  dealings  of  Jehoshaphat  in  relat  ion  to  the 
Northern  Kingdom.  His  fault  was  that  he  entered 
too  fully  into  the  selfish  offers  of  friendship  made  by 
Ahab.  The  worst  step  was  that,  in  order  to  confirm 
his  covenant,  he  took  for  his  son  Jehoram  as  wife, 
Athaliah,  the  daughter  of  Jezebel.  Jehoshaphat 
was  a  chivalrous  ally,  who  also  joined  Ahab's  son, 
Jehoram,  in  a  dangerous  war  against  the  Moabites; 
as  this  people  under  their  king  Mesha  had  made 
themselves  free  from  Israel  and  had  taken  the  offen- 
sive against  them.  For  the  inner  affairs  of  the  king- 
dom his  reign  was  more  fortunate.  He  was  a  God- 
fearing and  an  energetic  prince,  who  did  much  to 
elevate  the  people  in  a  material  and  a  religious  way 
and  perfected  its  political  organization.  Nor  did 
he  fail  to  secure  some  notewort  hy  successes.  How- 
ever, the  fact  that  the  warning  words  of  t  lie  prophets 
who  rebuked  him  because  of  his  alliance  with  the 
half-heathenish  house  of  Omri  were  not  the  fanati- 
cal exaggerations  of  pessimistic  seers,  appears  at 
once  after  his  death. 

Jehoram. — His  son  Jehoram,  after  the  manner 
of  oriental  despots,  at  once  caused  his  brothers  to  be 
put  to  death,  of  which  doubtless  his  wife  Athaliah 
wasthecause.  This  woman  transplanted  the  policy 
of  Jezebel  to  Judah,  and  was  scheming  for  the  down- 
fall of  the  house  of  David  and  it  s  sand  uary.  lTnder- 
Jehoram  the  power  of  Judah  accordingly  began  to. 
sink  rapidly.  Edom  became  independent.  The 
Philis  and  the  Arabians  sacked  Jerus.  Even  the 
royal  princes,  with  the  exception  of  Ahaziah,  the 
youngest  son  of  Athaliah,  were  expelled.  When  the 
latter  ascended  the  throne  she  had  the  absolute 
power  in  her  hands. 

Jehu. — During  this  time  the  judgment  over  the 
house  of  Omri  was  fast  approaching.  The  avenger 
came  in  the  person  of  the  impetuous  Jehu,  who  had 
been  anointed  king  by  one  of  the  disciples  of  Elisha 
in  the  camp  of  Ramoth  in  Gilead.  According  to 
1  K  19  16,  the  order  had  already  been  given  to 
Elijah  to  raise  this  man  to  the  throne;  but  the  com- 
pliance with  this  command  appears  to  have  been 
delayed.  As  soon  as  Jehu  became  aware  that  he 
was  entrusted  with  this  mission,  he  hastened  to 
Jezreel,  where  Ahaziah,  king  of  Judah,  was  just 
paying  a  visit  to  Jehoram,  and  slew  them  both. 
With  heartless  severity  he  extended  this  slaughter, 
not  only  to  all  the  members  of  the  house  of  Omri, 
together  with  Jezebel,  but  also  to  those  numerous 
members  of  the  Davidic  royal  house  who  fell  into 
his  hands.  He  likewise  destroyed  the  adherents  of 
Baal,  whom  he  had  invited  to  their  death  in  their 
sanctuary  at  Samaria.  Deserved  as  this  judgment 
upon  the  house  of  Jeroboam  was  (2  K  10  30), 
which  Jehu,  according  to  higher  command,  carried 
out,  he  did  this  in  an  unholy  mind  and  wit  h  hardness 
and  ambit ious_ purpose.  The  puritanical  Rechab- 
ites  had  sanctioned  his  action;  but  as  more  and 
more  the  true  character  of  Jehu  began  to  reveal 


Israel,  History  of  Till';  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1522 


itself,  lie  lost  the  sympathies  of  the  pious,  and  Hosea 
announced  to  his  house  t  he  vengeance  for  his  bloody 
crimes  at   Jczreel   (Hos  1    i)% 

The  Assyrians-  In  Jehu's  reign  occurred  the 
inroads  toward  (he  \Y.  on  the  part  of  the  Assyrians. 
This  people  already  in  the  time  of  Ahah,  under  their 
kinji,  Shalinaneser  II,  had  forced  their  way  as  far 
as  Karkar  on  the  Orontes,  and  had  there  fought  a 
battle  in  Sol  with  the  Syrians  and  their  allies,  among 
whom  Aliab  is  also  mentioned,  with  2,000  chariots 
and  10,001)  soldiers.  If  this  is  really  Ahab,  the 
kin^  of  Israel,  which  is  denied  by  .some,  then  he,  at 
that  time,  fought  against  Assyria  in  conjunction 
wit  h  the  Syrians,  who  otherwise  had  been  so  bitterly 
attacked  by  him.  The  Assyrians  boast  of  this  vic- 
tory, but  seem  to  have  won  it  at  a  heavy  price,  as 
they  did  not  press  on  farther  westward.  When  in 
842  Shalinaneser  came  a  second  time,  Jehu  was 
certainly  not  among  the  allies  of  the  Syrians.  The 
Assyrians  do  not  seem,  on  this  occasion,  to  have 
been  opposed  by  so  powerful  a  league,  and  were 
able  to  attack  the  Syrians  whom  they  conquered 
at  Sanlru  (Ilermon,  Anti-Lebanon)  in  a  much  more 
determined  manner.  They  laid  siege  to  Damascus 
and  laid  waste  the  surrounding  country.  The 
Hauran  and  Bashan  were  made  a  desert.  In  their 
inarch  of  victory  they  pressed  forward  as  far  as 
the  .Mediterranean.  Phoenicia  and  other  countries 
broughl  tribute.  Among  these  nations  Shal- 
inaneser expressly  mentions  Jahua  ("Jehu,  the  son 
of  <  hnri"  [!]),  who  was  compelled  to  deliver  up  gold 
and  silver  bars  and  other  valuable  possessions. 
But  this  expensive  homage  on  the  part  of  Jehu  did 
not  help  much.  Shalinaneser  came  only  once  more 
(839)  into  this  neighborhood.  After  this  the 
Assyrians  did  not  appear  again  for  a  period  of  35 
years.  All  the  more  vigorously  did  the  Syrians 
and  other  neighboring  people  make  onslaughts  on 
Israel.  How  fearfully  they  devasted  Israel  appears 
from  Am  1. 

Jchouhaz. — Under  his  son  Jehoahaz  the  weakness 
of  Israel  became  still  greater.  In  his  helplessness, 
the  Lord  finally  sent  him  a  deliverer  (2  K  13  3  ff). 
This  deliverer  was  none  other  than  the  Assyr  king, 
Adad-nirari  III  (812-783),  who,  through  a  military 
incursion,  had  secured  anew  his  supremacy  over 
Western  Asia,  and  had  besieged  the  king  of  Damas- 
cus and  had  forced  him  to  pay  an  immense  tribute. 
In  this  way  Israel,  which  had  voluntarily  rendered 
submission  to  him,  was  relieved  of  its  embarrass- 
ment by  the  weakening  of  Syria. 

Jehoash,  the  son  of  Jehoahaz,  experienced  more 
favorable  conditions.  He  also  conquered  Amaziah, 
the  king  of  Judah;  and  his  son,  Jeroboam  If,  even 
succeeded  in  restoring  the  old  boundaries  of  the 
kingdom,  as  the  prophet  Jonah  had  predicted  (2  K 
14  24  ff).  His  reign  was  the  last  flourishing  period 
of  the  kingdom  of  Ephraim.  See,  further,  Israel, 
Kingdom  of. 

Athaliah. — The  kingdom  of  Judah,  in  the  mean- 
while, had  passed  through  severe  crises.  The 
most  seven;  was  caused  by  that  Athaliah,  who, 
after  the  murder  of  her  son  Ahaziah  by  Jehu,  had 
secured  absolute  control  in  Jerus,  and  had  abused 
this  power  in  order  to  root  out  the  family  of  David. 
Only  one  son  of  the  king,  Joash,  escaped  with  his 
life.  He,  a  boy  of  one  year,  was  hidden  in  the 
temple  by  a  relative,  where  the  high  priest  Jehoiada, 
who  belonged  to  the  party  opposed  to  the  heathen- 
minded  queen,  concealed  him  for  a  period  of  6  years. 
When  the  boy  was  7  years  old  Jehoiada,  at  a  well- 
timed  moment,  proclaimed  him  kin^.  His  eleva- 
tion to  the  throne,  in  connection  with  which  event 
the  terrible  Athaliah  was  put  to  death,  introduced 
at  the  same  time  an  energetic  reaction  against  the 
heathendom  that  had  found  its  way  even  into  Judah, 
and  which  the  queen  had   in  every  way  favored. 


Joash  was  predestined  to  be  a  theocratic  king.  And, 
in  reality,  in  the  beginning  of  his  reign  of  40  years, 
he  went  hand  in  hand  with  the  priests  and  the 
prophets  of  Jeh.  After  Jehoiada's  death,  however, 
lie  tolerated  idolatrous  worship  among  the  princes 
(2  Ch  24  17  ff),  and  by  doing  so  came  into  con- 
flict with  the  faithful  prophet  Zeehariah,  the  son  of 
his  benefactor  Jehoiada,  who  rebuked  him  for  his 
wrong,  and  was  even  stoned.  A  just,  punishment 
for  1  his  guilt  was  recognized  in  the  misfortune  which 
overtook  the  king  and  his  country.  The  Syrian 
king,  Hazael,  when  he  was  engaged  in  an  expedi- 
tion against,  Gath,  also  took  possession  of  Jerus  and 
made  it  pay  tribute,  after  having  apparently  in- 
flicted a  severe  defeat  on  the  people  of  Judah,  on 
which  occasion  many  princes  fell  in  the  battle  and 
Joash  himself  was  severely  wounded.  Toward  the 
end  of  his  reign  there  was  also  much  dissatisfac- 
tion among  his  subjects,  and  some  of  his  courtiers 
finally  murdered  him  (2  K  12  20  f). 

Amaziah. — However,  his  son  Amaziah,  who  now 
ascended  the  throne,  punished  the  murderers.  The 
king  was  successful  in  war  against,  the  Edomites. 
This  made  him  bold.  He  ventured  to  meet,  Joash, 
the  king  of  Israel,  in  battle  and  was  defeated  and 
captured.  The  people  of  Judah  suffered  the  deepest 
humiliation.  A  large  portion  of  the  walls  of  Jerus 
was  torn  down  (2  K  14  11  ff).  Amaziah  did  not 
feel  himself  safe  even  in  his  own  capital  city,  be- 
cause of  the  dissatisfaction  of  his  own  subjects,  and 
he  fled  to  Lachish.  Hen;  he  was  murdered.  So 
deej)  had  Judah  fallen,  while  Jeroboam  II  succeeded 
in  raising  his  kingdom  to  an  unthought-of  power. 

Uzziah. — But  for  Judah  a  turn  for  the  better 
soon  set  in  under  Uzziah,  the  same  as  Azariah  in 
K,  the  son  of  Amaziah,  who  enjoyed  a  long  and 
prosperous  reign. 

Prosperous  as  Israel  outwardly  appeared  to  be  dur- 
ing the  reigns  of  these  two  kings,  Jeroboam  II  and 
Uzziah,  the  religious  and  moral  condi- 
3.  The  tions  of  the  people  were  just,  as  little 

Literary  satisfactory.     This    is    the    testimony 

Prophets  of  the  prophets  Amos  and  Hosea,  as 
also  of  Isaiah  and  Micah,  who  not 
much  later  began  their  active  ministry  in  Judah. 
It  is  indeed  true  that  these  were  not  the  first  prophets 
to  put  into  written  form  some  of  their  prophetic 
utterances.  The  prophecies  of  Obadiah  and  Joel 
are  by  many  put  at  an  earlier  date,  namely  Obadiah 
under  Jehoram  in  Judah,  and  Joel  under  Joash  in 
Judah.  At  any  rate,  the  discourses  of  the  prophets 
from  this  time  on  constitute  an  important  con- 
temporaneous historical  source.  They  illustrate 
esp.  the  spiritual  condition  of  the  nation.  Through- 
out these  writings  complaints  are  made  concerning 
the  heathen  superstitions  and  the  godless  cult  us  of 
the  people,  and  esp.  the  corruption  in  the  admin- 
istration of  the  laws,  oppression  of  the  poor  and  the 
helpless  by  the  rich  and  the  powerful,  and  pride 
and  luxury  of  all  kinds.  In  all  these  things  the 
prophets  see  a  terrible  apostasy  on  Israel's  part. 
But  also  the  foreign  policy  of  the  different  kings, 
who  sought  help,  now  of  the  one  and  then  of  the 
other  of  the  world-powers  (Egypt,  Assyria),  and 
tried  to  buy  the  favor  of  these  nations,  the  prophets 
regarded  as  adultery  with  foreign  nations  and  as 
infidelity  toward  Jeh.  As  a  punishment  they  an- 
nounced, since  all  other  misfortunes  sent  upon  them 
had  been  of  no  avail,  an  invasion  through  a  con- 
queror, whom  Amos  and  Hosea  always  indicate 
shall  be  Assyria,  and  also  deportations  of  the  people 
into  a  heathen  land,  and  an  end  of  the  Jewish  state. 
Improbable  as  these  threats  may  have  seemed  to 
the  self-satisfied  inhabitants  of  Samaria,  they  were 
speedily  realized. 

Successors  of  Jeroboam  IT. — After  the  death  of 
Jeroboam,  the  strength  of  the  Northern  Kingdom 


1523 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Israel,  History  of 


collapsed.  His  son  Zechariah  was  able  to  maintain 
the  throne  for  only  6  months,  and  his  murderer 
Shallum  only  one  month.  The  general  Menahem, 
who  put  him  out  of  the  way,  maintained  himself  as 
king  for  10  years,  but  only  by  paying  a  heavy 
tribute  to  the  Assyr  ruler  Pul,  i.e.  Tiglath-pileser 
III,  who  ruled  from  745-727  (cf  2  K  15  19  f). 

Pekah. — His  son  Pekahiah,  on  the  other  hand, 
soon  fell  by  the  hands  of  the  murderer  Pekah  (2  K 
15  25),  who  allied  himself  with  .Syria  against  Judah. 
The  latter,  however,  invited  the  Assyrians  to  come 
into  the  country;  and  these,  entering  in  the  year 
734  BC,  put  an  end  to  the  reign  of  this  usurper, 
although  he  was  actually  put  to  death  as  late  as  730 
BC. 

Hoshea. — The  last  king  of  the  Northern  Kingdom, 
Hoshea  (730-722  BC),  had  the  Assyrians  to  thank 
for  his  throne;  but  he  did  not  keep  his  fidelity  as  a 
vassal  very  long.  As  soon  as  Tiglath-pileser  was 
dead,  he  tried  to  throw  off  the  Assyr  yoke.  But 
his  successor  Shahnaneser  IV  (727-723  BC),  who 
already  in  the  first  year  of  his  reign  had  again 
subdued  the  rebellious  king  Elulaios  of  Syria, 
soon  compelled  Hoshea  also  to  submit  to  his 
authority.  Two  years  later  Hoshea  again  joined 
a  conspiracy  with  the  Phoenicians  against  Assyria, 
in  which  they  even  counted  on  the  help  of  theEgyp 
king,  who  in  the  Bible  is  called  So  or  Seve  (Egyp 
name  is  Shabaka).  Now  the  Assyrians  lost  all 
patience.  They  at  once  came  with  their  armies. 
Hoshea  seems  to  have  voluntarily  submitted  to  the 
power  of  the  Great  King,  who  then  made  him  a 
captive.  The  people,  however,  continued  the 
struggle.  Samaria,  the  capital  city,  was  besieged, 
but  did  not  fall  until  the  3d  year  (722  BC)  into  the 
hands  of  the  enemy.  Shahnaneser,  in  the  mean- 
while, had  died  and  Sargon  II  had  become  his  suc- 
cessor. The  city  was  indeed  not  destroyed,  but  a 
large  portion  of  the  inhabitants,  esp.  the  leaders, 
were  deported  ami  transplanted  to  Northern  Meso- 
potamia and  to  Media.  Sargon  states  that  the 
number  of  deported  Israelites  was  27,290.  Promi- 
nent persons  from  other  cities  were  also  doubtless 
to  be  included  in  those  deported.  On  the  other 
hand,  the  Assyr  king  settled  Bab  and  Syrian  prison- 
ers of  war  in  Samaria  (721  BC),  and  in  the  year  715 
BC,  Arabs  also.  But  the  country,  to  a  great  extent, 
continued  in  a  state  of  desolation,  so  that  Esar- 
haddon  (680-668  BC)  and  Ashurbanipal  (667-626 
BC)  sent  new  colonists  there,  the  last  mentioned 
sending  them  from  Babylonia,  Persia  and  Media 
(cf  2  K  17  24  ff).  In  these  verses  the  Bab  city 
of  Cut  hah  is  several  times  mentioned,  on  account 
of  which  city  the  Jews  afterward  called  the  Samari- 
tans Cuthites.  This  report  also  makes  mention 
of  the  religious  syncretism,  which  of  necessity  re- 
sulted from  the  mixture  of  the  people.  But  we 
must  be  careful  not  to  place  at  too  small  figures  the 
number  of  Israelites  who  remained  in  the  country. 
It  is  a  great  exaggeration  when  it  is  claimed,  as  it 
is  by  Friedrich  Delitzsch,  that  the  great  bulk  of  the 
inhabitants  of  the  country  of  Samaria,  or  even  of 
Galilee,  was  from  this  time  on  Babylonian. 

Uzziah  and  Jotham. — The  kingdom  of  Judah, 
however,  outlived  the  danger  from  Assyria.  As 
King  Uzziah  later  in  his  life  suffered  from  leprosy, 
he  had  Jotham  as  a  co-regent  during  this  period. 
The  earliest  discourses  of  Isaiah,  which  belong  to 
this  period  (Isa  2  4,  5),  show  that  in  Jerus  the 
people  were  at  that  time  still  enjoying  the  fruits 
and  prosperity  of  a  long  period  of  peace.  But 
immediately  after  the  death  of  Jotham,  when  the 
youthful  Ahaz  began  to  rule,  the  onslaught  of  the 
allied  Syrians  and  Ephraimites  took  place  under 
Rezin,  or  better  Rezon,  ami  Pekah.  This  alliance 
purposed  to  put  an  end  to  the  Davidic  reign  in 
Jerus,   probably   for   the   purpose   of   making   this 


people,  too,  a  member  of  the  league  against  the  dan- 
gerous Assyrians.  The  good-sized  army  of  Judah 
seems  to  have;  fallen  a  victim  to  the  superior  power 
of  the  allies  before  the  situation  described  in  Isa  7 
could  be  realized,  in  which  the  siege  of  the  city 
is  described  as  already  imminent.  The  Edomites 
also  at  that  time  advanced  against  Judah.  Elath, 
the  harbor  city  on  the  Red  Sea,  from  which  Uzziah, 
too,  as  had  been  done  by  Solomon  long  before,  sent 
out  trading  vessels,  at  that  time  came  into  their 
power.  For  2  K  16  6  probably  speaks  of  Edom 
and  not  of  Aram  (cf  2  Ch  28  it).  In  his  anxiety, 
Ahaz,  notwithstanding  the  advice  of  Isaiah  to  the 
contrary,  them  appealed  to  the  king  of  Assyria,  and 
the  latter  actually  put  in  his  appearance  in  734  BC 
and  overcame  the  power  of  Syria  and  Ephraim,  as 
we  have  seen  above.  However,  the  intervention 
of  this  world-power  brought  no  benefit  to  Judah. 
Without  this  disgraceful  appeal  to  a  heathen  ruler, 
Jeh,  according  to  the  promise  of  Isaiah,  would 
have  protected  Jerus,  if  Ahaz  had  only  believed. 
And  the  Assyrians  did  not  prevent  the  Philis  and 
the  Edomites  from  falling  upon  Judah.  The 
Assyrians  themselves  soon  came  to  be  the  greatest 
danger  threatening  Judah.  Ahaz,  however,  was  an 
unstable  character  in  religious  affairs,  and  he  copied 
heathen  forms  of  worship,  and  even  sacrificed  his 
son  to  the  angry  sun-god,  in  order  to  gain  his  favor. 
The  tribute  that  the  people  had  to  pay  to  Assyria 
was  already  a  heavy  burden  on  this  little  kingdom. 
Hezekiah. — His  noble  and  God-fearing  son, 
Hezekiah  (724-090  BC),  was  also  compelled  to 
suffer  from  the  consequences  of  this  misgovemment. 
The  temptation  was  great  to  enter  into  an  alliance 
with  his  neighbors  and  the  Egyptians,  so  strong  in 
cavalry,  for  the  purpose  of  ridding  Judah  of  the 
burdensome  yoke  of  the  Assyrians.  In  vain  did 
Isaiah  warn  against  such  unworthy  self-help.  At 
the  advice  of  the  ministers  of  Hezekiah,  and  because 
of  the  trust  put  in  Egypt,  the  tribute  was  finally 
refused  to  the  Assyrians.  Hezekiah  also  sought 
to  establish  closer  connections  with  Merodach- 
baladan,  the  king  of  Babylon  and  the  enemy  of  the 
Assyrians,  when  the  latter,  after  a  dangerous  sick- 
ness of  the  king,  had  sent  messengers  to  Jerus  in 
order  to  congratulate  him  on  the  restoration  of  his 
health.  This  story,  found  in  2  K  20,  belongs 
chronologically  before  2  K  18  13  ff,  and,  more  accu- 
rately, in  the  14th  year  of  Hezekiah  mentioned  in 
18  13.  However,  the  expedition  of  Sennacherib 
which  is  mistakenly  placed  in  that  year,  took  place 
several  years  later:  according  to  the  Assyr  monu- 
ments, in  the  year  701  BC. 

Sennacherib. — In  the  year  702  BC  Sennacherib, 
with  a  powerful  army,  marched  over  the  Lebanon 
and  subdued  the  rebellious  Phoenicians,  and 
marched  along  the  seacoast  to  Philistia.  The  in- 
habitants of  Ekron  had  sent,  their  king,  Padi,  who 
sympathized  with  the  Assyrians,  to  Hezekiah. 
Sennacherib  came  to  punish  Ekron  and  Ascalon. 
But  he  was  particularly  anxious  to  overpower 
Judah,  which  country  his  troops  devastated  and 
depopulated.  Now  Hezekiah  recognized  his  dan- 
ger, and  offered  to  submit  to  Sennacherib.  The 
latter  accepted  his  submission  conditionally  on  the 
payment  of  a  burdensome  tribute,  which  Hezekiah 
delivered  faithfully  (2  K  18  14-16).  Then  Sen- 
nacherib was  no  longer  satisfied  with  the  tribute 
alone,  but  sent  troops  who  were  to  despoil  Jerus. 
Isaiah,  who  surely  had  not  sanctioned  the  falling 
away  from  the  Assyr  supremacy  and  had  prophe- 
sied that  the  inhabitants  of  Jerus  would  suffer  a 
severe  punishment,  from  that  moment,  when  the 
conqueror  had  maliciously  broken  his  word,  spoke 
words  of  comfort  and  advised  against  giving  up  the 
city,  no  matter  how  desperate  the  situation  seemed 
to  be  (Isa  37  1  IT).     The  city  was  then  not  given 


Israel,  History  of  THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1524 


up,  and  Sennacherib,  on  account  of  a  number  of 
things  that  occurred,  and  finally  because  of  a  pesti- 
lence which  broke  out  in  his  army,  was  compelled 
to  retreat.  He  did  not  return  to  Jerus,  and  later 
met  his  death  by  violent  hands.  This  deliverance  of 
Jerus  through  the  miraculous  providence  of  Cod 
was  the  greatest  triumph  of  the  prophet  Isaiah. 
Within  his  kingdom  Hezekiah  ruled  successfully. 
He  also  purified  the  cultus  from  the  heathen  influ- 
ences that  had  forced  their  way  into  it,  and  w:is 
a  predecessor  of  Josiah  in  the  abolition  of  the  sacri- 
fices on  the  high  places,  which  had  been  corrupted 
by  these  influences. 

Manassvli.— I  nfortunately,  his  son  Manasseh 
was  little  worthy  of  succeeding  him.  He,  in  every 
way,  favored  the  idolatry  which  all  along  had  been 
growing  secretly.  He  inaugurated  bloody  perse- 
cutions of  the  faithful  prophets  of  Jeh.  According 
to  a  tradition,  which  it  must  be  confessed  is  not 
supported  by  undoubted  testimony,  Isaiah  also, 
now  an  old  man,  became  a  victim  of  these  perse- 
cutions. Images  and  altars  were  openly  erected  to 
Baal  and  Astarte.  Even  in  the  temple-house  on 
Mt.  Zion,  an  image  of  Astarte  was  standing.  As 
a  result  of  this  ethnic  cultus,  immorality  and  sen- 
sualitv  found  their  way  among  the  people.  At  the 
same  time  the  terrible  service  of  Moloch,  in  the 
valley  of  Hinnom,  demanded  the  sacrifice  of  chil- 
dren,  and  even  a  son  of  the  king  was  given  over  to 
this  worship.  The  Book  of  Ch,  indeed,  tells  the 
story  of  a  terrible  affliction  that  Manasseh  suffered, 
namely  that  an  Assyr  general  dragged  him  in  chains 
to  Babylon  for  having  violated  his  promises  to 
them,  but  that  he  was  soon  released.  This  is  not 
at  all  incredible.  He  seems  to  have  taken  part  in 
a  rebellion,  which  the  brother  of  the  Assyr  king, 
who  was  also  vice-king  in  Babylon,  had  inaugu- 
rated. This  sad  experience  may  have  forced  Ma- 
nasseh to  a  certain  kind  of  repentance,  at  least, 
so  that  he  desisted  from  his  worst  sacrileges.  But 
his  son  Amon  continued  the  old  ways  of  his  father, 
until  after  a  brief  reign  he  was  put  to  death. 

Josiah. — Much  more  promising  was  his  young  son 
Josiah,  who  now,  only  8  years  old,  came  to  the 
throne.  It  is  quite  possible  that,  in  view  of  such 
frequent  changes  in  the  disposition  of  the  successors 
to  the  throne,  his  mother  may  have  had  great  in- 
fluence on  his  character.  Concerning  Josiah,  see 
2  K  22  1  ff.  With  increasing  clearness  and  con- 
sistency, he  proceeded  to  the  work  of  religious 
reformation.  A  special  impetus  to  this  was  given 
by  the  finding  of  an  old  law  book  in  the  temple,  the 
publication  of  which  for  the  first  time  revealed  the 
fearful  apostasy  of  the  times.  The  finding  of  this 
book  in  the  temple,  as  narrated  in  2  K  22  3  ff ,  took 
place  in  connection  with  the  restoration  of  that 
building  on  a  larger  scale,  which  at  that  time  had 
been  undertaken.  And  very  probably  Edouard 
Naville  is  right  in  believing,  on  the  basis  of  Egyp 
analogies,  that  this  document  had  been  imbedded 
in  the  foundation  walls  of  the  building.  WThether 
this  had  been  done  already  in  the  days  of  Solomon 
is  not  determined  by  this  fact.  From  the  orders 
of  Josiah  we  can  conclude  that  the  book  which  was 
found  was  Dt,  wdiich  lays  special  stress  on  the  fact 
that  there  shall  be  a  central  place  for  the  cultus,  and 
also  contains  such  threats  as  those  must  have  been 
which  frightened  Josiah.  But  under  no  circum- 
stances was  Dt  a  lawbook  that  had  first  been  written 
at  this  time,  or  a  fabrication  of  the  priest  Hilkiah 
and  his  helpers.  It  would  rather  have  been  possible 
that  the  discovered  old  law  was  rewritten  in  changed 
form  after  its  discovery  and  had  been  adapted  to 
the  language  of  the  times.  The  people  were  obliged 
to  obey  the  newly  discovered  law  and  were  in- 
structed in  it. 

Jeremiah. — The  prophet  Jeremiah  also,  who  a 


few  years  before  this  had  been  called  to  the  pro- 
phetic office,  according  to  certain  data  in  the  text, 
participated  in  this  proclamation  of  the  law  of  the 
covenant  throughout  the  land.  This  change  for 
the  better  did  not  change  the  tendency  of  his  pro- 
phetic discourses,  from  what  these  had  been  from 
the  beginning.  He  continued  .'to  be  the  accuser 
and  the  prophet  of  judgment,  whft>  declared  that  the 
destruction  of  the  city  and  of  the  temple  was  near 
at  hand.  He  looked  too  deeply  into  the  inner  cor- 
ruption of  his  people  to  be  misled  by  the  external 
transformation  that  was  the  result  of  a  command 
of  the  ruler.  And  only  too  soon  did  the  course  of 
events  justify  his  prediction.  With  the  person  of 
the  God-fearing  Josiah,  the  devotion  of  the  people 
to  the  law  was  also  buried  and  the  old  curse  every- 
where broke  out  again. 

The  Chaldaeans. — In  a  formal  way  Jeremiah  was 
probably  influenced  by  the  incursions  of  the  Scyth- 
ians, which  occurred  during  his  youth,  and  who 
about  this  time  marched  from  the  plain  of  Jezreel 
toward  Egypt  (cf  Herodotus  i.103  ff) ;  which  event 
also  made  a  gloomy  impression  on  his  contemporary 
Ezekiel,  as  appears  from  his  vision  of  Gog  in  the 
land  of  Magog.  However,  we  are  not  to  suppose 
that  Jeremiah,  when  describing  the  enemy  coming 
from  the  north,  whom  he  saw  from  the  time  of  his 
call  to  the  prophetic  office,  meant  merely  this  band 
of  freebooters.  The  prophet  had  in  mind  a  world- 
power  after  the  type  of  the  Assyrians,  who  always 
came  from  the  north  into  Canaan.  The  Assyrians 
indeed  were  in  process  of  disintegration,  and  Nine- 
veh fell  under  the  attacks  of  the  Medes  and  the 
Persians  in  the  year  607-606  BC.  The  heir  of  the 
Assyr  power  was  not  Egypt,  wdiich  was  also  striving 
for  universal  supremacy,  but  was  the  Babylonian, 
or  rather,  more  accurately,  the  Chaldaean  dynasty 
of  Nabopolassar,  whose  son  Nebuchadnezzar  had 
overpowered  the  Egyptians  at  Carchemish  in  605 
BC.  From  this  time  on  Jeremiah  had  pointed  out 
the  Chaldaeans  and  Nebuchadnezzar,  who  soon 
afterward  became  their  king,  as  the  agents  to  carry 
out  the  judgment  on  Jerus. 

Already  a  few  years  before  this  Judah's  good  star 
had  gone  dowm  on  the  horizon.  When  Pharaoh- 
necho  II  came  to  Pal  by  the  sea  route,  in  order  to 
march  northeast  through  the  plain  of  Jezreel,  to 
give  the  final  and  fatal  blow  to  the  sinking  kingdom 
of  the  Assyrians,  King  Josiah  opposed  him  on  the 
plain  of  Megiddo,  probably  because  of  his  obliga- 
tions as  a  vassal  to  the  king  of  Assyria.  In  the 
battle  of  Megiddo  (609  BC),  Josiah  was  mortally 
wounded.  No  greater  calamity  could  have  be- 
fallen Judah  than  the  death  of  this  king,  who  was 
deeply  mourned  by  all  well-meaning  people,  and 
who  was  the  last  of  the  house  of  David  that  was  a 
credit  to  it. 

The  successors  of  Josiah— By  popular  election 
the  choice  now  fell  on  Jehoahaz,  a  younger  son  of 
Josiah,  called  by  Jeremiah  (22  11)  Shallum.  But 
he  found  no  favor  with  Necho,  who  took  him  pris- 
oner in  his  camp  at  Riblah  and  carried  him  to 
Egypt  (2  K  23  30  ff).  The  Egyp  king  himself 
selected  Jehoiakim,  hitherto  called  Ehakim,  an 
older  son  of  Josiah,  who  had  been  ignored  by  the 
people,  to  be  king  in  Jerus,  a  prince  untrue  to  Jeh, 
conceited,  luxury-loving  and  hard-hearted,  who,  in 
addition,  through  his  perfidious  policy,  brought 
calamity  upon  the  land.  He  formed  a  conspiracy 
against  Nebuchadnezzar,  to  whom  he  had  begun 
to  pay  tribute  in  the  5th  year  of  his  reign,  and  in 
this  way  brought  it  about  that  the  Syrians,  the 
Moabites  and  the  Ammonites,  who  had  taken  sides 
with  the  Assyrians,  devastated  the  land  of  Judah, 
and  that  finally  the  king  of  Babylon  himself  came 
to  Jerus  to  take  revenge.  It  is  not  clear  what 
was  the  end    of    this    king.     According   to  2  Ch 


1525 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Israel,  History  of 


36  6,  compared  with  2  K  24  6,  lie  seems  to  have 
died  while  yet  in  Jerus,  and  after  he  had  already 
fallen  into  the  hands  of  his  enemies.  His  son 
Jehoiachin  did  not,  experience  a  much  better  fate. 
After  ruling  three  months  he  was  taken  to  Babylon, 
where  lie  was  a  prisoner  for  37  years,  until  he  was 
pardoned  (2K  24  8  ff ;  25  27  if; .  Together  with 
Jehoiachin,  the  best  portion  of  the  inhabitants  of 
Jerus,  about  10,000  men,  esp.  the  smiths  and  the 
builders,  were  deported. 

Zedekiah,  the  last  king  of  Judah. — Once  more  the 
Babylonians  set  up  a  king  in  Jerus  in  the  person  of 
Zedekiah,  an  uncle  of  Jehoiachin,  and  accordingly 
a  son  of  Josiah,  called  Mattaniah,  who  afterward 
was  called  Zedekiah.  He  governed  for  twelve 
years  (597-586  BC),  and  by  his  life,  morally  and 
religiously  corrupt,  sealed  the  fate  of  the  house  and 
of  the  kingdom  of  David.  The  better  class  among 
the  leading  and  prominent  people  had  been  ban- 
ished. As  a  result,  the  courtiers  of  the  king  urged 
him  to  try  once  again  some  treacherous  schemes 
against  the  Bab  rulers  and  to  join  Egypt  in  a  con- 
spiracy against  them.  However  earnest  ly  Jeremiah 
and  Ezekiel  warned  against  this  policy,  Zedekiah 
nevertheless  constantly  yielded  to  his  evil  advisers 
and  to  the  warlike  patriotic  party,  who  were  de- 
termined to  win  back  in  battle  the  independence  of 
the  country.  While  he  at  first,  through  an  embassy, 
had  assured  the  Great  King  of  his  loyalty  (Jer  29 
3),  and  still  in  the  4th  year  of  his  reign  had  person- 
ally visited  in  Babylon  as  a  mark  of  his  fidelity  (Jer 
51  59),  he  was  induced  in  the  9th  year  of  his  reign 
to  make  an  alliance  with  the  Egyptians  against  the 
Babylonians  and  to  refuse  to  render  obedience  to 
the  latter.  Nebuchadnezzar  soon  came  and  sur- 
rounded the  city.  At  the  announcement  that  an 
Egyp  army  was  approaching,  the  siege  was  again 
raised  for  a  short  time.  But  the  hope  placed  by 
Zedekiah  on  his  ally  failed  him.  The  Babylonians 
began  again  to  starve  out  the  city.  After  a  siege 
of  18  months,  resistance  proved  futile.  The  king 
tried  secretly  to  break  through  the  circle  of  be- 
siegers, but  in  doing  so  was  taken  prisoner,  was 
blinded  by  the  Bab  king  and  taken  to  Babylon.  The 
majority  of  the  prominent  men  and  state  officials, 
who  were  taken  to  the  encampment  of  the  con- 
queror in  Riblah,  were  put  to  death.  The  con- 
quered city  of  Jerus,  esp.  its  walls  and  towers, 
together  with  the  temple,  were  totally  destroyed. 
Nearly  all  the  inhabitants  who  could  be  captured 
after  the  slaughter  were  dragged  into  captivity, 
and  only  people  of  the  lower  classes  were  left  be- 
hind in  order  to  cultivate  the  land  (2  K  25  11). 
Gedaliah,  a  noble-minded  aristocrat,  was  appointed 
governor  of  the  city,  and  took  up  his  residence  in 
Mizpah.  At  this  place  it  seemed  that  a  new  kernel 
of  the  people  was  being  gathered.  Jeremiah  also 
went  there.  However,  after  two  months  this  good 
beginning  came  to  an  end.  Gedaliah  was  slain  by 
Ishmael,  the  son  of  Nethaniah,  an  anti-Chaldaean, 
a  fanatical  and  revengeful  descendant  of  the  house 
of  David.  The  murderer  acted  in  cooperation  with 
certain  Ammonitish  associates  and  fled  to  the  king 
of  Amnion.  The  Jews  in  later  times  considered  the 
murder  of  Gedaliah  as  an  especially  great  national 
calamity,  and  fasted  on  the  anniversary  of  this 
crime.  And  as  the  people  also  feared  the  revenge 
of  the  Babylonians,  many  migrated  to  Egypt,  com- 
pelling Jeremiah,  now  an  old  man,  to  accompany 
them,  although  he  prophesied  to  them  that  no  good 
would  come  of  this  scheme.  They  first  stayed  at 
the  border  city  Tahpanhes,  near  Pelusium,  and  then 
scattered  over  Upper  and  Lower  Egypt. 

VI.  Time  of  the  Babylonian  Exile. — The  in- 
habitants of  Judah,  who  had  been  deported  by 
Nebuchadnezzar  at  different  times,  were  settled  by 
him  in  Babylonia,  e.g.  at  the  river  Chebar  (Ezk 


1   1),  near  the  city  of  Nippur.     From  Hilprecht's 
excavations  of  this  city,  it  has  been  learned  that 

this  river,  or  branch  of  the  Euphrates 
1.  Influence  river,  is  to  be  found  at  this  place,  and 
of  the  is  not  to  be  confounded  with  the  river 

Exile  Chaboras.     In  the  same  way,  the  many 

contract-tablets  with  Jewish  names 
which  have  been  found  at  Nippur,  show  that  a  large 
Jewish  colony  lived  at  that  place.  Of  the  fate  of 
these  banished  Jews  for  a  period  of  50  years,  we 
hear  almost  nothing.  But  it  is  possible  to  learn 
what  their  condition  was  in  exile  from  the  Book  of 
Ezk  and  the  2d  part  of  Isa.  Land  was  assigned  to 
them  here,  and  they  were  permitted  to  build  houses 
for  themselves  (Jer  29  5  ff),  and  could  travel 
around  this  district  without  restraint.  They  wen; 
not  prisoners  in  the  narrow  sense  of  the  word. 
They  soon,  through  diligence  and  skill  in  trade, 
attained  to  considerable  wealth,  so  that  most  of 
them,  after  the  lapse  of  half  a  century,  were  perfect  ly 
satisfied  and  felt  no  desire  to  return  home.  For 
the  spiritual  development  of  the  people  the  exile 
proved  to  be  a  period  of  great  importance.  In  the 
first  place,  they  were  separated  from  their  native 
soil,  and  in  this  way  from  many  temptations  of 
heathenism  and  idolatry,  and  the  like.  The  terrible 
judgment  that  had  come  over  Jerus  had  proved 
that  the  prophets  had  been  right,  who  had  for  a 
long  time,  but  in  vain,  preached  genuine  repentance. 
This  did  not  prove  to  be  without  fruit  (cf  Zee  1  6). 
While  living  in  the  heathen  land,  they  naturally 
became  acquainted  with  heathendom  in  a  more 
crass  form.  But  even  if  many  of  the  Jews  were 
defiled  by  it,  in  general  the  relations  of  the  Israel- 
ites toward  the  idol-worshipping  Babylonians  were 
antagonistic,  and  they  became  all  the  more  zeal- 
ous in  the  observance  of  those  religious  rites  which 
could  be  practised  in  a  foreign  land,  such  as  rest 
on  the  Sabbath  day,  the  use  of  meats,  circumcision, 
and  others.  But  with  marked  zeal  the  people 
turned  to  the  spiritual  storehouse  of  their  traditions, 
namely  their  sacred  literature.  They  collected  the 
laws,  the  history,  the  hymns,  and  treasured  them. 
It  was  also  a  noteworthy  progress  that  such  prophets 
as  Ezekiel,  Jeremiah  and  Daniel  received  prophetic 
visions  while  on  heathen  soil.  The  people  also 
learned  that  the  heathen,  in  the  midst  of  whom 
they  lived,  became  receptive  of  the  higher  truths  of 
Israel's  religion.  Esp.  does  the  2d  part  of  Isa,  ehs 
40-66,  show  that  they  began  to  understand  the 
missionary  calling  of  Israel  among  the  nations  of  the 
world. 

The  Book  of  Dnl  reports  how  a  God-fearing  and 

law-abiding  Jew,  through  his  prophecies,  attained 

to  prominent  positions  of  influence  at 

2.  Daniel      the  courts  of  different  rulers.     From 

the  Book  of  Ezk  we  learn  that  the 
prophets  and  the  elders  cared  for  the  spiritual  wants 
of  the  people,  and  that  they  held  meetings,  at  which 
indeed  it  was  not  permitted  to  offer  sacrifices,  but 
at  which  the  word  of  Jeh  was  proclaimed.  Here 
we  find  the  beginnings  of  what  afterward  was  the 
synagogue-system. 

A  remarkable  picture  of  the  Jewish  diaspora  in 

Upper  Egypt  is  furnished  by  recently  discovered 

papyri  at  Elephantine.     From  these  it 

3.  Ele-  appears  that  in  the  6th  cent.  BC,  not 
phantine  only  a  large  and  flourishing  Jewish 
Papyri  colony  was  to  be  found  at  this  place, 

but  also  that  they  had  erected  here  a 
fine  temple  to  Jeh  where  they  brought  their  sacrifices 
to  which  they  had  been  accustomed  at  home.  In 
an  Aram,  letter,  still  preserved  and  dating  from  the 
year  411  BC,  and  which  is  addressed  to  the  governor 
Bagohi,  in  Judaea,  these  Jews  complain  that  their 
temple  in  Yeb  (Elephantine,  near  Syene)  had  been 
destroyed  in  the  same  year.     It  also  states  that 


Israel,  History  of  THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1526 


this  temple  had  been  spared  on  one  occasion  by 
Cambyses,  who  was  in  Egypt  from  52/5  to  521  BC. 
The  answer  of  Bagohi  also  lias  been  preserved,  and 
he  directs  that  the  temple  is  to  be  built  again  and 
that  meal  offerings  and  incense  are  again  to  be  in- 
troduced. Probably  intentionally,  mention  in  this 
letter  is  made  only  of  the  unbloody  sacrifices,  while  in 
the  first  letter  burnt  sacrifices  also  are  named.  The 
sacrifices  of  animals  by  the. lews  won  Id  probably  have 
aroused  too  much  the  anger  of  the  devotees  of  the 
divine  ram,  which  was  worshipped  at  Syone.  Lp  to 
the  present  time  we  knew  only  of  the  much  later 
temple  of  the  high  priest  OniasIVai  Leontopolis  (100 
BC).     Cf  Jos,  Ant,  Nil,  iii,  1-3;   BJ,  VII,  x,  2,  3. 

VII.  Return  from  the  Exile  and  the  Restoration. 
—  In  the  meanwhile  there  was  a  new  readjustment  of 
political  supremacy  among  the  world- 
1.  Career  powers.  The  IVrs  king,  Koresh 
of  Cyrus  (Cyrus),  first  made  himself  free  from 
the  supremacy  of  Media  which,  after 
the  capture  of  the  city  Ecbatana,  became  a  part- 
of  his  own  kingdom  (549  BC).  At  that  time  Na- 
bonidus  was  the  king  in  Babylon  (555-538  BC),  who 
was  not  displeased  at  the  collapse  of  the  kingdom 
of  the  Modes,  but  soon  learned  that  the  new  ruler 
turned  out  to  be  a,  greater  danger  to  himself,  as 
Cyrus  subjugated,  one  after  the  other,  the  smaller 
kingdoms  in  the  north.  But  Nabonidus  was  too 
unwarlike  to  meet  Cyrus.  He  confined  himself  to 
sending  his  son  with  an  army  to  the  northern 
boundaries  of  his  kingdom.  On  the  other  hand, 
the  king  of  the  Lydians,  Croesus,  who  was  related 
by  marriage  to  King  Astyages,  who  had  been  sub- 
dued by  Cyrus,  began  a  war  with  Cyrus,  after  he 
had  formed  an  alliance  with  Egypt  and  Sparta.  In 
the  year  546  BC,  he  crossed  the  river  Halys.  Cyrus 
approached  from  the  Tigris,  and  in  doing  so  already 
entered  Bab  territory,  conquered  Croesus,  took 
his  capital  city  Sardis,  and  put  an  end  to  the  king- 
dom of  Lydia.  The  pious  Israelites  in  captivity, 
under  the  tutelage  of  Deutero-Isaiah,  watched  these 
events  with  the  greatest  of  interest,  for  the 
prophet  taught,  them  from  the  beginning  to  see  in 
this  king  "the  deliverer,"  who  was  the  instrument 
of  Jeh  for  t  lie  ret  urn  of  the  Israelites  out  of  captivity, 
and  of  whom  the  prophets  had  predicted.  And 
this  expectation  was  fulfilled  with  remarkable 
rapidity,  due  victorious  and  aggressive  king  of 
Persia  could  now  no  longer  be  permanently  checked, 
even  by  the  Babylonians.  It  was  in  vain  that  King 
Nabonidus  had  caused  the  images  of  the  gods  from 
many  of  his  cities  to  be  taken  to  Babylon,  in  order 
to  make  the  capital  city  invincible.  This  city 
opened  its  doors  to  the  Pers  commander  Ugbaru 
(Gobryas)  in  538  BC,  and  a  few  months  later  Cyrus 
himself  entered  the  city.  This  king,  however, "was 
mild  and  conciliatory  in  his  treatment  of  the  people 
and  the  city.  He  did  not  destroy  the  city,  but 
commanded  only  that  a  portion  of  the  walls  should 
be  razed.  However,  1  he  city  gradually,  in  the  course 
of  time,  became  ruins. 

Cyrus  also  won  the  good  will  and  favor  of  the 
subjugated  nations  by  respecting  their  religions.  He 
returned  to  their  shrines  the  idols  of  Nabonidus,  that 
had  been  taken  away.  But  he  was  particularly  con- 
siderate of  the  Jews,  who  doubtless  had  complained 
to  him  of  their  fate  and  had  made  known  to  him  their 
prophecies  regarding  him  as  the  coming  deliverer. 

In  the  very  first   year  of  his  reign  over  Babylon 
he  issued  an  edict  (2  Ch  36  22f;    Ezr  1   1  ff)  that 
permitted    the  Jews   to  return   home, 
2.  First  with   the  command   that    they  should 

Return  again    erect    their    temple.     For    this 

under  purpose  he  directed  that   the  templo- 

Zerubbabel    vessels,    which    Nebuchadnezzar    had 
taken     away     with     him,     should     be 
returned    to    them,    and    commanded    that    those 


Israelite's  who  voluntarily  remained  in  Babylon 
should  contribute  money  for  the  restoration  of  the 
temple.  At  the  head  of  those  to  be  returned  stood 
Sheshbazzar,  who  is  probably  identical  with  Zerub- 
babel,  although  this  is  denied  by  some  scholars; 
and  also  the  high  priest,  Joshua,  a  grandson  of  the 
high  priest,  Seraiah,  who  had  been  put  to  death  by 
Nebuchadnezzar.  They  were  accompanied  by 
only  a  small  part  of  those  in  exile,  that  is  by  42,360 
men  and  women  and  children,  male  and  female 
servants,  esp.  from  the  tribes  of  Judah,  Benjamin 
and  Levi,  but  of  the  last-mentioned  tribes  more 
priests  than  other  Levites.  After  several  months 
they  safely  arrived  in  Pal,  probably  537  BC.  Some 
of  them  settled  down  in  Jerus,  and  others  in  sur- 
rounding cities  and  villages.  They  erected  the 
altar  for  burnt  sacrifices,  so  that  they  were  again 
able  in  t  he  7t  h  month  to  sacrifice  on  it. 

Building  the  temple. — The  cornerstone  of  the 
temple  was  also  solemnly  laid  at  that  time  in  the  2d 
year  of  the  Return  (Ezr  3  8fT).  But  the  erection  of 
the  temple  must  have  been  interrupted  in  a  short 
time,  since  it  was  not  until  the  2d  year  of  Darius 
(520  BC),  at  the  urgent  appeal  of  the  prophets  Hag- 
gai  and  Zoehariah,  that  the  work  of  building  was 
energetically  prosecuted.  For  this  reason  many 
scholars  deny  this  cornerstone-laying  in  the  year 
536  BC.  However,  it  still  remains  thinkable  that 
several  attempts  were  made  at  this  work,  since  the 
young  colony  had  many  difficulties  to  contend  with. 
Then,  too,  the  memoirs  of  Ezra  and  Nehemiah,  which 
have  been  worked  over  by  the  author  of  Ch,  report 
the  history  of  these  times  only  in  parts.  The  his- 
torical value  of  these  literary  source's  has  been  con- 
firmed by  those  Aram,  papyri  found  in  Upper  Egypt. 
In  the  year  516  BC,  after  4  years  of  building, 
the  temple  was  completed  and  dedicated.  After 
this  we  have  no  information  for  a 
3.  Ezra  period   of   58  years.     Then  we  learn 

and  that  Ezra,  the  scribe,  in  the  7th  year 

Nehemiah  of  Artaxerxes  I  (458  BC),  came  with 
a  new  caravan  of  about  1,500  men 
with  women  and  children  from  Babylon  to  the 
Holy  Land.  He  had  secured  from  the  king  the 
command  to  establish  again  in  the  land  of  the 
Jews  the  law,  in  which  he  was  a  prominent  ox- 
pert,  and  he  tried  to  do  this  by  earnest  admoni- 
tions and  instructive  discourses  addressed  to  the 
people.  The  acme  of  the  activity  of  Ezra  was  the 
meeting  of  the  people  described  in  Noh  8-10  on  the 
beast  of  the  Tabernacles,  on  which  occasion  the 
entire  nation  solemnly  came  under  obligation  to 
observe  the  law.  According  to  the  present  position 
of  those  chapters  this  act  took  place  in  444  BC;  but 
it  is  probable  that  it  happened  before  the  arrival 
of  Nehemiah,  whose  name  would  accordingly  have 
to  be  eliminated  in  8  9.  This  pericope  would  then 
belong  to  the  memoirs  of  Ezra  and  not  to  those  of 
Nehemiah.  After  some  years  there  came  to  help 
Ezra  in  his  work,  Nehemiah,  a  pious  Jew,  who  was 
a  cupbearer  to  the  king,  and  at  his  own  request 
was  granted  leave  of  absence  in  order  to  help  the  city 
of  Jerus,  which  ho  had  heard  was  in  dire  straits. 
Its  walls  were  in  ruins,  as  the  neighboring  nations 
had  been  able  to  hinder  their  rebuilding,  and  even 
those  walls  of  the  city  that  had  been  hastily  re- 
stored, had  again  been  pulled  down.  Nehemiah 
came  in  the  year  445-444  BC  from  Shushan  to  Jerus 
and  at  once  went  energetically  to  work  at  rebuilding 
the  walls.  Notwithstanding  all  oppositions  and  in- 
trigues of  malicious  neighbors,  the  work  was  suc- 
cessfully brought  to  a  close. 

The  hostile  agitations,  in  so  far  as  they  were  not 
caused  by  widespread  envy  and  hatred  of  the  Jews 
among  the  neighboring  peoples,  had  a  religious 
ground.  Those  who  returned,  as  the  people  of 
Jeh,  held  themselves  aloof  from  the  peoples  living 


1527 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Israel,  History  of 


round  about  them,  esp.  from  the  mixed  peoples 
of  Samaria.  Samaria  was  the  breeding-place  for 
this  hostility  against  Jerus.  The  governor  at  that 
place,  Sanballat,  was  the  head  of  this  hostile  league. 
The  Jews  had  declined  to  permit  the  Samaritans 
to  cooperate  in  the  erection  of  the  temple  and 
would  have  no  religious  communion  with  them. 
The  Samaritans  had  taken  serious  offence  at  this, 
and  they  accordingly  did  all  they  could  to  prevent 
the  building  of  the  walls  in  Jerus,  which  would  be 
a  hindrance  to  their  having  access  to  the  temple. 
But  Nehemiah's  trust  in  God  and  his  energy  over- 
came! this  obstacle.  The  policy  of  exclusiveness, 
which  Ezra  and  Nehemiah  on  this  occasion  and  at 
other  times  followed  out,  evinces  a  more  narrow 
mind  than  the  preexilic  prophets  had  shown.  In 
the  refusal  of  intermarriage  with  the  people  living 
around  them  they  went  beyond  the  Mosaic  law,  for 
they  even  demanded  that  those  marriages,  which 
the  Israelites  had  already  contracted  with  foreign 
women,  should  be  dissolved.  But  this  exclusiveness 
was  the  outcome  of  legal  conscientiousness,  and  at 
this  period  it  was  probably  necessary  for  the  self- 
preservation  of  the  people  of  Jeh. 

Malachi. — From  the  prophecies  of  Malachi,  who 
was  almost  a  contemporary  of  the  two  mentioned, 
it  can  be  seen  that  the  marriages  with  the  foreign 
women  had  also  brought  with  them  a  loosening  of 
even  the  most  sacred  family  ties  (Alal  2  14  f).  After 
an  absence  of  12  years,  Nehemiah  again  returned 
to  Shushan  to  the  court ;  and  when  he  later  returned 
to  Jerus  he  was  compelled  once  more  to  inaugurate 
a  stringent  policy  against  the  lawlessness  which  was 
violating  the  sanctity  of  the  temple  and  of  the 
Sabbath  commandment.  He  also  expelled  a  certain 
Manasseh,  a  grandson  of  the  high  priest,  who  had 
married  a  daughter  of  Sanballat.  This  Manasseh, 
according  to  Jos  (Ant,  XI,  viii,  2),  erected  the 
sanctuary  on  Mt.  Gerizim,  and  established  the 
priesthood  at  that  place.  This  is  no  doubt  correct . 
These  accounts  of  Jos  are  often  combined  without 
cause  with  the  times  of  Alexander  the  Great,  al- 
though they  transpired  about  110  years  earlier. 

The  history  of  the  Jews  in  the  last  decades  of  the 
Pers  rule  is  little  known.  Under  Artaxerxes  III 
(Ochus),  they  were  compelled  to  suffer  much,  when 
they  took  part  in  a  rebellion  of  the  Phoenicians  and 
Cyprians.  Many  Jews  were  at  that  time  banished 
to  Hyrcania  on  the  southern  coast,  of  the  Caspian 
Sea.  The  Pers  general,  Bagoses,  came  to  Jerus  and 
forced  his  way  even  into  the  temple  (Jos,  A /it,  XI, 
vii,  1).  He  undertook  to  install  as  high  priest,  in 
the  place  of  John  (Jochanan),  his  brother  Joshua 
(Jesus).  The  latter,  however,  was  slain  by  the 
former  in  the  temple.  For  the  first  time  the  office 
of  the  high  priest  appears  as  more  of  a  political 
position,  something  that  it  never  was  in  the  pre- 
exilic times,  and  according  to  the  law  was  not  to  be. 

VIII.  The  Jews  under  Alexander  and  His  Suc- 
cessors.— As  the  Jews  wen;  then  tired  of  the  rule  of 
the  priests,  they  were  not  dissatisfied 
1.  Spread  with  the  victorious  career  of  Alex- 
of  Hellen-  ander  the  Great,  He  appears  to 
ism  have     assumed     a     friendly     attitude 

toward  them,  even  if  the  story  reported 
by  Jos  (Ant,  XI,  viii,  4)  is  scarcely  historical. 
The  successors  of  Alexander  were  also,  as  a  rule, 
tolerant  in  religious  matters.  But  for  political  and 
geographical  reasons,  Pal  suffered  severely  in  these 
times,  as  it  lay  between  Syria  and  Egypt,  and  was  an 
object  of  attack  on  the  part  of  both  the  leading 
ruling  families  in  this  period,  the  Ptolemies  in 
Egypt  and  the  Seleucidae  in  Syria.  At  the  same 
time  Hellenism,  which  had  been  so  powerfully  ad- 
vanced by  Alexander  as  a  factor  of  civilization  and 
culture,  penetrated  the  land  of  Israel  also.  Gr 
culture  and  language  spread  soon  in  Pal  and  in  many 


places  was  supreme.  The  more  strict  adherents 
of  Judaism  recognized  in  this  a  danger  to  the  Mosaic 
order  of  life  and  religion,  and  all  the  more  zealously 
they  now  adhered  to  the  traditional  ordinances. 
These  were  called  the  hasldhim,  or  the  Pious 
(' Aaidaloi,  Hasidaioi,  1  Mace  2  12;  7  13;  2  Mace 
14  0).  The  world-transforming  Hellenistic;  type 
of  thought  spread  esp.  among  the  aristocrats  and 
the  politically  prominent,  and  even  found  adherents 
among  the  priests,  while  the  h&sldhlm  belonged 
to  the  less  conspicuous  ranks  of  the  people. 

A  struggle   for   life    and    death   was  caused   between 
these  two  tendencies  by  the  Syrian  king,  Antiochus  IV 
(Epiphanes),  into  whose  hands  the  sover- 
2.  The  eignty  of  Pal  had  fallen,     lie  undertook 

ii.™.  nothing  less  than  to  root  out  the  hated 

ndsmo-  Jewish  religion.      In  the  year    168   BO   he 

neans  commanded    that    the    temple   of    Jeh    in 

Jerus  should  be  dedicated  to  the  Olym- 
pian Jupiter  and  forbade  most  stringently  the  observ- 
ance of  the  Sabbath  and  circumcision.  A  large  portion 
of  ttie  people  did  not  resist  his  oppression,  hut  adapted 
themselves  to  this  tyrannical  heathendom.  Others 
suffered  and  died  as  martyrs.  Finally  in  the  year  167 
BC  a  priest,  Mattathias,  gave  the  signal  for  a  deter- 
mined resistance,  at  the  head  of  which  stood  his  brave 
sons,  the  llasmoneans,  or  Maccabees.  First  his  son  Judas 
undertook  the  leadership  of  the  faithful,  lie  succeeded 
in  freeing  Jerus  from  the  Syrians.  He  restored  the 
temple  on  Mt.  Zion.  The  temple  was  dedicated  anew 
and  was  given  over  to  the  old  cult  us.  After  a  number 
of  victorious  campaigns,  Judas  Maccabaeus  died  the 
death  of  a  hero  in  161  BC.  His  brother,  Jonathan,  who 
took  his  place  at  the  head  of  the  movement,  tried  to 
secure  the  independence  of  the  land  rather  through 
deliberate  planning  than  through  military  power.  He 
assumed,  in  addition  to  his  secular  power,  also  the  high- 
priestly  dignity.  After  his  death  by  violence  in  143  B(!, 
he  was  succeeded  by  his  brother  Simon  as  the  bearer  of 
this  double  honor.  The  llasmoneans,  however,  rapidly 
became  worldly  minded  and  lost  the  sympathies  of  the 
hasidhim.  The  son  of  Simon,  John  Hyrcanus  (135-106 
BC),  broke  entirely  with  the  Pious,  and  his  family,  after 
his  death,  came  to  an  end  in  disgraceful  struggles  for 
power.  The  rule  of  the  land  fell  into  the  hands  of 
Herod,  a  tyrant  of  Idumaean  origin,  who  was  supported 
by  the  Romans.  From  37  BC  he  was  the  recognized  king 
of  Judah.     See  Asuoxeans;    Maccabees. 

IX.  The  Romans. — After  the  death  of  Herod 
(4  BC),  the  kingdom,  according  to  his  last  will,  was 
to  be  divided  among  his  three  sons. 
1.  Division  Archelaus  received  Judaea;  Antipas, 
of  Territory  Galilee  and  Peraea;  Philip,  the  border 
lands  in  the  north.  However,  Arche- 
laus was  soon  deposed  by  the;  Romans  (0  AD),  and 
Judaea  was  made  a  part  of  the  province  of  Syria, 
but  was  put  under  a  special  Roman  procurator,  who 
resided  in  Caesarea.  These  procurators  (of  whom 
the  best  known  was  Pontius  Pilate,  26-36  AD),  had 
no  other  object  than  to  plunder  the  land  and  the 
people. 

In  this  way  a  conflict  was  gradually  generated 
between  the  people  and  their  oppressors,  which 
ended  with  the  destruction  of  Jerus  by 
the  Romans  in  70  AD.  As  early  as 
40  AD  this  rupture  almost  took  place, 
when  the  Syrian  legate  Petronius,  at 
the  command  of  Caligula,  undertook 
to  place  a  statue  of  the  emperor  in 
the  temple  of  Jerus.  On  this  occasion 
^.grippa  I,  who  was  again  ruling  the  whoh 


2.  Destruc 
tion  of 
Jerusalem 
by  the 
Romans 


Kins. 


territory  of  Herod,  succeeded  in  adjusting  the 
conflict.  His  son  Agrippa  II  was  given  a  much 
smaller  kingdom  (40-100  AD).  He,  too,  sought  to 
prevent  the  people  from  undertaking  a  struggle 
with  the  Romans,  but  in  vain.  By  his  unscrupulous 
treatment  of  the  people,  the  procurator  Gessius 
Floras  drove  the  Jews  into  an  insurrection.  The 
party  of  the  Zealots  gained  the  upper  hand.  Florus 
was  compelled  to  leave  Jerus  (00  AD).  Even  the; 
good-sized  army  which  Cestius  Gallus  commanded 
could  not  get  control  of  the  city,  but  was  completely 
overpowered  by  the  Jews  on  its  retreat  at  Beth- 
horon.  Now  the  entire  country  rose  in  rebellion. 
The  Romans,  under  the  leadership  of  Vespasian, 


Israel,  History  of  TTIK  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 
Israel,  King,  of 


1528 


advanced  with  considerable  power  and  first  con- 
quered Galilee,  then  under  Jos  (67  AD).  In  Jerus, 
in  the  meanwhile,  different  parties  of  the  Jews  were 
still  fighting  each  other.  Titus,  the  son  of  Ves- 
pasian, took  the  chief  command  after  Vespasian 
had  already  conquered  the  K.  Jordan  country  and 
the  western  coast,  but  had  hastened  to  Home  in 
order  to  become  emperor.  Titus  completely  sur- 
rounded the  city  a  few  days  before  the  Passover 
festival  in  the  year  70.  On  the  northern  side  the 
Romans  first  broke  through  the  first  and  newest 
city  wall,  and  after  that  the  second.  The  third 
offered  a  longer  resistance,  and  at-  the  same  time 
famine  wrought  havoc  in  Jerus.  At  last  the  battle 
raged  about  the  temple,  during  which  this  structure 
went  up  in  flames.  According  to  the  full  descrip- 
tion by  Jos  (/>'•/,  VI,  iv,  .'!  ff),  Titus  tried  to  prevent 
the  destruction  of  the  temple;  according  to  Sul- 
picius  Severus  {Citron.  II,  20),  however,  this  de- 
struction was  just  what  he  wanted.  A  few  forti- 
fied places  yet  maintained  themselves  after  the  fall 
of  Jerus,  e.g.  Maehacrus  in  the  E.  Jordan  country, 
but  they  could  not  hold  out  very  long. 

Later  insurrection  of  Bar-Cochba. — Once  again 
the  natural  ambition  for  independence  burst  out 
in  the  insurrection  of  Bar-Cochba  (132-35  AD). 
Pious  teachers  of  the  law,  esp.  Rabbi  Akiba,  had 
enkindled  this  fire,  in  order  to  rid  the  country  of  the 
rule  of  the  Gentiles.  However,  notwithstanding 
some  temporary  successes,  this  insurrection  was 
hopeless.  Both  the  city  and  the  country  were 
desolated  by  the  enraged  Romans  still  more  fear- 
fully, and  were  depopulated  still  more  than  in  70. 
From  that  time  Jerus  was  lost  to  the  Jews.  They 
lived  on  without  a  country  of  their  own,  without 
any  political  organization,  without  a  sanctuary, 
in  the  Diaspora  among  the  nations. 

The  spiritual  and  religious  life  of  the  Jews  during 
the  period  preceding  the  dissolution  of  the  state 
was  determined  particularly  by  the 
3.  Spiritual  legalistic  character  of  their  ideals  and 
Life  of  the  their  opposition  to  Hellenism.  Their 
Period  religion  had  become  formalistic  to  a 

great  extent  since  their  return  from 
the  exile.  The  greatest  emphasis  was  laid  on  obe- 
dience to  the  traditional  ordinances,  and  these  latter 
were  chiefly  expositions  of  ceremonial  usurpers. 

Appearance  of  Jesus  Christ. — The  crown  of  the 
history  of  Israel-Judah  was  the  appearance  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Looked  at  superficially,  it  may  indeed 
appear  as  though  His  person  and  His  life  had  but 
little  affected  the  development  of  the  national  his- 
tory of  Israel.  However,  more  closely  viewed,  we 
shall  see  that  this  entire  history  has  its  goal  in  Him 
and  finds  its  realization  in  Him.  After  full  fruit 
had  developed  out  of  this  stock,  the  latter  withered 
and  died.  He  was  to  be  the  bearer  of  salvation  for 
all  mankind. 

Literature. — The  earliest  historian  of  Israel  was  the 
Jew,  Flavins  Josephus,  in  the  1st  Christian  cent.  His 
example  found  few  followers  in  the  early  church,  and 
we  mention  only  the  Chronicle  of  Sulpicius  Severus 
The  subject  is  handled  theologically  by  Augustine  in 
his  I),  Civitate  1)>  i.  It  was  only  in  the  17th  cent,  that  a 
keen  interest  was  awakened  in  this  subject.  Of  esp 
James  Usher,  Annates  Veteris  et  Novi  Testamenti,  London' 
1605;  J.  IS.  Bousset,  Discours  sur  Vhistoire  universelle' 
Paris,  1681;  Humphrey  Prideaux,  The  Old  and  the  New 
Testament  Connected  in  the  History  of  the  Jews  and 
Neighboring  Nations,  2  vols,  London,  1710;  S.  Shukford 
The  Sacred  and  Profane  History  of  the  World  Connect,;/' 
London,  1727,  this  work  treating  the  subject  apologeti- 
cally against  the  Deists.  Of  also  J.  Saurin  Discours 
historiques,  Amsterdam,  1720.  Ooeceius  and  his  school 
systematized  this  history  on  the  basis  of  their  theological 
V-1,''.1*'  >f-  (;,"'Oer,  Systema  theol.  prophetic.  Frankfurt 
1  /  24.  More  systematic  is  the  work  of  Vitringa,  Hypothe- 
sis historiae  et  chronologiae  imcrae,  Frankfurt,  170*!  The 
Lutheran  church  furnished  the  excellent  work  of  Franz 
!"> W- Miit"Tl(\Kr',l's-  Veteris  Testamenti,  Jena,  1715. 
in  the  18th  cent.,  Bengel  s  school  furnished  some  Rood 
histories  of  Israel  such  as  M.  F.  Koos's  Einleitung  in  die 
bibl.   Geschichte,   1700.     More  popular  is  the  work  of  J. 


J.  Hess.  The  best  Catholic  work  from  this  time  is  J. 
Jahn's  Archaeologie,  1S02;  while  the  Rationalistic  period 
furnished  Lorenz  Bauer's  Geschichte  der  hebr.  Nation, 
1S00.  In  the  1 9th  cent,  the  rationalistic  and  the  con- 
servative tendencies  run  parallel,  and  a  new  impulse 
was  given  to  the  study  of  this  history  by  the  phenomenal 
archaeological  finds  in  Egypt  and  in  Assyria  and  Babylon. 
Critical  reconstruction  of  Israel's  history  characterizes 
the  works  of  Keuss,  (Iraf,  Kuenen,  Wellhausen.  Other 
works  of  prominence  are  the  Geschichte  des  Volkes  Gottes, 
by  Ewald;  Kurtz,  Geschichte  des  alien  Bundes  (these  are 
tr<l);  Hitzig,  Geschichte  des  Volkes  Israel,  with  critical 
tendency.  The  work  of  August  Koehler,  Lehrbuch  der 
biblischen  Geschichte,  AT,  is  positive,  while  Wellhausen's 
Geschichte  Israels  is  a  classic  of  the  advanced  school. 
Other  works  mostly  critical  are  the  histories  of  Kenan, 
Kuenen,  Stade,  Winckler,  Piepenbring,  Cornill,  Guthe, 
Cheyne,  and  others.  Kittel's  Geschichte  der  Hebraer 
(tr'j  is  more  moderate  in  tone.  For  the  XT  the  richest 
storehouse  is  Schiirer's  Geschichte  des  jiidischen  Volkes 
i m  Zeitalter  Jesu  Christi  (trd) ;  Hausrath's  Neutesta- 
mentliche  Zeitgeschichte  is  also  good.  From  the  Jewish 
standpoint  this  history  has  been  treated  by  S.  Fried- 
lander,  Geschichte  des  Israel-Volkes;  and  J.  M.  .lost, 
Geschichte,  der  Israeliten;  Morifz  Kaphall,  Post-biblical 
History  of  the  Jews  from  the  Close  of  the  OT  till  the  De- 
struction of  t/ie  Second    Temple,  in  the    Year  70. 

Among   English   works   may   be  especially  mentioned 

Milman's  History  of  the  Jars  and  Stanley's,  Lectures  on 
the  History  of  the  Jewish  Church,  with  smaller  works  by 
Ottley  and  others. 

American  works  on  the  subject  from  the  critical  point 
of  view  are  a  History  of  the  Heb  People,  by  Kent,  and  a 
History  of  the  Jewish  People  by  Kent  and  Riggs  in  the 
"Historical  Series  for  Bible  Students,"  published  by 
Messrs.  Scribner.  Of  also  MeCurdy,  History,  Prophecy 
and  the  Monuments;  Toy,  Judaism  and  Christianity;  H.  P. 
Smith,  OT  History. 

C.    VON    OUELLI 

ISRAEL,  KINGDOM  OF: 
I.     The  First  Period 

1.  The  Two  Kingdoms 

2.  The  1st  Dynasty 
:i.  The  lid  Dynasty 
4.   Civil  War 

II.     Period  of  the  Syrian  Wars 

1.  The  I  lid  Dynasty 

2.  World-Politics 

3.  Battle  of  Karkar 

4.  Loss  of  Territory 

5.  Reform  of  Religion 

0.  Revolution 

7.  The  IVth  Dynasty 

8.  Renewed  Prosperity 

9.  Anarchy 

III.     Decline  and  Fall 

1.  Loss  of  Independence 

2.  Decline 

3.  Extinction 

4.  Summary 
Literature 

/.    The  First  Period. — The  circumstances  leading 

up  to  the  foundation  of  the  Northern  Kingdom  of 

Israel,   or   the   Kingdom   of   the   Ten 

1.  The  Two  Tribes,  have  been  detailed  under  the 
Kingdoms     heading  Kingdom  op  Judah.     From 

a  secular  point  of  view  it  would  be 
more  natural  to  regard  the  latter  as  an  offshoot  from 
the  former,  rather  than  the  converse.  But  not  only 
is  the  kingdom  of  Judah  of  paramount  importance 
in  respect  of  both  religion  and  literature,  but  its 
government  also  was  in  the  hands  of  a  single  dy- 
nasty, whereas  that  of  the  Northern  Kingdom 
changed  hands  no  less  than  8  t,  during  the  two  and 
a  half  cents,  of  its  existence.  Moreover,  the  South- 
ern Kingdom  lasted  about  twice  as  long  as  the  other. 
No  sooner  had  Jeroboam  I  been  elected  the  first 
ruler  of  the  newly  founded  state  than  he  set  about 

managing  its  affairs  with  the  energy 

2.  The  1st  for  which  he  was  distinguished  (1  K 
Dynasty         11  28).     To   complete  the  disruption 

he  established  a  sanctuary  in  opposi- 
tion to  that  of  Jerus  (Hos  8  14),  with  its  own  order 
of  priests  (2  Ch  11  14;  13  9),  and  founded  two 
capital  cities,  Shechem  on  the  W.  and  Penuel  on 
the  E.  of  the  Jordan  (1  K  12  25).  Peace  seems  to 
have  been  maintained  between  the  rival  govern- 
ments during  the  17  years'  reign  of  Rehoboam,  but 
on  the  accession  of  his  son  Abijah  war  broke  out 
(1  K  15  6.7;  2  Ch  13  3ff).  Shortly  afterward 
Jeroboam  died  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  Nadab, 


1529 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  \STae)'  History _of 

Israel,  King,  of 


who  was  a  year  later  assassinated,  and  the  1st 
Dynasty  came  to  an  end,  after  an  existence  of  23 
years,  being  limited,  in  fact,  to  a  single  reign. 

The   turn  of   the   tribe  of   Issachar   came  next. 

They  had  not  yet  given  a  ruler  to  Israel;  they  could 

claim    none   of  the  judges,   but  they 

3.  The  lid  had  taken  their  part  at  the  assembling 
Dynasty         of    the    tribes    under    Deborah    and 

Barak  of  Naphtali.  Baasha  began 
his  reign  of  24  years  by  extirpating  the  house  of  his 
predecessor  (1  K  15  29),  just  as  the  'Abbasids 
annihilated  the  Umeiyads.  The  capital  was  now 
Tirzah  (1  K  14  17;  Cant  6  4),  a  site  not  yet 
identified.  His  Judaean  contemporary  was  Asa 
(q.v.),  who,  like  his  father  Abijah,  called  in  the  aid 
of  the  Syrians  against  the  Northern  Kingdom. 
Baasha  was  unequal  to  the  double  contest  and  was 
forced  to  evacuate  the  ground  he  had  gained.  His 
son  Elah  was  assassinated  after  a  reign  of  a  year, 
as  he  himself  had  assassinated  the  son  of  the 
founder  of  the  preceding  dynasty,  and  his  entire 
family  and  adherents  were  massacred  (1  K  16  11). 
The  name  of  the  assassin  was  Zimri,  an  officer  of 
the  charioteers,  of  unknown  origin  and  tribe.  But 
the  kingship  was  always  elective,  and 

4.  Civil  War  the  army  chose  Omri,  the  commander- 

in-chief,  who  besieged  and  took  Tir- 
zah, Zimri  setting  the  palace  on  fire  by  his  own 
hand  and  perishing  in  the  flames.  A  second  pre- 
tender, Tibni,  a  name  found  in  Phoenician  and 
Assyrian,  of  unknown  origin,  sprang  up.  He  was 
quickly  disposed  of,  and  security  of  government 
was  reestablished. 

//.   Period  of  the  Syrian  Wars. — The  founder  of 

the   new   dynasty   was   Omri.     By   this   time   the 

Northern    Kingdom    was    so  much   a 

1.  The  Hid  united  whole  that  the  distinctions  of 
Dynasty         tribe  were  forgot  ten.     We  do  not  know 

to  what  tribe  Omri  and  his  successors 
belonged.  With  Omri  the  political  sphere  of  action 
of  Israel  became  wider  than  it  had  been  before,  and 
its  internal  affairs  more  settled.  His  civil  code 
was  in  force  long  after  his  dynasty  was  extinct,  and 
was  adopted  in  the  Southern  Kingdom  (Mic  6  16). 
The  capital  city,  the  site  of  which  he  chose,  has 
remained  a  place  of  human  habitation  till  the 
present  day.  Within  the  last  few  years,  remains  of 
his  building  have  been  recovered,  showing  a  great 
advance  in  that  art  from  those  believed  to  go  back 
to  Rehoboam  and  Solomon.  He  was,  however, 
unfortunate  in  his  relations  with  Syria,  having  lost 
some  towns  and  been  forced  to  grant  certain  trading 
concessions  to  his  northern  neighbors  (1  K  20  34). 
But  he  was  so  great  a  king  that  long  after  his  death 
the  Kingdom  of  the  Ten  Tribes  was  known  to  the 
Assyrians  as  "the  house  of  Omri." 

Contemporarily  with  this  dynasty,  there  occurred 
a  revival  of  the  Phoen  power,  which  exerted  a  power- 
ful influence  upon  the  Israelite  kings 

2.  World-  and  people,  and  at  the  same  time  the 
Politics  Assyrians  once  more;  began  to  inter- 
fere with  Syrian  politics.  The  North- 
ern Kingdom  now  began  to  play  a  part  in  the  game 
of  world-politics.  There  was  peace  with  Judah, 
and  alliance  with  Phoenicia  was  cemented  by  the 
marriage  of  Ahab,  it  seems  after  his  father's  death, 
with  Jezebel,  the  daughter  of  Ethbaal  (1  K  16  31). 
This  led  to  the  erection  of  a  temple  in  Samaria  in 
which  the  Tyrian  Baal  was  worshipped,  while  side 
by  side  with  it  the  worship  of  Jeh  was  carried  on  as 
before.  It  seems  as  if  the  people  had  fallen  back 
from  the  pure  monotheism  of  Moses  and  David 
into  what  is  known  as  henotheism.  Against  this 
relapse  Elijah  protested  with  final  success.  Ahab 
was  a  wise  and  skilful  soldier,  without  rashness,  but 
also  without  decision.  He  defeated  a  Syrian  coali- 
tion in  two  campaigns  (IK  20)  and  imposed  on 


Ben-hadad  the  same  conditions  which  the  latter  had 
imposed  on  Omri.  With  the  close  of  the  reign  of 
Asa  in  Judah,  war  ceased  between  the  two  Israelite 
kingdoms  and  the  two  kings  for  the  first  time  became 
friends  and  fought  side  by  side  (1  K  22).  In  the 
reign  of  Ahab  we  note  the  beginning  of  decay  in  the 
state  in  regard  to  personal  liberty  and  equal  just  ice. 
The  tragedy  of  Naboth's  vineyard  would  not  have 
happened  but  for  the  influence  of  Tyrian  ideas,  any 
more  than  in  the  case  of  the  famous  windmill  which 
stands  by  the  palace  of  Sans  Souci  at  Potsdam.  A 
further  improvement  in  the  art  of  building  took 
place  in  this  reign.  The  palace  of  Ahab,  which  has 
recently  been  recovered  by  the  excavations  carried 
on  by  the  Harvard  University  Expet  lition  under 
Dr.  G.  A.  Reisner,  shows  a  marked  advance  in  fine- 
ness of  workmanship  upon  that  of  Omri. 

The  object   of   Ben-hadad's  attack  upon   Ahab 

seems  to  have  been  to  compel  him  to  join  a  league 

founded  to  resist  the  encroachments  of 

3.  Battle        Assyria  upon  the  countries  bordering 
of  Karkar      upon    the    Mediterranean.     The    con- 
federates, who  were  led  by  Ben-hadad, 

and  of  whom  Ahab  was  one,  were  defeated  by  Shal- 
maneser  II  in  the  battle  of  Karkar.  The  date  is 
known  from  the  inscriptions  to  have  been  the  year 
854-853.  It  is  the  first  quite  certain  date  in  Heb 
history,  and  from  it  the  earlier  dates  must  be  reck- 
oned by  working  backward.  Ahab  seems  to  have 
seized  the  moment  of  Syria's  weakness  to  exact  by 
force  the  fulfilment  of  their  agreement  on  the  part 
of  Ben-hadad  (1  K  22). 

On  the  other  hand,  the  king  of  Moab,  Mesha, 

appears  to  have  turned  the  same  disaster  to  account 

by     throwing    off    his    allegiance     to 

4.  Loss  of  Israel,  which  dated  from  the  time  of 
Territory        David,    but    had    apparently    lapsed 

until  it  was  enforced  anew  by  Omri 
(MS,  11.  4ff,  but  1.  8  makes  Omri's  reign  +  half 
Ahab's  =  40  years).  Ahab's  son  and  successor 
Jehoram  (omitting  Ahaziah,  who  is  chiefly  notable 
as  a  devotee  of  Baal-zebub,  the  god  of  Ekron),  with 
the  aid  of  Jehoshaphat  and  his  vassal,  the  king  of 
Edom,  attempted  to  recover  his  rights,  but  in  vain 
(2  K  3).  It  may  have  been  in  consequence  of 
the  failure  of  this  expedition  that  the  Syrians 
again  besieged  Samaria  and  reduced  it  to  great 
straits  (2  K  6  24;  7),  but  the  date  is  uncertain. 
Jehoram  replied  with  a  counter-attack  upon  the  E. 
of  the  Jordan. 

It  was  no  doubt  owing  to  his  connection  with  the 
king  of  Judah  that  Jehoram  so  far  modified  the 

worship  and  ritual  as  to  remove  the 

5.  Reform  worst  innovations  which  had  come  to 
of  Religion    prevail  in  the  Northern  Kingdom  (2  K 

3  1-3).  But  these  half-measures  did 
not  satisfy  the  demands  of  the  time,  and  in  the 
revolution  which  followed  both  he  and  his  dynasty 
were  swept  away.  The  dynasty  had  lasted,  ac- 
cording to  the  Bib.  account,  less  than  half  a  century. 
The  religious  reformation,  or  rather  revolution, 
which  swept  away  almost  ent  irely  both  royal  houses, 

bears  a  good  deal  of  resemblance  to 

6.  Revolu-  the  Wahhabt  rising  in  Arabia  at  the 
tion  beginning  of  the  18th  cent.     It  took 

its  origin  from  prophetism  (1  K  19 
16),  and  was  supported  by  the  Rechabite  Jonadab. 
The  object  of  the  movement  headed  by  Jehu  was 
nominally  to  revenge  the  prophets  of  Jeh  put  to 
death  by  order  of  Jezebel,  but  in  reality  it  was  much 
wider  and  aimed  at  nothing  less  than  rooting  out 
the  Baal-worship  altogether,  and  enforcing  a  return 
to  the  primitive  faith  and  worship.  Just  as  the 
Wahhabis  went  back  to  Mohammed's  doctrine,  as 
contained  in  the  Kor'an  and  the  Tradition,  and  as 
the  Rechabites  preserved  the  simplicity  of  the  early 
desert  life,  so  Jehu  went  back  to  the  state  of  things 


Israel,  King,  of 
Israel,  Rel.  of 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1530 


as  they  were  at  the  foundation  of  the  Northern 
Kingdom  under  Jeroboam  I. 

Jehu's  reforms  were  carried  out  to  the  letter,  and 

the  whole  dynasty  of  Omri,  which  was  responsible 

for    the    innovations,    was    annihilated 

7.  IVth  like  its  predecessors.  The  religious 
Dynasty         fervor,    however,    soon    subsided,    and 

Jehu's  reign  ended  in  disaster.  Ha- 
zael, whose  armies  had  been  exterminated  by  the 
forces  of  Assyria,  turned  his  attention  to  the  eastern 
territory  of  Israel.  In  the  turbulent  land  of  Gilead, 
the  home  of  Elijah,  disappointed  in  its  hopes  of 
Jehu,  he  quickly  established  his  supremacy  (2  K 
10  32  IT).  Jehu'  also  appreciated  the  significance 
of  the  victories  of  Assyria,  and  was  wise  enough  to 
send  tribute  to  Shalnianeser  II.  This  was  in  the 
year  8  12.  Under  his  son  and  successor  Jehoahaz  the 
fortunes  of  Israel  continued  to  decline,  until  Hazael 
imposed  upon  it  the  most  humiliating  conditions 
(Am  1  3-5;  2  K  13  1  If). 

Toward  the  end  of  the  reign  of  Jehoahaz,  however, 
the  tide  began  to  turn,  under  the  leadership  of  a 

military   genius  whose  name  has  not 

8.  Renewed  been  recorded  (2  K  13  5);  and  the 
Prosperity      improvement     continued,     after     the 

death  of  Hazael,  under  his  son  Je- 
hoash  (Joash),  who  even  besieged  and  plundered 
Jerus  (2  K  14  8ff).  But  it  was  not  until  the  long 
reign  of  .Jeroboam  II,  son  of  Jehoash,  that  the  fron- 
tiers of  Israel,  were,  for  the  first  time  since  the  begin- 
ning of  t  he  kingdom,  restored  to  their  ideal  limits. 
Even  Damascus  and  Hamath  were  subdued  (2  K 
14  28).  But  the  prosperity  was  superficial.  Jero- 
boam II  stood  at  the  head  of  a  military  oligarchy, 
who  crushed  the  great  mass  of  the  people  under  them. 
The  tribune  of  the  plebs  at  this  time  was  Amos  of 
Tekoa.  His  Cassandra-like  utterances  soon  ful- 
filled themselves.  The  dynasty,  which  had  been 
founded  in  blood  and  had  lasted  some  90  years, 
on  the  accesssion  of  Jeroboam's  son  Zachariah  gave 
place  to  12  years  of  anarchy. 

Zachariah  was  almost   immediately  assassinated 
by  Shallum,  who  within  a  month  was  in  turn  assas- 
sinated by  Menahem,  a  soldier  of  the 

9.  Anarchy    tribe  of  Cad,  stationed  in  Tirzah,  to 

avenge  the  death  of  his  master.  The 
low  social  condition  of  Israel  at  this  time  is  de- 
picted in  the  pages  of  Hos.  The  atrocities  per- 
petrated by  the  soldiersof  Menahem  are  mentioned 
by  Jos  {Ant,  IX,  xi,  1). 

///.   Decline  and  Fall. — Meantime   Pul  or   Pulu 
had  founded   the  second   Assyr  empire  under   the 

name   of   Tiglath-pileser   III.     Before 

1.  Loss  of  conquering  Babylonia,  he  broke  the 
Independ-  power  of  the  Hittitcs  in  the  YV.,  and 
ence  made    himself    master    of    the   routes 

leading  to  the  Phoen  seaports.  As 
the  eclipse  of  the  Assyr  power  had  allowed  the 
expansion  of  Israel  under  Jeroboam  II,  so  its  revival 
now  crushed  the  independence  of  the  nation  for- 
ever. Menahem  bought  stability  for  his  throne  by 
the  payment  of  an  immense  bribe  of  1,000  talent's 
of  silver,  or  $2,000,000,  reckoning  the  silver  talent 
at  S2,000.  The  money  was  raised  by  means  of  an 
assessment  of  50  talents  each  upon  all  the  men  of 
known  wealth.  The  payment  of  this  tribute  is 
mentioned  on  the  Assyr  monuments,  the  date  being 
73S. 

Menahem  reigned  10  years.     His  son  Pekahiah 
was,  soon  after  his  accession,  assassinated  by  one 

of  his  own   captains,   Pekah,   son  of 

2.  Decline     Remaliah,    who    established    himself, 

with  the  help  of  some  Gileadites,  as 
king.  He  formed  an  alliance  with  Rezin  of  Damas- 
cus against  Israel,  defeating  Ahaz  in  two  pitched 
battles,  taking  numerous  captives,  and  even  reach- 
ing the  walls  of  Jerus.     The  result  was  disastrous 


to  both  allies.  Ahaz  called  in  the  aid  of  the  Assyr- 
ians. Tiglath-pileser  put  an  end  to  the  kingdom  of 
Damascus,  and  deported  the  inhabitants  of  Northern 
and  Kastern  Pal.  The  kingdom  of  Israel  was  re- 
duced to  the  dimensions  of  the  later  province  of 
Samaria.  Pekah  himself  was  assassinated  by  IIo- 
shea,  who  became  king  under  the  tutelage  of  the 
Assyr  overlord.  The  depopulated  provinces  were 
tilled  with  colonists  from  the  conquered  countries  of 
the  East.     The  year  is  734. 

Hoshea  was  never  an  independent  king,  but  the 

mere  vassal  of  Assyria.     He  was  foolish  enough  to 

withhold    the   annual    tribute,   and    to 

3.  Extinc-  turn  to  Egypt  for  succor.  Meanwhile, 
tion  Tiglath-pileser  III  had  been  succeeded 

by  Shalnianeser  IV.  This  king  laid 
siege  to  Samaria,  but  died  during  the  siege.  The 
city  was  taken  by  his  successor  Sargon,  who  had 
seized  the  throne,  toward  the  end  of  1  he  year  722. 
The  Northern  Kingdom  had  lasted  240  years, 
which  fall  into  three  periods  of  about  80  years  each, 
the  middle  period  being  the  period  of 

4.  Sum-  the  Syrian  wars.  As  it  was  fully  formed 
mary  when  it  broke  off  from  the  Southern 

Kingdom,  its  history  shows  no  develop- 
ment or  evolution,  but  is  made  up  of  undulations  of 
prosperity  and  of  decline.  It  was  at  its  best  imme- 
diately after  its  foundation,  and  again  under  Jero- 
boam II.  It  was  strong  under  Baasha,  Omri  and 
Ahab,  but  generally  weak  under  the  other  kings. 
Every  change  of  dynasty  meant  a  period  of  anarchy, 
when  the  country  was  at  the  mercy  of  every  in- 
vader. The  fortunes  of  Israel  depended  entirely 
on  those  of  Assyria.  When  Assyria  was  weak, 
Israel  was  strong.  Given  the  advance  of  Assyria, 
the  destruction  of  Israel  was  certain.  This  was 
necessary  and  was  clearly  foreseen  by  Ilosea  (9  3, 
etc).  The  wonder  is  that  the  little  state,  surrounded 
by  such  powerful  neighbors,  lasted  as  long  as  it 
did.     See,  further,  Israel,  History  of,  V. 

Literature. — The  most  important  works  are 
Ewald,  Geschichte  des  Vol kes  Israel  (ET  by  Martineau 
and  Glover);  Wellhausen,  Geschichte  Israels;  Deren- 
bourg,  Essai  sur  I'histoire  ....  de  la  Palestine;  and 
there  are  many  more.  Ewald  is  best  known  to  Eng. 
readers  through  the  medium  of  Dean  Stanley's  Lectures 

on  the    History   of  the   Jewish    Church.      See  further  under 
Chronology;    Israel,  and  arts,  on  individual  kings. 
Thomas  Hunter  Weir 
ISRAEL,  RELIGION  OF: 

I.     Introduction:      Historical     Consideration    of 
the  Religion  of  Israel 
II.     Historical  Outline 

1.  Pre-Mosaie  Religion  of  the  Ancestors  of  Israel 

(1)  The  Traditional  View 

(2)  The  Modern  View 

(3)  A  Higher  Conception  of  the  Deity;  'ilu,  'el 

(4)  Totemism,  Animism,  etc 

(5)  Conception  of  God 

(6)  Cultus 

2.  The  Mosaic  Covenant  witli  Jehovah 

(1)  The  Covenant-Idea 

(2)  The  Covenant-God,  Jehovah 

(3)  Monotheism  of  Moses 

(4)  Impossibility  of  Representing  Jehovah  by  an 
Image 

(5)  Ethical  Character  of  the  Cod  of  Moses 

(6)  The  Theocracy 

(7)  The  Mosaic;  Cultus 

:s.   Tiie  Religion  of  Israel  before  the  8th  Century  BC 

(1)  Decay  of  Religion  in  Canaan 

(2)  The  Theocratic  Kingdom 

(3)  Religious    Ideals   of   the    Psalms    from    the 
Time  of  David 

(4)  Wisdom  Literature  from  the  Time  of  Solo- 
mon 

(5)  The  Sanctuary  on  Mt.  Zion 

(6)  The   Religion  of  the  Kingdom  of  Ephraim 

(7)  Elijah  and  Elisha 

4.    Development  of  the  Religion  of  Israel  from  the 
Sth  Cent.  BC  to  the  Exile 

(1)  The  Writing  Prophets 

(2)  Their  Opposition  to  the  Cultus 

(3)  Their  Preaching  of  the  Judgment 

(4)  Their  Messianic  Promises 

(5)  Reformations 

(6)  Destruction  of  Jerusalem 


1531 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Israel,  King,  of 
Israel,  Rel.  of 


5.  The  Babylonian  Exilo 

(1)  Spiritual   Purification  through  the  Exile 

(2)  Relations  to  the  Gentile  World 
G.   Religion  of  the  Post-exilic  Period 

(1)  Life  under  the  Law 

(2)  Hellenism 

(3)  Pharisees  and  Sadducees 

(4)  Essenes 

(5)  Positive  Connections  between  Judaism  and 
Hellenism 

(6)  Apocalyptic  Literature 

III.     Conclusion:    Characteristic  Features   of  the 
Religion  of  Isr  \  el 

1.  The  Living  God 

2.  The  Relation  of  Man  to  This  God 
Literature 

/.  Introduction. — 111  former  times  it  was  the 
rule  to  draw  out  of  the  OT  its  religious  contents 
only  for  dogmatic  purposes,  without  making  any 
distinction  between  the  different  books.  These 
writings  were  all  regarded  as  the  documents  of  the 
Divine  revelation  which  had  been  given  to  this 
people  alone  and  not  to  others.  At  the  present 
time  the  first  inquiry  in  the  study  of  these  books 
deals  historically  with  the  religious  development 
of  the  Israelites.  This  religion  was  not  of  a  strictly 
uniform  nature,  but  is  characterized  by  a  devel- 
opment and  a  growth,  and  in  the  centuries  which 
are  covered  by  the  OT  books  it  has  passed  through 
many  changes.  Then,  too,  in  the  different  periods 
of  this  development  there1  were  various  religious 
trends  among  the  people  and  very  different  degrees 
in  the  extent  of  their  religious  knowledge.  The 
common  people  were  at  times  still  entangled  in 
crude  heathen  ideas,  while  the  bearers  of  a  higher 
Divine  light  ranked  vastly  above  them.  And  even 
in  those  times,  when  these  enlightened  teachers 
secured  full  recognition,  there  occurred  relapses 
into  lower  forms  of  religion  on  the  part  of  the  masses, 
esp.  because  the  influence  of  the  nations  surround- 
ing Israel  at  all  times  made  itself  felt  in  the  religious 
life  and  thoughts  of  the  latter.  And  even  when  the 
correct  teachings  were  accepted  by  the  people,  a 
malformation  of  the  entire  religion  could  readily 
occur  through  a  petrifaction  of  the  religious  life. 
It  is  the  business  of  the  science  of  the  history  of 
religion  to  furnish  a  correct,  picture  of  this  develop- 
ment, which  in  this  article  can  be  done  only  in  the 
form  of  a  sketch. 

One  of  the  recent  results  of  the  science  of  the 
history  of  religion  is  the  knowledge  that  the  religion 
of  Israel  itself,  and  not  merely  the  corruptions  of 
this  religion,  stood  in  a  much  closer  connection  with 
other  religions  than  had  in  former  times  been  suit- 
posed.  The  wealth  of  new  data  from  the  history  of 
oriental  nations  lately  secured  has  shown  that  it  is 
not  correct  to  regard  the  religion  of  Israel  as  an 
isolated  phenomenon,  but  that  considerable  light 
is  thrown  upon  it  from  analogous  facts  from  sur- 
rounding regions.  Of  especial  importance  in  this 
respect  is  the  study  of  Assyr  and  Bab  antiquities, 
with  their  rich  and  illustrative  monuments,  and, 
by  the  side  of  these,  also  those  of  Egypt;  and, 
further,  although  these  are  indeed  much  smaller 
in  number,  the  inscriptions  and  monuments  of  a 
number  of  peoples  situated  much  nearer  to  Israel 
and  ethnologically  more  closely  connected  with 
them,  such  as  the  Moabites,  Aramaeans,  Arabians, 
Canaanites,  Phoenicians,  and  others.  For  later 
times,  Parsiism  is  an  esp.  important  factor. 

These  antiquities  have  shown  that  between  the 
religion  of  Israel  and  the  religions  of  these  nations 
there  existed  such  close  connections  that  a  relation- 
ship between  them  cannot  be  denied.  It  is  indeed 
true  that  these  similarities  are  mostly  of  a  formal 
nature,  but  they  nevertheless  point  to  similar  con- 
ceptions of  the  Divine  Being  and  of  the  relation  of 
man  to  this  Being.  We  find  such  connecting  links  in 
the  cultus,  in  the  traditions  concerning  the  creation 
of  the  world,  concerning  the  earliest  history  of  man- 


kind, etc;  further,  in  the  conception  of  what  is 
legally  right  and  of  the  customs  of  life;  in  the  ideas 
concerning  death  and  t lie  world  beyond;  concerning 
the  souls  of  men  and  the  supernatural  spiritual 
world,  and  elsewhere.  These  analogies  and  related 
connections  have  appeared  so  pronounced  to  some 
savants,  especially  Assyriologists,  that  they  are 
willing  to  find  in  the  religion  of  the  Israelites  and 
Jews  only  a  reflection  of  the  Bab,  or  of  what  tiny 
call  the  "religion  of  tin;  ancient  Orient."  But  over 
against  this  claim,  a  closer  and  deeper  investigation 
shows  that  a  higher  world  of  thought  and  ideals 
at  all  times  permeates  the  Israelitish  religion  and 
gives  to  it  a  unique  character  and  a  Divine  truth, 
which  is  lacking  in  all  other  religions  and  which 
made  Israel's  religion  capable  of  becoming  the  basis 
of  that  highest  Divine  revelation  which  through 
Christ  came  forth  from  it.  We  will  here  briefly 
sketch  the  progress  of  the  development  of  this 
religion,  and  then  formulate  a  summary  of  those 
characteristics  which  distinguish  it  from  the  other 
religions. 

//.  Historical  Outline. — (1)  The  traditional  view. 
— The   sources   for   this    period    an;   meager.      Yet 
what    has    been    reported    concerning 
1.  Pre-  the  religion  of  the  period  of  the  Pa- 

Mosaic  triarchs  is  enough  to  give  us  a  picture 

Religion  of    of  their  conception  of  the  Deity.     And 
the  Ances-     this  picture  is  more  deserving  of  accept- 
ors of  ance  than  is  the1  representation  of  the 
Israel  matter   by   the   traditional   dogmatics 
of  the  church  and  also  that  of  those 
modern  scholars  who  are  under  the  spell  of  the  evo- 
lutionary idea,  and  who  undertake  to  prove  in  the 
Hib.   history  of   Israel   the   complete  development 
from  the  lowest  type  of  fetishism  and  animism  to 
the  heights  of  ethical  monotheism.     The  views  of 
the  old  church  teachers  were  to  the  effect  that  the 
doctrine  concerning   the  one   true   God   had   been 
communicated  by  God  to  Adam  in  its  purity  and 
perfection,  and  by  him  had  been  handed  through 
an  unbroken  chain  of  true  confessors  of  the  faith 
(Seth,   Noah,   etc),   down   to  Abraham.     But    this 
view  does  not  find  confirmation  in  tin;  Bib.  record. 
On  the  contrary,  in  Josh  24  2.15,   it  is  even  ex- 
pressly stated  of  the  ancestors  of  Abraham  that  they 
had  worshipped  strange  gods  in   Chaldaea.     And 
the  ancestors  of  the  people,  Abraham,  Jacob,  and 
others,  do  not  appear  on  the  stage  of  history  with  a 
teachable  creed,  but  themselves  first  learn  to  know 
gradually,  in  the;  school  of  life,  the  God  whom  they 
serve,  after  He  has  made  Himself  known  to  them  in 
extraordinary  manifestations.     Abraham  does  not 
yet  know  that  Jeh  does  not  demand  any  human 
sacrifices.     Jacob  still  has  the  narrow  view,   that 
the  place  when;  he  has  slept  is  the  entrance  portal 
to     heaven     (Gen  28   Ki.17).     Omnipresence     and 
omniscience  are  not  yet  attributes  which  they  asso- 
ciate with   their  idea  of  the  Divinity.     They  still 
stand  on  a  simple-minded  and  primitive  stage,  as 
far  as  their  knowledge  of  the  living  God  is  concerned. 
(2)    The  modern  view. — Over  against  this,  modern 
scholars  describe  pre-Mosaic  Israel  as  yet,  entirely 
entangled  in  Sem  heathen  ideas,  and  even  regard  the 
religion  of  the  people  in  general,  in  the  post-Mosaic 
period  down  to  the  8th  cent,  BC,  as  little  better 
than  this,  since  in  their  opinion  the  Jeh-religion 
had  not  thoroughly  permeated   the  ranks  of  the 
common  people,  and  had  practically  remained  the 
possession  of  the  men,  while  the  women  had  con- 
tinued to  cultivate  the  ancient  customs  and  views. 
W.  R.  Smith  and  Wellhausen  have  pointed  to  cus- 
toms and  ideas  of  the  pre-Islamic  Arabs,  and  S.I. 
Curtiss  to  such  in  the  modern  life  of  oriental  tribes, 
which  are  claimed  to  have  been  the  property  of  the 
most  ancient  Sem  heathen  tribes,  and  these  scholars 
use  these  as  the  key  for  the  ancient  Israelitic  rites 


Israel,  Rel.  of       THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1  -",32 


and  customs.  But  even  if  much  light  is  thrown 
from  these  sources  on  the  forms  of  life  ami  cult  us 
as  depicted  by  the  Scriptures,  much  caution  must 
be  exercised  in  the  use  made  of  this  material.  In 
the  first  place,  neither  those  Arabs  of  the  6th  cent. 
AD,  nor  their  successors  of  today,  can  be  regarded 
as  "primitive  Semites."  In  the  second  place,  it  is  a 
question,  even  if  in  the  earliest  period  of  Israel  such 
customs  are  actually  found,  what  they  really  signified 
for  the  tribe  of  Abraham.  We  are  here  not  speaking 
of  a  prehistoric  religion,  but  of  the  religion  of  that 
tribe  that  came  originally  from  l'r  of  the  Chaldees, 
and  migrated  first  by  way  of  Haran  to  Canaan,  and 
then  to  Egypt.  In  this  tribe  such  primitive  cus- 
toms, perhaps,  had  long  been  spiritualized.  For  t  hese 
Hebrews  cannot  be  regarded  as  being  as  uncivilized 
as  are  the  New  Zealanders,  or  the  Indians  of  North 
America,  or  those  Bedouins  who  have  never  left 
the  desert;  for  they  had  lived  in  Babylonia  for  a 
long  period,  even  if,  while  there,  they  had  with- 
drawn themselves  as  much  as  possible  from  the  more 
cultured  life  of  the  cities.  The  patriarchs  were  in 
touch  with  the  civilization  of  the  Babylonians.  We 
do  not,  indeed,  want  to  lay  special  stress  on  the  fact 
that  they  lived  in  Ur  and  in  Haran,  two  cities  of 
the  moon-god,  the  worship  of  which  divinity  shows 
monotheistic  tendencies.  But  the  history  of  the 
family  of  Abraham,  e.g.  his  relation  to  Sarah  and 
Hagar,  shows  indisputable  influence  of  Bab  legal 
ideas.  Probably,  too,  the  traditions  concerning  the 
beginnings  of  history,  such  as  the  Creation,  the 
Deluge,  and  the  like,  were  brought  from  Babylon 
to  Canaan  by  the  tribe  of  Abraham. 

(3)  A  higher  conception  of  the  Deity;  'ilu,  'el. — ■ 
But  this  tribe  had  come  to  Babylonia  from  North- 
ern Arabia.  It  is  a  very  important  fact  that  the 
oldest  Arabian  inscriptions,  namely  the  Minaean 
and  the  Sabaean,  lead  us  to  conclude  that  these 
tribes  entertained  a  relatively  high  conception  of 
the  Deity,  as  has  been  shown  by  Professor  Fritz 
Hommel.  The  oldest  Arabian  proper  names  are 
not  found  combined  with  names  of  all  kinds  of  gods, 
but  with  the  simple  'ilu,  'el,  or  God,  or  with  'ill, 
"my  God."  Then,  too,  God  is  often  circumscribed 
by  the  nouns  expressing  relationship,  such  as  'dbhi, 
"my  father,"  or  'dhl,  "my  brother,"  or  'ammi,  "my 
uncle,"  and  others,  which  express  an  intimate  rela- 
tionship between  man  and  his  God.  Correspond- 
ing to  these  are  also  the  old  Sem  proper  names  in 
Canaan,  as  also  the  name  Abraham,  i.e.  ' '  Abhi- 
ram,  "my  father  is  exalted,"  or  Ishmael,  and  many 
others.  We  accordingly  must  believe  that  the  an- 
cestors of  Abraham  immigrated  into  Babylon  with  a 
comparatively  highly  developed  religion  and  with 
a  uniform  conception  of  God.  Here  their  faith 
may  have  been  unfavorably  influenced,  and  it  is 
not  impossible  that  the  religious  disagreement 
between  the  patriarch  and  his  neighbors  may  have 
been  a  reason  for  his  migration.  Abraham  himself 
is  regarded  by  the  Canaanites  as  a  "friend  of  God," 
who  stands  in  an  intimate  relationship  with  his 
God,  and  he  is  accordingly  to  be  regarded,  not 
merely  as  a  secular,  but  also  as  a  religious  tribal 
head,  an  Imam,  a  prophetical  personality. 

(4)  Totemism;  animism,  etc. — Still  less  is  it  cor- 
rect to  ascribe  to  this  tribe  the  lowest  religious  stage 
possible,  namely  that  of  fetishism  or  of  totemism 
(worship  of  demons  or  worship  of  animals)  and  the 
like.  Some  think  they  find  evidences  of  the  wor- 
ship of  animals  in  Israel.  The  fact  that  some 
Israelites  were  regarded  as  descendants  of  Leah 
("wild  cow"[?]),  others  of  Rachel  ("mother  sheep"), 
is  claimed  to  refer  to  the  fact  that  these  animals 
were  totems  of  the  tribe,  i.e.  were  worshipped  as 
ancestors.  But  for  this  claim  there  is  no  scintilla 
of  proof.  These  names  of  women,  esp.  in  the  case 
of  a  nomadic  tribe,  can  be  explained  in  a  much  more 


simple  way.  The  calves  that  appear  in  later  times 
as  images  of  Jeh  are  just  as  little  a  proof  for 
the  claim  that  calves  were  worshipped  by  the  an- 
cestors of  Israel  as  divinities.  We  read  nothing  of 
such  an  image  before  the  sojourn  in  Egypt,  and 
after  that  time  this  image  was  always  regarded 
symbolically.  The  fact,  again,  that  from  the  days 
of  Moses,  and  without  a  doubt  earlier  than  this, 
certain  animals  were  not  allowed  to  be  eaten,  does 
not  justify  the  conclusion  which  Professor  B.  Stade 
and  others  have  drawn  from  it,  viz.  that  these  ani- 
mals were  in  olden  times  regarded  as  divine  (tabu), 
and  for  that,  reason  were  not  permitted  to  be  eaten, 
and  only  afterward  were  avoided  as  "unclean." 
The  list  of  unclean  animals  in  Lev  11  and  Dt  14 
speaks  for  an  altogether  different,  reason  for  regard- 
ing them  as  unclean.  It  is  not  at,  all  thinkable  that 
these  many,  and  as  a  rule  unclean  and  low  class  of 
animals,  were  at,  one  time  accorded  divine  honor, 
while  the  higher  and  cleaner  class  had  been  ex- 
cluded from  this  distinction.  We  have  accordingly 
no  reason  for  finding  animal  worship  here.  On  the 
other  hand,  it  is  self-evident,  in  the  case  of  such  an 
old  nomadic  tribe,  that  man  stood  in  a  more  familiar 
relationship  to  his  animals,  and  for  this  reason  the 
slaughter  of  these  was  a  more  significant  matter 
than  was  afterward  the  case.  This  was  done  only 
on  extraordinary  occasions,  and  it  readily  was  ac- 
corded a  religious  consecration.     See  also  Totemism. 

The  idea  is  also  emphatically  to  be  rejected,  that 
in  the  pre-Mosaic  period  mere  animism  prevailed 
in  Israel — the  worship  of  spirits  and  of  demons.  It 
has  been  tried  in  vain  to  show  that  in  the  most 
primitive  period  of  Israel's  religion  the  worship  of 
ancestors  occupied  a  prominent  place.  As  Pro- 
fessor Emil  Kautzsch  has  emphasized,  the  argu- 
ments which  have  been  drawn  from  the  mourning 
customs  of  the  Israelites  in  favor  of  this  claim  (as 
this  is  done  by  F.  Schwally,  Das  Leben  nach  dem 
Tode,  nach  den  V  orstellungen  des  alien  Israel  ami 
des  .Indentions,  Giessen,  1892)  are  altogether  inade- 
quate, as  is  also  the  appeal  to  the  marriage  with  a 
deceased  wife's  sister,  as  though  the  purpose  of  the 
institution  was  to  secure  for  the  deceased  who  had 
died  without  issue  somebody  who  would  attend  to 
his  worship.  Because  of  the  strongly  developed 
mundane  character  of  the  religious  life  in  Israel, 
it  is  natural  that  it  was  regarded  as  a  calamity  if 
there  was  no  issue  who  kept  alive  the  memory  of 
the  departed  in  the  tribe.  But  even  if  the  argu- 
ment from  the  mourning  customs  of  Israel  were 
more  convincing  than  is  actually  the  case,  and  that 
gifts,  such  as  food,  oil,  and  the  like,  were  placed  in 
the  tomb  of  the  departed,  as  was  often  done  by  the 
Canaanites,  yet  this  would  be  in  the  ancient  Israel- 
it  ish  religion  a  matter  of  subordinate  importance, 
which  could  readily  be  explained  on  the  ground  of 
natural  feelings.  It  could  never  be  made;  to  appear 
plausible  that  all  religions  had  grown  out  of  such 
a  cultus.  If  the  teraphim  are  to  be  regarded  as 
having  been  originally  images  of  ancestors,  which  is 
quite  plausible,  then  they  would  indeed  represent  a 
continuous  ancestral  cultus,  as  the  people  evidently 
kept  these  images  in  their  houses  in  order  to  attract 
to  themselves  blessings,  to  avert,  misfortunes  and 
to  secure  oracles.  But  these  dolls,  modeled  after 
the  form  of  human  beings,  already  in  the  period  of 
the  Patriarchs  were  regarded  as  a  foreign  element 
and  in  contradiction  to  the  more  earnest  religious 
sentiments  (cf  Gen  31  19;   35  2.4). 

That  Israel,  like  all  ancient  peoples,  did  at  one 
time  pass  through  an  "animistic"  stage  of  religious 
development  could  best  be  proved,  if  at  all,  from 
their  conception  of  the  soul.  Among  the  purifi- 
cat  ions  those  are  esp.  necessary  which  are  demanded 
by  the  presence  of  a  dead  body  in  the  same  room 
with  the  living,  as  the  living  are  defiled  by  the  soul 


1533 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA       Israel,  Rel.  of 


of  the  deceased  in  leaving  the  body  (Nu  19  14). 
Even  the  uncovered  vessels  are  defiled  by  his  soul- 
substance  (19  15).  This,  however,  is  a  biological 
conception,  which  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  con- 
ception of  the  Deity. 

Or  are  those  perhaps  right,  who  think  that  the 
primitive  Israelites  had  accepted  animism  in  this 
sense,  that  they  did  not  as  yet  worship  any  actual 
divinities,  but  only  a  multitude  of  spirits  or  demons, 
be  these  ghosts  of  departed  human  beings  or  the 
spirits  of  Nature,  local  numinaf  In  favor  of  this 
last-mentioned  view,  appeal  is  made  to  this  fact, 
that  in  the  ancient  Sem  world  local  divinities  with 
very  circumscribed  spheres  of  power  are  very  often 
to  be  met  with,  esp.  at  springs,  trees,  oases,  at  which 
a  demon  or  divinity  is  regarded  as  having  his  abode, 
who  is  described  as  the  ba%al  or  master  in  this  place; 
cf  such  local  names  as  Baal-tamar,  Baal-hermon, 
and  others.  Such  local  spirits  would  then  be  the 
'elolilm,  out  of  which  would  grow  more  mighty 
divinities  of  whole  cities  and  countries.  To  these 
it  would  be  necessary  yet  to  add  those  spirits  which 
were  worshipped  by  individual  tribes,  partly  spirits 
of  ancestors,  who  also  could  have  grown  into  higher 
divinities,  while  the  rest  of  the  mass  of  deities,  good 
and  bad,  had  to  content  themselves  with  a  lower 
rank. 

As  against  this,  we  must  above  all  consider  the 
fact  that  in  ancient  Israel  the  demons  played  a  very 
subordinate  role.  The  contrast  in  this  regard  with 
Babylonia  is  phenomenal.  It  is  probably  the  case 
that  at  all  periods  in  Israel  there  existed  a  belief  in 
unclean  spirits,  who  perhaps  lived  in  the  desert  (cf 
the  D'HOTE  ,  s^lrlm) ,  or  in  the  demoniacs,  and  could 
otherwise,  too,  do  much  harm.  But  they  are 
not  described  as  having  much  influence  on  man's 
life.  How  few  indications  of  such  a  view  can  be 
found  and  how  little  most  of  these  indications  prove 
we  can  see  in  the  work  of  II.  Duhm,  Die  bosen 
Geister  im  A  T,  Tubingen,  1906.  After  the  Bab  exile, 
and  still  more  after  the  longer  sojourn  of  the  Israel- 
ite's in  Babylon,  their  imagination  was  to  a  much 
greater  degree  than  before  saturated  by  the  faith 
in  spirits.  Then  the  closer  study  of  such  Sem 
be%alim  teaches  us  that  they  were  not  originally  con- 
ceived in  such  a  narrow  sense.  They  are  very 
often  of  a  solar  nature,  celestial  powers  who  have 
their  abode;  at  a  particular  place,  and  there  produce 
fertility,  but  in  this  special  function  represent  a 
general  power  of  Nature.  The  same  is  the  case  with 
the  tribal  divinities.  These  are  by  no  means 
merely  the  personifications  of  the  small  power  of  a 
particular  tribe,  but  claim  to  be  absolute  beings, 
which  shows  that  they  are  regarded  as  higher  di- 
vinities which  the  tribe  has  appropriated  and 
adapted  to  its  own  political  ideas.  We  accordingly 
have  no  right  to  think  that  such  a  divinity  was  to 
be  regarded  as  really  confined  to  a  particular  hill, 
or  even  to  a  certain  stone  or  tree  where  it  was  wor- 
shipped. The  rock  or  stone  or  tree  divinities  of 
the  ancient  Arabs  are  celestial  powers,  who  have 
only  taken  their  abode  at  these  places,  even  if 
popular  superstition  did  actually  identify  them  with 
such  stones  or  trees. 

It  is  therefore  a  misconception  of  the  actual 
state  of  affairs  when  the  conclusion  is  drawn  that 
stone-worship  is  meant  when  Jacob  erects  a  stone 
monument,  the  maccebhah  at  Bethel,  and  anoints 
it  with  oil,  and  when  this  is  understood  to  be  a  low 
type  of  fetishism.  Stones  are  to  the  present  day, 
for  the  wandering  tribes,  the  signs  by  which  impor- 
tant localities,  esp.  sacred  places,  are  designated. 
The  symbolical  significance  of  such  stones  may  be 
quite  different,  as  also  the  relation  which  a  divinity 
is  thought  to  sustain  to  such  a  stone  monument. 
For  this  reason,  too,  the  judgment  of  the  Bible  con- 


cerning such  objects  is  quite  different.  Only  then, 
when  they  are  symbols  of  idolatry,  as  the  hammd- 
nim,  i.e.  representations  of  the  sun-god,  ba*al 
hamman,  are  they  everywhere  rejected  in  the  OT. 
In  the  same  way  a  mighty  tree,  esp.  if  it  is  found 
near  a  spring  of  water,  is  in  the  Orient,  by  its  very 
nature,  a  proof  of  the  life-producing  God.  Such  a 
tree  naturally  suggests  that  it  is  a  place  where 
divine  life  can  be  felt.  Trees  that  have  been  made 
sacred  by  manifestations  of  the  divinities  or  have  been 
consecrated  by  the  memory  of  a  great  personality, 
esp.  the  oak,  the  terebinth,  the  palm,  were  regarded 
as  favorite  places  beneath  which  the  divinity  was 
sought.  Only  in  that  case,  as  was  indeed  common 
in  Canaan,  when  the  unhallowed  powers  of  Nature 
were  here  adored,  was  this  custom  reprehensible 
in  the  eyes  of  the  prophets.  The  'asherim,  too,  are 
of  a  decidedly  heathen  character,  as  these  trunks  of 
trees  were  symbols  of  the  goddess  Ashera.  Further, 
it  was  a  favorite  custom  to  worship  the  divinities 
on  the  high  places,  for  the  reason  that  they  were 
regarded  as  in  or  attached  to  the  heavens.  Only 
because  of  the  heathen  worship  which  was  prac- 
tised on  these  bmnoth  were  they,  in  later  times,  so 
hateful  to  the  prophets. 

(5)  Conception  of  God. — In  answer  to  the  ques- 
tion, what  ideas  the  patriarchs,  the  pre-Mosaic 
leaders  of  the  people  of  Israel,  entertained  concern- 
ing God,  attention  must  first  of  all  be  drawn  to  the 
fact  that  God  spoke  to  some  of  these  personally, 
be  this  in  one  form  of  manifestation  or  in  another. 
These  men  heard  the  word  of  God  with  their  own 
ears,  and  that,  too,  in  the  most  important  moments 
of  their  lives.  In  the  case  of  Abraham,  these  reve- 
lations are  fundamental  for  him  and  for  his  people. 
The  prophetic  factor,  which  goes  through  the  entire 
history  of  Israel  and  constitutes  the  life-principle 
that  fills  its  religion  and  causes  its  further  develop- 
ment, is  at  the  very  first  beginnings  the  source 
whence  the  knowledge  of  God  is  taken.  This  pre- 
supposes a  personal  God;  and,  as  a  matter  of  fact, 
a  fixed  personality  is  demanded  by  the  character  of 
such  a  God.  His  "I"  impresses  itself  upon  man 
with  absolute  power  and  demands  his  service  en- 
tirely. This  "I"  constantly  remains  the  same,  and 
everywhere  evinces  the  same  power,  be  this  in 
Ilaran  or  in  Canaan  or  in  Egypt,  and  whether  it 
manifests  itself  to  Abraham  or  to  Isaac  or  to  Jacob. 
This  oneness  is  not  formulated  as  a  didactic  propo- 
sition, but  as  a  living  reality:  only  this  God  existed 
for  His  adherents.  These  appeal  to  Him  at  all 
times  with  equal  success.  The  manifestations  of 
this  God  may  be  of  a  different  kind  at  different 
times.  He  is  even  entertained,  on  one  occasion,  as 
a  personal  guest  by  His  friend  Abraham,  together 
with  two  companions  (Gen  18  1  ff).  On  another 
occasion  (Gen  15  17)  Abraham  beholds  Him  in 
symbolical  form  as  a  burning  and  fiery  furnace 
(probably  to  be  regarded  as  similar  to  the  movable 
altar  discovered  by  Sellin  in  Taanach).  But  these 
are  to  be  regarded  as  special  favors  shown  by  God. 
In  general  it  was  the  rule  that  God  could  not  be 
seen  without  the  beholder  suffering  death.  Then, 
too,  the  conviction  is  very  old,  that  what  man  sees 
in  the  case  of  such  theophanies  cannot  have  been 
God  Himself,  but  that  He  had  manifested  Himself 
through  a  subordinate  agent,  an  angel  (this  is  par- 
ticularly the  case  in  the  document  E  in  Gen).  This 
angel,  however,  has  no  significance  in| himself,  but 
is  only  the  creature-veil,  out  of  whiclr  God  Himself 
speaks  in  the  first  person.  In  the  most  elementary 
manner  this  formal  limitation  of  God  appears  in 
Gen  11  5,  where  He  goes  to  the  trouble  of  descend- 
ing from  heaven  in  order  to  look  at  something  on 
earth;  and  in  18  21,  when  He  desires  to  go.  to 
Sodom  personally,  in  order  to  convince  Himself 
that  what  He  has  intended  to  send  upon  this  city 


Israel,  Rel.  of       THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1534 


is  also  (ho  right  thing.      It  is  indeed  possible  to  find 

in  I  lie  first  instance  some  traits  of  irony,  and  possibly 
in  (he  second  case  the  epic  details  may  have  added 
something.  However,  Clod  is  no  longer  spoken  of 
in  such  a  human  way  in  the  post-Mosaic  times. 
This  shows  that  the  document  J  at  this  place  con- 
tains material  that  is  very  old.  All  the  more  is  it. 
to  be  noted  what  exalted  conceptions  of  God  pre- 
vail already  in  these  narratives,  tie  dwells  in 
heaven  ill"")-,  19  24),  something  that  has  without 
reason  been  claimed  not  to  have  been  the  idea  enter- 
tained in  the  older  period.  He  is  the  God  of  the 
world,  who  exercises  supremacy  over  all  the  nations. 
He  rules  with  justice,  checks  pride,  avenges  injus- 
tice, and  that,  too,  not  only  in  a  summary  manner 
on  whole  countries,  but  also  in  such  a  way  that,  He 
takes  into  consideration  every  individual  and  saves 
the  one  just  man  out  of  the  midst  of  the  mass  of 
sinners  (18  25;  19).  In  short,  He  is  already  the 
true  God,  although  yet  incompletely  and  primi- 
tively grasped  in  His  attributes. 

This  God,  ruling  with  omnipotent  power  in  Na- 
ture and  history,  has  entered  into  a  special  relation- 
ship with  the  "tribe  of  Abraham.  He  has  become 
the  Covenant-God  of  the  patriarch,  according  to 
the  testimony  of  the  old  document  J  in  Gen  15. 
We  accordingly  find  here  already  the  consciousness 
that  that  God  who  rules  over  the  world  has  entered 
into  a  special  relationship  with  one  small  nation  or 
tribe.  This  fact  appears  also  in  this,  that  Abram 
(Gen  14)  acknowledges  the  highest  God  of  the 
priest-king  Melchizedek  (Gen  14  20  IT)  as  his  God, 
as  the  founder  of  heaven  and  of  earth,  and  identifies 
Him  with  his  own  Covenant-God  Jeh. 

(('))  Cull  us. — As  far  as  the  cult  us  is  concerned, 
if  can  be  stated  that  at  this  period  it,  was  still  of  a 
simple,  but  solemn  and  dignified  character.  The 
people  preferred  to  worship  their  God  at  such  places 
where  He  had  manifested  Himself,  usually  on  a 
high  place,  on  which  an  altar  had  been  erected. 
There  were  no  images  of  the  Divinity  extant.  As 
the  word  n£T"2  ,  mizbeah,  "altar,"  shows,  the  sacri- 
fices were  usually  bloody.  Human  sacrifice  had 
already  in  the  days  of  Abraham  been  overcome  by 
the  substitution  of  an  animal,  although  in  olden 
times  it  may  have  been  practised,  perhaps,  as  the 
sacrifice  of  the  firstborn;  and  in  later  times,  too, 
through  the  influence  of  the  example  of  heathen 
nations,  it  may  have  found  its  way  into  Israel  now 
and  then.  Both  larger  and  smaller  animals  were 
sacrificed,  as  also  fowls.  The  idea  that  prevailed 
in  this  connection  was  that  God,  too,  enjoyed  the 
food  which  served  man  as  his  sustenance,  although 
God,  in  a  finer  way,  experienced  as  a  pleasure  only 
the  scent  of  the  sacrifices,  as  this  ascended  in  the 
flame  and  the  smoke  (Gen  8  21).  But  the  main 
thing  was  the  blood  as  the  substratum  of  the  soul. 
The  fruits  of  the  field,  esp.  the  first-fruits,  were  also 
offered.  Of  liquid  offerings,  it  is  probable  that  in 
primitive  times  water  was  often  brought,  as  this 
was  often  a  costly  possession;  and  in  Canaan,  oil, 
which  the  inhabitants  of  this  country  employee! 
extensively  in  their  sacrifices  (Jgs  9  9,  something 
that  is  confirmed  also  by  recent  excavations);  also 
wine  (Jgs  9  13).  As  the  ancient,  burnt  or  whole 
sacrifices  (Gen  8  20)  give  expression  to  reverence, 
thankfulness,  the  prayer  for  protection  or  the 
granting  of  certain  favors,  the  people  from  the  very 
beginning  also  instituted  sacrificial  feasts,  which 
gave  expression  to  the  covenant  with  God,  the 
communion  with  the  Covenant-God.  In  this  act 
the  sacrifice  was  divided  between  God  and  those 
who  sacrificed.  The  latter  ate  and  drank  joyously 
before  God  after  the  parts  dedicated  to  Him  had 
been  sacrificed,  and  esp.  after  the  blood  had  been 
poured  around  the  altar.  The  idea  that  this  was 
the   original   form   of   the   sacrifice   and    that   gift- 


sacrifices  were  introduced  only  at  a  later  period 
when  agriculture  had  been  introduced  is  not  con- 
firmed by  historical  evidences.  That  man  felt 
himself  impelled,  by  bringing  to  his  God  gifts  of  the 
best  things  he  possessed,  to  express  his  depend- 
ence and  gratitude,  is  too  natural  not  to  have  been 
from  the  beginning  a  favorite  expression  of  religious 
feeling.  In  connection  with  the  sacrifices  the  name 
of  God  was  solemnly  called  upon.  J  even  says 
that  this  was  the  name  Jeh  (Gen  4  25),  while  E 
and  B  tell  us  that  this  name  came  into  use  only 
t  hrough  Moses. 

According  to  B  (Gen  17  10  ff),  circumcision  was 
already  introduced  by  Abraham  in  his  tribe  as 
the  sign  of  the  covenant.  There  are  good  reasons 
why  the  introduction  of  this  custom  is  not  like  that 
of  so  many  other  ceremonies  attributed  to  Moses. 
The  custom  was  without  doubt  of  an  older  origin. 
From  whatever  source  it  may  have  been  derived 
in  its  earlier  ethnological  stage,  for  the  Israelites 
circumcision  is  an  act  of  purification  and  of  conse- 
cration for  connection  with  the  congregation  of 
,)eh.  A  special  priesthood,  however,  did  not  yet, 
exist  in  this  period,  as  the  head  of  the  family  and 
of  the  tribe  exercised  the  priestly  functions  and 
rights  (cf  Gen  35  Iff),  although  the  peoples  in- 
habiting Canaan  at  that  time  had  priests  (Gen 
14  IS). 

(1)  The  covenant-idea. — Israel  claims  that  its 
existence  as  a  nation  and  its  special  relation  to  Jeh 

begins  with  its  exodus  from  Egypt 
2.  The  and  with  the  conclusion  of  the  cove- 

Mosaic  nant  at  Mt.  Sinai  (cf  Am  3  2;    9  7). 

Covenant  As  the;  preparation  for  this  relation 
with  goes    back    to    one    individual,     viz. 

Jehovah         Abraham,   thus   it   is   Moses   through 

whom  God  delivered  His  people  from 
bondage  and  received  them  into  His  covenant  (see 
concerning  Moses  as  a  prophet  and  mediator  of  the 
covenant,  Israel,  History  of).  It  is  a  matter  of 
the  highest  significance  for  the  religion  of  Israel 
that,  the  relation  of  this  people  to  Jeh  was  not  one 
which  existed  by  the  nature  of  things,  as  was  the 
ease  with  the  other  oriental  tribal  and  national 
religions,  but  that  it  was  the  outgrowth  of  a  his- 
torical event,  in  which  their  God  had  united  Him- 
self with  them.  The  conception  of  a  covenant, 
upon  which  Jeh  entered  as  a  matter  of  free  choice 
and  will,  and  to  which  the  people  voluntarily  gave 
their  assent,  is  not  an  idea  of  later  date  in  the  reli- 
gious history  of  Israel,  which  grew  out  of  the  pro- 
phetic thoughts  of  the  8th  and  7th  cents.  BC,  as 
lias  been  claimed,  but  is  found,  as  has  been  made 
prominent  by  Professor  Fr.  Giesebrecht  (Die 
Geschichtlichkeit  des  Sinaibundes,  1900),  already 
in  the  oldest  accounts  of  the  conclusion  of  the 
covenant  (E,  J),  and  must  be  ascribed  to  the  Mosaic 
age.  This  includes  the  fact,  too,  that  this  cove- 
nant, which  unites  Jeh  with  Israel,  could  not  be  of 
an  indissoluble  character,  but  that  the  covenant 
was  based  on  certain  conditions.  The  superficial 
opinion  of  the  people  might  often  cause  them  to 
forget  this.  But  the  prophets  could,  in  later  times, 
base  their  proclamations  on  this  fact.  Further, 
the  thought,  is  made  very  prominent  that  this 
covenant  imposed  ethical  duties.  While  the  di- 
vinities of  other  nations,  Egyp,  Bab,  Phoen,  de- 
manded primarily  that  their  devotees  should  erect 
temples  in  their  honor  and  should  bring  them  an 
abundance  of  sacrifices,  in  Israel  the  exalted  and 
ethical  commandment  is  found  in  the  forefront. 
The  covenant  relation  to  the  God  of  Israel  can 
legitimately  be  found  only  where  the  relation  to 
one's  fellow-man  is  normal  and  God-pleasing 
(Decalogue). 

(2)  The  Covenant-God,  Jehovah. — The  special 
revelation  which   Moses  received  is  characterized 


1535 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA       Israel,  Rel.  of 


by  the  word  Jehovah  (  Yahweh)  as  a  name  for  God. 
This  name,  according  to  the  well-authenticated 
report  of  Ex  6  3  (P),  which  is  supported  also  by 
E,  had  not  been  "known"  to  the  fathers.  This 
does  not  necessarily  mean  that  nothing  had  been 
known  of  this  name.  Bab  prayers  often  speak  of 
an  "unknown  god,"  and  in  doing  this  refer  to  a 
god  with  whom  those  who  prayed  had  not  stood 
in  personal  relation.  The  God  of  the  fathers  ap- 
peared to  Moses,  but  under  a  name  which  was  not 
familiar  to  the  fathers  nor  was  recognized  by  them. 
In  agreement  with  this  is  the  fact  that  only  from 
the  time  of  Moses  proper  names  compounded  with 
some  abbreviation  of  Jeh,  such  as  Jan.  Jahu,  Jeho, 
are  found,  but  soon  after  this  they  became  very 
common.  Accordingly,  it.  would  be  possible  that 
such  names  were  in  scattered  cases  found  also 
before  the  days  of  Moses  among  the  tribes  of  Israel, 
and  it  is  not  impossible  that  this  name  was  familiar 
to  other  nations.  The  Midianites  esp.,  who  lived 
originally  at  Mt.  Sinai,  have  been  mentioned  in 
this  connection,  and  also  the  Kenites  (Stade,  Budde), 
some  scholars  appealing  for  this  claim  to  the  influ- 
ence which,  according  to  Ex  18,  Jethro  had  on  the 
institutions  of  Moses.  However,  the  matters  men- 
tioned here  refer  only  to  legal  procedure  (cf  vs  14 
ff).  We  nowhere  hear  that  Moses  took  over  the 
Jeh-worship  from  this  tribe.  On  the  contrary, 
Jethro  begins  only  at  this  time  (Ex  18  11)  to  wor- 
ship Jeh,  the  God  of  Moses,  and  the  common  sacri- 
ficial meal,  according  to  ver  12,  did  not  take  place 
in  the  presence  of  Jeh,  but,  accommodating  it  to 
the  guest,  in  the  presence  of  Elohim.  Then  we 
nowhere  hear  that  the  Kenites,  who  lived  together 
with  the  Israelites,  ever  had  any  special  prominence 
in  the  service  of  Jeh,  as  was  the  case,  e.g.,  with  the 
Median  Magi,  who  had  charge  of  the  priesthood 
among  the  Persians,  or  with  the  Etruscans  among 
the  Romans,  who  examined  the  entrails.  Yet  the 
Kenites  would  necessarily  have  enjoyed  special 
authority  in  the  Jeh-cultus,  if  their  tribal  God  had 
become  the  national  God  of  Israel.  The  only 
thing  that  can  be  cited  in  favor  of  an  Arabian  ori- 
gin of  the  name  of  Jeh  is  the  Arab,  word-form, 
Hin,  hawah,  for  H^H,  hayah.  On  the  other  hand, 
a  number  of  facts  indicate  that  Ja  or  Jau  as  a  name 
for  God  was  common  in  Syria,  Philistia  and  Baby- 
lonia; cf  Joram,  son  of  the  king  of  Hamath  (2  S 
8  10),  and  Jaubidi,  the  king  of  this  city,  who  was 
removed  by  Sargon.  In  these  cases,  however, 
Israelitish  influences  may  have  been  felt.  Fried- 
rich  Delitzsch  claims  to  have  discovered  the  names 
Jahve-ilu  and  Jahum-ilu  on  inscriptions  as  early 
as  the  times  of  Hammurabi.  But  his  readings 
are  sharply  attacked.  However  this  may  be,  the 
name  God  as  proclaimed  by  Moses  was  not  only 
something  new  for  Israel,  but  was  also  announced 
by  him  (possibly  also  with  a  new  pronunciation, 
Yahweh  instead  of  YaJtu)  with  a  new  signification. 
At  any  rate,  the  explanation  in  Ex  3  14  (E),  "I  Am 
That  I  Am,"  for  doubting  which  we  have  no  valid 
reasons,  indicates  a  depth  in  the  conception  of  God 
which  far  surpasses  the  current  conceptions  of  the 
Syrian  and  the  Bab  pantheon.  It  would,  perhaps, 
be  easier  to  find  analogous  thoughts  in  Egyp  specula- 
tions. But  this  absolute  God  of  Moses  is  not  the 
idea  of  speculative  priests,  but  is  a  popular  God  who 
claims  to  control  all  public  as  well  as  private  life. 

(3)  Monotheism  of  Moses. — Attempts  have  been 
made  to  deny  the  monotheistic  character  of  this 
God,  and  some  have  thought  that  the  term  "monol- 
atry"  would  suffice  to  express  this  stage  in  man's 
knowledge  of  God,  since  the  existence  of  other  gods 
was  not  denied,  but  rather  was  presupposed  (cf 
passages  like  Ex  15  11),  and  it  was  only  forbidden 
to  worship  any  god  in  addition  to  Jeh  (20  3). 
However,    this    distinction    is    fundamental,    and 


separates,  in  kind,  the  religion  of  Moses  from  that 
of  the  surrounding  nations.  For  among  these  latter, 
the  worship  of  more  than  one  divine  being  at  the 
same  time  was  the  rule.  Tin1  gods  of  the  Phoeni- 
cians, the  Aramaeans,  and  the  Babylonians  are, 
like  those  of  the  Egyptians,  beings  that  spontane- 
ously increase  in  number.  They  are  divided  into 
male  and  female  groups  of  two,  while  in  Ileb  there 
is  not  even  a  word  extant  for  goddess,  and  the  idea 
of  a  female  companion-being  to  Jeh  is  an  impossi- 
bility. Then,  too,  it  is  characteristic  of  the  ethnic 
god  that  he  is  multiplied  into  many  b'\l,llm,  and 
does  not  feel  it  as  a  limitation  or  restriction  when 
kindred  divinities  are  associated  with  him.  How- 
ever, the  Jeh  of  Moses  does  not  suffer  another  being 
at  His  side,  for  the  very  reason  that  He  claims  to  be 
the  absolute  God.  Passages  like  Ex  15  11,  too, 
purpose  chiefly  only  to  express  His  unique  char- 
acter; but  if  He  is  without  any  equals  among  the 
gods,  then  He  is  the  only  one  who  can  claim  to  be 
God;  and  it  is  in  the  end  only  the  logical  dog- 
matic formulation  of  the  facts  in  the  case  when  we 
are  told  in  Dt,  "Jeh  he  is  God;  there  is  none  else 
besides  him"  (4  35.39;  6  4;  cf  Ps  18  32).  This 
does  not  exclude  the  fact  that  also  in  later  times, 
when  monotheism  had  been  intelligently  accepted, 
mention  is  still  made  of  the  gods  of  the  heathen  as 
of  real  powers  (cf,  e.g.  Jer  49  ]).  This  was  rather 
the  empirical  method  of  expression,  which  found  its 
objective  basis  in  the  fact  that  the  heathen  world 
was  still  in  possession  of  some  real  spiritual  power. 
Most  of  all,  the  popular  faith  or  the  superstition 
of  the  people  could  often  regard  tin1  gods  of  the 
other  nations  as  ruling  in  the;  same  way  as  Jeh  did 
in  Israel  (cf,  e.g.  2  Ch  28  23).  But  the  idea  that 
the  faithful  worshippers  of  Jeh  after  the  days  of 
Moses  ever  recognized  as  equal  and  of  the  same  rank 
with  their  own  God  the  gods  of  the  heathen  must 
be  most  emphatically  denied,  as  also  the;  claim  that 
these  Israelites  assigned  to  Jeh  only  restricted 
powers  over  a  small  territory.  This  surely  would 
have  been  in  flat  contradiction  to  the  well-known 
history  of  the  Mosaic  period,  in  which  Jeh  had 
demonstrated  His  superiority  over  the  famous  gods 
of  Egypt  in  so  glorious  a  manner.  Cf  on  this  point 
James  Robertson,  Early  Religion,  4th  ed,  297  ff 
(against  Stade). 

(4)  Impossibility  of  representing  Jeh  by  em  image. 
— The  2d  principle  which  the  Mosaic  Decalogue 
establishes  is  that  Jeh  cannot  be  represented  by 
any  image.  In  this  doctrine,  too,  there  is  a  con- 
scious contrast  to  the  nations  round  about  Israel 
(in  addition  to  Ex  20  4,  cf  Dt  5  8;  also  Ex  24 
17).  That  in  the  last-mentioned  passage  only 
molten  images  are  forbidden,  while  those  hewn  of 
stone  or  made  of  wood  might  be  permitted,  is  an 
arbitrary  claim,  which  is  already  refuted  by  the 
fact  that  the  Mosaic  sanctuary  did  not  contain  any 
image  of  Jeh.  The;  Ark  of  the  Covenant  was  indeed 
a  visible  symbol  of  the  presence  of  God,  but  it  is 
a  kind  of  throne  of  Him  who  sits  enthroned  invisibly 
above  the  cherubim,  as  has  been  shown  above,  and 
accordingly  does  not  admit  of  any  representation  of 
God  by  means  of  an  image.  This  continued  to  be 
the  case  in  connection  with  the  central  sanctuary, 
with  the  exception  of  such  aberrations  as  are  already 
found  in  Ex  32  and  which  are  regarded  as  a  viola- 
tion of  the  Covenant,  also  at  the  time  when  the 
sanctuary  was  stationed  at  Shiloh.  The  fact  that 
at  certain  local  cults  Jeh-images  were  worshipped 
is  to  be  attributed  to  the  influence  of  heathen  sur- 
roundings (cf  on  this  point  J.  Robertson,  loc.  cit., 
215  ff). 

(5)  Ethical  character  of  the  God  of  Moses. — A 
further  attribute  of  the  God  of  Moses,  which  exalts 
Him  far  above  the  ethnic  divinities  of  the  surround- 
ing peoples,  is  His  ethical  character.     This  appears 


Israel,  Rel.  of       THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1530 


in  (he  fact  that  Flis  principles  inculcate  fundamental 

ethical  duties  and  His  agents  are  chiefly  occupied 
with  the  administration  of  legal  justice.  Moses 
himself  became  the  lawgiver  of  Israel.  The  spirit 
of  this  legislation  is  deeply  ethical.  Only  we  must 
not  forget  that  Moses  cannot  have  originated  these 
ordinances  and  laws  and  created  them  as  some- 
thing absolutely  new,  but  that  he  was  compelled 
to  build  on  the  basis  of  the  accepted  legal  customs 
of  the  people.  But  he  purified  these  legal  usages, 
which  he  found  in  use  among  the  people,  through 
the  spirit  of  his  knowledge  of  God,  protected  as 
much  as  possible  the  poor,  the  weak,  the  enslaved, 
and  elevated  the  female  sex,  as  is  shown  by  a 
comparison  with  related  Bab  laws  (CH).  Then, 
too,  we  must  not  forget  that,  the  people  were  com- 
paratively uneducated,  and  esp.  that  a  number  of 
crude  classes  had  joined  themselves  to  the  people 
at  that  time,  who  had  to  be  stringently  handled 
if  their  corrupt  customs  were  not-  to  infect  the  whole 
nation.  The  humane  and  philanthropic  spirit  of 
the  Mosaic  legislation  appears  particularly  pro- 
nounced in  Dt,  which,  however,  represents  a  later 
reproduction  of  the  Mosaic;  system,  but  is  entirely 
the  outcome  of  Mosaic,  principles.  Most  embar- 
rassing for  our  Christian  feeling  is  the  hardness  of 
the  Mosaic  ordinances  in  reference  to  the  heathen 
Canaanites,  who  were  mercilessly  to  be  rooted  out 
(Dt  7  2;  20  16  f).  Here  there  prevails  a  concep- 
tion of  Cod,  which  is  found  also  among  the  Moab- 
ites,  whose  King  Mesha,  on  his  famous  monument, 
boasts  that  he  had  slain  all  the  inhabitants  of  the 
city  of  Kiriath-jearim  as  "a  spectacle  to  Chemosh, 
the  god  of  Moab."  According  to  Dt  7  2  fT,  the 
explanation  of  this  hardness  is  to  be  found  in  the 
fact  that,  such  a  treatment  was  regarded  as  a  Di- 
vine judgment  upon  the  worshippers  of  idols,  and 
served  at  the  same  time  as  a  preventive  against  the 
infection  of  idolatry. 

((>)  The  theocracy. — The  vital  principle  of  the 
organization  which  Moses  gave  to  his  people,  Jos 
(CAp,  II,  16)  has  aptly  called  a  theocracy,  be- 
cause the  lawgiver  has  subordinated  all  relations 
of  life  to  the  government  of  his  God.  It  is  entirely 
incorrect  when  Wellhausen  denies  that  there  is  a 
difference  between  theocracy  and  hierarchy.  Not 
the  priesthood,  but  Jeh  alone,  is  to  rule  all  things 
in  Israel,  and  Jeh  had  many  other  organs  or  agents 
besides  the  priests,  esp.  the  prophets,  who  not 
rarely,  as  the  representatives  of  the  sovereign  God, 
sharply  opposed  themselves  to  the  priests.  The 
theocratical  principle,  however,  finds  its  expression 
in  this,  that  public  and  private  life,  civil  and  crim- 
inal law,  military  and  political  matters  were  all 
controlled  by  religious  principles. 

(7)  The  Mosaic  cultus. — As  a  matter  of  course, 
Moses  also  arranged  the  cultus.  He  created  a  holy 
shrine,  the  tabernacle,  which  contained  the  Ark  of 
the  Covenant,  and  in  its  general  arrangements 
became  the  model  of  the  sanctuary  or  temple  built 
in  later  times.  He  appointed  sacred  seasons,  in 
doing  which  he  connected  these  with  previously 
customary  festival  days,  but  he  gave  sharper  di- 
rections concerning  the  Sabbath  and  gave  to  the  old 
festival  of  spring  a  new  historical  significance  as 
the  Passover.  Moses  further  appointed  for  this 
sanctuary  a  priestly  family,  and  at  the  same  time 
ordained  that  the  tribe  to  which  this  family  be- 
longed should  assume  the  guardianship  of  the 
sanctuary.  The  lines  separating  the  rights  of  the 
priests  and  of  the  Levites  have  often  been  changed 
since  his  time,  but  the  fundamental  distinctions  in 
this  respect  go  back  to  Moses.  In  the  same  way 
Moses  has  also,  as  a  matter  of  course,  put  the  sacred 
rites,  the  celebrations  of  the  sacrifices,  the  religious 
institutions  and  ceremonies,  into  forms  suitable 
to  that  God  whom  he  proclaimed.     This  does  not 


mean  that  all  the  priestly  laws,  as  they  are  now 
found  recorded  in  the  Pent,  were  word  for  word 
dictated  by  him.  The  priests  were  empowered  to 
pronounce  Torah,  i.e.  Divine  instruction,  on  this 
subject,  and  did  this  in  accordance  with  the  direc- 
tions received  through  Moses.  Most  of  these  in- 
structions were  at  first  handed  down  orally,  until 
they  were  put  into  written  form  in  a  large  collec- 
tion. But.  in  the  priestly  ordinances,  too,  there  is 
no  lack  of  traces  to  show  that  these  date  from  the 
period  of  Moses  and  must  at  an  early  time  have 
been  put  into  written  form. 

(1)  Deco  y  of  religion  in  Canaan. — Upon  the  in- 
tense religious  feeling  produced  by  the  exodus  from 

Egypt  and  the  events  at  Mt.  Sinai, 
3.  The  there  followed  a  relapse,  in  connection 

Religion  of  with  which  it  appears  that  in  this 
Israel  Mosaic  generation  the  cruder  tenden- 

before  the  cies  were  still  too  pronounced  to  en- 
8th  Cent.  dure  the  great  trial  of  faith  demanded 
BC  by  the  conquest  of  the  laud  of  Canaan. 

In  the  same  way,  the  heroic  struggles 
of  Joshua,  carried  on  under  the  directions  of  Jeh 
and  resulting  in  the  conquest  of  the  country,  were 
followed  by  a  reaction.  The  zeal  for  battle  weak- 
ened; the  work  of  conquest  was  left  unfinished;  the 
people  arranged  to  make  themselves  at  home  in  the 
land  before  it  had  really  been  won;  peace  was  con- 
cluded with  the  inhabitants.  This  decay  of  theo- 
cratic zeal  and  the  occupation  of  the  land  by  the 
side;  of  and  among  the  Canaanites  had  a  direful 
influence  on  the  Jeh-religion  as  it  had  been  taught 
the  people  by  Moses.  The  people  adopted  the 
sanctuaries  of  the  country  as  their  own,  instead  of 
rooting  them  out  entirely.  They  took  part  in  the 
festivals  of  their  neighbors  and  adopted  their 
customs  of  worship,  including  those  that  were  bane- 
ful. The  local  Baals,  in  whose  honor  harvest  and 
autumn  festivals  were  celebrated  as  thanksgiving 
for  t  heir  having  given  the  products  of  the  earth,  were 
in  many  places  worshipped  by  the  Israelites.  The 
possibility  of  interpreting  the  name  Baal  in  both  a 
good  and  bad  sense  favored  the  excuse  that  in  doing 
this  the  people  were  honoring  Jeh,  whom  in  olden 
times  they  also  unhesitatingly  called  their  Baal, 
as  their  Lord  and  the  master  of  the  land  and  of  the 
people.  By  the  side  of  the  Jeh-altars  they  placed 
the  Asherah,  the  sacred  tree,  really  as  a  symbol  of 
the  goddess  of  this  name;  and  the  stone  pillars 
(hammanlm) ,  which  the  original  inhabitants  had 
erected  near  their  sanctuaries,  were  also  held  in 
honor,  while  the  heathen  ideas  associated  with  them 
thereby  found  their  way  into  the  religious  conscious- 
ness of  the  people.  Sorcery,  necromancy,  and 
similar  superstitions  crept  in.  And  since,  even  as 
it  was,  a  good  deal  of  superstition  had  continued  to 
survive  among  the  people,  there  came  into  existence, 
in  the  period  of  the  Judges,  a  type  of  popular  reli- 
gion that  was  tinged  by  a  pronounced  heathenism 
and  had  but  little  in  common  with  the  theocratical 
principles  of  Moses,  although  the  people  had  no 
intention  of  discarding  the  God  of  Moses.  Char- 
acteristic of  this  religious  syncretism  during  the 
time  of  the  Judges  was  the  rise  of  the  worship  of 
images  dedicated  to  Jeh  in  Dan  (Jgs  17  and  18) 
and  probably  also  at  Ophrah  (8  27),  as  also  human 
sacrifices  (ch  11). 

(2)  The  theocratic  kingdom. — But  during  this 
period  pronounced  reactions  to  the  true  worship  of 
Jeh  were  not  lacking.  The  heroes  who  appeared 
on  the  arena  as  liberators  from  the  yoke  of  the  op- 
pressors recalled  the  people  to  Jeh,  as  was  done  like- 
wise by  the  prophets  and  prophetesses.  Samuel, 
the  greatest  among  this  class,  was  at  the  same  time 
a  prophet  and  reformer.  He  again  brought  the 
people  together  and  tried  to  free  them  from  the  con- 
t  animation  of  heathenism,  in  accordance  with  the 


1537 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA       Israel,  Rel.  of 


Mosaic  ordinances,  and  at  the  same  time  prepared 
for  a  new  future  by  the  establishment  of  colonics  of 
prophets  and  by  the  establishment  of  the  kingdom. 
This  latter  innovation  seemed  to  be  at  variance 
with  the  principles  of  a  strict  theocracy.  It  is  the 
merit  of  Samuel  that  he  created  t  he  theocratic  king- 
dom, by  which  the  anointed  of  Jeh  himself  was  to 
become  an  important  agent  of  the  supreme  rule  of 
Jeh.  It  is  indeed  true  that  the  first  king,  Saul,  did 
not  realize  this  ideal,  but  his  successor,  David,  ap- 
preciated it  all  the  more.  And  even  if  David  was 
far  from  realizing  the  ideal  of  a  theocratic  king,  he 
nevertheless  continued  to  be  the  model  which 
prophecy  tried  to  attain,  viz.  a  king  who  was  per- 
sonally and  most  intimately  connected  with  Jeh, 
and  who,  as  the  servant  of  Jeh,  was  to  realize  en- 
tirely in  his  own  person  the  mission  of  the  people 
to  become  the  servants  of  Jeh,  and  was  thus  to 
furnish  the  guaranty  for  the  harmony  between 
Israel  and  their  God,  and  bring  rich  and  unalloyed 
blessings  upon  the  land. 

(3)  Religious  ideals  of  the  Psalms  since  David. — 
In  this  way  the  covenant-relation  became  a  personal 
one  t  hrough  "the  anoint  ed  one  of  Jeh."  In  general, 
religion  in  Israel  became  more;  personal  in  character 
in  the  days  of  the  earlier  kings.  Before  this  time 
the  collective  relation  to  Ciod  prevailed.  Only  as 
a  member  of  the  tribe  or  of  the  nation  was  the  indi- 
vidual connected  with  Jeh,  which  fact  does  not. 
exclude  the  idea  that  this  Cod,  for  the  very  reason 
that  He  rules  according  to  ethical  principles,  also 
regards  the  individual  and  grants  him  His  special 
protection  and  requites  to  him  good  or  evil  accord- 
ing to  his  deeds.  The  Heb  hymns  or  "psalms," 
which  David  originated,  give  evidence  of  a  more 
intimate  association  of  the  individual  with  his  Cod. 

The  verv  oldest  of  these  psalms,  a  number  of  which 
point  to  David  as  their  author,  are  not  liturgical  congre- 
gational hymns,  but  were  originally  individual  prayer- 
songs,  which  emanated  from  personal  experiences,  but 
were,  in  later  times,  employed  for  congregational  use. 
The  prejudice,  that  only  in  later  times  such  expressions 
of  personal  piety  could  be  expected,  is  refuted  by  anal- 
ogous cases  among  other  nations,  esp.  by  the  much 
more  ancient  penitential  and  petitionary  prayers  of  the 
Babylonians,  in  which,  as  a  rule,  the  wants  of  the  indi- 
vidual and  not  those  of  the  nation  constitute  the  con- 
tents. These  Bab  penitential  prayers  show  that  among 
this  people,  too,  the  feeling  of  guilt  as  the  cause  of  mis- 
fortune was  very  vivid,  and  that  they  regarded  repent- 
ance and  confession  as  necessary  in  order  to  secure  the 
forgiveness  of  the.  gods.  However,  the  more  exalted 
character  of  the  Israelitish  conception  of  Cod  appears 
in  a  most  pronounced  way  in  this  comparison,  since  the 
Babylonian  feels  his  way  in  an  uncertain  manner  in 
order  to  discover  what  god  or  goddess  ho  may  have 
offended,  and  not  rarely  tries  to  draw  out  the  sympathy 
of  the  one  divinity  over  against  the  wrath  of  another. 
But  much  more  can  this  difference  be  seen  in  this,  that 
the  heathen  singer  is  concerned  only  to  get  rid  of  the 
evil  or  the  misfortune  that  oppresses  him.  The  com- 
munion with  his  god  whose  favor  Ik;  seeks  to  regain  is  in 
itself  of  no  value  for  him.  In  David's  case  the  matter 
is  altogether  different,  as  he  knows  that  he  is  bound  to 
Jeh  by  a  covenant  of  love  (Ps  18  2),  and  his  heart 
delights  in  this  communion,  more  than  it  does  in  all 
earthlv  possessions  (Ps  4  8);  and  this  is  even  more  so 
in  the  case  of  the  author  of  Ps  73  25-26.  Such  words 
would,  for  good  reasons,  be  unthinkable  in  the  case  of 
a  Bab  psalmist. 

In  the  times  of  those  earliest  kings  of  Israel, 
which,  externally,  constituted  the  most  nourishing 
period  in  their  history,  unless  tradition  is  entirely 
at  fault,  the  spiritual  world  of  thought  also  was 
enriched  by  the  Wisdom  literature  of  the  Proverbs, 
the  earliest  examples  of  which  date  back  to  Solomon. 

(4)  Wisdom  literature  since  Solomon. — This  hokhmdh, 
or  Wisdom  literature,  is  marked  by  the  peculiarity  that 
it  ignores  the  special  providential  guidance  of  Israel  and 
their  extraordinary  relation  to  their  God,  and  confines 
itself  more  to  the  general  revelation  of  God  in  Nature 
and  in  the  history  of  mankind,  but  in  doing  this  regards 
the  fear  of  God  as  the  beginning  of  wisdom,  and  at  all 
times  has  the  practical  purpose  of  exhorting  to  a  moral 
and  (iod-pleasing  life.  The  idea  that  this  cosmopolitan 
tendency  is  to  be  attributed  to  Gr  influences,  and  accord- 


ingly betrays  a  later  period  as  the  time  of  its  origin,  is 
to  be  rejected,  as  far  as  Prov  and  Job  are  concerned. 
The  many  passages  in  Prov  that  speak  of  conduct 
over  against  the  king  show  a  preexilic  origin.  The 
universalistic  character  of  this  literature  must  be  ex- 
plained on  other  grounds.  It  resulted  from  this,  that  this 
proverb-wisdom  is  not  the  sole,  exclusive  property  of 
Israel  and  was  not  first  cultivated  among  them,  but  was 
derived  from  abroad.  The  Edomites  were  esp.  con- 
spicuous in  this  respect,  as  the  Book  of  Job  shows,  in 
which  the  Israelitish  author  introduces  as  speakers 
masters  of  this  art  from  this  tribe  and  others  adjoining 
it.  We  can  also  compare  the  superscriptions  in  Prov 
30  1;  31  1,  in  which  groups  of  proverbs  from  Arabian 
principalities  are  introduced.  Accordingly,  this  wisdom 
was  regarded  as  a  common  possession  of  Israel  and  of 
their  neighbors.  This  is  probably  the  reason  why  the 
authors  of  this  class  of  literature  refrain  from  national 
reference  and  reminiscences.  That  the  liberal-minded 
Solomon  was  the  one  to  introduce  this  proverb-wisdom, 
or  at  any  rate  cultivated  it  with  special  favor,  is  in 
itself  probable,  and  is  confirmed  by  the  fact  that  the 
Queen  of  Sheba  (South  Arabia)  came  to  Jerus  in  order 
to  listen  to  his  wisdom.  But  this  also  presupposes 
that  in  her  country  a  similar  class  of  wisdom  was  culti- 
vated. This  was  also  the  case  in  Egypt  in  very  early 
antiquity,  and  in  Egyp  literature  we  have  collections  of 
proverbs  that  remind  us  of  the  proverbs  of  Solomon 
(of  Transactions  of  the  Third  International  Congress  of 
the  History  of  Religions,  Oxford,  1908,  I,  284  If;  see 
Wisdom). 

(5)  The  sanctuary  on  Mt.  Zion. — The  kingdom  of 
David  and  of  Solomon  not  only  externally  marks  the 
highest  development  of  the  history  of  Israel,  but 
intellectually,  too,  prepared  the  soil  out  of  which 
henceforth  the  religious  life  of  the  nation  drew  its 
sustenance.  It  was  esp.  under  David  a  significant 
matter,  that  at  this  time  the  higher  spiritual  powers 
were  in  harmony  with  the  political.  This  found  its 
expression  in  the  Divine  election  of  David  and  his 
seed,  which  was  confirmed  by  prophetical  testament 
(2  S  7).  Hand  in  hand  with  this  went  the  selec- 
tion of  Mt.  Zion  as  tin;  dwelling-place  of  Jeh. 
David,  from  the  beginning,  was  desirous  of  establish- 
ing here  the  theoeratical  center  of  the  people,  as  he 
had  shown  by  transferring  the  Ark  of  the  Covenant 
to  Jerus.  In  the  same  way  Solomon,  by  the  erec- 
tion of  the  Temple,  sought  to  strengthen  and  suit- 
ably equip  this  central  seat.  As  a  matter  of  course, 
the  sacred  shrines  throughout  the  land  did  not, 
thereby  at  once  lose  their  significance.  But  the 
erection  of  the  sanctuary  in  Jerus  was  not  at  all 
intended  to  establish  a  "royal  chapel"  for  the  king, 
as  Wellhausen  has  termed  this  structure,  but  it 
claimed  the  inheritance  of  the  tabernacle  in  Shiloh, 
and  the  prophets  sanctioned  this  claim. 

(())  Religion  in  the  Kingdom  of  EpJiraim. — The 
division  of  the  kingdom  after  the  death  of  Solomon 
which,  as  it  was,  had  not  been  too  large,  proved 
politically  disastrous.  It  also  entailed  a  retro- 
gression in  religious  matters.  The  centralizing 
tendencies  of  the  preceding  reigns  were  thwarted. 
Jeroboam  erected  other  sacred  shrines;  esp.  did  he 
make  Bethel  a  "king's  sanctuary"  (Am  7  13).  At 
the  same  time  he  encouraged  religious  syncretism. 
It  is  true  that  the  gold-covered  images  of  heifers 
(by  the  prophets,  in  derision,  called  "calves")  were 
intended  oidy  to  represent  the  Covenant-God  Jeh. 
However,  this  representation  in  the  form  of  images, 
an  idea  which  the  king  no  doubt  had  brought  back 
with  him  from  his  sojourn  in  Egypt,  was  a  conces- 
sion to  the  corrupt  religious  instincts  in  the  nation, 
and  gave  to  the  Ephraimitic  worship  an  inferior 
character  in  comparison  with  the  service  in  the 
Temple  in  Jerus,where  no  images  were  to  be  found. 
But  in  other  respects,  too,  the  arbitrary  conduct  of 
the  king  in  the  arrangement  of  the  cultus  proved 
to  be  a  potent  factor  in  the  Northern  Kingdom  from 
the  beginning.  The  opposition  of  independent 
prophets  was  suppressed  with  all  power.  Never- 
theless, the  prophetic  agitation  continued  to  be  a 
potent  spiritual  factor,  which  the  kings  themselves 
could  not  afford  to  ignore. 

This  proved  to  be  the  case  particularly  when  the 


Israel,  Rel.  of       THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1538 


dynasty  of  Omri,  who  established  :i  new  capital 
city,  Samaria,  openly  favored  the  introduction  of 
Phoen  idolatry.  Ahah's  wife,  Jezebel,  even  suc- 
ceeded in  having  a  magnificent  temple  erected  in 
the  new  capital  to  her  native  Baal,  and  in  crushing 
the  opposition  of  the  prophets  who  were  faithful  to 
Jeh.  It  now  became  a  question  of  life  and  death, 
so  far  as  the  religion  of  Jeh  was  concerned.  The 
struggle  involved  not  only  certain  old  heathen  cus- 
toms in  the  religion  of  the  masses,  dating  back  to 
the  occupation  of  Canaan,  but  it  was  the  case  of  an 
invasion  of  a  foreign  and  heathen  god,  with  a  clearly 
defined  purpose.  His  voluptuous  worship  was  not, 
at  all  in  harmony  with  the  serious  character  of  (Ik; 
Mosaic  religion,  and  it  seriously  menaced,  in  a  people 
naturally  inclined  to  sensuality,  the  rule  of  the 
stringent  and  holy  God  of  Mt.  Sinai.  The  tricky 
and  energetic  queen  was  already  certain  that  she 
had  attained  her  purpose,  when  an  opponent  arose 
in  the  person  of  Elijah,  who  put  all  her  efforts  to 
naught. 

(7)  Elijah  ami  Elisha.—In  his  st niggle  with  the 
priests  of  Baal,  who  deported  themselves  after  the 
manner  of  modern  dervishes,  we  notice  particularly 
the  exalted  and  dignified  conception  of  Cod  in  1  K 
18.  When  in  this  chapter  Jeh  and  Baal  arc  con- 
trasted, the  idea  of  Elijah  is  by  no  means  that  these 
gods  have  in  their  own  territory  the  same  rights  as 
Jeh  in  Canaan  and  Israel.  Elijah  mocks  this  Baal 
because  he  is  no  God  at  all  (18  21),  and  the  whole 
worship  of  the  priests  convinces  him  that  they  arc 
not  serving  a  real  and  true  God,  but  only  the  prod- 
uct of  their  imagination  (18  27).  This  is  mono- 
theism, and  certainly  not  of  a  kind  that  has  only 
recently  been  acquired  and  been  first  set  up  by  Eli- 
jah, but  one  that  came  down  from  the  days  of 
Moses.  Elijah  proves  himself  to  be  a  witness  and 
an  advocate  of  the  God  of  Sinai,  who  has  been 
betrayed  in  a  treacherous  manner.  The  fact  that 
he  inflicts  a  dire  and  fateful  punishment  on  the  idol- 
atrous priests  of  Baal  is  also  in  perfect  agreement 
with  the  old,  stringent,  Mosaic,  legal  code.  Only 
such  severity  could  atone  for  the  fearful  crime 
against  the  God  of  the  country  and  of  the  covenant, 
and  could  save  the  people  from  apostasy.  How- 
ever, the  theophany  at  Mt.  Sinai  (1  K  19  11  IT) 
shows  clearly  that  not  His  external  and  fearful 
power,  but,  His  calm  and  deep  character  was  felt 
by  Elijah  to  be  the  distinguishing  mark  of  his  God. 
His  successor,  Elisha,  after  the  storm  had  cleared 
the  religious  atmosphere  in  the  country,  in  the  per- 
formance of  his  prophetic  duties  was  able  again  to 
show  forth  more  emphatically  the  fatherly  care  and 
the  helpful,  healing  love  of  his  God. 

In  general,  the  political  retrogression  of  the  nation 
and  the  opposition  of  those  in  power,  which  the 
prophets  and  the  faithful  worshippers  of  Jeh  in  later 
times  were  compelled  to  experience  often  enough, 
served  greatly  to  intensify  and  to  spiritualize  their 
religion.  The  unfortunate  situation  of  the  present, 
ami  the  weaknesses  and  failures  in  the  actual  state 
of  the  theocracy,  directed  their  eves  to  the  future 
The  people  began  to  study  the  wonderful  ways  of 
God  m  dealing  with  His  people,  and  they  began  to 
look  to  the  end  of  these  dealings.  A  proof  of  this 
is  found  in  the  comprehensive!  accounts  contained 
in  the  old  history  of  the  covenant-people  as  recorded 
m  the  Pentateuchal  documents  E  and  J,  which  were 
composed  during  this  period.  Whether  these  ex- 
tend beyond  and  later  than  the  period  of  Joshua  or 
not,  can  remain  an  open  question.  In  any  case,  there 
existed  written  accounts  also  concerning  the  times 
of  the  Judges,  and  concerning  the  history  of  Samuel 
David  and  Solomon,  which  in  part  were  written 
down  soon  after  the  events  they  record,  and  which, 
because  of  their  phenomenal  impartiality,  point  to 
an  exceptionally  high  prophetic  watchtower  from 


which  the  ways  of  God  with  His  people  were  ob- 
served. 

(1)  The  writing  prophets. — The  spiritual  develop- 
ment   of    the   deeper    Israelitish   religion   was    the 

business  of  the  prophets.  At  the 
4.  Develop- latest,  from  the  8th  cent.  BC,  and 
ment  of  probably  from  the  middle  of  the  9th, 

Israel's  we  have  in  written  form  their  utter- 

Religion  ances  and  discourses.      Larger  collec- 

from  the  tions  of  such  prophecies  wen;  certainly 
8th  Cent.  left  by  Amos  and  Hosea.  These 
BC  to  the  prophets  stood  entirely  on  the  basis 
Exile  of  the  revelations  which  by  Moses  had 

been  made  the  foundation  of  IsraeJ's 
religion.  But  in  contrast,  to  the  superficial  and 
mistaken  idea  of  the  covenant  of  Jeh  entertained 
by  their  contemporaries,  these  prophets  make  clear 
the  true  intentions  of  this  covenant,  and  at  the 
same  time,  through  their  new  inspiration,  advance 
the  religious  knowledge  of  the  people. 

(2)  Their  opposition  to  the  cultus. — This  appears 
particularly  in  their  rejection  of  the  external  and 
unspiritual  cult  us  of  their  age.     Over  against   the 
false  worship  of  God,  which  thinks  to  satisfy  God 
by  the  offering  of  sacrifices,  they  proclaim  tlie  true 
worship,  which  consists  above  all  things  in  the  ful- 
filment of  the  duties  of  the  law  and  of  love  toward 
their  fellow-men.     They  denounce  as  a  violation  of 
the   covenant   not   only   idolatry,    the  worship   of 
strange  gods,  and  the  heathen  symbols  and  customs 
which,  in  the  course  of  time,  had  crept  into  the  serv- 
ice of  Jeh,  but  they  declare  also  that  the  religion 
which  is  based  solely  on  the  offering  of  sacrifices  is 
worthless,  since  God,  who  is  in  no  way  dependent 
on  any  services  rendered  by  men,  does  not  care 
for  such  sacrifices,   but   is   concerned   about   this, 
that  His  commands  be  observed,  and  that    these 
consist  above  all  things  in  righteousness,  upright- 
ness in  the  dealings  of  man  with  man,  and  in  mercy 
on  the  poor,  the  weak,  the  defenceless,  who  cannot 
secure   justice  for    themselves.      (Cf,   e.g.,    1  S  15 
22;    Hos  6  6;    Isa  1  HIT;    Jer  7  21  ff,  and  other 
passages    equally    pointed.     See   on    this   subject, 
J.   Robertson,    Early   Religion,   etc,   440  ff.)     .Such 
a  transfer  of  the  center  of  religion  from  the  cultus 
to  practical  ethical  life  has  no  analogy  what  even- 
in  other  Sem  and  ancient  religions.     Yet  it  is  not 
something  absolutely  new,  but  is  a  principle  that 
lias  developed  out  of  the  foundation  laid  by  Moses, 
while  it  is  in  most  pronounced  contrast  to  the  com- 
mon_  religious  sentiments  of  mankind.     The  pro- 
phetic   utterances    that   condemn    the   unthinking 
and  the  unconsecrated  cultus  must  not,  be  misunder- 
stood, as  though  Isaiah,  Jeremiah  and  others  had 
been  modern  spiritualists,  who  rejected  all  external 
forms  of  worship.     In  this  case  they  would  have 
ceased    to   be   members   of   their  own   people   and 
children  of  their  own  times.     What  they  absolutely 
reject  is  only  the  false  trust  put  in  an  opus  operation, 
i.e.  a  mechanical  performance  of  religious  rites,  which 
had   been   substituted   for   the  real   and   heartfelt 
exercise  of  religion.     Then,  too,  we  are  not  justified 
in  drawing    from   passages  such   as   Jer  7  22   the 
conclusion  that  at  this  time  there  did  not  yet  exist 
in  written  form  a  Mosaic  sacrificial  code.     Such 
a  code  is  found  even  in  the  Book  of  the  Covenant, 
recognized   by  critics  as  an  older  Pent  document 
(Ex  20-23,  34),    and    the   fact   that   the   Sabbath 
commandment  is  found  in  the  Decalogue  does  not 
prevent  Isaiah  from  writing  what  he  has  penned  in 
1  13.14.     That  at  this  period,  already,  there  were 
extant  many  written  ordinances  is  demanded  by 
Hos  8  12,  and  the  connection  shows  that  cultus- 
ordinances  are  meant.     We  must  accordingly  take 
the  prophet's  method  of  expression  into  considera- 
tion, which  delights  in  absolute  contrasts  in  cases 
where  we  would  speak  relatively.     But  this  is  not 


1.539 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA       Israel,  Rel.  of 


intended  to  weaken  the  boldness  of  the  prophetic 
thoughts,  which  purpose  to  express  sharp  opposi- 
tion to  the  religious  ideas  current  at  that  t  ime. 

(3)  Their  -preaching  of  the  judgment. — The  con- 
ception of  God  and  Divine  things  on  the  part  of  the 
prophets  was  the  logical  development  of  the  reve- 
lations in  the  days  of  Moses,  and  after  that  time, 
concerning  the  nature  and  the  activity  of  God. 
The  God  of  the  prophets  is  entirely  a  personal  and 
living  God,  i.e.  He  enters  into  the  life  of  man.  His 
holiness  is  exaltation  above  Nature  and  the  most 
pronounced  antagonism  to  all  things  unclean,  to 
sin.  Sin  is  severely  dealt  with  by  God,  esp..  as  has 
already  been  mentioned,  the  sin  of  showing  no  love 
and  no  mercy  to  one's  neighbor.  Because  they  are 
saturated  with  this  conviction  of  the  absolute 
holiness  of  God,  the  preexilic  prophets  proclaim 
to  their  people  more  than  anything  else  the  judg- 
ment which  shall  bring  with  it  the  dissolution  of 
both  kingdoms  and  the  destruction  of  Samaria  and 
of  Jerus,  together  with  its  temple.  First,  its  de- 
struction is  proclaimed  to  the  Northern  Kingdom; 
later  on  to  the  Southern.  In  doing  this,  these  in- 
spired men  testify  that  Jeh  is  not  inseparably  bound 
to  His  people.  Rather  He  Himself  calls  the  de- 
stroyer to  come,  since  all  the  nations  of  the  world 
are  at  His  command. 

(4)  Tluir  Messianic  -promises. — However,  the 
prophets  never  conclude  purely  negatively,  but 
they  always  see  on  the  horizon  some  rays  of 
hope,  which  promise  to  a  "remnant"  of  the  people 
better  limes.  A  "day  of  Jeh"  is  coming,  when  He 
will  make  His  final  settlement  witli  the  nations, 
after  they  have  carried  out  His  judgment  on  His 
people.  Then,  after  the  destruction  of  the  gentile 
world,  He  will  establish  His  rule  over  the  world. 
This  fundamental  thought,  which  appears  again 
and  again  wit  li  constantly  increasing  clearness,  often 
takes  the  form  that  a  future  king  out  of  the  house 
of  David,  in  whom  the  idea  of  the  '•anointed  of 
Jeh"  has  been  perfectly  realized,  will  first  establish 
in  Judah-Israel  a  pure  rule  of  God,  and  then  also 
gain  the  supremacy  of  the  world.  Some  critics 
have  claimed  that  all  of  these  Messianic  and 
eschatological  predictions  date  from  the  post- 
exilic  period.  In  recent  years  a  reaction  against 
this  view  lias  set  in,  based  on  the  belief  that  in 
Egypt  and  Babylonia  also  similar  expectations 
are  found  at  an  early  period.  These  promises, 
when  they  are  more  clearly  examined,  are  found  to 
be  so  intimately  connected  with  the  other  prophecies 
of  Isaiah,  Hosea,  and  others,  that  to  separate  them 
would  be  an  act  of  violence.  In  their  most  mag- 
nificent character,  these  pictures  of  the  future  are 
found  in  Isa,  while  in  Jer  their  realization  and 
spiritualization  have  progressed  farther. 

(5)  Reformations. — While  the  prophets  are  char- 
acterized by  higher  religious  ideas  and  ideals,  the 
religion  of  the  masses  was  still  strongly  honey- 
combed with  cruder  and  even  heathen  elements. 
Yet  there  were  not  totally  wanting  among  the 
common  people  those  who  listened  to  these  pro- 
phetic teachers.  And  esp.  in  Judaea  there  were 
times  when,  favored  by  pious  kings,  this  stricter 
and  purer  party  obtained  the  upper  hand.  This 
was  particularly  the  case  under  the  kings  Jehosha- 
phat,  Hezekiah,  and  Josiah.  During  the  reigns  of 
these  kings  the  cultus  was  reformed.  Hezekiah 
and  Josiah  attacked  particularly  the  local  sanc- 
tuaries and  their  heathen  worship  (called  bamoth), 
and  concentrated  the  sacrificial  cultus  in  Jerus. 
In  doing  this  they  were  guided  by  the  faithful  priest  s 
and  prophets  and  by  the  ancient  Mosaic  directions. 
Josiah,  who,  more  thoroughly  than  others,  fought 
against  the  disintegration  of  the  Jeh-cultus,  found 
his  best  help  in  the  newly  discovered  Book  of  the 
Law  (Dt).     That  the  sacrifices  should  be  made  at 


one  place  had  been,  as  we  saw,  an  old  Mosaic 
arrangement.  However,  Moses  had  foreseen  that 
local  altars  would  be  erected  at  places  where  special 
revelations  had  been  received  from  Jeh  (Ex  20 
24-25).  In  this  way  the  numerous  altars  at  Bethel, 
on  Carmel,  and  elsewhere  could  claim  a  certain  just  i- 
fication,  only  they  were  not  entitled  to  the  same 
rank  as  the  central  sanctuary,  where  the  Ark  of 
the  Covenant  stood  and  where  the  sons  of  Aaron 
performed  their  priestly  functions.  Dt  demands 
more  stringently  that  all  real  sacrificial  acts  shall 
be  transferred  to  this  central  point.  This  rule 
Josiah  carried  out  strictly.  The  suppression  of  the 
current  sacrifices  on  high  places  by  the  fall  of  the' 
Northern  Kingdom  aided  in  effecting  the  collapse 
of  such  shrines,  while  the  sanctuary  in  Jerus, 
because  it  was  delivered  from  the  attack  of  the 
Assyrians,  won  a  still  greater  recognition. 

_  (G)  Destruction  of  Jerusalem. — However,  imme- 
diately after  the  death  of  Josiah,  the  apostasy  from 
Jeh  again  set  in.  The  people  thought  t  hat  they  had 
been  deserted  by  Him,  and  they  now  more  than 
before  sought  refuge  in  an  appeal  to  a  mixture  of 
gods  derived  from  Babylonia,  Egypt,  Persia  and 
elsewhere.  Ezk  8  and  9  describe  this  syncretism 
which  made  itself  felt  even  in  the  temple-house  in 
Jerus.  The  people  were  incapable  of  being  made 
better  and  were  ripe  for  destruction.  The  temple, 
too,  which  it  was  thought,  by  many  could  not  be 
taken,  was  doomed  to  be  destroyed  from  its  very 
foundations. 

(1)  Spiritual    purification    through    the    Exile. — 
A  mighty  change  in  the  religion  of  Israel  was  occa- 
sioned   by    the    deportation    of    the 
5.  The  wealthier   and    better   educated   Jews 

Babylonian    to  Babylon  and  their  sojourn  there  for 
Exile  a  period  of  about  50  years,  and  by  the 

still  longer  stay  of  a  large  portion  of 
the  exiles  in  this  country.  The  nation  was  thus 
cut  off  from  the  roots  of  the  native  heathendom  in 
Pal  and  also  from  the  external  organization  of  the 
theocracy.  This  brought  about  a  purification  and 
a  spiritualization,  which  proved  to  be  a  great  bene- 
fit for  later  times,  when  the  political  manifestation 
of  their  religious  life  had  ceased,  and  the  personal 
element  came  more;  into  the  foreground.  Jeremiah 
and  Ezekiel  emphasize,  each  in  his  own  way,  the 
value  of  this  religion  for  the  individual.  A  spiritual 
communion  came  into  being  during  the  Exile,  which 
found  its  bond  of  union  in  the  word  of  Jeh,  and 
which  insisted  on  serving  God  without  a  temple 
and  external  sacrificial  cultus  (which,  however,  was 
still  found  among  the  exiles  in  Egypt).  Separated 
from  their  homes,  they  collected  all  the  more  dili- 
gently the  sacred  memories  and  traditions,  to  which 
Ezekiel's  plans  for  the  temple  belong.  Their  sacred 
literature,  the  Torah  or  Law,  the  prophetical  books, 
the  historical  writings,  the  Pss,  and  other  literature 
were  collected,  and  in  this  way  preparations  were 
made  for  the  following  period. 

(2)  Relations  to  the  gentile  world. — The  most 
earnest  classes  of  Jews,  at  least,  absolutely  declined 
to  have  anything  to  do  with  the  Bab  religion  and 
worship.  They  saw  here  the  worship  of  images  in 
its  most  repulsive  and  sensual  form,  and  they  also 
learned  ils  absolute  impotency  when  the  haughty 
Chaldaean  empire;  was  overthrown.  Deutero- 
Isaiah  (Isa  40-66)  shows  that  the  Israelites  now 
become;  more  conscious  than  ever  of  the  great  value 
of  their  own  religion  with  its  Creator  of  heaven  and 
earth  over  against  this  variegated  Pantheon  of 
changeable  gods  in  forms  of  wood  and  metal  images. 
From  this  time  on,  the  glory  of  the  Creator  of  the 
universe  and  His  revelation  in  the  works  of  Nature 
were  lauded  and  magnified  with  a  new  zeal  and 
more  emphatically  than  ever  before.  This  same 
prophet,  however,  proclaims  also  the  new  fact  of  the 


Israel,  Rel.  of 
Issachar 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1540 


mission-call  of  Israel  among  the  nations  of  the  world. 
This  people,  he  declares,  is  to  become  the  instru- 
ment of  Jeh  to  make  the  Gentiles  His  spiritual 
subjects.  Hut  as  this  people  in  its  present  condi- 
tion is  little  fit  for  this  great  service,  he  sees  with 
his  prophetic  eye  a  perfect  "Servant  of  Jeh,"  who 
carries  out  this  mission,  a  personal,  visible  "Servant 
of  Jeh,"  who  establishes  tin-  rule  of  Cod  upon  earth, 
by  becoming,  in  the  first  place,  for  Israel  a  second 
Moses  and  Joshua,  but  who  then,  too,  wins  over  the 
heathen  nations  by  this  message.  He  accordingly 
takes  the  place  of  the  prophesied  future  Son  of  David. 
.  However,  He  is  not  a  personal  ruler,  but  carries  out 
His  work  through  mere  spiritual  power  and  in  low- 
liness and  weakness.  Indeed,  His  suffering  and 
death  become  the  atonement  to  wipe  out  the  guilt 
of  His  people  (Isa  53).  We  can  see  in  this  further 
development  of  the  deepening  and  spirit  ualization 
of  the  eschatological  hopes  how  strongly  the  un- 
accustomed misfortunes  and  surroundings  of  the 
exiles  had  influenced  them.  Notwithstanding  all 
their  antagonism  to  the  aberrations  of  the  heathen 
world,  the  Israelites  yet  learned  that  among  the 
Gentiles  there  was  also  some  receptivity  for  the 
higher  truths.  The  worshippers  of  Jeh  felt  them- 
selves more  akin  to  the  Persians  than  to  the  Baby- 
lonians, as  the  former  served  without  images  a  god 
which  was  conceived  as  one  and  as  an  exalted 
divine  being.  Thoughts  taken  from  Parsiism  are 
also  found  in  the  later  literature  of  Israel,  although 
it  is  not  the  case  that  the  idea  of  Satan  was  first 
taken  from  this  source.  The  doctrine  of  the  resur- 
rection of  the  dead  for  the  judgment  also  can  be 
gained  from  OT  premises.  However,  the  religion 
of  the  Babylonians  was  not  without  influence  on 
that  of  the  "Jews.  It  is  indeed  out  of  the  question 
that  it  was  only  during  the  Exile  that  the  Jews  took 
over  the  accounts  of  the  Creation  and  the  Deluge 
and  others  similar  to  the  Bab,  as  these  are  found  in 
Gen  1-11.  But  the  development  of  the  angelology 
shows  the  evidences  of  later  Bab  and  Pers  influences. 
And  esp.  does  demonology  play  a  more  important 
role  in  post-exilic  times  than  ever  before,  particularly 
about  the  beginnings  of  the  Christian  era.  Magic 
art,  too,  entered  largely  into  the  faith  of  later 
Judaism,  and  it  can  be  shown  that  both  of  these 
came  from  Bab  sources. 

(1)   Life    under    the    law. —  The    people     which 
returned  from  the  Exile  was  a  purified  congregation 
of  Jeh,   willing  to  serve  Him.     They 
6.  The  aimed    to    reestablish    the    theocracy. 

Post-exilic  This  latter  had  not,  indeed,  because 
Religion  of  the  loss  of  the  political  independence 
of  the  people,  the  same  importance  as 
formerly,  but  the  religious  cultus  and  the  religious 
life  of  the  people  were  all  the  more  stringently  ob- 
served. The  post-exilic  period  is  characterized  by 
religious  legalism.  The  people  were  exceedingly 
zealous  in  observing  the  old  ordinances,  and  tried 
to  find  righteousness  in  tin;  correctness  with  which 
the  Mosaic  law  was  observed,  as  this  was  now  de- 
manded by  the  teachers  of  this  law.  The  prophet 
of  the  Exile,  Ezekiel,  had  taken  the  lead  in  this  par- 
ticular, and  had  laid  great  emphasis  on  the  formal 
ordinances,  although  in  connection  with  this  he 
also  insisted  upon  real  moral  earnestness.  But  it 
was  an  easy  matter  that  in  the  course  of  time  an 
external  work-righteousness  and  petrifaction  of 
true  religion  should  arise.  Yet  the  later  prophets, 
Haggai,  Zechariah  and  Malachi,  even  if  they  do 
ascribe  a  greater  importance  to  external  matters 
than  the  preexilie  prophets  did,  show  that  they  are 
the  spiritual  heirs  of  these  earlier  seers.  They 
teach  a  healthy  ethical  and  sanctifying  type  of 
practical  religion  and  continue  to  proclaim  the  hopes 
for  an  expansion  and  spiritualization  of  the  King- 
dom of  God.     The  leaders  of  these  times,  Zerub- 


babel,  Ezra,  Nehemiah,  show  a  pronouncedly  an- 
tagonistic attitude  toward  the  neighboring  nations 
and  also  toward  those  inhabitants  of  the  country 
who  did  not  live  under  the  law.  However,  their 
intolerance,  esp.  toward  the  Samaritans,  can  be 
readily  understood  from  the  principle  of  the  self- 
preservation  of  the  people  of  Jeh. 

The  law  came  to  be  the  subject  of  the  most  care- 
ful study,  and  the  teachers  of  the  law  collected,  even 
to  the  minutest  details,  the  oral  traditions  with 
reference  to  its  meaning  and  to  the  proper  observ- 
ance of  the  different  demands,  so  that  already  before 
the  time  of  Christ  they  were  in  possession  of  an  ex- 
tensive tradition,  which  was  afterward  put  down  in 
written  form  in  the  Mish.  The  writing  of  history 
was  also  carefully  cultivated.  The  Books  of  Ch 
show  from  what  viewpoint  they  described  the  past; 
the  temple  and  the  cultus  were  the  center  of  interest. 
In  the  same  way  the  psalm-poetry,  esp.  the  temple- 
song,  flourished  again.  These  later  hymns  are 
pretty  and  regular,  but  no  longer  show  the  bold 
spirit  of  the  older  pss.  In  many  cases,  older  songs 
are  made  use  of  in  these  later  hymns  in  a  new  way. 
Of  the  proverb-literature  of  the  later  post-exilic 
times,  the  Wisd  of  Jesus  Sirach,  or  Ecclus,  is  an 
instructive  example.  Notwithstanding  its  great 
similarity  to  the  old  Prov,  the  prevailing  and  lead- 
ing points  of  view  have  become  different  in  char- 
acter. The  conception  of  Wisd  has  assumed  a 
specifically  Jewish  and  theocratic  character. 

(2)  Hellenism. — But  the  Jewish  exclusiveness 
found  a  dangerous  opponent,  esp.  from  the  days  of 
Alexander  the  Great,  in  the  new  Hellenism.  Hel- 
lenistic language,  culture,  customs  and  world- 
ideas  overwhelmed  Pal  also.  While  the  Pious 
(hasidhlm)  all  the  more  anxiously  fortified  them- 
selves behind  their  ordinances,  the  worldly-minded 
gave  themselves  up  fully  to  the  influence  that  came 
from  without.  In  the  first  half  of  the  2d  cent.  BC 
there  arose,  as  a  consequence,  a  bloody  struggle 
against  the  inroads  of  this  heathendom,  when 
Antiochus  Epiphanes  undertook  to  suppress  the; 
religion  of  the  Jews,  and  when  the  Asmoneans 
began  their  holy  war  against  him. 

(3)  Pharisees  and  Sadducees. — But  within  the 
people  of  Israel  itself  there  were  found  two  parties, 
one  strict  and  the  other  lax  in  the  observance  of 
the  law.  The  leaders  of  the  former  were  the  highly 
popular  Pharisees,  who,  according  to  their  name, 
were  the  "Separatists,"  separated  from  the  common 
and  lawless  masses.  They  tried  to  surpass  each 
other  in  their  zeal  for  the  traditional  ordinances 
and  pious  observances.  However,  among  them  it 
was  also  possible  to  find  real  piety,  although  in  the 
NT  records,  where  they  are  described  as  taking  a 
hostile  attitude  toward  the  higher  and  the  highest 
form  of  Divine  revelation,  they  appear  at  their 
worst.  Their  rivals,  the  Sadducees,  were  less 
fanatical  in  their  observance  of  the  demands  of  the 
law  and  more  willing  to  compromise  with  the  spirit 
of  the  times.  To  this  party  belonged  many  of  the 
more  prominent  priests.  But  this  party  evinced 
less  real  religious  life  than  did  the  Pharisees. 

(4)  Essenes. — Then,  too,  in  the  time  of  Jesus, 
there  were  not  lacking  indications  of  the  influence 
of  foreign  religions,  as  is  apparent  in  the  case  of 
the  Essenes.  This  party  advocated  dualistic  ideas, 
as  these  are  later  found  among  the  Mandaeans. 

(5)  Positive  connections  between  Judaism  and 
Helle?iism. — In  Alexandria  a  friendly  exchange  of 
ideas  between  Hellenism  and  Judaism  was  brought 
about.  Here  the  OT  was  trd  into  the  Gr.  This 
tr,  known  as  the  Septuagint  (LXX),  shows  as  yet 
but  few  signs  of  the  Gr  spirit;  rather,  a  pronounced 
influence  of  legal  and  ritualistic  Judaism.  On  the 
other  hand,  apologetical  opposition  to  Hellenism 
appears  to  a  more  marked  degree,  among  others, 


1541 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Israel,  Rel.  of 
Issachar 


in  the  apocryphal  work  known  as  "Wisd  of  Solo- 
mon," in  which  we  find  a  positive  defence  of  wisdom 
as  the  principle  of  revelation  over  against  the  Epi- 
curean world-wisdom  of  Hellenism.  In  doing  this, 
the  book  leans  on  Platonism  and  Stoicism.  The 
hokhmah,  or  wisdom  of  the  old  Jewish  lit.,  has  been 
Hellenized.  Philo  goes  still  farther  in  adapting 
Judaism  to  Gr  taste  and  to  humanism.  A  more 
liberal  conception  of  inspiration  also  appears  in  the 
reception  of  contemporaneous  literary  products 
into  the  OT  Canon,  even  of  some  books  which  had 
originally  been  written  in  the  Gr  language.  The 
means  observed  in  adapting  national  Hebraism  to 
Hellenistic  universalism  was  the  allegorical  method' 
of  interpretation,  which  Philo  practised  exten- 
sively and  which  then  passed  over  to  the  Christian 
church  Fathers  of  the  Alexandrian  school.  This 
school  constitutes  the  opposite  extreme  to  the  rab- 
binical, which  clung  most  tenaciously  to  the  letter 
of  the  sacred  texts. 

(6)  Apocalyptic  literature. — A  unique  phenomenon 
at  the  close  of  the  Bib.  and  in  the  earliest  post-Bib. 
period  is,  finally,  the  Apocalyptic  Literature 
(q.v.).  Since  the  days  of  the  Maccabees  we  find  the 
custom  in  certain  Jewish  circles,  by  using  the  old 
prophecies  and  adapting  them  to  the  events  of  the 
times,  of  drawing  up  a  systematic  picture  of  the 
future.  The  authorship  of  these  writings  was  usually 
ascribed  to  one  of  the  ancient  saints,  e.g.  to  Enoch, 
or  Abraham,  or  Moses,  or  Elijah,  or  Solomon,  or 
Baruch,  or  Ezra,  or  others.  The  model  of  these 
Apocalypses  is  the  Book  of  Dnl,  which,  on  the  basis 
of  older  visions,  in  the  times  of  the  oppression  by 
Antiochus  Epiphanes,  pictures,  in  grand  simplicity, 
the  development  of  the  history  of  the  world  down 
to  the  final  triumph  of  the  Kingdom  of  God  over 
the  kingdoms  of  the  world. 

///.  Conclusion. — When  we  consider  this  whole 
development,  it  cannot  be  denied  that  the  religion 
of  Israel  passed  through  many  changes.  It  grew 
and  purified  and  spiritualized  itself  out  of  its  own 
inherent  strength;  but  it  also  suffered  many  re- 
lapses, when  hindering  and  corrupting  influence 
gained  the  upper  hand.  But  it  received  from  wil  fl- 
out not  only  degenerating  influences,  but  also  much 
that  inspired  and  developed  its  growth.  Its  original 
and  native  strength  also  shows  itself  in  this,  that 
without  losing  its  real  character  it  was  able  to  ap- 
propriate to  itself  elements  of  truth  from  without 
and  assimilate  these. 

If  we  ask  what  the  specific  and  unique  character 
of  this  religion  was,  by  which  it  was  distinguished 
from  all  other  religions  of  antiquity, 
1.  The  and  by  reason  of  which  it  alone  was 

Living  and  capable  of  producing  from  itself  the 
Holy  God  highest  revelation  in  Christ,  it  must  be 
answered  that  its  uniqueness  lies,  most 
of  all,  in  its  conception  of  God  and  of  Divine;  things, 
and  of  God's  relation  to  the  world.  The  term 
"monotheism"  but  inadequately  expresses  this 
peculiarity;  for  monotheistic  tendencies  are  found 
also  in  other  nations,  and  in  Israel  monotheism  often 
shows  itself  in  a  strongly  corrupted  form.  The 
advantage;  of  Israel  lies  in  its  close  contact  with  the 
living  God.  From  the  beginning  of  Israel's  history 
a  strictly  personal  God  gave  testimony  of  Himself 
to  different  personalities  with  a  decision  which 
demanded  absolute  submission;  and,  in  addition, 
this  was  a  holy  God,  who  elevated  mankind  above 
Nature  and  above  themselves,  a  God  who  stood  in 
the  most  absolute  contrast  to  all  that  was  impure  or 
sinful,  but  at  the  same  time  was  wonderful  in  His 
grace  and  His  mercy  to  the  sinner.  This  direct 
revelation  of  God  to  specially  chosen  bearers  of  the 
Divine  truth  goes  through  the  entire  history  of 
Israel.  Through  this  factor  this  religion  was  being 
constantly    purified    and    unfolded    further.     The 


Israelites  learned  to  conceive  God  in  a  more  spirit- 
ual, correct,  and  universal  manner,  the  more  they 
advanced  in  experience  and  culture.  But  this  God 
did  not  thereby  become  a  mere  abstract  being, 
separated  from  mankind,  as  was  the  case  with  so 
many  nations.  He  always  continued  to  be  a  living 
God  who  t  akes  an  act  ive  part  in  1  he  lives  of  men .  We 
need  notice  only  those  prophets  who  describe  the 
greatness  of  God  in  the  grandest  way,  such  as 
Hosea,  Isaiah,  Deutero-Isaiah,  who  depict  also  the 
personal  life  of  (Jod  in  the  boldest  way  through 
anthropomorphisms. 

In  agreement  with  this,  too,  we  find  that  this 
religion  demands  the  personal  subjection  of  men  to 
God.  As  was  the  case  with  all  the 
2.  Relation  religions  of  antiquity,  that  of  the  OT, 
of  Man  to  too,  was  originally  rather  a  tribal  and 
This  God  a  national  religion  than  one  of  the  indi- 
vidual. This  brought  with  it  the 
demand  for  the  external  observance  of  the  tribal 
customs  in  the  name  of  religion.  HowTever,  the 
traditional  customs  and  legal  ordinances  had  already 
been  sifted  and  purified  by  Moses.  And,  as  a  matter 
of  necessity,  in  a  religion  of  such  a  pronounced 
personal  nature,  the  personal  relation  of  the  indi- 
vidual to  God  must  become  more  and  more  a  matter 
of  importance.  This  idea  became  deeper  and  more 
spiritual  in  the  course  of  time  and  developed  into 
a  pure  love  for  God.  It  did  not  prevent  this  reli- 
gion from  becoming  petrified,  even  during  the  Exile, 
when  the  doctrines  and  the  cult  us  were  most  cor- 
rectly observed.  Put  the  vital  kernels  found  em- 
bedded in  the  revelation  of  God  constantly  proved 
their  power  of  rejuvenation.  And  at  that  very 
time  when  the;  petrified  legalism  of  Pharisaism 
attained  its  most  pronounced  development,  the 
most  perfect  fruit  of  this  religion  came  forth  from 
the  old  stem  of  the  history  of  Israel,  namely  Christ, 
who  unfolded  Judaism  and  converted  it  into  the 
religion  of  salvation  for  the  entire  world. 

Literature. — Of  the  lit.  on  the  religion  of  Israel  wo 
may  vet  make  particular  mention  of  the  following:  The 
textbooks  on  OT  Theology  by  Oehler,  1891  (also  ET), 
of  Dillmann,  1895.  The  Kuenen-Wellhausen  school  is 
represented  by  Kuenen,  De  Godsdienst  van  Israel,  1809 
(also  ET);  Stade,  Biblische  Theologie  des  AT,  1905; 
Marti,  Theologie  des  AT,  1903;  Smend,  Lehrbuch  der  AT 
Religionsgeschichte,  1S99;  cf  also  the  works  of  Robertson 
Smith,  esp.  his  lectures  on  The  Religion  of  the  Semites. 
Against  this  radical  school,  see,  in  addition  to  the  work 
of  Dillmann,  James  Robertson,  Early  Religion  of  Israel, 
1893.  On  the  subject  of  Semi  t  ism  in  general,  S.I.  Curtiss, 
Ursemitischc  Religion  im  V olkslehen  des  heutigen  Orients, 
1903  (also  ET);  Baethgen,  Beitrdge  zur  semitischen  Itcli- 
gionsgeschichte,  18S0;  M.  J.  Lagrange,  Etudes  sur  les  reli- 
gions semitiques,  1905.  The  relation  of  Israel  to  the  Assyr 
and  Bab  religions  is  discussed  by  Hugo  Winckler  in  several 
works;  cf  also  Fritz  Hommel,  Alttestamentliche  Ueberlie- 
ferungen,  1897  (also  ET) ;  Sayce,  The  Higher  Criticism  and 
the  Verdict  of  the  Monuments,  1S95;  Alfred  Jeremias,  Das 
A  T  im  Lichte  des  alten  Orients,  1906;  a  good  brief  summary 
is  found  in  Sellin,  Die  AT  Religion  im  Itahmen  der  andern 
Altorientalischen,  190S.  Pull  details  are  given  in  Kautzsch, 
"Religion  of  Israel."  in  HDB,  extra  vol,  1904.  For  the 
last  centuries  before  Christ  see  particularly,  Schiirer, 
Geschichte  des  judischen  Volkes  im  Zeitalter  Jesu  Christi, 
1907  (also  ET).  The  modern  Jewish  standpoint  is  [•(•pre- 
sented by  Montefiore,  Lectures  on  the  Origin,  and  Growth 
of  Religion,  as  Illustrated  bu  tlie  History  of  the  Ancient 
Hebrews,  1892. 

C.  von  Orelli 
ISRAELITE,    iz'ra-el-it,    ISRAELITISH,    iz'ra- 
el-It-ish:    Belonging  to  the  tribes  of  Israel  (q.v.). 
Occurs  4  t  in  the  NT:    of  Nathanael  (Jn  1  47); 
used  by  Paul  (Rom  9  4;   11  1;   2  Cor  11  22). 

ISSACHAR,  is'a-kar  (*Dto©\  yissa[sc]khar; 
LXX,  Swete  'Io-o-axap,  Issachar;  Tisch.,  Issachar, 
so  also  in  the  NT,  Treg.  and  WH): 

(1)  The  9th  son  of  Jacob,  the  5th  borne  to  him 
by  Leah  (Gen  30  17  f).  His  birth  is  in  this  passage 
connected  with  the  strange  story  of  Reuben  and 
his  mandrakes,  and  the  name  given  him  is  ap- 
parently conceived  as  derived  from  'ish  sdkhdr,  "a 


Issachar 
Ittai 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1542 


hired  workman."     There  is  a  play  upon  the  name 

in  this  sense  in  ('.en  49    15,  "He  bowed  his  shoulder 

to  hear,  and  became  a  servant    under 

1.  The  taskwork."    Wellhausen  (Tcxlder  Biich. 
Name             Sum.,  95)  thinks  that    the  second  ele- 
ment <>f  the  name  may  denote  a  deity; 

and  Sokar,  an  Egyp  god,  lias  been  suggested.  The 
name  in  that  case  would  mean  "worshipper ot  Sokar.' 
Practically  nothing  is  preserved  of  the  personal  his- 
tory of  this  patriarch  beyond  his  share  in  the.  common 
actions  of  the  sons  of  Jacob.  Four  sons  were  born 
to  him  before  Jacob's  family  removed  to  Egypt 
(Oen  46  13).  In  that  land  lie  (lied  and  was  buried. 
At  Sinai  the  tribe  numbered  54,000  men  of  war 
over  20  years  of  age  (Nu  1  29).  At  the  end  of  the 
wanderings  the  numbers  had  grown  to 

2.  The  04,300  (Nu  26  25).  In  the  days  of 
Tribe  David,  tic1  Chronicler  puts  the  figures 

at  S7,00()  (1  Cli  7  5).  See  NUM- 
BERS. The  place  of  Issachar  in  the  desert-march 
was  with  the  standard  of  the  tribe  of  Judah  (along 
with  Zebulun)  on  the  E.  side  of  the  tabernacle  (Nu 

2  5),  this  group  forming  the  van  of  the  host  (10 
\l().     The   rabbis  say    that    this  standard   was  of 

3  colors,  sardine,  topaz  and  carbuncle,  on  which 
were  inscribed  the  names  of  the  3  tribes,  bearing 
the  figure  of  a  lion's  whelp  (Tg,  pseudo.  Jon.  on  Nu 
2  3).  The  captain  of  the  tribe  was  Nethanel  ben- 
Zuar  (Nu  1  8,  etc).  Later  this  place  was  held 
by  Igal  ben-Joseph,  the  tribal  representative  among 
the  spies  (Nu  13  7).  The  prince  chosen  from 
Issachar  to  assist  in  the  division  of  the  land  was 
Pallid  ben-Azzan  (34  26).  The  position  of  I.  at 
the  strange  ceremony  near  Shechem  was  on  Alt. 
Gerizim,  "to  bless  the  people"  (Dl   27  12). 

Sixteen  cities  of  Issachar  are  mentioned  in  Josh 

19   17  i'f,  but  the  only  indications  of  boundaries  are 

Tabor  in  the  N.  and  Jordan  in  the  E. 

3.  The  We  gather  elsewhere  that  the  territory 
Tribal  of  this  tribe  marched  on  the  N.  with 
Territory        Zebulun  and  Naphtali  (19  11.33);   on 

the  W.  with  Manasseh  and  possibly 
Asher  (17  10);  and  on  the  S.  with  Manasseh  (ver 
11).  It  does  not  seem  to  have  had  any  point  of 
contact  with  the  sea.  The  portion  of  Issachar, 
therefore,  included  the  plain  of  Esdraelon,  Tabor, 
the  hill  of  Moreh,  and  the  slopes  E.  to  the  Jordan. 
The  fortresses  along  the  S.  edge  of  the  plain  were 
held  by  Manasseh.  Tola,  a  man  of  Issachar,  held 
Shamir,  a  stronghold  in  Alt.  Ephraim  (Jgs  10  1). 
To  Manasseh  was  given  Beth-shean  with  her 
"towns"  (Josh  17  11).  No  reliable  line  can  be 
drawn  for  the  S.  border.  The  district  thus  indi- 
cated was  small;  but  it  embraced  some  of  the  most 
fruitful  land  in  Pal.  By  tin'  very  riches  of  tin-  soil 
Issachar  was  tempted.  "He  saw  a  resting-place 
that  it  was  good,  and  the  land  that  it  was  pleasant ; 
and  he  bowed  his  shoulder  to  bear,  and  became  a 
servant  under  taskwork"  (Gen  49  15).  "'Die 
mountain"  in  Dt  33  19  may  possibly  be  Tabor, 
on  which,  most  likely,  there  was  an  ancient  sanc- 
tuary and  place  of  pilgrimage.  This  would  cer- 
tainly be  associated  with  a  market,  in  which  Issa- 
char and  Zebulun,  the  adjoining  tribes,  would  be 
able  to  enrich  themselves  by  trade  with  the  pil- 
grims from  afar.  Issachar  took  part  in  the  battle 
with  Si-era  (Jgs  5  15).  To  Israel  Issachar  gave 
one  judge,  Tola  (Jgs  10  1),  and  two  kings,  Baasha 
and  his  son   (1    K   15  27,  etc). 

Of  the  200  "heads"  of  the  men  of  Issachar  who 
came  to  David  at   Hebron  it   is  said  that   they  were 

"men  that  had  understanding  of  the 
4.  Men  of  times,  to  know  what  Israel  ought  to 
Issachar         do"  (1  Ch  12  32).     According  to  the 

Tg,  this  mean!  that  they  knew  how  to 
ascertain  the  periods  of  the  sun  and  moon,  the 
intercalation  of  months,  the  dates  of  solemn  feasts, 


and  could  interpret  the  signs  of  the  times.  A  corn- 
pan  v  from  Issachar  came  to  the  celebration  of  the 
Passover  when  it  was  restored  by  Hezekiah  (2  Ch 
30  IS).  Issachar  has  a  portion  assigned  to  him 
in  Ezekiel's  ideal  division  of  the  land  (48  25);  and 
he  appears  also  in  the  list  in  Llev  (7  7). 

(2)  A  Korahite  doorkeeper,  the  7th  son  of  Obed- 
edom  (1  Ch  26  5).  W.  EwiNG 

ISSHIAH,  is-shl'a  O"^"1 ,  yishshiyahu,  "Jeh 
exists";   AV  Ishiah): 

(1)  Mentioned  among  David's  heroes,  a  great- 
grandson  of  Tola  (1  Ch  7  3). 

(2)  Mentioned  among  the  men  who  came  to 
David  at  Ziklag  (1   Ch  12  6;   AV  "Jesiah"). 

(3)  \  member  of  the  priesthood  of  the  house  of 
Rehabiah  (1   Ch  24  21;    AV  "Jesiah"). 

(4)  Another  Levitical  priest  of  the  house  of 
Uzziel  (1  Ch  23  20;   24  25). 

ISSHIJAH,  is-shl'ja  (rPtih ,  yishshlyah,  "Jeh 
lends";  AV  Ishijah):  A  man  of  the  household  of 
Harim,  named  among  those  who,  at  Ezra's  command, 
were  induced  to  put  away  their  "strange  wives" 
(Ezr  10  31).     Also  called  "Aseas"  (1  Esd  9  32). 

ISSUE,  ish'u: 

(1)  (rnVltt,  moledheth,  D^SSJS ,  gc'egaim; 
cnrep(i.a,  sperma,  "seed"):  Offspring,  descendants 
(Gen  48  G;    Isa  22  24;    Mt   22  25  AV). 

(2)  (rVQ"]T,  zirmah;  KE? ,  yagS'  [vb.];  pWis, 
rhusis):  A  gushing  of  fluid  (semen,  Ezk  23  20; 
water,  47  8;   blood,  Lk  8  43).     See  next  article. 

ISSUE  (OF  BLOOD)  pit,  zubh,  I^IT ,  zubh; 
pvcris,  rhusis,  al|j.6ppoos,  haimorrhoos) :  When  used 
as  a  description  of  a  bodily  affection  the  word 
signifies:  (1)  A  discharge,  the  consequence  of  un- 
eleanness  and  sin  (Lev  15  2  ff ;  Nu  5  2).  As 
such  it  was  oik;  of  the  judgments  which  were  to 
afflict  the  familvof  Joab  (2  S  3  29);  (2)  a  hemor- 
rhage, either  natural  (Lev  12  7,  where  the  word 
used  is  makor,  lit.  a  "fountain"),  or  the  consequence 
of  disease  (Mt  9  20;    Mk  5  25;    Lk  8  43). 

ISSUES,  ish'iiz  (rfiS^in,  togS'oth,  lit.  "out- 
goings"): (1)  Ways  of  escape  (Ps68  20AV); 
(2)  free  moral  choices  (Prov  4  23). 

ISTALCURUS,  is-tal-ku'rus  ('Io-raXKovpos,  Is- 
talkouros):    1   Esd  8  40,  corresponding  to  Zabbud 

in  Ezr  8   11.     In  Swete's  text  the  name  is  Istakal- 
kos. 

ISUAH,  is'fi-a.     See  Ishvah. 

ISUI,  is'ii-I.     See  Lshvi. 

ISVAH,  is'va.     See  Ishvah. 

ITALA,  it'a-la,  VERSION.  Sec  Latin  Version, 
The  Old;  Vulgate. 

ITALIAN,  i-tal'yan,  BAND.     See  Band. 

ITALY,  it'a-li  (TraXia,  Italia):  At  first  confined 
as  a  name  to  the  extreme  southern  part  of  the 
Italian  peninsula  in  the  region  now  called  Calabria, 
whence  its  application  was  gradually  extended. 
In  Gr  usage  of  the  5th  cent,  BC,  the  name  was 
applied  to  the  coasts  as  far  as  Metapontum  and 
Posidonia,  being  synonymous  with  Oenotria.  The 
Oenotrians  are  represented  as  having  assumed  the 
name  of  Italians  {I tali)  from  a  legendary  ruler 
Italus  (Dionysius, i.  12.35;  Vergil,  Aen.  i.533).  The 
extension  of  Rom  authority  seems  to  have  given 


1543 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Issachar 
Ittai 


this  name  an  ever-widening  application,  since  it  was 
used  to  designate  their  allies  generally.  As  early 
as  the  time  of  Polybius  the  name  Italy  was  some- 
times employed  as  an  appellation  for  all  the  country 
between  the  two  seas  (Tyrrhenian  and  Adriatic) 
and  from  the  foot  of  the  Alps  to  the  Sicilian  Straits 
(Polyb.  i.(5;  ii.  14;  in. 39. 54),  although  Cisalpine 
Gaul  was  not  placed  on  a  footing  of  complete 
equality  with  the  peninsula  as  regards  administra- 
tion until  shortly  after  the  death  of  Julius  Caesar. 
From  the  time  of  Augustus  the  term  was  used  in 
practically  its  modern  sense  (Nissen,  Italische 
Landeskunde,  I,  57-87). 

The  name  Italy  occurs  3  t  in  the  NT:  Acts  18  2, 
Aquila  "lately  come  from  Italy,"  because  of  the 
expulsion  of  the  Jews  from  Rome  under  Claudius; 
Acts  27  1,  the  decision  that  Paul  be  sent  to  Italy; 
He  13  24,  salutation  from  those  "of  Italy."  The 
adj.  form  is  found  in  the  appellation,  "Italian  band" 
(cohors  1 talica,  Acts  10  1). 

The  history  of  ancient  Italy,  in  so  far  as  it  falls 
within  the  scope  of  the  present  work,  is  treated 
under  Rome  (q.v.).  George  H.  Allen 

ITCH  (Cnn,  hares;  \J/<opa,  psora):  Only  in  Dt  28 
27,  where  it  probably  refers  to  the  parasitic  skin 
disease  of  that  name  which  is  very  common  in  Pal. 
It  is  due  to  a  small  mite,  Sarcoptes  scabiei,  which 
makes  burrows  in  the  skin  and  sometimes  causes 
extensive  crusts  or  scabs,  attended  with  a  severe 
itching.  It  is  very  easily  communicated  from  per- 
son to  person  by  contact,  and  can  be  cured  only  by 
destruction  of  the  parasite.  This  disease  disquali- 
fied its  victims  for  the  priesthood  (Lev  21  20). 

ITHAI,  ith'a-I.     See  Ittai. 

ITHAMAR,  ith'a-mar  ("n2rV>S,  'Ithamar,  "land" 
or  "island  of  palms":  Gesenius;  or  "father  of 
Tamar,"  "'X,  'I,  being  perhaps  for  "QX,  'abhi:  Cook 
in  Eli — though  both  derivations  are  uncertain): 
The  4th  son  of  Aaron  (Ex  6  23;  28  1;  1  Ch  6  3), 
Eleazar  being  the  3d,  Nadab  and  Abihu  the  1st  and 
2d.  While  Nadab  and  Abihu  were  prematurely 
cut  off  for  offering  strange  fire  before  the  Lord 
(Lev  10  1.2;  Nu  3  4;  26  61),  and  Eleazar  was 
appointed  chief  of  the  tribe  of  Levi  (Ex  6  23.25) 
and  ultimately  succeeded  Aaron  (Ex  28  1),  Ithamar 
was  made  the  treasurer  of  the  offerings  for  the 
Tabernacle;  (Ex  38  21),  and  superintendent  of  the 
Gershonites  and  Merarites  in  the  service  of  the 
Tabernacle  (Nu  4  28.33).  In  the  time  of  Eli  the 
high-priesthood  had  come  to  be  in  his  family,  but 
how,  and  whether  before  Eli's  day  or  first  in  Eli's 
person,  is  not  told  and  need  not  be  conjectured. 
W.  R.  Smith  in  Eli  (art.  "Eli"),  on  the  strength  of 
1  S  2  27.28,  holds  that  the  priesthood  was  origi- 
nally in  Eli's  line;  but  the  words  "the  house  of  thy 
father"  do  not  necessarily  mean  only  the  house 
of  Ithamar,  but  may,  and  most  probably  do,  refer 
to  Aaron  and  his  descendants,  of  whom  Ithamar 
was  one.  Nor  does  the  cutting  off  of  Eli's  family 
from  the  priesthood  and  the  setting  in  their  place 
of  "a  faithful  priest,"  who  should  do  everything 
according  to  Jeh's  will  and  walk  before  Jeh's 
anointed  forever,  find  its  complete  fulfilment  in  the 
deposition  of  Abiathar  or  Ahimelech,  his  son,  and 
the  installation  of  Zadok  in  the;  time  of  Solomon 
(1  K  2  35;  1  Ch  29  22;  see  Zadok).  A  de- 
scendant of  Ithamar,  Daniel  by  name,  is  mentioned 
among  the  exiles  who  returned  from  Babylon  (Ezr 
8  2).  T.  Whitelaw 

ITHIEL,  ith'i-el  (>irrr$,  'Uhl'el,  "God  is"): 
(1)  A  son  of  Jeshaiah  of  the  tribe  of  Benjamin, 

mentioned  among  the  inhabitants  of  Jerus  in  Nehe- 

miah's  day  (Neh  11  7). 


(2)  The  name  is  perhaps  also  found  in  the  oracle 
of  Agur  (Prov  30  1).     See  Ithiel  and  Ucal. 

ITHIEL  AND  UCAL  pDSO  biOIT^ ,  'uhl'el 
uf'ukhal):  Names  of  the  two  men  to  whom  Agur 
the  son  of  Jakeh  spoke  his  words  (Prov  30  1). 
The  purport  of  introducing  these  persons  is  strange 
and  obscure;  the  margin  proposes  therefore,  by  the 
use  of  a  different  pointing,  to  read  the  verse,  "The 
man  said,  I  have  wearied  myself,  O  God,  I  have; 
wearied  myself,  ()  God,  and  am  consumed,"  thus 
doing  away  with  the  proper  names;  a  reading  which 
corresponds  not  inaptly  with  the  tone  of  the  suc- 
ceeding verses.  See  Agur;  Proverbs,  Book  of, 
II,  6.  John  Franklin  Genung 

ITHLAH,  ith'la  (nbrvi,   yithlah;    AV  Jethlah): 

An  unidentified  town  in  the  territory  of  Dan,  named 
with  Aijalon  and  Elon  (Josh  19  42). 

ITHMAH,  ith'ma  (nprn ,  yithmah,  "purity"): 
A  citizen  of  the  country  of  the  Moabites,  David's 
deadly  enemies,  yet  mentioned  as  one  of  the  kind's 
heroes  (1  Ch  11  46). 

ITHNAN,  ith'nan  C]2ri"!,  yithnan):  A  town  in 
the  S.  of  Judah  mentioned  along  with  Hazor  and 
Ziph  (Josh  15  23),  apparently  the  "Ethnan"  of  Je- 
rome (Onom  118  13).     Not  identified. 

ITHRA,  ith'ra  (XTpy\,  yithra',  "abundance"): 
The  father  of  Amasa,  commanding  general  in  the 
rebel  army  of  Absalom.  It  seems  that  his  mother 
was  Abigail,  a  sister  or  half-sister  of  King  David 
(1  Ch  2  17).  She  is  called  the  sister  of  Zeruiah, 
Joab's  mother  (2  S  17  25).  In  this  same  passage 
Ithra  is  called  an   "Israelite,"  but  in   1  Ch  2   17; 

I  K  2  5.32,  we  read:    "Jether  the  Ishmaelite." 

ITHRAN,  ith'ran  0)"^,  yithran,  "excellent"): 

(1)  A  descendant  of  Seir  the  Horite.  son  of  Di- 
shon  (Gen  36  26;   I  Ch  1  41). 

(2)  One  of  the  sons  of  Zophah  of  the  tribe  of  Asher 
(1  Ch  7  37). 

ITHREAM,  ith'rg-am  (D3nn\  yith^am,  "resi- 
due of  the  people"):  The  6th  son  born  to  David 
at  Hebron.  His  mother's  name  was  Eglah  (2  S  3 
5;  1  Ch  3  3). 

ITHRITE,  ith'rit  Pirn,  yithrl,  "excellence," 
"preeminence"):  A  family  in  Israel,  whose  home 
was  Kiriath-jearim  (1  Ch  2  53).  Among  the  37 
heroes  of  David,  two  are  mentioned  who  belonged 
to  this  family,  Ira  and  Gareb   (2  S  23  38;    1  Ch 

II  40). 

ITTAH-KAZIN,  it-a-ka'zin  Cp$j$  T\P$ ,  Httah 
kacln):  Josh  19  13  AV  for  Eth-kazin.  Ittah  is 
correctly  Eth  with  He  locale,  meaning  "toward 
Eth." 

ITTAI,  it'a-I,  it'I  pFltf,  'May,  VPS,  Hthay): 
(1)  A  Gittite  or  native  of  Gath,  one  of  David's 
chief  captains  and  most  faithful  friends  during  the 
rebellion  of  Absalom  (2  S  15  11-22;  18  2.4.12). 
The  narrative  reveals  David's  chivalrous  and  un- 
selfish spirit  in  time  of  trouble,  as  well  as  the  most 
self-sacrificing  loyalty  on  the  part  of  Ittai.  He 
seems  to  have  but  recently  left  his  native  city  and 
joined  David's  army  through  personal  attachment 
to  the  king.  David  rapidly  promoted  him.  Hear- 
ing of  Absalom's  rebellion  and  approach  to  Jerus, 
he  flees  with  David.  The  latter  remonstrates, 
urges  him  to  go  back  and  join  Absalom,  as  he  is  a 
foreigner  and   in   exile.     His   interests   are   in   the 


Ituraea 
Jaare-oregim 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1544 


capital  and  with  the  king;  there  is  no  reason  why 
he  should  he  a  fugitive  and  perhaps  suiTer  tin'  loss 
of  everything;  it  would  be  better  for  him,  with  his 
band  of  men.  to  tint  himself  and  them  at  the  service 
of  Absalom,  the  new  king.  "Mercy  and  truth  be 
with  thee,"  says  David  in  his  magnanimity.  Ittai, 
with  a  double' oath,  absolutely  refuses  to  go  back, 
but  will  stand  by  David  until  the  last.  Remon- 
strance being  useless,  the  monarch  orders  him 
across  the  river,  doubtless  glad  that  he  had  such  a 
doughty  warrior  and  faithful  friend  by  his  side. 
On  mustering  his  hosts  to  meet  Absalom,  David 
makes  Ittai  a  chief  captain  with  the  intrepid  Joab 
and  Abishai.  He  doubtless  did  his  part  in  the 
battle,  and  as  nothing  more  is  said  of  him  it  is  pos- 
sible thai    he  fell  in  the  fight. 

(2)   A  Benjamite,  one  of  David's  30  mighty  men 
(2  S  23  29;    1  Ch  11  31,  "Ithai"). 

J.  J.  Reeve 

ITURAEA,   it-fi-re'a    ('Ii-cmpaia,  Itouraia):    The 

term  occurs  only  once  in  Scripture,  in  the  definition 

of  Philip's  territory:    tes  Itouraias  kai 

1.  The  Trachon'dldos  choras,  which  AV  ren- 
Word  an  ders:  "of  Ituraea  and  of  the  region  of 
Adjective       Trachonitis,"    and    RV :     "the  region 

of  11  uraea  and  Trachonitis"  (Lk  3  1). 
Sir  \Y.  M.  Ramsay  has  given  reasons  for  the  belief 
that  this  word  was  certainly  never  used  as  a  noun 
by  any  writer  before  the  time  of  Eusebius  (Expos, 
1S94,  IX,  51  ff,  143  ff,  288  ff).  It  must  be  taken 
as  an  adj.  indicating  the  country  occupied  by  the 
Ituraeans. 

The  descent  of   the  Ituraeans  must  probably  be 
traced  to  Jetur,  son  of  Ishmael  (Gen  25  15),  whose 

progeny  were  clearly  numbered  among 

2.  The  the  Arabian  nomads.  According  to 
Ituraeans       Eupolemus    (c  150   BC),    quoted     by 

Eusebius  (Praep.  Evang.  IX,  30),  they 
were  associated  with  the  Nabataeans,  Moabites 
and  Ammonites  against  whom  David  warred  on  the 
E.  of  the  Jordan.  They  are  often  mentioned  by 
Lat  writers;  their  skill  in  archery  seems  greatly  to 
have  impressed  the  Romans.  They  were  skilful 
archers  (Caesar,  Bell.  Afr.  20);  a  lawless  (Strabo, 
xvi.2.10)  and  predatory  people  (Cicero,  Philipp. 
ii.112).  In  the  Lat  inscriptions  Ituraean  soldiers 
have  Syrian  names  (II J  P,  I,  ii,  326).  They  would 
therefore  be  the  most  northerly  of  the  confederates 
opposed  to  David  (supra),  and  their  country  may 

naturally  be  sought  in  the  neighbor- 

3.  Indica-  hood  of  Alt.  Hermon.  There  is 
tions  of  nothing  to  show  when  they  moved 
Their  from  the  desert  to  this  district.  Aris- 
Territory  tobulus  made  war  against  the  Itu- 
raeans, compelled  many  of  them  to  be 

circumcised,  and  added  a  great  part  of  their  terri- 
tory to  Judaea,  140  BC  (Ant,  XIII,  xi,  3).  Dio 
Cassius  calls  Lysanias  "king  of  the  Ituraeans" 
(xlix.32),  and  from  him  Zenodorus  leased  land  which 
included  Ulatha  and  Paneas,  25  BC.  The  capital 
of  Lysanias  was  Chalcis,  and  he  ruled  over  the  land 
from  Damascus  to  the  sea.  Jos  speaks  of  Soenius 
as  a  tetrarch  in  Lebanon  (Vila,  11 J ;  while  Tacitus 
calls  him  governor  of  the  Ituraeans  (Ann.  xii.23). 
The  country  of  Zenodorus,  lying  between  Tracho- 
nitis and  Galilee,  and  including  Paneas  and  Ulatha, 
Augustus  bestowed  on  Herod,  20  BC  (Ant,  XV, 
x,  3).  In  defining  the  tetrarchy  of  Philip,  Jos  names 
Batanea,  Trachonitis  and  Auranitis,  but  says 
nothing  of  the  Ituraeans  (Ant,  XVII,  xi,  4;  BJ , 
II,  vi,  3).  Paneas  and  Ulatha  were  doubtless  in- 
cluded, and  this  may  have  been  Ituraean  territory 
(II JP,  I,  ii,  333).  It,  seems  probable,  therefore, 
that  the  Ituraeans  dwelt  mainly  in  the  mountains, 
and  in  the  broad  valley  of  Coele-Syria;  but  they 
may  also  have  occupied  the  district  to  the  S.E.  of 
Hermon,  the  modern  Jedur.     It  is  not  possible  to 


define  more  closely  the  Ituraean  country;  indeed 
it  is  not  clear  whether  St.  Luke  intended  to  indicate 
two  separate  parts  of  the  dominion  of  Philip,  or 
used  names  which  to  some  extent  overlapped. 

It  has  been  suggested  that  the  name  Jedur  may 
be  derived  from  the  Heb  TIE"]  ,  iftur,  and  so  be 
equivalent  to  Ituraea.  But  the  derivation  is  im- 
possible. W.   EWING 

IVAH,  I'va.     See  Ivvah. 

IVORY,  I'vo-ri  ([1]  ]V  ,  shen,  "tooth"  [trd  "ivory," 
1  K  10  IS;  22  39;  2  Ch  9  17;  Ps  45  8;  Cant 
5  14;  7  4;  Ezk  27  G.15;  Am  3  15;  6  4];  [2] 
D^njTlJ ,  shenhabbim;  LXX  686vt€s  e\e<{>dvTivoi., 
odontes  elephdnlinoi,  "elephants'  teeth"  [1  K  10 
22;  2  Ch  9  21];  [3]  eX.€4>dvTivos,  elephdnlinos,  "of 
ivory"  [Rev  18  12]):  Shea  occurs  often,  meaning 
"tooth"  of  man  or  beast.  In  the  passages  cited 
it  is  trd  in  EV  "ivory"  (cf  "crag,"  1  S  14  4.5; 
"cliff,"  Job  39  28  bis;  "flesh-hook  of  three  teeth," 
1  S  2  13).  Shenhabbim  is  thought  to  be  a  con- 
tracted form  of  shen  ha-'ibbim,  i.e.  ha,  the  art.,  and 
'ibbim,  pi.  of  Hbbah  or  'ibba' ;  cf  Egyp  ab,  ebu,  "ele- 
phant," and  cf  Lat  ebur,  "ivory"  (see  Liddell  and 
Scott,  s.v.  eXtcpas).  On  the  other  hand,  it  may  be 
a  question  whet  her  bim  is  not  a  sing,  form  connected 
with  the  Arab,  fil,  "elephant."  If  the  word  for 
"elephant"  is  not  contained  in  shenhabbim,  it  occurs 
nowhere  in  the  Heb  Bible. 

Ivory  was  probably  ob- 
tained, as  now,  mainly  from 
the  African  elephant.  It 
was  rare  and  expensive. 
It  is  mentioned  in  connec- 
tion with  the  magnificence 
of  Solomon  (1  K  10  18.22), 
being  brought  by  the  ships 
ofTarshish(2  Ch  9  17.21).  _ 
An  "ivory  house"  of  Ahab  Elc«oSn5  fiT** 
is    mentioned    in    1  K  22 

39.  It  is  mentioned  among  the  luxuries  of  Israel 
in  the  denunciations  of  Amos  (3  15;  6  4).  It 
occurs  in  the  figurative  language  of  Ps  45  8;  Cant 
5  14;  7  4.  It  is  used  for  ornamentation  of  the 
ships  of  the  Tyrians  (Ezk  27  6),  who  obtain  it  with 
ebony  through  the  men  of  Dedan  (ver  15).  It  is 
among  the  merchandise  of  Babylon  (Rev  18  12). 

We  do  not  learn  of  the  use  of  elephants  in  war 
until  a  few  centuries  before  the  Christian  era.  In 
1  Mace  8  6,  there  is  a  reference  to  the  defeat  of 
Antiochus  the  Great,  "having  an  hundred  and 
twenty  elephants,"  by  Scipio  Africanus  in  190  BC. 
1  Mace  1  17  speaks  of  the  invasion  of  Egypt  by 
Antiochus  Epiphancs  with  an  army  in  wdiich  there 
were  elephants.  1  Mace  6  28-47  has  a  detailed 
account  of  a  battle  between  Antiochus  Eupator  and 
Judas  Maccabaeus  at  Bethsura  (Beth-zur).  There 
were  32  elephants.  Upon  the  "beasts"  (6-npia, 
theria)  there  were  "strong  towers  of  wood";  "There 
were  also  upon  every  one  two  and  thirty  strong 
men,  that  fought  upon  them,  beside  the  Indian  that 
ruled  him." 

In  Job  40  15,  AVm  has  for  "behemoth,"  "the 
elephant,  as  some  think."  Alfred  Ely  Day 

IVORY,  TOWER  OF  ("fn  V^tt ,  mighdal  ha- 
shen) :  In  Cant  7  4  the  neck  of  Shulammite  is  com- 
pared in  whiteness  and  stateliness  to  a  (or  the) 
tower  of  ivory.  The  def.  art.  may  suggest  that  the 
comparison  is  with  some  actual  tower  in  or  near 
Jerus;  but  more  probably  the  language  is  simply 
a  figure. 

IWAH,  iv'a  (rfi?,  Hwwah;  'A(3d,  Aba  [  =  Avd], 
'Avd,  And,  2  K  18  34,  Oi8ov,  Oudou,  2  K  19  13, 


1545 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Ituraea 
Jaare-oregim 


apparently  due  to  a  misreading):  The  name  is 
wanting  iii  the  MT  and  LXX  of  Isa  36  19. 

Ivvah  was  a  city  apparently  conquered  by  the 

Assyrians,  and  is  mentioned  by  them,  in  the  vs 
quoted,  with  Hamath  and  Arpad,  Sepharvaim  and 
Hena.  It  has  been  assimilated  with  the  Avva  of 
2  K  17  24  as  one  of  the  places  whence  Sargon 
brought  captives  to  Samaria,  and  identified  with 
Hit  on  the  Euphrates,  between  Anah  and  Rama- 
du-h,  but  this  seems  improbable,  as  is  also  the  sug- 
gestion that  it  is  Emma,  the  modern  KImm,  between 
Antioch  and  Aleppo.  Hommel  (Expos  T,  April, 
1898,  330)  upholds  the  view  that  Hena  and  Ivvah, 
or,  as  he  prefers  to  read,  Avvah,  are  not  places  at 
all,  but  the  names  of  the  two  chief  gods  of  Hamath, 
Arpad  and  Sepharvaim.  This  would  be  consistent 
with  2  K  18  34;  but  19  13:  "Where  is  the  king 
....  of  Sepharvaim,  of  Hena,  and  Ivvah?"  and 
17  31,  where  the  gods  of  Sepharvaim  are  stated  to 
be  Adrammelech  and  Anammelech,  raise  serious 
difficulties.  In  all  probability,  the  identification  of 
Ivvah  depends  upon  the  correct  localization  of  the 
twofold  Sepharvaim,  of  which  Hena  and  Ivvah 
may  have  been  the  names.  The  identification  of 
Sepharvaim  with  the  Bab  Sip(p)ar  is  now  practi- 
cally abandoned.     See  Sepharvaim. 

T.  G.  Pinches 

IVY,  I'vi  (kio-ctos,  kissos):  The  only  mention  of 
the  word  in  all  the  sacred  writings  is  in  2  Mace 
6  7  in  connection  with  the  oppression  of  the  Jews 
by  Antiochus  Epiphanes:  "On  the  day  of  the  king's 
birth  every  month  they  were  brought  by  bitter 
constraint  to  eat  of  the  sacrifices;  and  when  the 
feast  of  Bacchus  (Dionysus)  was  kept,  the  Jews 
were  compelled  to  go  in  procession  to  Dionysus, 
carrying  ivy,"  this  plant  (Hedera  helix)  being  sacred 
to  the  Gr  god  of  wine  and  of  the  culture  of  the  vine 
(cf  Eur.  Bacchae,  passim).  It  was  of  ivy  or  of 
pine  that  the  "corruptible  crown"  of  the  famous 
Isthmian  games  was  made   (1  Cor  9  25). 

J.  Hutchison 

IYAR,  e-yar'.     See  Iyyar. 

IYE-ABARIM,  i-ye-ab'a-rim  (D^nrP  1*$ ,  Hye 
ha-*abharlm,  "the  heaps  of  the  Abarim";  AV 
Ije-abarim;  in  Nu  21  11  LXX  reads  B,  XaXyXti, 
Chalglci):  A  place  in  the  journeyings  of  Israel 
named  after  Oboth,  said  to  be  "in  the  wilderness 
which  is  before  Moab,  toward  the  sunrising"  (Nu 
21  11),  "in  the  border  of  Moab"  (33  44).  The 
indications  of  position  here  given  are  not  sufficient, 
to  guide  to  any  identification,  and,  so  far,  nothing 
has  been  discovered  in  the  district  to  help  us. 
Called  simply  "Iyim"  (AV  "Iim")  in  Nu  33  45. 

IYIM,  I'yim  (D1^?,  Hylm,  "heaps" — the  form  of 
which,  "^y,  llye,  is  the  constr.): 

(1)  A  short  form  of  the  name  Iye-abarim  (Nu 
33  45). 


(2)  A  town  in  the  territory  of  Judah  (Josh  15 
29;  EV  wrongly  "Iim").  ii^  lay  in  the  extreme 
S.,  "toward  the  border  of  Edom."  If  is  not  iden- 
tified. 

IYYAR,  e-yar'  p?S ,  'iydr;  'lap,  Idr) :  The  2d 
month  of  the  Jewish  year,  corresponding  to  May. 
It  is  not  mentioned  in  the  Bible.     See  Calendar. 

IZEHAR,  iz'e-har,  i'ze-har  (Nu  3  19  AV).  See 
Izhar. 

IZHAR,  iz'hiir  OPS"!,  yighdr,  "the  shining  one"): 

(1)  The  father  of  Korah  (Nu  16  1),  descended 
from  a  Kohathite  Levite  of  this  name,  whose  de- 
scendants formed  a  family,  in  the  tribe  of  Levi  (Ex 
6  18.21;   Nu  3  19.27;   1  Ch  6  18.38). 

(2)  A  descendant  of  Judah,  whose  mother's 
name  was  Helah.  ARVm  gives  the  name  Zohar 
(1  Ch  4  7). 

IZHARITES,  iz'har-its  ("H!T2p-i  yigharl):  The 
descendants  of  Izhar,  son  of  Kohath,  and  grandson 
of  Levi  (Nu  3  19.27).  In  David's  reign  some  of 
these  were  "over  the  treasures  of  the  house  of  Jeh" 
(1  Ch  26  23),  others  "were  for  the  outward  busi- 
ness over  Israel,  for  officers  and  judges"  (ib,  ver  29). 

IZLIAH,  iz-ll'a  (H^bP ,  yizlVah,  "Jeh  delivers"; 
AV  JEZLIAH):  A  son  of  Elpaal,  of  the  tribe  of 
Benjamin  (1  Ch  8  18). 

IZRAHIAH,  iz-ra-hi'a  (P?rPjP,  yizrahyah,  "Jeh 
appears,  or  shines"): 

(1)  A  descendant  of  Issachar,  grandson  of  Tola, 
only  son  of  Uzzi  (1  Ch  7  3). 

(2)  The  leader  of  the  singing  at  the  purification 
of  the  people,  on  the  occasion  of  Nehemiah's  refor- 
mation;   here  rendered   "Jezrahiah"    (Neh  12  42). 

IZRAHITE,  iz'ra-hit  (J"HP ,  yizrah,  "rising, 
shining"):  Shamhuth,  the  captain  of  the  5th 
monthly  course  (1  Ch  27  8),  is  called  an  "Izra- 
hite."  The  name  may  be  derived  from  the  town 
or  family  of  Izrah,  but  more  likely  is  a  corru]> 
lion  of  the  word  "Zerahite,"  descendant  of  Zerah  of 
Judah. 

IZRI,  iz'ri  ("P2P ,  yiqrl,  "creator,"  "former"): 
A  man  of  the  "sons  of  Jeduthun,"  leader  of  the 
fourth  band  of  musicians,  who  served  in  the  sanc- 
tuary (1  Ch  25  11).     Identical  with  Zeri  (ver  3). 

IZZIAH,  iz-i'a  (P;P. ,  yizzvydh,  "Jeh  unites"; 
AV  Jeziah):  One  of  the  faithful  Jews  who  put 
away  their  foreign  wives.  He  belonged  to  the 
family  of  Parosh  (Ezr  10  25;  1  Esd  9  2G,  "Ied- 
dias"). 


JAAKAN,  ja'a-kan.     See  Beeroth-bene-jaakan. 

JAAKOBAH,  ja-a-kd'ba,  ja-ak'o-ba  (rQpIP , 
ya^dkubhuh,  for  meaning  cf  Jacoh,  I,  1,  2):  1  Ch 
4  30,  a  Simeonite  prince. 

JAALA,  ja'a-la,  ja-a'la  (X53^,  ya*ald',  meaning 
unknown,  Neh  7  58)  and  JAALAH  (nblP,  ya- 
Kdldh,  "mountain  goat"  [?],  Ezr  2  50):  The  name 
of  a  family  of  returned  exiles,  "children  of  Solomon's 
servants"  =  "Jeeli"  in  1  Esd  5  33. 

JAALAM,  ja'a-lam:   AV  for  Jalam  (q.v.). 


JAANAI,  ja'a-ni:  AV  for  Janai  (q.v.). 

JAAR,  ja'ar  (^1,  ya~ar,  "forest"  or  "wood"): 
Is  only  once  taken  as  a  proper  name  (Ps  132  0 
RVm),  "We  found  it  in  the  field  of  Jaar."  It  may 
be  a  shortened  form  of  the  name  Kiriath-jearim, 
where  the  ark  had  rested  20  years.  See  Kiriath- 
jearim. 

JAARE-OREGIM,  ja'a-rO-or'6-jim,  -or'e-gim 
(D^jHtf  "HIP!!,  ya'dre'dreghlm):  In  2  S  21  19,  given 
as  the  name  of  a  Bethlehemite,  father  of  Elhanan, 
who  is  said  to  have  slain  Goliath  the  Gittite  (cf 


Jaareshiah 
Jachin  and  Boaz 


Till:  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1546 


1  S  17>.  The  name  is  not  likely  to  be  a  man's 
name;  the  second  part  means  "weavers"  and  occurs 
also  as  the  last  word  of  the  verse  in  the  MT,  so  it  is 
probably  a  scribal  error  here  due  to  repetition.  The 
first  pan  is  taken  to  be  (  I  )  an  error  for  "T1"^ ,  yfClr 
(see  Jair),  which  is  to  be  read  in  the  seel  ion  in 
I  Cli  20  5;  (2)  in  2  S  23  21  Elhanan  is  the  son  of 
Dodo,  also  a  Bethlehemite,  and  Klostermann  would 
read  here  Dodai  as  the  name  of  Elhanan's  father. 
David  Francis  Roberts 
JAARESHIAH,  ja-ar-e-sln'a  (n?tth3n ,  ya'dresh- 
yuh,  meaning  unknown):  In  1  Ch  8  27,  a  Benja- 
mite,  "son"  of  Jeroham.     AV  has  "Jaresiah." 

JAASAI,  ja'a-si,  JAASAU,  ja'a-so.     Sec  Jaasu. 

JAASIEL,  ja-ii'si-el  ("SpiEIP,  ya'asl'el,  "Cod 
makes"!?]):  In  1  Ch  11  47,  a  Mczobaite,  one  of 
"the  might v  men  of  the  armies,"  and  probably  = 
"Jaasiel"  of  1  Ch  27  21,  "the  son  of  Abner,"  and 
a  Benjamitc  tribal  prince  of  David's.     AV  "Jasiel." 

JAASU,  ja'a-sfl  (RV  and  Ivthibh,  TO??,  ija'asu, 
meaning  uncertain);  JAASAI  (RVm  and  lyre,  i  IT"?  , 
ya'asdy),  and  JAASAU  (AV):  In  Ezr  10  37,  one'of 
those  who  had  married  foreign  wives.  LXX  t rs  the 
consonantal  text  as  a  vb.,  kai  epoiesan,  "and  they 
did."     1  Esd  9  34  has  "Eliasis." 

JAAZANIAH,  jii-az-a-ni'a  OirPJTXj",  ya'dzan- 
yuhii,  in  2  K  25  2.'!;  Ezk  8  11;  r.^TX:,  ya'dzan- 
yuh,  in  Jer  35  3;    Ezk  11  1,  "Jeh  hears"): 

(1)  In  2  K  25  23,  "son  of  the  Maacathite,"  and 
one  of  the  Judaean  "captains  of  the  forces"  who 
joined  Cedaliah,  the  Bab  governor  appointed  by 
Nebuchadrezzar  over  Judah,  at  Mizpah.  He  is  the 
"Jezaniah"  of  Jer  40  ,S;  42  1.  Though  not  men- 
tioned by  name,  he  was  presumably  one  of  those 
captains  who  joined  Johanan  in  his  attack  on  Ish- 
inael  after  the  latter  had  slain  Cedaliah  (Jer  41  11- 
1S).  He  is  also  the  same  as  Azariah  of  Jer  43  2,  a 
name  read  by  LXX  B  in  42  I  also.  Jer  43  5 
relates  how  Johanan  and  his  allies,  Jaazaniah(  = 
Azariah)  among  them,  left  Judah  with  the  remnant, 
and  took  up  their  abode  in  Egypt. 

(2)  In  Jer  35  3,  son  of  Jeremiah  (not  the  prophet), 
and  a  chief  of  the  Rechabite  clansmen  from  whose 
"staunch  adherence  to  the  precepts  of  their  ances- 
tor" Jeremiah  "points  a  lesson  for  his  own  country- 
men" i  Driver,  J '<  r,  215). 

(3)  In  Ezk  8  11,  son  of  Shaphan,  and  one  of  the 
seventy  men  of  the  elders  of  Israel  whom  Ezekiel 
saw  in  a  vision  of  Jerus  offering  incense  to  idols. 

(I)   In  Ezk  11  1,  son  of  Azzur,  and  one  of  the 

2o  men  whom  Ezekiel  saw  in  his  vision  of  Jerus,  at 

the  E.  door  of  the  Lord's  house,  and  against  whose 

iniquity  he  was  commanded  to  prophesy  (11   1-13). 

David  Francis  Roberts 

JAAZER,  ja'a-zer  ("PT^,  ya'dzer).     See  Jazer. 

JAAZIAH,  ja-a-zl'a  (W55,  ya'dzlyahu,  "Jeh 
strengthens"):  In  1  Ch  24  26.27,  a  Levite,  "son" 
of  Merari.  But  the  MT  is  corrupt.  LXX  B  reads 
ft  A  (<-Zim)'  ^l"('h  some  take  to  sugges<  Uzziah 
;  ,7  7  ),;/^,T  ('u,'"s'  CriL  and  Exeget.  Comm.  on 
the  Books  of  Ch,  274-75;  Kittel,  ad  loc. 

JAAZIEL,  ja-a'zi-el  (bx^-,  yaYizi'cl,  "Cod 
strengthens"):  In  1  Ch  15  18,  a  Levite,  one  of  the 
musicians  appointed  to  play  upon  instruments  at 
the  bringing  up  of  the  ark  by  David.  Kittel  and 
Curtis  following  LXX  'OfrrfX  (Ozeiel),  read  "Uz- 
ziel  the  name  they  adopt  for  Aziel  in  ver  20,  and 
for  Jeiel  in  16  5. 


JABAL,  ja'bal  (3IP,  yabhul,  meaning  uncertain): 
In  Gen  4  20,  a  son  of  Lamech  by  Adah.  He  is 
called  'the  father  of  those  who  dwell  in  tents  and 
[with]  herds.'  So  Gunkel,  Gen3,  52,  who  says  that 
the  corresponding  word  in  Arab,  means  "the  herds- 
man who  tends  the  camels."  Skinner,  Gen,  120,  says 
that  both  Jabal  and  Jubal  suggest  brj'i,  yobhel,  which 
in  Phoen  and  Heb  "means  primarily  'ram,'  then 
'rani's  horn'  as  a  musical  instrument,  and  finally 
'.joyous  music'  (in  the  designation  of  the  year  of 
Jubilee)."  See  also  Skinner,  Gen,  103,  on  the  sup- 
posed connection  in  meaning  with  Abel. 

David  Francis  Roberts 
_  JABBOK,  jab'ok  (piP,  yabbok,  "luxuriant 
river"):  A  stream  in  Eastern  Pal  first  named  in 
the  history  of  Jacob,  as  crossed  by  the  patriarch 
on  his  return  from  Paddan-aram,  after  leaving 
Mahanaim   (Gen  32  22  f'f).     On   the  bank  of  this 


river  he  had  his  strange  conflict  with  an  unknown 
antagonist.  The  Jabbok  was  the  northern  bound- 
ary of  the  territory  of  Sihon  the  Amorite  (Nu  21 
24). ^  It  is  also  named  as  the  border  of  Amnion  (Dt 
3  16).  It  is  now  called  Nahr  ez-Zerka,  "river  of 
blue,"  referring  to  the  clear  blue  color' of  its  water. 
It  rises  near  to  ' Amman — Rabbath  Amnion — and 
makes  a  wide  circuit,  flowing  first  to  the  E.,  then 
to  the  N.W.,  until  it  is  joined  by  the  stream  from 
11  cldy  Jerash,  at  which  point  it  turns  westward,  and 
flows,  with  many  windings,  to  the  Jordan,  the 
confluence  being  just  N.  of  ed-Damiyeh.  It  drains 
a  wider  area  than  any  other  stream  E.  of  the  Jordan, 
except  the  Yarmuk.  The  bed  of  the  river  is  in  a 
deep  gorge  with  steep,  and  in  many  places  precipi- 
tous, banks.  It  is  a  great  cleft,  cutting  the  land  of 
Gilead  in  two.  It  is  lined  along  its  course  by  a 
luxuriant  growth  of  oleander  which,  in  season, 
lights  up  the  valley  with  brilliant  color.  The  length 
of  the  stream,  taking  no  account  of  its  innumerable 
windings,  is  about  60  miles.  The  mouth  of  the 
river  has  changed  its  position  from  time  to  time. 
In  the  lower  reaches  the  vegetation  is  tropical. 
The  river  is  fordable  at  many  points,  save  when  in 
full  flood.  The  particular  ford  referred  to  in  Gen 
32  cannot  now  be  identified.  W.  Ewing 


yabhesh):  A  short  form 


JABESH,  ja'besh  (t;r 
of  Jabesh-gilead  (q.v.). 

JABESH-GILEAD,  ja'besh-gil'S-ad  ('")}  »3?, 
yabhesh  girddh;  or  simply  ttJ"1^,  yabhish,' "dry"}: 
A  city  E.  of  the  Jordan,  in  the  deliverance  of  which 
from  Xahash  the  Ammonite  Saul's  military  prowess 
was  first  displayed  (1  S  11  Iff).  At  an  earlier  time 
the  inhabitants  failed  to  share  with  their  brethren  in 
taking  vengeance  upon  Benjamin.  This  laxity  was 
terribly  punished,  only  400  virgins  being  spared 
alive,  who  afterward  became  wives  to  the  Benja- 
mites  (Jgs  21).  The  gratitude  of  the  inhabitants 
to  Saul  was  affecfingly  proved  after  the  disaster  to 


1547 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Jaareshiah 

Jacnin  and  Boaz 


that  monarch  on  Cilboa  (1  S  31).  David,  hearing 
of  their  deed,  sent  an  approving  message,  and  sought 
to  win  their  loyalty  to  himself  (2  S  2  4fT).  Robin- 
son {Bit,  III,  39)  thought  it  might  be  represented 
by  ed-Deir,  about  0  miles  from  Pella  (Fdhil),  on  the 
southern  bank  of  Wddy  Ydbis.  The  distance  from 
Pella  agrees  with  the  statement  of  Onom  (s.v.). 
Others  (Oliphant,  Land  of  (1 Haul,  277  f ;  Merrill, 
East  of  Jordan,  430,  etc)  would  identify  it  with  the 
ruins  of  Meriamln,  about  3  miles  S.E.  of  Pella,  on 
the  X.  of  Wddy  Ydbis.  The  site;  remains  in  doubt; 
but  the  ancient  name  still  lingers  in  that  of  the 
valley,  the  stream  from  which  enters  the  Jordan 
fully  9  miles  S.E.  of  Beisdn.  \Y.  Ewing 

JABEZ,  ja'bez  (}r3"\  ya'beg,  "sorrow" 
["height"]): 

(1)  Place:  An  unidentified  town  probably  in  the 
territory  of  Judah,  occupied  by  scribes  (1  Ch  2 
55) .  For  an  ingenious  reconstruct  ion  of  the  passage 
see  EB,  s.v. 

(2)  Person:  The  head  of  a  family  of  Judah,  noted 
for  his  "honorable"  character,  though  "his  mother 
bare  him  with  sorrow"  (1  Ch  4  9.10),  yaxbeg  being 
interpreted  as  if  it  stood  for  yaxgcbh,  "he  causes 
pain."  The  same  play  upon  words  recurs  in  his 
prayer,  "that  it  be  not  to  my  sorrow!"  His  request 
was  granted,  "and  the  sorrow  implied  by  his  omi- 
nous name  was  averted  by  prayer"  (Dummelow, 
in  loc). 

JABIN,  ja'bin  ("p?^  ,  ydbhin,  "one  who  is  intelli- 
gent," "discerning."  The  word  may  have  been  a 
hereditary  royal  title  among  the  northern  Canaan- 
ites.  Cf  the  familiar  usage  of  parboil  melekh  mig- 
rayim) : 

(1)  "The  king  of  Hazor,"  the  leading  city  in 
Northern  Pal,  who  led  an  alliance  against  Joshua. 
He  was  defeated  at  the  waters  of  Merom,  his  city 
was  taken  and  he  was  slain  (Josh  11   1-9). 

(2)  "The  king  of  Canaan,  that  reigned  for  had 
reigned]  in  Hazor."  It  is  not  clear  whether  he 
dwelt  in  Hazor  or  Harosheth,  the  home  of  Sisera, 
the  captain  of  his  host  at  the  t  hue  of  the  story  nar- 
rated in  Jgs.  He  oppressed  Israel  in  the  days  pre- 
ceding the  victory  of  Deborah  and  Barak.  To  the 
Israelites  he  must  have  been  but  a  shadowy  figure 
as  compared  with  his  powerful  captain,  Sisera,  for 
the  song  makes  no  mention  of  him  and  there  is 
nothing  to  indicate  that  he  even  took  pari  in  the 
battle  that  freed  Israel  (Jgs  4  2.7.17.23.24  bis;  Ps 
83  0.10).  Ella  Davis  Isaacs 

JABNEEL,  jab'ne-el,  JABNEH,  jab'ne  (b^T! , 
yahhrc'el,  "God  is  builder";  LXX  A€f3va,  Lebnd, 
Swete  reads  Lemnd,  Apoc  'Ia.[j.vCa,  latnnia,  'Ia(j.veCa, 
Iamneia) : 

(1)  A  town  on  the  northern  border  of  the  land 
assigned  to  Judah,  near  the;  western  sea,  mentioned 
in  connection  with  Ekron  (Josh  15  11).  The 
place  is  now  represented  by  the  modern  village  of 
Yebna  which  stands  upon  a  hill  a  little  to  the  S.  of 
the  Nahr  Rubin,  about  12  or  13  miles  S.  of  Jaffa, 
on  the  road  from  there  to  Askelon,  and  about  4 
miles  from  the  sea..  It.  had  a  port,  now  called  Mina 
Rabin,  a  short  distance  S.  of  the  mouth  of  the  river, 
some  remains  of  which  still  exist.  Its  harbor  was 
superior  to  that,  of  Jaffa  (PEFS,  1S75,  167-68). 
It  does  hot  occur  in  tin;  Heb  text  of  the  OT  except 
in  the  passage  mentioned,  but  it  appears  under  the 
form  "Jabneh"  (H^,  yabhneh)  in  2  Ch  26  G,  as 
is  evident  from  the  mention  of  Gath  and  Ashdod 
in  connection  with  it.  LXX  reads  Tefxva  (Gemnd, 
Jabneh)  where  the  Heb  reads  ni2^H,  wa-ydmmdh, 
"even  unto  the  sea,"  in  Josh  15  46,  where  Ekron 
and  Ashdod  and  other  cities  and  villages  are  men- 


tioned as  belonging  to  Judah's  inheritance.  Jos 
(Ant,  V,  i,  22)  assigns  it  to  the  tribe  of  Dan.  We 
have  no  mention  of  its  being  captured  by  Joshua 
or  occupied  by  Judah  until  the  reign  of  t'zziah  who 
captured  it  and  demolished  its  wall,  in  connection 
with  his  war  upon  the  Philis  (2  Ch  26  6).  The 
position  of  J.  was  strong  and  was  the  scene  of  many 
contests,  both  in  the  period  of  the  monarchy  and 
that  of  the  Maccabees.  It  is  ment  ioned  frequently 
in  the  account  of  the  wars  of  the  latter  with  the 
Syrians.  It  was  garrisoned  by  the  Seleucid  kings, 
and  served  as  a  base  for  raiding  the  territory  of 
Judah.  When  Judas  Maccabaeus  defeated  Gor- 
gias  and  the  Syrians  he  pursued  them  to  the  plains 
of  J.,  but  did  not  take  the  fortress  (1  Mace  4  15). 
Gorgias  was  there  attacked  by  the  .Jewish  generals 
Joseph  and  Azarias,  contrary  to  Judas'  orders,  who 
were  repulsed  with  loss  (5  56-00;  Jos,  Ant,  XII, 
viii,  0).  Apollonius  occupied  it  for  King  Deme- 
trius (1  Mace  10  69);  and  Cendebeus  for  Antio- 
chus,  and  from  there  harassed  the  Jews  (15  40). 
Judas  burned  the  port  and  navy  of  J.  (2  Mace  12 
8-9).  It  was  taken  by  Simon  in  142  BC  (Jos,  Ant, 
XIII,  vi,  7;  BJ ,  1,  ii,  2),  together  with  Gazara  and 
Joppa,  but  was  restored  to  its  inhabitants  by  Pom- 
pey  in  62  BC  (Aid,  XIV,  iv,  4),  and  was  rebuilt  by 
Gabinius  in  57  BC  (BJ ,  I,  viii,  4).  It  was  restored 
to  the  Jews  by  Augustus  in  30  AD.  Herod  gave 
it  to  his  sister  Salome  and  she  bequeathed  it  to 
Julia,  the  wife  of  Augustus  (Ant,  XVIII,  ii,  2; 
BJ ,  II,  ix,  1).  The  town  and  region  were  pros- 
perous in  Rom  times,  and  when  Jerus  was  besieged 
by  Titus  the  Sanhedrin  removed  to  J.,  and  it  after- 
ward became  the  seat  of  a  great  rabbinical  school 
(Milman,  Hist  Jews,  II,  411-12),  but  was  sup- 
pressed in  the  persecution  under  Hadrian.  An- 
tonius  allowed  it  to  be  revived,  but  it  was  again 
suppressed  because  of  hostile  language  on  the  part 
of  the  rabbis  (ib,  451-52).  The  Crusaders  built 
there  tin;  castle  of  Ibelin,  supposing  it  to  be  the  site 
of  (lath.  It  was  occupied  by  the  Saracens,  and 
various  inscriptions  in  Arab,  of  the  13th  and  14th 
cents,  have  been  found  there  (SWP,  II,  441-42). 

(2)  A  town  of  Naphtali  mentioned  in  Josh  19 
33,  and  supposed  to  be  the  site  of  the  modern 
Yemma,  S_.\Y.  of  the  sea  of  Galilee  (SWP,  I,  365). 
It  is  the  Kefr  Yama  of  the  Talm.         H.  Pouter 

JACAN,  ja'kan  ("|"1 ,  ya*kdn,  meaning  not 
known;  AV  Jachan):  A  chief  of  a  family  descended 
from  Gad  (1  Ch  5   13). 

JACHIN,  ja'kin  ("p??,  yakhln,  "he  will  estab- 
lish"): 

(1)  The  4th  son  of  Simeon  (Gen  46  10;  Ex  6 
15;  Nu  26  12).  In  1  Ch  4  24  his  name  is  given 
as  "Jarib"  (cf  AVm,  RVm).  "Jachinites,"  the 
patronymic  of  the  family,  occurs  in  Nu  26  12. 

(2)  Head  of  the  21st  course  of  priests  in  the  time 
of  David  (1  Ch  24  17).  It  is  used  as  a  family 
name  in  1  Ch  9  10,  and  as  such  also  in  Neh  11  10, 
where  some  of  the  course  are  included  in  the  list 
of  those  who,  having  returned  from  Babylon,  will- 
ingly accepted  the  decision  of  the  lot,  and  abandoned 
their  rural  retreats  to  become  citizens  and  guardians 
of  Jerus  (vs  1  f).  James  Crichton 

JACHIN,  ja'kin,  AND  BOAZ  Cp??,  yakhln, 
"he  shall  establish";  ""3,  bu'az,  "in  it  is  strength," 
1  K  7  15-22;  2  K  25  16.17;  2  Ch  3  15-17;  Jer 
52  17):  These  were  the  names  of  the  two  bronze 
pillars  that  stood  before  the  temple  of  Solomon. 
They  were  not  used  in  supporting  the  building; 
their  appearance,  therefore,  must  have  been  solely 
due  to  moral  and  symbolic  reasons.  What  these 
are  it  is  not  easy   to  say.     The  pillars  were  not 


Jacimus 
Jacob 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1548 


altiir  pillars  with  hearths  at  their  top,  as  supposed 
by  W.  K.  Smith  {Religion  of  I  he  Semites,  L91,  468); 
rather  they  were  "pillars  of  witness,"  as  was  the 
pillar  that  witnessed  the  contract  between  Jacob 
and  Laban  (Gen  31  iY2).  A  difficulty  arises  about 
the  height-  of  the  pillars,  due  writers  in  K  and  Jer 
affirm  that  the  pillars  before  the  porch  were  18 
cubits  high  apiece  (1  K  7  15;  Jer  52  21),  while 
the  Chronicler  states  that,  they  were  35  cubits  (2  Ch 
3  15).  Various  methods  have  been  suggested  of 
reconciling  this  discrepancy,  but  it  is  more  probable 
that  there  is  a  corruption  in  the  Chronicler's  num- 
ber. On  the  construction  of  the  pillars  and  their 
capitals,  see  Tkmple.  At  the  final  capture  of  Jerus 
they  were  broken  up  and  the  metal  of  which  they 
were  composed  was  sent  to  Babylon  (2  K  25  13. 
16).  In  Ezekiel's  ideal  temple  the  two  pillars  are 
represented  by  pillars  of  wood  (40  49). 

W.  Shaw  Caldecott 
JACIMUS,  ja'si-mua  (Ant,  XII,  ix,  3).     See  Al- 

CIMUS. 

JACINTH,  ja'sinth.  See  Hyacinth;  Stones, 
Precious. 

JACKAL,  jak'61: 

(1)  CSPi,  tannlm,  "jackals,"  AV  "dragons";    cf 

Arab.  .Iaaj,  iindn,  "wolf";  and  cf  "p?!? ,  tannin, 
Arab.  ^.aAJ,  linnin,  "sea  monster"  or  "monster," 

ERV  "dragon"  (Job  7  12  m;  Ps  74  13;  148  7; 
Isa  27  1;  51  9;  Jer  51  34),  "serpent"  (Ex  7 
9.10.12;  Dt  32  33;  Ps  91  13),  AV  "whale"  (Gen 
1  21;  Job  7  12);  but  "pan,  tannin,  "jackals,"  AV 
"sea  monsters"  (Lam  4  3),  "jackal's  well,"  AV 
"dragon  well"  (Neh  2  13),  and  tannlm,  "monster," 
AV  and  ERV  "dragon"  (Ezk  29  3;   32  2). 

(2)  D^X,  'lylm,  "wolves,"  AV  "wild  beasts  of 
the  islands";  cf  "^ ,  %  pi.  C^N ,  'lylm,  "island"; 
also  !"PX  ,  'ayyah,  "a  cry,"  V  •~0^>  'dwah,  "to  cry," 

"to  howl";  Arab.    c^-£- ,  Kauwa' ,  "to  bark"  (of  dogs, 

wolves,  or  jackals);    (<=.|       *^t  ,  'ibn  'dwa',  collo- 


quially (Cj'5  ,  w&wl,  "jackal." 


(3)  D'1l5f ,  clylm,  "wild  beasts  of  the  desert." 

(4)  D^nSS,  'ohlm,  "doleful  creatures." 
"Jackals"  occurs  as  a  tr  of  tannlm,  AV  "dragons," 

in  Job  30  29;  Ps  44  19;  Isa  13  22;  34  13;  35 
7;  43  20;  Jer  9  11;  10  22;  14  6;  49  33;  51  37; 
of  the  fem.  pi.  form  tannoth  in  Mai  1  3,  and  of 
tannin  in  Neh  2  13  and  Lam  4  3.  Tannlm  is 
variously  referred  to  a  root  meaning  "to  howl," 
and  to  a  root  meaning  "to  stretch  out,"  trop.  "to 
run  swiftly,  i.e.  with  outstretched  neck  and  limb 
extended"  (Ges.).  Either  derivation  would  suit 
"wolf"  equally  as  well  as  "jackal."  The  expression 
in  Jer  10  22,  "to  make  the  cities  of  Judah  a  deso- 
lation, a  dwelling-place  of  jackals,"  seems,  however, 
esp.  appropriate  of  jackals.  The  same  is  true  of 
Isa  34  13;  Jer  9  11;  49  33,  and  51  37. 

The  jackal  (from  Pers  shaghdl),  Canis  aureus,  is 
found  about  the  Mediterranean  except  in  Western 
Europe.  It  ranges  southward  to  Abyssinia,  and 
eastward,  in  Southern  Asia,  to  farther  India.  It  is 
smaller  than  a  large  dog,  has  a  moderately  bushy 
tail,  and  is  reddish  brown  with  dark  shadings  above. 
It  is  cowardly  and  nocturnal.  Like  the  fox,  it  is 
destructive  to  poultry,  grapes,  and  vegetables,  but 
is  less  fastidious,  and  readily  devours  the  remains  of 
others'  feasts.  Jackals  generally  go  about  in  small 
companies.  Their  peculiar  howl  may  frequent  ly 
be  heard  in  the  evening  and  at  any  time  in  the  night. 
It  begins  with  a  high-pitched,  long-drawn-out  cry. 


This  is  repeated  two  or  three  times,  each  time  in  a 
higher  key  than  before.  Finally  there  are  several 
short,  loud,  yelping  barks.  Often  when  one  raises 
the  cry  others  join  in.  Jackals  are  not,  infrequently 
confounded  with  foxes.  They  breed  freely  with 
dogs. 


SS&K'"-^"'.,    ' 


Jackal  (Canis  aureus). 

While  tannlm  is  the  only  word  trd  "jackal"  in  EV, 
the  words  'lylm,  clylm,  and  'ohlm  deserve  atten- 
tion. They,  as  well  as  tannlm,  evidently  refer  to 
wild  creatures  inhabiting  desert  places,  but  it  is 
difficult  to  say  for  what  animal  each  of  the  words 
stands.  All  four  (together  with  Ifnoth  yeCdunh 
and  seHrlm)  are  found  in  Isa  13  21.22:  "But  wild 
beasts  of  the  desert  [clylm]  shall  lie  there;  and  their 
houses  shall  be  full  of  doleful  creatures  ['ohlm]' 
and  ostriches  [fy'nolh  yaKdndh]  shall  dwell  there,  and 
wild  goats  [seHrlm]  shall  dance  there.  And  wolves 
[lylm]  shall  cry  in  their  castles,  and  jackals  [tannlm] 
in  the  pleasant  palaces." 

In  AV  'lylm  (Isa  13  22;  34  14;  Jer  50  39)  is  trd 
"  wild  beasts  of  the  islands"  (cf  'lylm,  "islands").  AVra 
has  merely  the  transliteration  Urn,  RV  "wolves,"  KVm 
"howling  creatures."  Gesenius  suggests  the  jackal, 
which  is  certainly  a  howler.  While  the  wolf  lias  a 
blood-curdling  howl,  it  is  much  more  rarely  heard  than 

tllC     icK'lvtll 

Qiyim,  (Ps  72  9;  74  14;  Isa  13  21;  23  13;  34  14; 
Jer  50  39)  has  been  considered  akin  to  Qiyah,  "drought" 
(cf  'erec  clydh,  "a  dry  land"  [Ps  63  1]).  and  is  trd  in  RV 
as  follows:  Ps  72  9,  "  they  that  dwell  in  the  wilderness " ; 
74  14,  "the  people  inhabiting  the  wilderness";  Isa 
23  13,  "them  that  dwell  in  the  wilderness,"  KVm  "the 
beasts  of  the  wilderness";  Isa  13  21;  34  14;  Jer  50 
39,  "wild  beasts  of  the  desert."  There  would  lie  some 
difficulty  in  referring  glylm  in  Ps  72  9  to  beasts  rather 
than  to  men,  but  that  is  not  the  case  in  Ps  74  14  and 
Isa  23  13.     "  Wild  cats  "  have  been  suggested. 

'Ohlm,  "doleful  creatures."  perhaps  onomatopoetic, 
occurs  only  in  Isa  13  21.  The  tr  "owls"  has  been  sug- 
gested, and  is  not  unsuitable  to  the  context. 

It  is  not  impossible  that  tannlm  and  'lylm  may 
be  different  names  of  the  jackals.  'lylm,  clylm, 
and  tannlm  occur  together  also  in  Isa  34  13.14, 
and  'lylm  and  clylm  in  Jer  50  39.  Their  similarity 
in  sound  may  have  much  to  do  with  their  colloca- 
tion. The  recognized  word  for  "wolf,"  zr'ebh  (cf 
Arab,  dhi'b),  occurs  7  t  in  the  OT.  See  Dragon; 
Wolf;  Zoology.  Alfred  Ely  Day 

JACKAL'S  WELL  Cp9I?n  "py,  'en  ha-tannin; 
LXX  has  irrpyii  tuv  ctvkcov,  pege  ton  sukdn,  "fountain 
of  the  figs";  AV  dragon  well) :  A  well  or  spring  in 
the  valley  of  Hinnom  between  the  "Gate  of  the  Gai" 
and  the  Dung  Gate  (Neh  2  13).  No  such  source 
exists  in  the  Wady  er  Rahtibi  (see  Hinnom)  today, 
although  it  is  very  probable  that  a  well  sunk  to  the 
rock  in  the  lower  parts  of  this  valley  might  strike 
a  certain  amount  of  water  trickling  down  the  valley- 
bottom.  G.  A.  Smith  suggests  (Jerus,  I,  ch  iv) 
that  this  source  may  have  arisen  as  the  result  of  an 


1549 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jacimus 
Jacob 


earthquake,  hence  the  name  "dragon,"  and  have 
subsequently  disappeared;  but  it  is  at  least  as 
likely  that  it  received  its  name  from  the  jackals 
which  haunted  this  valley,  as  the  pariah  dogs  do 
today,  to  consume  the  dead  bodies  which  were 
thrown  there.     See  Hinnom;  Jackal. 

E.  W.  G.  Mastekman 
JACOB,  ja'kub: 

I.     Name 

1.  Form  and  Distribution 

2.  Etymology  and  Associations 

II.     Place  in  the  Patriarchal  Succession 

1.  As  Hon  of  Isaac  and  Kebekab 

2.  As  Brother  of  Ksau 

3.  As  Father  of  the  Twelve 

III.  Biography 

1.  With  Isaac  in  Canaan 

2.  To  Aram  and  Back 

3.  In  Canaan  Again 

4.  Last  Years  in  Egypt 

IV.  Character  and  Beliefs 

1.  Natural  Qualities 

2.  Stages  of  Development 

3.  Attitude  toward  the  Promise 

4.  How  Far  a  "Type"  of  Israel 
V.     References  Outside  of  Genesis 

1.  In  the  OT 

2.  In  the  NT 

VI.     Modern  Interpretations  of  Jacob 

1.  Personification  of  the  Hebrew  Nation 

2.  Cod  and  Demi-Cod 

3.  Character  of  Fiction 

/.  Name. — DpJP  (5  t  21p|P).  ya'dkdbh;  'IaKui/S,  Iakbb, 
is  in  form  a  vb.  in  the  Kal  impf.,  3d  masc.  sing.  Like 
.,    _,  some  50  other  lleb  names  of  this  same 

1.  *ormand  form,   it  has   no  subject  for  the  vb.   ex- 
Distribution  pressed.     But  there  are  a  number  of  inde- 
pendent  indications    that   Jacob    belongs 

to  that  large  class  of  names  consisting  of  a  vb.  with  some 
Divine  name  or  title  (in  this  case  'FA)  as  the  subject, 
from  which  the  common  abbreviated  form  is  derived 
by  omitting  the  subject,  (a)  In  Bab  documents  of  the 
period  of  the  Patriarchs,  there  occur  such  personal  names 
as  Ja-ku-bi,  Ja-ku-ub-ilu  (the  former  doubtless  an  ab- 
breviation of  the  latter),  and  Aq-bu-U  (cf  Aq-bi-a-hu), 
according  to  Hilprecht  a  syncopated  form  for  A-qii(?) 
-bu(-u),  like  Aq-bi-ili  alongside  of  A-qa-bi-ili;  all  of 
which  may  be  associated  with  the  same  root  ^"OV  > 
'dkabh,  as  appears  in  Jacob  (see  H.  Ranke,  Early  Bab 
Personal  Names,  1905,  with  annotations  by  Professor 
Hilprecht  as  editor,  esp.  pp.  67,  113,  98  and  4).  (6)  In 
the  list  of  places  in  Pal  conquered  by  the  Pharaoh  Thut- 
niose  III  appears  a  certain  J'qb'r,  which  in  Egyp  char- 
acters represents  the  Sem  letters  biOpy\  ya'dkobh-'el, 
and  which  therefore  seems  to  show  that  in  the  earlier 
half  of  the  15th  cent.  BO  (so  Petrie,  Breasted)  there  was 
a  place  (not  a  tribe;  see  \\  .  M.  Muller,  Asien  und 
Europa,  162  IT)  in  Central  Pal  that  bore  a  name  in  some 
way  connected  with  "Jacob."  Moreover,  a  Pharaoh  of  the 
Hyksos  period  bears  a  name  that  looks  like  ya'dkobh-'el 
(Spiegelberg,  Orientalische  Literaturzeitung,  VII,'  130). 
(c)  In  the  Jewish  tractate  Pirke  'Abhoth,  iii.l,  we  read 
of  a  Jew  named  'Akabhyah,  which  is  a  name  composed  of 
the  same  verbal  root  as  that  in  Jacob,  together  with  the 
Divine  name  Yahu  (i.e.  Jeh)  in  its  common  abbreviated 
form.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  personal  names 
' Akkubh  and  Ya'dkdbhah  (accent  on  penult)  also  occur 
in  the  OT,  the  former  borne  by  no  less  than  4  different 
persons;  also  that  in  the  Palmyrene  inscriptions  we  find 
a  person  named  2pyp,27,  a  name  in  which  this  same  vb. 
3p27  is  preceded  by  the  name  of  the  god  'Ate,  just  as 
in  ' 'Akabhydh  it  is  followed  by  the  name  Yahu. 

Such  being  the  form  and  distribution  of  the  name,  it 

remains  to  inquire:    What  do  we  know  of  its  etymology 

and   what   were,   the   associations   it   con- 

2.  Etymol-    veyed  to  the  Heb  ear? 

.  j  The  vb.  in  all  its  usages  is  capable  of 

ugy  aim  ^  deduction,  by  simple  association  of  ideas, 
Associations  from  the  noun  "heel."  "To  heel"  might 
mean:  (a)  "to  take  hold  of  by  the  heel" 
(so  probably  Hos  12  3;  cf  Gen  27  36);  (b)  "to  follow 
with  evil  intent,"  "to  supplant"  or  in  general  "to  de- 
ceive" (so  Gen  27  36;  Jer  9  4,  where  the  parallel, 
"go  about  with  slanders,"  is  interesting  because  the 
word  so  trd  is  akin  to  the  noun  "foot,"  as  "supplant" 
is  to  "heel");  (c)  "to  follow  with  good  intent,"  whether 
as  a  slave  (cf  our  Eng.  "to  heel,"  of  a  dog)  for  service, 
or  as  a  guard  for  protection,  hence  "to  guard"  (so  in 
Ethiopic),  "to  keep  guard  over"  and  thus  "to  restrain" 
(so  Job  37  4);  (d)  "to  follow,"  "to  succeed,"  "to  take 
the  place  of  another"  (so  Arab.,  and  the  Heb  noun  2p37 , 

'ekebh,  "consequence,"  "recompense,"  whether  '  of 
reward  or  punishment). 

Among  these  four  significations,  which  most  commends 
itself  as  the  original  intent  in  the  use  of  this  vb.  to  form 
a  proper  name  ?     The  answer  to  this  question  depends 


upon  the  degree  of  strength  with  which  the  Divine  name 
was  felt  to  be  the  subject  of  the  vb.  As  Jacob-el,  the 
simplest  interpretation  of  the  name  is  undoubtedly,  as 
Baethgen  urges  (Beitrage  zur  sem.  Religionsyeschichte, 
158),  "God  rewardeth"  ([</]  above),  like  Nathanael, 
"God  hath  given,"  etc.  But  we  have  already  seen  that 
centuries  before  the  time  when  Jacob  is  said  to  have  been 
born,  this  name  was  shortened  by  dropping  the  Divine 
subject;  and  in  this  shortened  form  it  would  be  more 
likely  to  call  up  in  the  minds  of  all  Semites  who  used  it, 
associations  with  the  primary,  physical  notion  of  its 
root  ([a]  above).  Hence  there  is  no'ground  to  deny  that 
even  in  the  patriarchal  period,  this  familiar  personal 
name  Jacob  lay  ready  at  hand — a  name  ready  made,  as 
it  were — for  this  child,  in  view  of  the  peculiar  circum- 
stances of  its  birth;  we  may  say, indeed,  one  could  not 
escape  the  use  of  it.  (A  parallel  case,  perhaps,  is  Gen 
38  28.30,  Zerah;  cf  Zerahiah.)  The  associations  of  this 
root  in  everyday  use  in  Jacob's  family^  to  mean  "to 
supplant"  led  to  the  fresh  realization  of 'its  appropriate- 
ness to  his  character  and  conduct  when  he  was  grown 
([b]  above).  This  construction  does  not  interfere  with 
a  connection  between  the  patriarch  Jacob  and  the 
"Jacob-els"  referred  to  above  (under  1,  [!>]),  should  that 
connection  on  other  grounds  appear  probable.  Such  a 
longer  form  was  perhaps  for  every  "Jacob"  an  alter- 
native form  of  his  name,  and  under  certain  circumstances 
may  have  been  used  by  or  of  even  the  patriarch  Jacob. 

//.   Place  in  the  Patriarchal  Succession. — In  the 

dynasty  of  the  "heirs  of  the  promise,"  Jacob  takes 
his    place,    first,    as    the    successor    of 

1.  As  Son  Isaac.  In  Isaac's  life  the  most  sig- 
of  Isaac  and  nificant  single  fact  had  been  his  mar- 
Rebekah        riage  with  Rebekah    instead  of    with 

a  woman  of  Canaan.  Jacob  therefore 
represents  the  first  generation  of  those  who  are 
determinately  separate  from  their  environment. 
Abraham  and  his  household  were  immigrants  in 
Canaan;  Jacob  and  Esau  were;  natives  of  Canaan 
in  the  second  generation,  yet  had  not  a  drop  of 
Canaanitish  blood  in  their  veins.  Their  birth  was 
delayed  till  20  years  after  the  marriage  of  their 
parents.  Rebekah's  barrenness  had  certainly  the 
same  effect,  and  probably  the  same  purpose,  as  that 
of  Sarah:  it  drove  Isaac  to  Divine  aid,  demanded 
of  him  as  it  had  of  Abraham  that  "faith  and  pa- 
t  ience"  through  which  they  "inherited  the  promises" 
(He  6  12),  and  made  the  children  of  this  pair  also 
the  evident  gift  of  God's  grace,  so  that  Isaac  was 
the  better  able  "by  faith"  to  "bless  Jacob  and  Esau 
even  concerning  things  to  come"  (He  11  20). 

These  twin  brothers  therefore  share  thus  far  the 
same  relation  to  their  parents  and  to  what  their 

parents  transmit  to  them.     But  here 

2.  As  the  likeness  ceases.  "Being  not  yet, 
Brother  born,  neither  having  done  anything 
of  Esau          good  or  bad,  that  the  purpose  of  Cod 

according  to  election  might  stand,  not 
of  works,  but  of  him  that  calleth,  it  was  said  unto 
(Rebecca],  The  elder  shall  serve  the  younger" 
(Rom  9  11.12).  In  the  _  Gen-narrat  ive,  without 
any  doctrinal  assertions  either  adduced  to  explain 
it,  or  deduced  from  it,  the  fact  is  nevertheless  made 
as  clear  as  it  is  in  Mai  or  Rom,  that  Esau  is  rejected, 
and  Jacob  is  chosen  as  a  link  in  the  chain  of  in- 
heritance that  receives  and  transmits  the  promise. 
With  Jacob  the  last  person  is  reached  who,  for 
his  own  generation,  thus  sums  up  in  a  single  indi- 
vidual   "the    seed"    of    promise.     He 

3.  As  becomes  the  father  of  12  sons,  who  are 
Father  of  the  progenitors  of  the  tribes  of  the 
the  Twelve    "peculiar     people."     It     is     for     this 

reason  that  this  people  bears  his 
name,  and  not  that  of  his  father  Isaac  or  that  of 
his  grandfather  Abraham.  The  "children  of 
Israel,"  the  "house  of  Jacob,"  are  the  totality  of 
the  seed  of  the  promise.  The  Edomites  too  are 
children  of  Isaac.  Ishmaelites  equally  with  Israel- 
ites boast  of  descent  from  Abraham.  But  the 
twelve  tribes  that  called  themselves  "Israel"  were 
all  descendants  of  Jacob,  and  were  the  only  de- 
scendants of  Jacob  on  the  agnatic  principle  of 
family-constitution. 


Jacob 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1550 


///.  Biography.  The  lift;  nf  a  wanderer  (Dl  26 
a  KYin)  sucli  as  Jacob  was,  may  often  be  best  di- 
vided on  the  geographical  principle.  .Jacob's 
career  falls  into  the  four  distinct  periods:  thai  of 
his  residence  with  Isaac  in  Canaan,  that  of  his 
residence  with  Lilian  in  Aram,  that  of  his  inde- 
pendent life  in  Canaan  and  that  of  his  migration 
to  Egypt. 

Jacob's  birth  was  remarkable  in  respect  of  (a) 
its  delay  for  20  years  as  noted  above,  (b)  that  condi- 
tion  of   his  mother  which   led   to   1  he 

1.  With  Divine  oracle  concerning  his  future 
Isaac  in  greatness  and  supremacy,  and  (c)  the 
Canaan           unusual   phenomenon    that   gave   him 

his  name:  "lie  holds  by  the  heel" 
(see  above,  1,  '_').  Lnlike  his  twin  brother,  Jacob 
seems  to  have  been  free  from  any  physical  pecul- 
iarities; his  smoothness  ((.Jen  27  11)  is  only  predi- 
cated of  him  in  contrast-  to  Esau's  hairiness. 
These  brothers,  as  they  developed,  grew  apart-  in 
tastes  and  habits.  Jacob,  like  his  father  in  his 
quiet  manner  of  life  and  (for  that  reason  perhaps) 
the  companion  and  favorite  of  his  mother,  found 
early  the  opportunity  to  obtain  Esau's  sworn 
renunciation  of  his  right  of  primogeniture,  by  taking 
advantage  of  his  habits,  his  impulsiveness  and  his 
fundamental  indifference  to  the  higher  things  of 
the  family,  the  things  of  the  future;  (25  32). _  It 
was  not  until  long  afterward  that  the  companion- 
scene  to  this  first  "supplanting"  (27  30)  was  en- 
acted. Both  sons  meanwhile  are  to  be  thought  of 
simply  as  members  of  Isaac's  following,  during  all 
the  period  of  his  successive  sojourns  in  Gerar,  the 
Valley  of  Gerar  and  Beersheba  (ch  26).  Within 
this  period,  when  the  brothers  were  40  years  of 
age,  occurred  Esau's  marriage  with  two  Hit  tit  e 
women.  Jacob,  remembering  his  own  mother's 
origin,  bided  his  time  to  find  the  woman  who  should 
be  the  mother  of  his  children.  The  question 
whether  she  should  be  brought  to  him,  as  Rebekah 
was  to  Isaac,  or  he  should  go  to  find  her,  was  settled 
at  last  by  a  family  feud  that  only  his  absence  could 
heal.  This  feud  was  occasioned  by  the  fraud  that 
Jacob  at  Rebekah's  behest  pract  ised  upon  his  father 
and  brother,  when  these  two  were  minded  to  nullify 
t  he  clearly  revealed  purpose  of  the  oracle,  (25  23) 
and  the  sanctions  of  a  solemn  oath  (25  33).  Isaac's 
partiality  for  Esau  arose  perhaps  as  much  from 
Esau's  resemblance  to  the  active,  impulsive  nature 
of  his  mother,  as  from  the  sensual  gratification 
afforded  Isaac  by  the  savory  dishes  his  son's  hunt- 
ing supplied.  At  any  rate,  this  partiality  defeated 
itself  because  it.  overreached  itself.  The  wife,  who 
had  learned  to  be  eves  and  ears  for  a  husband's 
failing  senses,  detected  the  secret  scheme,  counter- 
plotted with  as  much  skill  as  unscrupulousness, 
and  while  she  obtained  the  paternal  blessing  for 
her  favorite  son,  fell  nevertheless  under  tin;  painful 
necessity  of  choosing  between  losing  him  through 
his  brother's  revenge  or  losing  him  by  absence  from 
home.  She  chose,  of  course,  the  latter  alternative, 
and  herself  brought  about  Jacob's  departure,  by 
pleading  to  Isaac  the  necessity  for  obtaining  a 
woman  as  Jacob's  wife  of  a  sort  different  from  the 
Canaanitish  women  that  Esau  had  married.  Thus 
ends  the  first  portion  of  Jacob's  life. 

It   is  no  young  man  that  sets  out.  thus  to  escape 

a  brother's  vengeance,  and  perhaps  to  find  a  wife 

at  length  among  his  mother's  kindred. 

2.  To  Aram  It  was  long  before  this  that  Esau  at 
and  Back       the  age  of  forty  had  married  the  Hit- 
tit  e    women    (cf    26  34    with    27  40). 

Yet  to  one  who  had  hitherto  spent  his  life  subor- 
dinate to  his  father,  indulged  by  his  mother,  in  awe 
of  a  brother's  physical  superiority,  and  '•dwelling 
in  tents,  a  quiet  [domestic]  man"  (25  27),  this 
journey  of  500  or  000  miles,  with  no  one  to  guide, 


counsel  or  defend,  was  as  new  an  experience  as  if 
Ik;  had  really  been  the  stripling  that  he  is  sometimes 
represented  to  have  been.  All  the  most  significant 
chapters  in  life  awaited  him:  self-determination, 
love,  marriage,  fatherhood,  domestic  provision  and 
administration,  adjustment  of  his  relations  with 
men,  and  above  all  a  personal  and  independent 
religious  experience. 

Of  these  things,  all  were  to  come  to  him  in  the  20 
years  of  absence  from  Canaan,  and  the  last  was  to 
come  first;  for  the;  dream  of  Jacob  at  Beth-el  was  of 
course  but  the  opening  scene  in  the  long  drama  of 
Cod's  direct  dealing  with  Jacob.  Yet  it  was  the 
determinative  scene,  for  Cod  in  His  latest  and  fullest 
man  if  est  at  ion  to  Jacob  was  just  "the  God  of  Beth-el" 
(35  7;   48  3;   49  24). 

With  the  arrival  at  Haran  came  love  at  once, 
though  not  for  7  years  the  consummation  of  that 
love.  Its  strength  is  naively  indicated  by  tin; 
writer  in  two  ways:  impliedly  in  the  sudden  output 
of  physical  power  at  the  well-side  (29  10),  and 
expressly  in  the  patient  years  of  toil  for  Rachel's 
sake,  which  "seemed  unto  him  but  a  few  days  for 
the  love  he  had  to  her"  (29  20).  Jacob  is  not  pri- 
marily to  be  blamed  for  the  polygamy  that  brought 
trouble  into  his  home-life  and  sowed  tin;  seeds  of 
division  and  jealousy  in  the  nation  of  the  future. 
Although  much  of  Israel's  history  can  be  summed 
up  in  t  he  rivalry  of  Leah  and  Rachel — Judah  and 
Joseph — yet  it  was  not  Jacob's  choice  but  Laban's 
fraud  that  introduced  this  cause;  of  schism.  At  the 
end  of  his  7  years'  labor  Jacob  received  as  wife  not 
Rachel  but  Leah,  on  the  belated  plea  that  to  give 
the  younger  daughter  before  the  elder  was  not  the 
custom  of  the  country.  This  was  the  first  of  the 
"ten  times"  that  Laban  "changed  the  wages"  of 
Jacob  (31  7.41).  Rachel  became  Jacob's  wife  7 
days  after  Leah,  and  for  this  second  wife  he  "served 
7  other  years."  During  these  7  years  were  born 
most  of  the  sons  and  daughters  (37  35)  that  formed 
the  actual  family,  the  nucleus  of  that  large  caravan 
that  Jacob  took  back  with  him  to  Canaan.  Dinah 
is  the  only  daughter  named;  30  21  is  obviously  in 
preparation  for  the  story  of  ch  34  (see  esp.  34  31). 
Four  sons  of  Leah  were  the  oldest:  Reuben,  with 
the  right  of  primogeniture,  Simeon,  Levi  and  Judah. 
Next  came  the  4  sons  of  Bilhah  and  Zilpah,  the 
personal  slaves  of  the  two  wives  (cf  Abraham,  IV, 
2) ;  the  two  pairs  of  sons  were  probably  of  about  the 
same  age  (cf  order  in  ch  49).  Leah's  5th  and  Gth 
sons  were  separated  by  an  interval  of  uncertain 
length  from  her  older  group.  And  Joseph,  the 
youngest  son  born  in  Haran,  was  Rachel's  first 
child,  equally  beloved  by  his  mother,  and  by  his 
father  for  her  sake  (33  2;  cf  44  20),  as  well  as 
because  he  was  the  youngest  of  the  eleven  (37  3). 

Jacob's  years  of  service  for  his  wives  were  fol- 
lowed by  0  years  of  service  rendered  for  a  stipulated 
wage.  Laban's  cunning  in  limiting  the  amount  of 
this  wage  in  a  variety  of  ways  was  matched  by 
Jacob's  cunning  in  devising  means  to  overreach  his 
uncle,  so  that  the  penniless  wanderer  of  20  years 
before  becomes  the  wealthy  proprietor  of  countless 
cattle  and  of  the  hosts  of  slaves  necessary  for  their 
care  (32  10).  At  the  same  time  the  apology  of 
Jacob  for  his  conduct  during  this  entire  period  of 
residence  in  Haran  is  spirited  (31  30-42);  it  is 
apparently  unanswerable  by  Laban  (ver  43);  and 
it  is  confirmed,  both  by  the  evident  concurrence  of 
Leah  and  Rachel  (vs  14-10),  and  by  indications  in 
the  narrative  that  the  justice  (not  merely  the  par- 
tiality) of  God  gave  to  each  party  his  due  recom- 
pense': to  Jacob  the  rich  returns  of  skilful,  patient 
industry;  to  Laban  rebuke  and  warning  (vs  5-13. 
24.29.42). 

The  manner  of  Jacob's  departure  from  Haran 
was  determined  by  the  strained  relations  between 


1551 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jacob 


his  uncle  and  himself.  His  motive  in  going,  how- 
ever, is  represented  as  being  fundamentally  the 
desire  to  terminate  an  absence  from  his  father's 
country  that  had  already  grown  too  long  (31  30; 
cf  30  25) — a  desire  which  in  fact  presented  itself 
to  him  in  the  form  of  a  revelation  of  Cod's  own  pur- 
pose and  command  (31  3).  Unhappily,  his  clear 
record  was  stained  by  the  act  of  another  than  him- 
self, who  nevertheless,  as  a  member  of  his  family, 
entailed  thus  upon  him  the  burden  of  responsibility. 
Rachel,  like  Laban  her  father,  was  devoted  to  the 
superstition  that  manifested  itself  in  the  keeping 
and  consulting  of  t'raphim,  a  custom  which,  whether 
more  nearly  akin  to  fetishism,  totemism,  or  ancestor- 
worship,  was  felt  to  be  incompatible  with  the  wor- 
ship of  the  one  true  God.  (Note  that  the"teraphim" 
of  31  19.34  f  are  the  same  as  the  "gods"  of  vs  30.32 
and,  apparently,  of  35  2.4.)  This  theft  furnished 
Laban  with  a  pretext  for  pursuit.  What  he  meant 
to  do  he  probably  knew  but  imperfectly  himself. 
Coercion  of  some  sort  he  would  doubtless  have 
brought  to  bear  upon  Jacob  and  his  caravan,  had 
he  not  recognized  in  a  dream  the  God  whom  Jacob 
worshipped,  and  heard  Him  utter  a  word  of  warning 
against  the  use  of  violence.  Laban  failed  to  find 
his  stolen  gods,  for  his  daughter  was  as  crafty  and 
ready-witted  as  he.  The  whole  adventure  ended  in 
a  formal  reconciliation,  with  the  usual  sacrificial  and 
memorial  token  (31  43-55). 

After  Laban,  Esau.  One  danger  is  no  sooner 
escaped  than  a  worse  threatens.  Yet  between 
them  lies  the  pledge  of  Divine  presence  and  pro- 
tection in  the  vision  of  God's  host  at  Mahanaim: 
just  a  simple  statement,  with  none  of  the  fanciful 
detail  that  popular  story-telling  loves,  but  the  sober 
record  of  a  tradition  to  which  the  supernatural  was 
matter  of  fact.  Even  the  longer  passage  that  pre- 
serves the  occurrence  at  Peniel  is  conceived  in  the 
same  spirit.  What  the  revelation  of  the  host  of 
God  had  not  sufficed  to  teach  this  faithless,  anxious, 
scheming  patriarch,  that  God  sought  to  teach  him 
in  the  night-struggle,  with  its  ineffaceable  physical 
memorial  of  a  human  impotence  that  can  compass 
no  more  than  to  cling  to  Divine  omnipotence  (32 
22-32).  The  devices  of  crafty  Jacob  to  disarm  an 
offended  and  supposedly  implacable  brother  proved 
as  useless  as  that  bootless  wrestling  of  the  night 
before;  Esau's  peculiar  disposition  was  not  of 
Jacob's  making,  but  of  God's,  and  to  it  alone  Jacob 
owed  his  safety.  The  practical  wisdom  of  Jacob 
dictated  his  insistence  upon  bringing  to  a  speedy 
termination  the  proposed  association  with  his 
changeable  brother,  amid  the  difficulties  of  a  jour- 
ney that  could  not  be  shared  by  such  divergent 
social  and  racial  elements  as  Esau's  armed  host 
and  Jacob's  caravan,  without  discontent  on  the  one 
side  and  disaster  on  the  other.  The  brothers  part, 
not  to  meet  again  until  they  meet  to  bury  their 
father  at  Hebron  (35  29). 

Before  Jacob's  arrival  in  the  S.  of  Canaan  where 
his  father  yet  lived  and  where;  his  own  youth  had 
been  spent,  he  passed  through  a  period 
3.  In  of  wandering  in  Central  Pal,  somewhat 

Canaan  similar  to  that  narrated  of  his  grand- 

Again  father  Abraham.     To  any  such  nomad, 

wandering  slowly  from  Aram  toward 
Egypt,  a  period  of  residence  in  the  region  of  Mt. 
Ephraim  was  a  natural  chapter  in  his  book  of 
travels.  Jacob's  longer  stops,  recorded  for  us,  were 
(1)  at  Succoth,  E.  of  the  Jordan  near  Peniel,  (2)  at 
Shechem  and  (3)  at  Beth-el. 

Nothing  worthy  of  record  occurred  at  Succoth, 
but  the  stay  at  Shechem  was  eventful.  Gen  34, 
which  tells  the  story  of  Dinah's  seduction  and  her 
brother's  revenge,  throws  as  much  light  upon  the 
relations  of  Jacob  and  the  Canaanites,  as  does  eh 
14  or  ch  23  upon  Abraham's  relations,  or  ch  26  upon 


Isaac's  relations,  with  such  settled  inhabitants  of 
the  land.  There  is  a  strange;  blending  of  moral  and 
immoral  elements  in  Jacob  and  his  family  as  por- 
trayed in  this  contretemps.  There  is  the  persistent 
tradition  of  separateness  from  the  Canaanites  be- 
queathed from  Abraham's  day  (ch  24),  together 
with  a  growing  family  consciousness  and  sense  of 
superiority  (34  7.14.31).  And  at  the  same  time 
there  is  indifference  to  their  unique  moral  station 
among  the  environing  tribes,  shown  in  Dinah's 
social  relations  with  them  (ver  1),  in  the  treachery 
and  cruelty  of  Simeon  and  Levi  (vs  25-29),  and  in 
Jacob's  greater  concern  for  the  security  of  his 
possessions  than  for  the  preservation  of  his  good 
name  (ver  30). 

It  was  this  concern  for  the  safety  of  the  family 
and  its  wealth  that  achieved  the  end  which  dread 
of  social  absorption  would  apparently  never  have 
achieved — the  termination  of  a  long  residence 
where  there  was  moral  danger  for  all.  Eor  a  second 
time  Jacob  had  fairly  to  be  driven  to  Beth-el. 
Safety  from  his  foes  was  again  a  gift  of  God  (35  5). 
and  in  a  renewal  of  the  old  forgotten  ideals  of  con- 
secration (vs  2-S),  he  and  all  his  following  move 
from  the  painful  associations  of  Shechem  to  the 
hallowed  associations  of  Beth-el.  Here  were  re- 
newed the  various  phases  of  all  God's  earlier  com- 
munications to  this  patriarch  and  to  his  fathers 
before  him.  The  new  name  of  Israel,  hitherto  so 
ill  deserved,  is  henceforth  to  find  realization  in  his 
life;  his  fathers'  God  is  to  be  his  God;  his  seed  is 
to  inherit  the  land  of  promise,  and  is  to  be  no  mean 
tribe,  but  a  group  of  peoples  with  kings  to  rule  over 
them  like  the  nations  round  about  (35  9-12).  No 
wonder  that  Jacob  here  raises  anew  his  monument 
of  stone — emblem  of  the  "Stone  of  Israel"  (49  24)  — 
and  stamps  forever,  by  this  public  act,  upon  ancient 
Luz  (35  G),  the  name  of  Beth-el  which  he  had  pri- 
vately given  it  years  before  (28  19). 

Losses  and  griefs  characterized  the  family  life 
of  the  patriarch  at  this  period.  The  death  of  his 
mother's  Syrian  nurse  at  Beth-el  (35  S;  cf  24  59) 
was  followed  by  the  death  of  his  beloved  wife 
Rachel  at  Ephrath  (35  19;  48  7)  in  bringing  forth 
the  youngest  of  his  12  sons,  Benjamin.  At  about 
the  same  time  the  eldest,  of  the  12,  Reuben,  for- 
feited the  honor  of  his  station  in  the  family  by  an 
act  that  showed  all  too  clearly  the  effect  of  recent 
association  with  Canaanites  (35  22).  Finally, 
death  claimed  Jacob's  aged  father,  whose;  latest 
years  had  been  robbed  of  the  companionship,  not 
only  of  this  son,  but  also  of  the  son  whom  his  par- 
tiality had  all  but  made  a  fratricide;  at  Isaac's 
grave  in  Hebron  the  ill-matched  brothers  met  once 
more,  thenceforth  to  go  their  separate  ways,  both 
in  their  personal  careers  and  in  their  descendants' 
history  (35  29). 

Jacob  now  is  by  right  of  patriarchal  custom  head 
of  all  the  family.  He  too  takes  up  his  residence  at 
Hebron  (37  14),  and  the  story  of  the  family  fortunes 
is  now  pursued  under  the  new  title  of  "the  gener- 
ations of  Jacob"  (37  2).  True,  most  of  this  story 
revolves  about  Joseph,  the  youngest  of  the;  family 
save  Benjamin;  yet  the  occurrence  of  passages  like 
ch  38,  devoted  exclusively  to  Judah's  affairs,  or 
46  8-27,  the  enumeration  of  Jacob's  entire  family 
through  its  secondary  ramifications,  or  ch  49,  the 
blessing  of  Jacob  on  all  his  sons — all  these  prove 
that  Jacob,  not  Joseph,  is  the  true  center  of  the 
narrative  until  his  death.  As  long  as  he  lives  he 
is  the  real  head  of  his  house,  and  not  merely  a  super- 
annuated veteran  like  Isaac.  Not  only  Joseph, 
the  boy  of  17  (37  2),  but  also  the  self-willed  elder 
sons,  even  a  score  of  years  later,  come  and  go  at 
his  bidding  (chs  42-45).  Joseph's  dearest  thought, 
as  it  is  his  first  thought,  is  for  his  aged  father  (43 
7.27;   44  19;   and  esp.  45  3.9.13.23,  and  46  29). 


Jacob 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1552 


ClOUS 

foi 


It  is  this  devotion  of  Joseph  thai  results  in  Jacob's 
migration   to    Egypt,     What    honors   there  Joseph 
can  show  his  father  he  shows  him:    he 
4.  Last  presents    him    to    Pharaoh,    who    for 

Years  in  Joseph's  sake  receives  him  with  dig- 
Egypt  nity,  and  assigns  him  a  home  and  sus- 
tenance for  himself  and  all  Ins  people 
as  honored  guests  of  the  land  of  Egypt  (47  7  12). 
Yet  in  Beershcba,  while  en  route  to  Egypt,  Jacob 
had  obtained  a  greater  honor  than  this  reception  by 
Pharaoh.  He  had  found  there,  as  ready  to  respond 
to  his  sacrifices  as  ever  to  those  of  his  fathers,  the 
God  of  his  father  Isaac,  and  had  received  the  gra- 
ms assurance  of  Divine  guidance  in  this  mo- 
•ntous  journey,  fraught  with  so  vast  a  significance 
,,,;•  the  future  nation  and  the  world  (46  1-4):  Cod 
Himself  would  go  with  him  into  Egypt  and  give 
him,  not  merely  the  gratification  of  once  more 
embracing  his  long-lost,  son,  but  the  fulfilment  of 
the  covenant-promise  (15  13-16)  that  he  and  his 
were  not  turning  their  backs  upon  Canaan  forever. 
Though  130  vears  of  age  when  he  stood  before 
Pharaoh,  Jacob  felt  his  days  to  have  been  "few 
as  well  as  "evil,"  in  comparison  with  those  of  his 
fathers  (47  9).  And  in  fact  he  had  yet  17  years 
to  live  in  Goshen  (47  28).  . 

These  last  days  are  passed  over  without  record, 
save  of  the  growth  and  prosperity  of  the  family. 
But  at  their  close  came  the  impart ation  of  the  an- 
cestral blessings,  with  the  last  will  of  the  dying 
patriarch.  After  adopting  Joseph's  sons,  Manas- 
seh  and  Ephraim,  as  his  own,  Jacob  blesses  them, 
preferring  the  younger  to  the  elder  as  he  himself 
had  once  been  preferred  to  Esau,  and  assigns  to 
Joseph  the  "double  portion"  of  the  firstborn—that 
"preeminence"  which  he  denies  to  Reuben  (48  22; 
49  4).  In  poetry  that  comb  in  es_  with  the  warm 
(anotion  and  glowing  imagery  of  its  style  and  the 
unsurpassed  elevation  of  its  diction,  a  lyrical  fervor 
of  religious  sentiment  which  demands  for  its  author 
a  personality  that  had  passed  through  just  such  a 
course  of  tuition  as  Jacob  had  experienced,  the  last 
words  of  Jacob,  in  ch  49,  mark  a  turning-point  in 
the  history  of  the  people  of  God.  This  is  a  trans- 
lation of  biography  into  prophecy.  On  the  assump- 
tion that  it  is  genuine,  we  may  confidently  aver 
thai  it  was  simply  unforgetable  by  those  who  heard 
it.  Its  auditors' were  its  theme.  Their  descend- 
ants were  its  fulfilment.  Neither  the  one  class  nor 
the  other  could  ever  let  it  pass  out  of  memory. 

It  was  "by  faith,"  we  are  well  reminded,  that 
Jacob  "blessed"  and  "worshipped"  "when  he  was 
dying"  file  11  21).  For  he  held  to  the  promises 
of  God,  and  even  in  the  hour  of  dissolution  looked 
for  the  fulfilment  of  the  covenant,  according  to 
which  Canaan  should  belong  to  him  and  to  his  seed 
after  him.  He  therefore  set  Joseph  an  example,  by 
''giving  commandment  concerning  his  bones,"  that, 
they  might  rest  in  the  burial-place  of  Abraham  and 
Isaac  near  Hebron.  To  the  accomplishment  of 
this  mission  Joseph  and  all  his  brethren  addressed 
themselves  after  their  father's  decease  and  the  70 
davs  of  official  mourning.  Followed  by  a  "very 
great  company"  of  the  notables  of  Egypt,  including 
royal  officials  and  representatives  of  the  royal 
family,  this  Heb  tribe  carried  up  to  sepulture  in  the 
land  of  promise  the  embalmed  body  of  the  patriarch 
from  whom  henceforth  they  were  to  take  their 
tribal  name,  lamented  him  according  to  custom  for 
7  days,  and  then  returned  to  their  temporary 
home  in  Egypt,  till  their  children  should  at  length 
lie  "called"  thence  to  become  God's  "son"  (Hos 
11  1)  and  inherit  His  promises  to  their  father  Jacob. 
IV.  Character  and  Beliefs. — In  the  course  of  1  his 
account  of  Jacob's  career  the  inward  as  well  as  the 
outward  fortunes  of  the  man  have  somewhat  ap- 
peared.    Yet   a  more  comprehensive  view  of  the 


kind  of  man  he  was  will  not  be  superfluous  at  this 
point.  With  what  disposition  was  he  endowed — 
the  natural  nucleus  for  acquired  characteristics  and 
habits?  Through  what  stages  did  he  pass  in  the 
development  of  his  beliefs  and  his  character?  In 
particular,  what  attitude  did  he  maintain  toward 
the  most  significant  thing  in  his  life,  the  promise  of 
God  to  his  house?  And  lastly,  what  resemblances 
may  be  traced  in  Israel  the  man  to  Israel  the  nation, 
of  such  sort  that  the  one  may  be  regarded  as  "typi- 
cal" of  the  other?  These  matters  deserve  more 
than  a  passing  notice.  _  , 

From  his  father,  Jacob  inherited  that  domesticity 
and  affectionate  attachment  to  his  home  circle 
which  appears  in  his  life  from  begin- 
1.  Natural  ningtoend.  He  inherited  shrewdness, 
Qualities  initiative  and  resourcefulness  from 
Rebekah — qualities  which  she  shared 
apparently  with  her  brother  Laban  and  all  his 
family.  The  conspicuous  ethical  faults  of  Abraham 
and  Isaac  alike  are  want  of  candor  and  want  of 
courage.  It  is  not  surprising,  therefore,  to  find 
the  same  failings  in  Jacob.  Deceit,  and  cowardice 
are  visible  again  and  again  in  the  impartial  record 
of  his  life.  Both  spring  from  unbelief.  They 
belong  to  the  natural  man.  God's  transformation 
of  this  man  was  wrought  by  faith— by  awakening 
and  nourishing  in  him  a  simple  trust  in  the  truth 
and  power  of  the  Divine  word.  For  Jacob  was  not 
at  any  time  in  his  career  indifferent  to  the  things  of 
the  spirit,  the  things  unseen  and  belonging  to  the 
future.  Unlike  Esau,  he  was  not  callous  to  the 
touch  of  God.  Whether  through  inheritance,  or 
as  a  fruit  of  early  teaching,  he  had  as  the  inesti- 
mable treasure,  the  true  capital  of  his  spiritual 
career,  a  firm  conviction  of  the  value  of  what  God 
had  promised,  and  a  supreme  ambition  to  obtain 
it  for  himself  and  his  children.  But  against  the 
Divine  plan  for  the  at  tainment  of  this  goal  by  fait h, 
there  worked  in  Jacob  constantly  his  natural  quali- 
ties, the  non-moral  as  well  as  the  immoral  qualities, 
that  urged  him  to  save  himself  and  his  fortunes 
by  "works"— by  sagacity,  cunning,  compromise, 
pertinacity— anything  and  everything  that  would 
anticipate  God's  accomplishing  His  purpose  in 
His  own  time  and  His  own  way.  In  short,  'the 
end  justifies  the  means"  is  the  program  that,  more 
than  all  others,  finds  illustration  and  rebuke  in  the 
character  of  Jacob.  _ 

Starting  with  such  a  combination  of  natural 
endowments,  social,  practical,  ethical,  Jacob  passed 
through  a  course  of  Divine  tuition, 
2.  Stages  which,  by  building  upon  some  of  them, 
of  Devel-  repressing  others  and  transfiguring  the 
opment  remainder,   issued   in   the   triumph   of 

grace  over  nature,  in  the  transforma- 
tion of  a  Jacob  into  an  Israel.  This  tuition  has 
been  well  analyzed  by  a  recent  writer  (Thomas, 
Genesis,  III,  204 f)  into  the  school  of  sorrow,  the 
school  of  providence  and  the  school  of  grace.  Under 
the  head  of  sorrow,  it  is  not  difficult  to  recall  many 
experiences  in  the  career  just  reviewed :  long  exile; 
disappointment;  sinful  passions  of  greed,  anger, 
lust  and  envy  in  others,  of  which  Jacob  was  the 
victim;  perplexity;  and,  again  and  again,  bereave- 
ment of  those  he  held  most  dear. 

But  besides  these  sorrows,  God's  providence 
dealt  with  him  in  ways  most  remarkable,  and  per- 
haps more  instructive  for  the  study  of  such  Divine 
dealings  than  in  the  case  of  any  other  character  in 
the  OT.  By  alternate  giving  and  withholding,  by 
danger  here  and  deliverance  there,  by  good  and  evil 
report,  now  by  failure  of  "best  laid  schemes"  and 
now  by  success  with  seemingly  inadequate  means, 
God  developed  in  him  the  habit— not  native  to  him 
as  it  seems  to  have  been  in  part  to  Abraham  and  to 
Joseph  —of  reliance  on  Divine  power  and  guidance, 


1553 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jacob 


of  accepting  the  Divine  will,  of  realizing  the  Divine 
nearness  and  faithfulness. 

And  lastly,  there  are  those  admirably  graded 
lessons  in  the  grace  of  God,  that  were  imparted  in 
the  series  of  Divine  appearances  to  the  patriarch, 
at  Beth-el,  at  Haran,  at  Peniel,  at  Beth-el  again 
and  at  Beersheba.  For  if  the  substance  of  these 
Divine  revelations  be  compared,  it  will  be  found 
that  all  are  alike  in  the  assurance  (1)  that  God  is 
with  him  to  bless;  (2)  that  the  changes  of  his  life 
are  ordained  of  God  and  are  for  his  ultimate  good; 
and  (3)  that  he  is  the  heir  of  the  ancestral  promises. 

It  will  further  be  found  that  they  may  be  arranged  in 
a  variety  of  ways,  according  as  one  or  another  of  the 
revelations  1m;  viewed  as  the  climax.  Thus  (1),  agreeing 
with  the  chronological  order,  the  appearance  at  Beer- 
sheba may  well  be  regarded  as  the  climax  of  them  all. 
Abraham  had  gone  to  Egypt  to  escape  a  famine  (12  10), 
but  he  went  without  revelation,  and  returned  with  bitter 
experience  of  his  error.  Isaac  essayed  to  go  to  Egypt 
for  the  same  cause  (26  1  f),  and  was  prevented  by  reve- 
lation. Jacob  now  goes  to  Kgypt,  but  he  goes  with  the 
express  approval  of  the  God  of  his  fathers,  and  with  the 
explicit  assurance1  that,  the  same  Divine  providence  which 
ordained  this  removal  (50  20)  will  see  that  it  does  not 
frustrate  any  of  the  promises  of  God.  This  was  a  crisis 
in  the  history  of  the  "Kingdom  of  God"  on  a  par  with 
events  like  the  Exodus,  the  Exile,  or  the  Return. 

(li)  In  its  significance  for  his  personal  history,  the 
first  of  these  revelations  was  unique.  Beth-el  witnessed 
Jacob's  choice,  evidently  for  the  first  time,  of  his  fathers' 
God  as  his  God.  And  though  we  find  Jacob  later  toler- 
ating idolatry  in  his  household  and  compromising  his 
religious  testimony  by  sin,  we  never  find  a  hint  of  his 
own  unfaithfulness  to  this  first  and  final  religious  choice. 
This  is  further  confirmed  by  the  attachment  of  his  later 
revelations  to  this  primary  one,  as  though  this  lent  them 
the  significance  of  continuity,  and  made  possible  the  unity 
of  his  religious  experience.  So  at  Haran  it  was  the 
"God  of  Beth-el"  who  directed  his  return  (31  13);  at 
Shechem  it  was  to  Beth-el  that  he  was  directed,  in  order 
that  he  might  at  length  fulfil  his  Beth-el  vow,  by  erect- 
ing there  an  altar  to  the  Cod  who  had  there  appeared 
to  him  (35  1);  and  at  Beth-el  finally  the  promise  of 
former  years  was  renewed  to  him  who  was  henceforth 
to  be  Israel  (vs  9-15). 

(3)  Though  thus  punctuated  with  the  supernatural, 
the  only  striking  bit  of  the  marvelous  in  all  this  biography- 
is  thenight  scene  at  Peniel.  And  this  too  may  justly 
be  claimed  as  a  climax  in  Jacob's  development.  There 
he  first  received  his  new  name,  and  though  he  deserved 
it  as  little  in  many  scenes  thereafter  as  he  had  deserved 
it  before,  yet  the  same  could  be  said  of  many  a  man  who 
has  "seen  the  face  of  God,"  but  has  yet  to  grasp,  like 
Jacob,  the  lesson  that  the  way  to  overcome  is  through 
the  helpless  but  clinging  importunity  of  faith. 

(4)  Rat  her  than  in  any  of  the  other  scenes,  however,  it 
was  at  Beth-el  the  second  time  that  the  patriarch 
reached  the  topmost  rung  on  the  ladder  of  development. 
As  already  noticed,  the  substance  of  all  the  earlier  reve- 
lations is  here  renewed  and  combined.  It.  is  no  wonder 
that  after  this  solemn  theophany  we  find  Jacob,  like 
Moses  later,  'enduring  as  seeing  him  who  is  invisible' 
(He  11  27),  and  "waiting  for  the  salvation"  (Gen  49 
IS)  of  a  God  'who  is  not  ashamed  of  him,  to  be  called 
his  Cod'  (He  H  1G),  but  is  repeatedly  called  "the  God 
of  Jacob." 

Finally,  such  a  comparison  of  these  revelations 
to_  Jacob  reveals  a  variety  iti  the  way  God  makes 
Himself  known.  In  the  first  revelation,  naturally, 
the  effort  is  made  chiefly  to  impress  upon  its  recip- 
ient the  identity  of  the  revealing  God  with  the  God 
of  his  fathers.  And  it  has  been  remarked  already 
that  in  the  later  revelations  the  same  care  is  taken 
to  identify  the  Revealer  with  the  One  who  gave 
that  first  revelation,  or  else  to  identify  Him,  as 
then,  with  the  God  of  the  fathers.  Yet,  'in  addition 
to  this,  there  is  a  richness  and  suitability  in  the 
Divine,  names  revealed,  which  a  mechanical  theory 
of  literary  sources  not  only  leaves  unexplained  but 
fails  even  to  recognize.  At  Beth-el  first  it  is  Jeh, 
the  personal  name  of  this  God,  the  God  of  his  fathers, 
who  enters  into  a  new  personal  relation  with  Jacob; 
now,  of  all  times  in  his  career,  he  needs  to  know  God 
by  the  differential  mark  that  distinguishes  Him 
absolutely  from  other  gods,  that  there  may  never 
be  confusion  as  to  Jeh's  identity.  But  this  matter 
is  settled  for  Jacob  once  for  all.  Thenceforth  one 
of  the  ordinary  terms  for  deity,  with  or  without  an 
attributive  adjunct,  serves  to  lift   the  patriarch's 


sotd  into  communication  with  his  Divine  Inter- 
locutor. The  most  general  word  of  all  in  the  Sem 
tongues  for  deity  is  'El,  the  word  used  in  the 
revelations  to  Jacob  at  Haran  (31  13),  at  Shechem 
(35  1),  at  Beth-el  the  second  time  (35  11)  and  at 
Beersheba  (46  3).  But  it  is  never  used  alone. 
Like  Allah  in  the  Arab,  language  {  =  the  God),  so 
'El  with  the  definite  article  before  it  serves  to  des- 
ignate in  Heb  a  particular  divinity,  not  deity  in 
general.  Or  else  'El  without  the  article  is  made 
definite  by  some  genitive  phrase  that  supplies  the 
necessary  identification:  so  in  Jacob's  case,  El- 
beth-el  (35  7;  cf  31  13)  or  El-Flohe-lsrael  (33  20). 
Or,  lastly,  there  is  added  to  'El  some  determining 
title,  with  the  force  of  an  adjective,  as  Shaddai  (trd 
"Almighty")  in  35  11  (cf _  43  3).  In  clear  dis- 
tinction from  this  word,  'El,  with  its  archaic  or 
poetic  flavor,  is  the  common  Heb  word  for  God, 
'Elohlm.  But  while  'Elohlm  is  used  regularly  by 
the  narrator  of  the  Jacob-stories  in  speaking,  or  in 
letting  his  actors  speak,  of  Jacob's  God,  who  to 
the  monotheistic  writer  is  of  course  the  God  and 
his  own  God,  he  never  puts  this  word  thus  abso- 
lutely into  the  mouth  of  the  revealing  Deity.  Jacob 
can  say,  when  he  awakes  from  his  dream,  "This 
is  the  house  of  'Elohlm,"  but  God  says  to  him 
in  the  dream,  "I  am  the  God  ['Elohlm]  of  thy 
'atlier"  (28  17.13).  At  Mahanaim  Jacob  says, 
"This  is  the  host  of  'Elohlm"  (32  2),  but  at 
Beersheba  God  says  to  Jacob,  "I  am  ....  the 
God  ['Elohlm]  of  thy  father"  (46  3).  Such  are  the 
distinctions  maintained  in  the  use  of  these  words, 
till  of  them  used  of  the  same  God,  yet  chosen  in 
each  cast;  to  fit  the  circumstances  of  speaker,  hearer 
and  situation. 

The  only  passage  in  the  story  of  Jacob  that  might 
appear  to  be  an  exception  does  in  fact  but  prove  the  rule. 
At  Peniel  the  angel  of  God  explains  the  new  name  of 
Israel  by  saying.  "Thou  hast  striven  with  God  ['Elohlm] 
and  with  men,  and  hast  prevailed."  Here  the  contrast 
with  "men"  proves  that  'Elohlm  without  the  article  is 
just  the  right  expression,  even  on  the  lips  of  Deity: 
neither  Deity  nor  humanity  has  prevailed  against  Jacob 
(32  28). 

Throughout  the  entire  story  of  Jacob,  therefore, 
his  relations  with  Jeh  his  God,  after  they  were  once 
established  (28  13-10),  are  narrated  in  terms  that 
emphasize  the  Divinity  of  Him  who  had  thus  entered 
into  covenant-relationship  with  him:  His  Divinity 
— that  is  to  say,  those  attributes  in  which  His  Divinity 
manifested  itself  in  His  dealings  with  Jacob. 

From  the  foregoing,  two  things  appear  with 
respect  to  Jacob's  attitude  toward  the  promise  of 
God.  First,  with  all  his  faults  and 
3.  Attitude  vices  he  yet  was  spiritually  sensitive; 
toward  the  he  responded  to  the  approaches  of  his 
Promise  God  concerning  things  of  a  value  wholly 
spiritual — future  good,  moral  and 
spiritual  blessings.  And  second,  he  was  capable 
of  progress  in  these  matters;  that  is,  his  reaction 
to  the  Divine  tuition  would  appear,  if  charted,  as 
a  series  of  elevations,  separated  one  from  another, 
to  be  sure,  by  low  levels  and  deep  declines,  yet  each 
(Hie  higher  than  the  last,  and  all  taken  collectively 
lifting  the  whole  average  up  and  up,  till  in  the  end 
faith  has  triumphed  over  sight,  the  future  over 
present  good,  a  yet  unpossessed  but  Divinely 
promised  Canaan  over  all  the  comfort  and  honors 
of  Egypt,  and  the  aged  patriarch  lives  only  to 
"wait  for  Jeh's  salvation"  (49  18). 

The  contrast  of  Jacob  with  Esau  furnishes  per- 
haps the  best  means  of  grasping  the  significance 
of  these  two  facts  for  an  estimate  of  Jacob's  atti- 
tude toward  the  promise.  For  in  the  first  place, 
Esau,  who  possessed  so  much  that  Jacob  lacked — 
directness,  manliness,  a  sort  of  bonhomie,  that,  made 
him  superficially  more  attractive  than  his  brother 
— Esau  shows  nowhere  any  real  "sense"  for  things 


Jacob 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1554 


spiritual.  The  author  of  Hebrews  has  caught  the 
man  in  the  flash  of  a  single  word,  "profane"  (/3<f- 
£77X05,  bcbclos) — of  course,  in  the  older,  broader, 
etymological  meaning  of  the  term.  Esau's  desires 
dwelt  in  the  world  of  the  non-sacred;  they  did  nol 
aspire  to  that  world  of  nearness  to  Cod,  where  one 
must  'put  off  the  shoes  from  off  his  feet,  because 
the  place  whereon  he  stands  is  holy  ground.'  And 
in  the  second  place,  there  is  no  sign  of  growth  in 
Esau.  What  we  see  him  in  his  father's  encamp- 
ment, that  we  see  him  to  the  end  —so  far  as  appears 
from  the  laconic  story.  With  the  virtues  as  well 
as  the  vices  of  the  man  who  lives  for  the  present  - 
forgiving  when  strong  enough  to  revenge,  conde- 
scending when  flattered,  proud  of  power  and 
independent  of  parental  control  or  family  tradition 
—  Esau  is  as  impartially  depicted  by  the  sacred  his- 
torian as  if  the  writer  had  been  an  Edomite  instead 
of  an  Israelite:  the  sketch  is  evidently  true  to  life, 
both  from  its  objectivity  and  from  its  coherence. 

Now  what  Esau  was,  Jacob  was  not.  J  lis  fault 
in  connection  with  the  promises  of  God,  the  family 
tradition,  the  ancestral  blessing,  lay  nol  in  despising 
them,  but  in  seeking  them  in  immoral  ways.  Good 
was  his  aim;  but  he  was  ready  to  "do  evil  that  good 
might,  conic."  He  was  always  tempted  to  be  his 
own  Providence,  and  God's  training  was  clearly 
directed,  both  by  providential  leadings  and  by 
gracious  disclosures,  to  this  corresponding  purpose: 
to  enlighten  Jacob  as  to  the  nature  of  the  promise; 
to  assure  him  that  it  was  his  by  grace;  to  awaken 
personal  faith  in  its  Divine  Giver;  and  to  supple- 
ment his  "faith"  by  that  "patience"  without  which 
none  can  "inherit  the  promises."  The  faith  that 
accepts  was  to  issue  at  length  in  the  faith  that  waits. 

A  nation  was  to  take  its  name  from  Jacob-Israel,  and 
there  are  some  passages  of  Scripture  where  it  is  uncertain 
whether  the  name  designates  the  nation  or 
4.  How  Far  *ts  ancestor.  In  their  respective  relations 
'tiT  ,,  to  God  and  to  the  world  of  men  and  na- 
a      lype  tions.  there  is  a  true  sense  in  which  the 

of  Israel  father  was  a  "type"  of  the  children.     It 

is  probably  only  a  play  of  fancy  that 
would  discover  a  parallel  in  their  respective  careers, 
between  the  successive  stages  of  life  in  the  father's 
home  (Canaan),  life  in  exile,  a  return,  and  a  second  exile. 
But  it  is  not  fanciful  to  note  tin;  resemblance  between 
Jacob's  character  and  that  of  his  descendants.  With 
few  exceptions  the  qualities  mentioned  above  (IV,  2) 
will  be  found,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  be  equally  appli- 
cable to  the  nation  of  Israel.  And  even  that  curriculum 
in  which  the  patriarch  learned  of  God  may  be  viewed 
as  a  type  of  the  school  in  which  the  Heb  people — not 
all  of  them,  nor  even  the  mass,  but  the  "remnant"  who 
approximated  to  the  ideal  Israel  of  the  prophets,  the 
"servant  of  Jeh" — were  taught  the  lessons  of  faith  and 
patience,  of  renunciation  and  consecration,  that  appear 
with  growing  clearness  on  the  pages  of  Isaiah,  of  Habak- 
kuk,  of  Jeremiah,  of  Malachi.  This  is  apparently 
Hosea's  point  of  view  in  12  2-4.12. 

A  word  of  caution,  however,  is  needed  at  this  point. 
There  are  limits  to  this  equation.  Even  critics  who 
regard  Jacob  under  his  title  of  Israel  as  merely  the 
eponymous  hero,  created  by  legend  to  be  the  forefather 
of  the  nation  (cf  below,  VI,  1),  must  confess  that  Jacob 
as  Jacob  is  no  such  neutral  creature,  dressed  only  in  the 
colors  of  his  children's  racial  qualities.  There  is  a  large 
residuum  in  Jacob,  after  all  parallelisms  have  been 
traced,  that  refuses  to  fit  the  lines  of  Heb  national  char- 
acter or  history,  and  his  typical  relation  in  fact  lies 
chiefly  in  the  direction  of  the  covenant-inheritance,  after 
the  fashion  of  Malachi's  allusion  (Mai  1  2),  interpreted 
by  Paul  (Rom  9  10-13). 

V.  References  Outside  of  Genesis. — Under  his 
two  names  this  personage  Jacob  or  Israel  is  more 
frequently  mentioned  than  any  other  in  the  whole 
of  sacred  history.  Yet  in  the  vast  majority  of 
cases  the  nation  descended  from  him  is  intended 
by  the  name,  which  in  the  form  of  "Jacob"  or 
"Israel"  contains  not  the  slightest,  and  in  the  form 
"children  of  Israel,"  "house  of  Jacob"  and  the  like, 
only  the  slightest,  if  any,  allusion  to  the  patriarch 
himself.  But,  there  still  remain  many  passages 
in  both  Testaments  where  the  Jacob  or  Israel  of 
Gen  is  clearly  alluded  to. 


There  is  a  considerable  group  of  passages  that 

refer  to  him  as  the  last  of  the  pat riarchal  triumvirate 

— Abraham,     Isaac     and     Jacob:      so 

1.  In  particularly   of   Jeh   as  the    "God   of 
the  OT            Abraham,    Isaac   and   Jacob,"    and   of 

the  covenant-oath  as  having  been 
"sworn  unto  Abraham,  Isaac;  and  Jacob."  And 
naturally  the  nation  that  is  known  by  his  name  is 
frequently  called  by  some  phrase,  equivalent  to  the 
formal  bene  yisra'el,  yet  through  its  unusualness 
lending  more  significance  to  the  idea  of  their  deri- 
vation from  him:  so  "seed  of  Jacob"  and  (frequently) 
"house  of  Jacob  [Israel]."  But  there  are  a  few 
OT  passages  outside  of  Gen  in  which  so  much  of 
Jacob's  history  has  been  preserved,  that  from  these 
allusions  alone  a  fair  notion  might  have  been 
gathered  concerning  the  Hebrews'  tradition  of  their 
common  ancestor,  even  if  all  tin;  story  in  Gen  had 
been  lost,.  These  passages  are:  Josh  24  3.4.32; 
Ps  105  10-23;  Hos  12  2-4.12;  Mai  1  2  f.  Be- 
sides these,  there  an;  other  allusions,  scattered  a 
word  here  and  a  sentence  there,  from  all  of  which 
together  we  learn  as  follows.  God  gave  to  Isaac 
twin  sons,  Esau  and  Jacob,  the  latter  at  birth  taking 
the  former  by  the  heel.  God  elected  Jacob  to  be 
the  recipient  of  the  covenant-promise  made  to  his 
father  Isaac  and  to  his  grandfather  Abraham;  and 
this  choice  involved  the  rejection  of  Esau.  Jeh 
appeared  to  Jacob  at  Beth-el  and  told  him  the  land 
of  Canaan  was  to  be  his  and  his  seed's  after 
him  forever.  Circumstances  not,  explained  caused 
Jacob  to  flee  from  his  home  in  Canaan  to  Aram, 
where  he  served  as  a  shepherd  to  obtain  a  wife 
as  his  wage.  He  became  the  father  of  12  sons. 
He  strove  with  the  angel  of  God  and  prevailed 
amid  earnest,  supplication.  His  name  was  by  Jeh 
Himself  changed  to  Israel.  Under  Divine  pro- 
tection as  God's  chosen  one  and  representative,  his 
life  was  that  of  a  wanderer  from  place  to  place; 
once  only  he  bought,  a  piece  of  land,  for  a  hundred 
pieces,  near  Shechem,  from  Hamor,  the  father  of 
Shechem.  A  famine  drove  him  down  to  Egypt, 
but  not  without,  providential  preparation  for  the 
reception  there  of  himself  and  all  his  family,  through 
the  remarkable  fortunes  of  his  son  Joseph,  sold, 
exiled,  imprisoned,  delivered,  and  exalted  to  a  posi- 
tion where  he  could  dispose  of  rulers  and  nations. 
In  Egypt  the  children  of  Jacob  multiplied  rapidly, 
and  at  his  death  he  made  the  sons  of  Joseph  the 
heirs  of  the  only  portion  of  Canaanitish  soil  that 
he  had  acquired. 

From  this  it  appears,  first,  that  not  much  that  is 
essential  in  the  biography  of  Jacob  would  have 
perished  though  Gen  had  been  lost ;  and,  second, 
that  the  sum  of  the  incidental  allusions  outside 
Gen  resemble  the  total  impression  of  the  narratives 
in  Gen — in  other  words,  that  the  Bib.  tradition  is 
self-consistent.  And  it  runs  back  to  a  date  (Hosea, 
8th  cent.  BC)  little  farther  removed  from  the  events 
recounted  than  the  length  of  time  that  separates 
our  own  day  from  the  Norman  conquest,  or  the 
Fall  of  Constantinople  from  the  Hegira,  or  Jesus 
Christ  from  Solomon. 

In  the  NT  also  there  are,  besides  the  references 

to  Jacob  simply  as  the  father  of  his  nation,  several 

passages  that  recall  events  in  his  life 

2.  In  the        or  traits  of  his  character.     These  are: 
NT  Jn  4  5.6.12;    Acts  7  12.14-16;    Rom 

9  10-13;  He  11  9.20  f.  In  the  conver- 
sation between  Jesus  and  the  Samaritan  woman  it 
appearsthat  the  Samaritans  cherished  the  association 
of  Jacob  with  the  ground  he  bought  near  Shechem, 
and  with  the  well  he  dug  while  sojourning  there  with 
his  sons  and  his  flocks;  they  prided  themselves  on 
its  transmission  to  them  through  Joseph,  not  to 
the  hated  Jews  through  Judah,  and  magnified  them- 
selves in  magnifying  Jacob's  "greatness"  and  calling 


155,5 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jacob 


him  "our  father."  .  Stephen's  speech,  as  Luke 
reports  it,  includes  in  its  rapid  historical  flight  a 
hint  or  two  about  Jacob  beyond  the  bare  fact  of  his 
place  in  the  tribal  genealogy.  Moved  by  the 
famine  prevailing  in  Egypt  and  Canaan,  Jacob 
twice  dispatches  his  sons  to  buy  grain  in  Egypt ,  and 
the  second  time  Joseph  is  made  known  to  his 
brothers,  and  his  race  becomes  manifest  to  Pharaoh. 
At  Joseph's  behest,  Jacob  and  all  the  family  remove 
to  Egypt.  There  all  remain  until  their  death,  but 
the  "fathers"  (Joseph  and  his  brethren;  cf  Jerome, 
Epistola  cviii,  ed.  Migne)  are  buried  in  the  family 
possession  near  Sheehem.  (Here  emerges  one  of 
those  divergences  from  the  OT  tradition  that  are 
a  notable  feature  of  Stephen's  speech,  and  that 
have  furnished  occasion  for  much  speculation  upon 
their  origin,  value  and  implications.  See  comms.  on 
Acts.)  Paul's  interest  in  Jacob  appears  in  con- 
nection with  his  discussion  of  Divine  election, 
where  he  calls  attention  to  the  oracle  of  Gen  25  23 
and  to  the  use  already  made  of  the  passage  by 
Malachi  (1  2f),  and  reminds  his  readers  that  this 
choice  of  Jacob  and  rejection  of  Esau  was  made 
by  God  even  before  these  twin  sons  of  Isaac  and 
Rebecca  were  born.  Finally,  the  author  of  He, 
when  charting  the  heroes  of  faith,  focuses  his  glass 
for  a  moment  upon  Jacob:  first,  as  sharing  with 
Abraham  and  Isaac  the  promise  of  God  and  the 
life  of  unworldly,  expectant  faith  (He  11  9);  and 
second,  as  receiving  from  Isaac,  and  at  his  death 
transmitting  to  his  grandsons,  blossinirs  thai  had 
value  only  for  one  who  worships  and  believes  a  God 
with  power  over  "things  to  come"  (vs  20  f). 

VI.  Modern  Interpretations  of  Jacob. — For  t  hose 
who  see  in  the  patriarchal  narratives  anything — 
myth,  legend,  saga — rather  than  true  biography, 
there  is,  of  course,  a  different  interpretation  of  (lie 
characters  and  events  portrayed  in  the  familiar 
Gen-stories,  and  a  different  value  placed  upon  the 
stories  themselves. 

Apart  from  the  allegorizing  treatment  accorded  them 
by  Philo  tlir  .Jew  and  early  Christian  writers  of  like 
mind  (see  specimen  in  Abraham),  these  views  belong 
to  modern  criticism.  To  critics  who  make  Heb  history 
begin  with  the  settlement  of  Canaan  by  the  nomad 
Israelites  fresh  from  the  desert,  even  the  Mosaic  age 
and  the  Egyp  residence  are  totally  unhistorical-  much 
more  so  these  tales  of  a  pre-Mosaic  patriarchal  age. 
Yet  even  those  writers  who  admit  the  broad  outlines  of 
a  residence  of  the  tribes  in  Egypt,  an  exodus  of  some 
sort,  and  a  founder  of  the  nation  named  Moses,  are  for 
the  most  part  skeptical  of  this  cycle  of  family  figures 
and  fortunes  in  a  remote  age,  with  its  nomads  wander- 
ing between  Mesopotamia  and  Canaan,  and  to  and  fro 
in  Canaan,  its  circumstantial  acquaintance  with  the 
names  and  relationships  of  each  individual  through 
those  4  long  patriarchal  generations,  and  its  obvious 
foreshadowing  of  much  that  the  later  tribes  were  on 
this  same  soil  to  act  out  cents,  later.  This,  we  are  told, 
is  not  history.  Whatever  else  it  may  be,  it  is  not  a 
reliable  account  of  such  memorable  events  as  compel 
their  own  immortality  in  the  memories  and  through  the 
written  records  of  mankind. 

The  commonest  view  held,  collectively  of  the 
entire  narrative,  specifically  of  Jacob,  is  that  which 
sees  here  the  precipitate  from  a  pure 
1.  Personi-  solution  of  the  national  character  and 
fication  of  fortunes.  Wellhausen,  e.g.,  says  (Pro- 
the  Hebrew  legomena6,  31G):  "The  material  here 
Nation  is  not  mythical,  but  national;    there- 

fore clearer  [viz.  than  in  Gen  1-11] 
and  in  a  certain  sense  historical.  To  be  sure  there 
is  no  historical  knowledge  to  be  gained  here  about 
the  patriarchs,  but  only  about  the  time  in  which  the 
stories  concerning  them  arose  in  the  people  of  Israel; 
this  later  time  with  its  inward  and  outward  char- 
acteristics is  here  unintentionally  projected  into  the 
gray  antiquity  and  mirrored  therein  like  a  glorified 
phantasm  ....  [p.  318]  Jacob  is  more  real- 
istically drawn  than  the  other  two  [Abraham  and 
Isaac]."     In    section    IV,  4,  above,  we    observed 


that,  while  many  of  Jacob's  personal  qualities  pre- 
figured the  qualities  of  the  later  Heb  people,  there 
were  some  others  that  did  not  at  all  fit  t  his  equal  ion. 
Wellhausen  himself  remarks  this,  in  regard  to  the 
contrast  between  warlike  Israel  and  the  peaceful 
ancestors  they  invented  for  themselves.  In  his 
attempt  to  account  for  this  contrast,  he  can  only 
urge  that,  a  nation  condemned  to  eternal  wars 
would  naturally  look  back  upon,  as  well  as  forward 
to,  a  golden  age  of  peace.  (An  alternative  explana- 
tion he  states,  only  to  reject.)  He  fails  to  observe 
that  this  plea  does  not  in  the  least  alter  the  fact — his 
plea  is  indeed  but  a  restatement  of  the  fact — that 
this  phenomenon  is  absolutely  at  variance  with  his 
hypothesis  of  how  these  stories  of  Jacob  and  the 
rest  came  to  be  what  they  are  (see  Meyer,  Die 
Israeliten  und  Hire  Nachbarstamme,  250  ff). 

This  general  view,  which  when  carried  to  its 
extreme  implications  (as  by  Steuernagel,  Die  Ein- 
wanderung  der  israelilischen  Stamme  in  Kanaan, 
1901)  comes  perilously  near  the  reduc- 
2.  God  and  tio  ad  absurdum  that  is  its  own  refuta- 
Demi-God  tion,  has  been  rejected  by  that  whole 
group  of  critics,  who,  following  Noldeke, 
see  in  Jacob,  as  in  so  many  others  of  the  patriarchs, 
an  original  deity  (myth),  first  abased  to  the  grade 
of  a  hero  (heroic  legend),  and  at  last  degraded  to  the 
level  of  a  clown  (tales  of  jest  or  marvel).  Adherents 
of  this  trend  of  interpretation  differ  widely  among 
themselves  as  to  details,  but,  Jacob  is  generally 
regarded  as  a  Canaanitish  deity,  whose  local  shrine 
was  at  Sheehem,  Beth-el  or  Peniel,  and  whose  cult 
was  taken  over  by  the  Hebrews,  their  own  object 
of  worship  being  substituted  for  him,  and  the  out- 
standing features  of  his  personality  being  made 
over  into  a  hero  that  Israel  appropriated  as  their 
national  ancestor,  even  to  the  extent  of  giving  him 
the  secondary  name  of  Israel.  Stade  attempted 
a  combination  of  this  "mythical"  view  with  the 
"national"  view  in  the  interest  of  his  theory  of 
primitive  animism,  by  making  the  patriarch  a 
"mythological  figure  revered  as  an  eponymous 
hero."  This  theory,  in  any  form,  requires  the 
assumption,  which  there  is  nothing  to  support,  that 
Jacob  (or  Jacob-el)  is  a  nana1  originally  belonging 
to  a  deity  and  framed  to  fit  his  supposed  character. 
At  first,  then,  it  meant  "'El  deceives"  or  '"El 
recompenses"  (so  B.  Luther,  ZA7'IF,  1901,  60  ff; 
cf  also  the  same  writer,  as  well  as  Meyer  himself, 
in  the  hitter's  Israeliten,  etc,  109  ff,  271  ff).  Meyer 
proposes  the  monstrosity  of  a  nominal  sentence 
with  the  tr,  "  'He  deceives'  is  'El."  Thus  the  first 
element  of  the  name  Jacob  came  to  be  felt  as  the 
name  itself  (  =  "Jacob  is  God"),  and  it  was  launched 
upon  its  course  of  evolution  into  the  human  per- 
sonage that  Gen  knows.  It,  suffices  to  say  with 
regard  to  all  this,  that  in  addition  to  its  being  inher- 
ently improbable — not  to  say,  unproved — it  goes 
directly  in  the  face  of  the  archaeological  evidence 
adduced  under  I,  1,  above.  The  simple  fact  that 
Jacob(-el)  was  a  personal  name  for  men,  of  every- 
day occurrence  in  the  2d-3d  millenniums  BC,  is 
quite  enough  to  overthrow  this  whole  hypothesis; 
for,  as  Luther  himself  remarks  (op.  cit.,  65),  the 
above  evolution  of  the  name  is  essential  to  the 
"mythical"  theory:  "when  this  alteration  took 
place  cannot  be  told;  yet  it  has  to  be  postulated, 
since  otherwise  it  remains  inexplicable,  how  personal 
names  could  arise  out  of  these  formations  [like 
Jacob-el]  by  rejection  of  the  'El." 

The  inadequacy  of  the  two  theories  hitherto  ad- 
vanced to  account  for  the  facts  of  Gen  being  thus 
evident,  Gunkel  and  others  have  ex- 
3.  Character  illicitly  rejected  them  and  enunciated 
of  Fiction  a  third  theory,  which  may  be  called 
the  saga-theory.  According  to  Gun- 
kel, "to  understand  the  persons  of  Gen  as  nations 


Jacob 
Jael 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1556 


is  by  no  means  a  general  key  to  their  interpret al  ion"; 
and,  "against  the  whole  assumption  that  the  prin- 
cipal patriarchal  figures  are  originally  gods  is  this 
fact  first  and  foremost,  that  the  names  Jacob  and 
Abraham  are  shown  by  the  Bab  to  be  customary 
personal  names,  and  furthermore  that  the  tales 
about  them  cannot  be  understood  at  all  as  echoes 
of  original  myths."  In  place  of  these  discredited 
views  Gunkel  (cf  also  Grcssmann,  ZATW,  1910, 
1  IT)  makes  of  Jacob  simply  a  character  in  the 
stories  (marvelous,  humorous,  pathetic  and  the 
like)  current  in  ancient.  Israel,  esp.  on  the  lips  of  the 
professional  story-teller.  Whereas  much  of  the 
material  in  these  stories  came  to  the  Hebrews  from 
the1  Babylonians,  Canaanites  or  Egyptians,  Jacob 
himself  is  declared  to  have  belonged  to  the  old  Heb 
saga,  with  its  flavor  of  nomadic  desert  Hie  and 
sheep-raising.  "The  original  Jacob  may  be  the 
sly  shepherd  Jacob,  who  fools  the  hunter  Esau; 
another  tale,  of  the  deceit,  of  a  father-in-law  by  his 
son-in-law,  was  added  to  it — the  more  naturally 
because  both  are  shepherds;  a  third  cycle,  about 
an  old  man  that  loves  his  youngest  son,  was  trans- 
ferred to  this  figure,  and  that  youngest,  son  received 
the  name  of  Joseph  at  a  lime  when  Jacob  was  identi- 
fied with  Israel's  assumed  ancestor  'Israel.'  Thus 
our  result  is,  that  the  most  important  patriarchs 
are  creations  of  fiction"  (Schriften  cits  AT,  5te 
Lieferung,  42). 

It  is  so  obvious  that  this  new  attitude  toward 
the  patriarchs  lends  itself  to  a  more  sympathetic 
criticism  of  the  narrative  of  Gen,  that  ctitics  who 
adopt  it  are  at  pains  to  deny  any  intention  on  their 
part  of  rehabilitating  Jacob  et  al.  as  historical 
figures.  "Saga,"  we  are  told,  "is  not  capable  of 
preserving  through  so  many  cents,  a  picture"  of 
the  real  character  or  deeds  of  its  heroes,  even  sup- 
posing that  persons  bearing  these  names  once  actu- 
ally lived;  and  we  are  reminded  of  the  contrast 
between  the  Etzel  of  saga  and  the  Attila  of  history, 
the  Dietrich  of  saga  and  the  Theodoric  of  history. 
But  as  against  this  we  need  to  note,  first,  that  the 
long  and  involved  course;  of  development  through 
which,  ex  hypothesi,  these  stories  have  passed  before 
reaching  their  final  stage  (J,  9th  cent.  BC;  Gunkel, 
op.  cit.,_8,  46)  involves  a  very  high  antiquity  for 
tin;  earlier  stages,  and  thus  reduces  to  a  narrow 
strip  of  time  those  "so  many  cents."  that  are  sup- 
posed to  separate  the  actual  Jacob  from  the  Jacob 
of  saga  (cf  Abraham,  VII,  4);  and  second,  that 
the  presuppositions  as  to  the  origin,  nature  and 
value  of  saga  with  which  this  school  of  criticism 
operates  are,  for  the  most  part,  only  an  elaborate 
statement  of  the  undisputed  major  premise;  in  a 
syllogism,  of  which  the  minor  premise;  is:  the  Gen- 
stories  are  saga.  Against  this  last  proposition, 
however,  there  lie  many  weighty  considerations,  that 
are  by  no  means  counterbalanced  by  those;  resem- 
blances of  a  ge>neral  sort  which  any  student  of 
comparative'  literature  can  easily  discern  (see  also 
Baethgen,  op.  eat.,  158).         James  Oscar  Boyd 

JACOB  pp"?,  ya'alfobh;   'IaKcS(3,  Iakob) ; 

(1)  The  patriarch   (sen-  preceding  art.). 

(2)  The  father  of  Jose-ph  the  husband  e>f  Marv 
(Mt  1   15.16). 

(3)  Patronymic  de>ne)ting  the   Israelites    (Isa  10 
21;    14   1;   Jer  10  16). 


JACOB,   TESTAMENT    OF. 
Literature. 


Se>e>  Apocalyptic 


JACOB  S  WELL  (Trip^  toG  'IaK<ip,  pege  tou 
lakob):  In  .In  4  3ff  we  read  that  Our  Lord  "left 
Judaea,  and  departed  again  into  Galilee.  And  he 
must  newels  pass  through  Samaria.  So  he  cemieth 
to  a  city  of  Samaria,  called   Sychar,   near   to   the 


parcel  of  ground  that  Jacob  gave  te>  his  son  Je>seph: 
and  Jacob's  we'll  was  there."     When  Jacob  came  te) 

Shechem  on  his  return  from  Paddan- 
1.  Position  arani  he  encamped  "before,"  i.e.  E.  e>f 
of  Well  the'  city,  and  bought  the  land  on  which 

he;  had  spread  his  tent  (Gen  33  ISf). 
This  is  doubtless  the  "portion"  (Heb  shekhem) 
spoken  of  in  Gen  48  22;    although  there  it  is  saiel 


Jacob's  Well. 

to  have1  been  taken  with  sword  and  bow  from  the 
Amorites.  Where  the  pass  of  Shechem  opens  te> 
the  E.,  ne-ar  the  northern  eelge  of  the  valley,  lie-s  the> 
traditional  tomb  of  Joseph.  On  the  other  side  e>f 
the  vale,  close  to  the  base  of  Gerizim,  is  the;  well 
universally  known  as  Blr  Ya'kub,  "the  well  of 
Jacejb."  The  peisitietn  meets  perfectly  the  require- 
ments of  the  narrative.  The  main  road  from  the 
S.  splits  a  little  to  the  E.,one  arm  leading  westward 
through  the  pass,  the  other  going  more  directly  to 
the  N.  It  is  probable  that  these  paths  follow  pref  t  v 
e4ose>ly  the  ancient  tracks;  and  both  would  be  fre>- 
quented  in  Jesus'  day.  WhieL  of  them  He  took 
we-  cannot,  tell;  but,  in  any  case,  this  well  lav  in 
the  fork  between  them,  and  cemld  be  approached 
with  eemal  ease  from  eithe-r.     See  Sychar. 

In  the  chapter  quoted,  it  is  said  that  Jacob  dug 
the  well   (ver  12).     The  OT  says  nothing  of  this. 
With    the    copious    springs    at    *Ain 
2.  Why  KAskar    and   Balata,   one    might   ask 

Dug  why  a  well  should  have  been  dug  here 

at  all.  We  must  renu-mber  that  in 
the  East,  very  strict  laws  have  always  gove>rneel 
the1  use;  of  water,  esp.  when  there  we-re  large  herels 
to  be  considered.  The  purchase  of  land  here  may 
not  have  secured  for  Jacob  such  supplies  as  he 
required.  There  was  danger  of  strife  between  rival 
herdsmen.  The  patriarch,  therefore,  may  have 
elug  the  well  in  the  interests  of  peace,  and  also  to 
preserve;  his  own  independence. 

Jew,  Samaritan,  Moslem  and  Christian  agree  in 
associating  this  well  with  the  patriarch  Jacob. 
This  creates  a  strong  presumption  in 
favor  of  the  tradition:  and  there-  is  ne> 
good  reason  to  doubt  its  truth.  Stanel- 
ing  at  the  brink  of  the  well,  over- 
shade>weel  by  the  giant  bulk  of  Geri- 
zim, one  feels  henv  naturally  it  would  be  spoken  of 
as  "this  mountain." 

For  long  t  he;  well  was  unprotected,  opening  among 
the  rums  e>f  a  vaulted  chamber  some  feet  below  the 
surface  of  the  ground.  Major  Anelerson  describes 
it  {Recovery  of  Jerus,  465)  as  having  "a  narrow 
opening,  just  wide  enough  to  allow  the  body  of  a 


3.  Consen- 
sus of 
Tradition 


1557 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jacob 
Jael 


man  to  pass  through  with  arms  uplifted,  and  this 

narrow  neck,  which  is  about  4  ft.  long,  opens  into 

the  well   itself,  which  is   cylindrically 

4.  Descrip-  shaped,  and  about  7  ft.  6  in.  in  diameter. 
tion  The  mouth  and  upper  part  of  the  well 

are  built  of  masonry,  and  the  well 
appears  to  have  been  sunk  through  a  mixture  of 
alluvial  soil  and  limestone  fragments,  till  a  com- 
pact bed  of  mountain  limestone  was  reached,  having 
horizontal  strata  which  could  be  easily  worked; 
and  the  interior  of  the  well  presents  the  appear- 
ance of  having  been  lined  throughout  with  rough  ma- 
sonry." The  depth  was  doubtless  much  greater 
in  ancient  times;  but  much  rubbish  has  fallen  into 
it,  and  now  it  is  not  more  than  75  ft.  deep.  It  is 
fed  by  no  spring,  nor  is  the  water  conducted  to  it 
along  the  surface,  as  to  a  cistern.  Its  supplies 
depend  entirely  upon  rainfall  and  percolation. 
Possibly,  therefore,  the  water  may  never  have 
approached  the  brim.  The  woman  says  "the  well 
is  deep."  Pege,  ''spring,"  does  not,  therefore, 
strictly  apply  to  it,  but  rather  "tank"  or  "reser- 
voir," phrear,  the  word  actually  used  in  vs  11  f. 
The  modern  inhabitants  of  Arablus  highly  esteem 
the  "light"  water  of  the  well  as  compared  with 
the  "heavy"  or  "hard"  water  of  the  neighboring 
springs.  It  usually  lasts  till  about  the  end  of  May; 
then  the  well  is  dry  till  the  return  of  the  rain.  Its 
contents,  therefore,  differ  from  the  "living"  water 
of  the  perennial  spring. 

From  the  narratives  of  the  pilgrims  we  learn  that 
at  different  times  churches  have  been  built  over  the 
well.  The  Moslems  probably  demolished  the  last 
of  them  after  the  overthrow  of  the  Crusaders  in 
1187.  A  description  of  the  ruins  with  drawings, 
as  they  were  30  years  ago,  is  given  in  PEF,  II,  174, 
etc.  A  stone  found  in  1881  may  have  been  the 
original  cover  of  the  well.  It  measures  3  ft .  9  in.  X 
2  ft.  7  in. XI  ft.  6  in.  The  aperture  in  the  center 
is  13  in.  in  diameter;  and  in  its  sides  are  grooves 
worn  by  the  ropes  used  in  drawing  up  the  water 
(PEFS,  1881,  212  ff). 

Some;  years  ago  the  plot  of  ground  containing  the 

well  was  purchased  by  the  authorities  of   the  Gr 

church,  and  it  has  been  surrounded  by 

5.  Present    a  wall.     A  chapel  has  been  built  over 
Condition       the  well,  and  a  large  church  is  being 

erected  beside  it.  W.  Ewing 

JACUBUS,  ja-ku'bus  ('IcLkovPos,  Tdkoubos;  B 
reads  Iarsoiiboos) :  In  1  Esd  9  48  =  "Akkub"in  Neh 
8  7,  a  Levite  who  helped  in  the  exposition  of  the 
law. 

JADA,  ja'da  (3H1?  >  yadhu\  "the  knowing  one"): 
Son  of  Onam  and  grandson  of  Jerahmeel  by  his  wife 
Atarah  (1  Ch  2  26.28.32). 

JADAU,  ja'do,  ja-da'u  OT ,  yiddo,  K«thibh;  ^T. , 
yadday,  Kcre  AV;  but  RV  IDDO):  In  Ezr  10  43, 
one  of  those  who  had  married  foreign  wives.  RVm 
has  "Jaddai"  (  =  "Edos,"  1  Esd  9  35).     See  Iddo. 

JADDAI,  jad'l,  jad'a-i.     See  Iddo;  Jadau. 

JADDUA,  jad'u-a,  ja-du'a  (Tfil,  yaddua\ 
"known"): 

(1)  One  of  the  "chiefs  of  the  people"  who  with 
Nehemiah  sealed  the  covenant,  thus  signifying 
their  voluntary  acceptance  of  the  law  and  their 
solemn  promise  to  submit  to  its  yoke  (Neh  10  21 
[Heb  22] ). 

(2)  Son  of  Jonathan  or  Johanan,  and  great- 
grandson  of  Eliashib,  the  high  priest  in  Nehemiah's 
time  (Neh  12  11.22).  He  is  the  last  of  the  high 
priests  mentioned  in  the  OT,  and  held  office  during 
the  reign  of  Darius  the  Pers,  i.e.  Darius  III  Codo- 


mannus,  the  last  king  of  Persia  (336-332  BC),  who 
was  overthrown  by  Alexander  the  Great.  It  is 
doubtless  to  him  that  Jos  refers  in  his  romantic 
account  of  Alexander's  entrance  into  Jerus  (Ant, 
XI,  viii,  4f;  vii,  2;  viii,  7).         James  Crichton 


JADDUS,  jad'us  (B,  'IaSSovs,  Iaddoiis;  A,  'Io! 
Zovs,Ioddous):  AV  has  "Addus"  =  Barzillai  (Ezr 


'Io8- 
(Ezr  2 
61;  Neh  7  63).  J.  was  removed  from  the  office 
of  the  priesthood  because  he  could  not  prove  his 
right  to  it  after  the  return  to  Jerus  under  Zerub- 
babel  (1  Esd  5  38).  He  is  called  Barzillai  in  the 
OT,  because  he  married  Augia,  the  daughter  of 
Zorzelleus  (Barzillai  the  Gileadite,  in  the  OT).  Cf 
Barzillai. 

JADON,  ja'don  ("pi? ,  yddhon,  perhaps  "he 
will  judge"  or  "plead"):  One  who  helped  to  rebuild 
the  wall  of  Jerus  in  company  with  the  men  of  Gibeon 
and  of  Mizpah  (Neh  3  7).  He  is  called  the  "Mer- 
qnothite,"  and  another  Mcronothite  is  referred  to 
in  1  Ch  27  30,  but  there  is  no  mention  of  a  place 
Meronoth.  Jadon  is  the  name  given  by  Jos  (Ant, 
VIII,  viii,  5;  ix,  1)  to  "the  man  of  God"  from  Judah 
who  confronted  Jeroboam  as  he  burned  incense  at 
the  altar  in  Bethel,  and  who  was  afterward  deceived 
by  the  lie  of  the  old  prophet  (1  K  13).  Jos  may 
probably  have  meant  Iddo  the  seer,  whose  visions 
concerning_  Jeroboam  (2  Ch  9  29)  led  to  his  being 
identified  in  Jewish  tradition  with  "the  man  of 
God"  from  Judah.  James  Crichton 

JAEL,  ja'el  (-3^,  ya%el,  "a  wild  or  mountain 
goat,"  as  in  Ps  104  18;  TaVjX,  Jail):  The  wife  of 
Heber  the  Kenite  and  the  slayer  of  Sisera  (Jgs  4 
17-22;  5  2-31).  Jael  emerges  from  obscurity  by 
this  single  deed,  and  by  the  kindest  construction 
can  hardly  be  said  to  have  reached  an  enviable 
fame.  The  history  of  this  event  is  clear.  For 
years  Jabin  the  king  of  Canaan  had  oppressed 
Israel.  For  twenty  years  the  Israelites  had  been 
subject  to  him,  and,  in  largest  measure,  the  instru- 
ment of  their  subjugation  had  been  Sisera,  the  king's 
general,  the  "man  of  the  iron  chariots."  Deborah, 
a  prophetess  of  Israel,  by  her  passion  for  freedom, 
had  roused  the  tribes  of  Israel  to  do  battle  against 
Sisera.  They  defeated  him  at  "Taanach  by  the 
waters  of  Megiddo,"  but  Sisera  sought  in  flight  to 
save  himself.  He  came  to  the  "oaks  of  the  wander- 
ers," where  the  tribe  of  Heber  lived.  Here  he 
sought,  and  was  probably  invited,  to  take  shelter 
in  the  tent  of  Jael  (4  17-18).  There  are  two 
accounts  of  the  subsequent  events — one  a  prose 
narrative  (4  19-22),  the  other  a  poetic  one,  found 
in  Deborah's  song  of  triumph  (5  24-27).  The  two 
accounts  are  as  nearly  in  agreement  as  could  be 
expected,  considering  their  difference  in  form. 

It  is  evident  that  the  tribe  of  Heber  was  regarded 
by  both  parties  to  the  struggle  as  being  neutral. 
They  were  descendants  of  Jethro,  and  hence  had 
the  confidence  of  the  Israelites.  Though  they  had 
suffered  somewhat  at  the  hands  of  the  Canaanites 
they  had  made  a  formal  contract  of  peace  with 
Jabin.  _  Naturally  Sisera  could  turn  to  the  tents  of 
Heber  in  Kedesh-naphtali  with  some  confidence. 
The  current  laws  of  hospitality  gave  an  added  ele- 
ment of  safety.  Whether  Jael  met  Sisera  and  urged 
him  to  enter  her  tent  and  rest  (4  18),  or  only  in- 
vited him  after  his  appeal  for  refuge,  the  fact 
remains  that  he  was  her  guest,  was  in  the  sanctuary 
of  her  home,  and  protected  by  the  laws  of  hospi- 
tality. She  gave  him  milk  to  drink,  a  mantle  for 
covering,  and  apparently  acquiesced  in  his  request 
that  she  should  stand  guard  at  the  tent  and  deny 
his  presence  to  any  pursuers.  When  sleep  came  to 
the  wearied  fugitive  she  took  a  "tent-pin,  and  took 
a  hammer  in  her  hand,  and  went  softly  unto  him, 


Jagur 
Jambri 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1558 


and  smote  (lie  pin  into  his  temples"  (ver  21),  and 
having  murdered  him,  goes  forth  to  meet  Barak 
the  Israelitish  general  and  claims  the  credit  for  her 
deed.  Some  critics  suggest  that  Sisera  was  not, 
asleep  when  murdered,  and  thus  try  to  convert 
Jael's  treachery  into  strategy.  But  to  kill  your 
guest  while  he  is  drinking  the  milk  of  hospitality 
is  little  less  culpable  than  to  murder  him  while 
asleep.  There  is  no  evidence  that  Sisera  offered 
Jael  any  insult,  or  violence,  and  hut  little  proba- 
bility that  she  acted  under  any  spiritual  or  Divine 
suggestion.  It  is  really  impossible  to  justify  Jael's 
act,  though  it,  is  not  impossible  to  understand  it  or 
properly  to  appreciate  Deborah's  approval  of  the 
art  as  found  in  5  24.  The  motive  of  Jael  may 
have  been  a  mixed  one.  She  may  have  been  a 
sympathizer  with  Israel  and  with  the  religion  of 
Israel.  Bui  the  narrative  scarcely  warrants  the 
interpretation  that  she  felt  herself  as  one1  called  to 
render  ''stern  justice  on  an  enemy  of  God"  (Exposi- 
tor's Bible).  Jael  was  unquestionably  prudential. 
Sisera  was  in  flight  and  Barak  in  pursuit .  Probably 
her  sympathy  was  with  Barak,  but  certainly  reflec- 
tion would  show  her  that  it  would  not  be  wisdom 
to  permit  Barak  to  find  Sisera  in  her  tent.  She 
knew,  too,  that  death  would  be  Sisera's  portion 
should  he  be  captured — Iherefore  she  would  kill 
him  and  thus  cement  a  friendship  with  the  con- 
queror. 

As  to  Deborah's  praise  of  Jael  (5  24),  there  is  no 
call  to  think  that  in  her  hour  of  triumph  she  was 
either  capable  of  or  intending  to  appraise  the  moral 
quality  of  Jael's  deed.  Her  country's  enemy  was 
dead  and  that  too  at  the  hand  of  a  woman.  The 
woman  who  would  kill  Sisera  must  be  the  friend  of 
Israel.  Deborah  had  no  question  of  the  propriety 
of  meting  out  death  to  a  defeated  persecutor.  Her 
times  were  not  such  as  to  raise  this  question.  The 
method  of  his  death  mattered  little  to  her,  for  all 
t  he  laws  of  peace  were  abrogated  in  the  times  of  war. 
Therefore  Jael  was  blessed  among  women  by  all 
who  loved  Israel.  Whether  Deborah  thought  her 
also  to  be  worthy  of  the  blessing  of  Cod  we  may  not 
tell.  At  any  rate  there  is  no  need  for  us  to  try  to 
justify  the.  treachery  of  Jael  in  order  to  explain  the 
words  of  Deborah.  C.  E.  Schenk 

JAGUR,  ja'gur  ("VTO ,  yaghur):  An  unidentified 
town  on  the  Edomite  frontier  of  Judah  in  the  S. 
(Josh  15  21). 

JAH,  ja.     See  Con,  Names  of. 

JAHATH,  ja'hath  (PrP,  yahath,  perhaps  for 
•"inrP,  yahteh,  nnrr,  yah&theh,  "he  [Cod]  will 
snatch  up") : 

(1)  Son  of  Reaiah,  son  of  Shobal,  a  descendant 
of  Judah,  and  father  of  Ahumai  and  Lahad,  the 
families  of  the  Zorathites  (1  Ch  4  2). 

(2)  A  frequent  name  for  a  descendant  of  Levi: 

(a)  Son  of  Libni,  son  of  Gershom,  the  eldest  son 
of  Levi  (1  Ch  6  20.43  [Ileb  6  5.28J,  when-  "son  of 
Libni"  is  omitted). 

(b)  Sonof  Shiniei,  son  of  Gershom  (1  Ch  23  lOf). 

(c)  One  of  the  ''sons"  of  Shelomoth,  a  descend- 
ant of  lzhar,  son  of  Kohath,  the  second  son  of  Levi 
(1  Ch  24  22). 

(il)  A  descendant  of  Merari,  the  third  son  of  Levi, 
and  an  overseer  in  the  repairing  of  the  temple  in  tin' 
reign  of  Josiah  (2  Ch  34  12).     James  Chichton 

JAHAZ,  ja'haz  (fTP,  yahag,  Isa  15  4;  Jer  48 
34,  nsn?,  yahdgah,  or  HlTrP,  yahgah,  Nu  21  23- 
Dt  2  32;  Josh  13  IS;  21  36,  AV  "Jahazah";  Jgs 
11  20;  Jer  48  21;  1  Ch  6  78,  "Jahzah"):  This  is 
the    place    where   in    a  great   battle    Israel   over- 


whelmed Sihon  king  of  the  Amorites,  and  then 
look  possession  of  all  his  territory  (Nu  21  23, 
etc)-  It  is  named  along  with  Beth-baal-meon  and 
Kedemoth  (Josh  13  18),  with  Kedemoth  (21  37) 
pointing  to  a  position  in  the  S.E.  of  the  Amorite 
territory.  It  was  given  to  Reuben  by  Moses,  and 
was  one  of  the  cities  in  the  portion  of  that  tribe 
assigned  to  the  Mcrarite  Levites.  Mesha  (MS, 
11.  18  ff)  says  that  the;  king  of  Israel  dwelt  in  Jahaz 
when  at  war  with  him.  Mesha  drove  him  out,  and 
the  city  passed  into  the  hands  of  Moab.  It  is  re- 
ferred to  as  a  city  of  Moab  in  Isa  15  4;  Jer  48  21. 
34.  Cheyne  thinks  that  either  Jahaz  or  Kedemoth 
must  be  represented  today  by  the  important  ruins 
of  Umm  er-Resas,  about  2\  hours  N.  of  Dibon 
toward  the  desert  (EB,  S.V.).  No  certain  identi- 
fication is  possible.  W.  Ewing 

JAHAZIAH,  ja-ha-zi'a:   AV  for  Jahzeiah  (q.v.). 

JAHAZIEL,  ja-ha'zi-el  (^TW,  yahazl'el,  "God 

sees"): 

(1)  In  1  Ch  12  4  (Ileb  ver  5),  one  of  David's 
recruits  at  Ziklag,  a  Benjamite  or  maybe  a  Judaean. 

(2)  In  1  Ch  16  (i,  one  of  two  priests  appointed 
by  David  to  sound  trumpets  before  the  ark  on  its 
journey  to  Jerus.     LXX  B,  A,  read  "Uzziel." 

(3)  In  1  Ch  23  10;  24  23,  a  Levite,  "son"  of 
Hebron,  a  Kohathite.  Kit  t  el,  following  LXN, 
reads  "Uzziel." 

(4)  In  2  Ch  20  14,  an  Asaphite,  son  of  Zeehariah. 
He  encouraged  King  Jehoshaphat  of  Judah  and  his 
subjects  to  fight  against  the  Moabite  and  Ammonite 
invaders. 

(5)  In  Ezr  8  5,  an  ancestor  of  one  of  the  families 
of  the  Restoration.  Read  probably  "of  the  sons  of 
Zattu,  Sheconiah  the:  son  of  J.,"  following  1  Esd 
8  32  (  =  Jezelus).  David  Francis  Roberts 

JAHDAI,  ja'da-i,  ja'di  O^TO,  yahday,  "Jeh 
leads"  [?];  Baer  reads  "'"rP ,  yehday):  In  1  Ch  2 
47,  where  six  sons  of  J.  are  mentioned.  "The  name 
has  been  taken  as  that  of  another  wife  or  concubine 
of  Caleb;  more  probably  Jahdai  is  a  descendant  of 
Caleb,  whose  name,  in  the  original  connection,  has 
fallen  from  the  text"  (Curtis,  Ch,  96). 

JAHDIEL,  ja'di-el  (bX^TT ,  yahdl'el,  "God 
gives  joy"):    In  1  Ch  5  24,  head  of  a  Manassite 

family. 

JAHDO,  ja'do  ("HrP,  yahdo,  meaning  uncer- 
tain; Kit t <d  suggests  "^rP,  yahday  =  Jahdai) :  In 
1  Ch  5  14,  a  Gileadite. 

JAHLEEL,  ja'le-el  (bsbrP,  yaWel,  "wait  for 
God!"):  In  Gen  46  14;  Nu  26  26,  a  "son"  (i.e. 
clan)  of  Zebulun. 

JAHLEELITES,  jii'le-el-its,  THE  pbsbrjVl,  ha- 
yahle'ell,  coll.  with  art.):  In  Nu  26  26,  the  descend- 
ants of  the  clan  of  Jahleel. 

JAHMAI,  ja/ma-I,  ja'ml  P'SIT,  yahmay,  \wr- 
haps  =  r"T'2rP,  yahmeyah,  "may  Jeh  protect!"): 
In  1  Ch  7  2,  head  of  a  clan  of  Issachar. 

JAHWEH,  ya'we.     See  God,  Names  of. 

JAHZAH,  jii'za.     See  Jahaz. 

JAHZEEL,  ja'ze-el  (bSSrr,  yahf'el,  "God  di- 
vides," "apportions"):  In  Gen  46  24;  Nu  26  48; 
and23MSSinl  Ch  7  13;  and  JAHZIEL  (bSPSrP, 
yah&gi'el,  same  meaning  as  above):  1  Ch  7  13, 
a  "son"  (clan)  of  Naphtali. 


1559 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jagur 
Jambri 


JAHZEELITES,  ja'ze-el-Its,  THE  pb&SSrPn,  ha- 
yah^'ell,  coll.  with  art.):  In  Nu  26  48,  descendants 
of  the  clan  of  Jahzeel. 

JAHZEIAH,  ja-ze'ya,  jii'ze-ya  (fPTrP,  yahze- 
yah,  ''Jch  sees"):  In  Ezr  10  15,  son  of  Tikvah,  and 
a  contemporary  of  Ezra.  It  is  disputed  whether 
he  and  Jonathan  opposed  or  supported  Ezra  in 
the  matter  of  prosecuting  those  who  had  married 
foreign  wives  =  Ezekias,  1  Esd  9  14,  or  Ezias.  See 
Jonathan,  9. 

Two  translations  of  the  Heb  phrase  (ns?T~by  "VfiS , 
'amadh  'al-zd'th)  are  given:  (1)  "stood  over  this  matter," 
i.e.  supported  Ezra;  so  AV  ("were  employed  in  this 
matter"),  and  so  LXX,  1  Esd  9  14,  KVm.  This  is 
supported  by  vcr  4,  "Let  now  our  princes  be  appointed 
for  all  the  assembly,"  where  the  same  phrase  is  found. 
(2)  KV  "stood  up  against  this  matter,"  so  BDB,  Gesenius, 
Bertheau,  Stade.  Both  translations  can  be  supported  by 
lis  in  Heb.  The  context  is  better  suited  by  the  former 
rendering. 

David  Francis  Roberts 

JAHZERAH,  ja'ze-ra,  ja-ze'ra  (J"HTrP ,  yah- 
zerdh,  meaning  unknown):  In  1  Ch  9  12,  an  an- 
cestor of  Maasai  and  apparently  =  "Ahzai"  of  Neh 
11  13. 

JAHZIEL,  ja'zi-el.     See  Jahzeel. 

JAILOR,  jal'er.     See  Prison. 

JAIR,  ja'er: 

(1)  Jair  P"1^?,  ya'ir,  "he  enlightens"  or  "one 
giving  light''): 

(a)  Son,  i.e.  descendant  of  Manasseh  (Nu  32 
41;  Dt  3  14;  Josh  13  30;  1  K  4  13;  1  Ch  2 
22  f).  According  to  1  Ch  2  21  f  he  was  the  son 
of  Segub,  son  of  Hezron,  a  descendant  of  Judah,  who 
married  the  daughter  of  Machir,  son  of  Manasseh. 
He  was  thus  descended  both  from  Judah  and 
Manasseh.  At  the  time  of  the  conquest  he  distin- 
guished himself  by  taking  the  tent-villages  Hav- 
VOTH-jair  (q.v.).  The  accounts  of  his  exploit  are 
difficult  to  harmonize  (see  ICC  on  above  passages). 
Some  would  identify  him  with  the  Jair  of  Jgs  10  3, 
holding  that  Manasseh's  settlement  in  Northern 
Oilead  and  Bashan  took  place,  not  before1  Israel's 
passage  of  the  Jordan,  but  after  the  settlement  of 
the  tribe  on  the  W.  For  a  criticism  of  this  view  see 
HC II L,  577,  n. 

(b)  One;  of  the  judges.  He  is  said  to  have  had  .30 
sons,  who  rode  on  30  ass  colts,  and  who  had  as  many 
cities,  known  as  Havvoth-jair  (Jgs  10  3.4).  One 
tradition  identifies  (a)  and  (o).  Others  reconcile 
the  two  narratives  by  interpreting  the  word  "son" 
in  a  non-literal  sense. 

(c)  The  father  of  Mordecai  (Est  2  5).  In  the 
Apoc  (Ad  Est  11  2)  his  name  is  given  as  "Jairus" 
('  la.ei.pos,  Ideiros). 

(2)  Jair  (K'Te  ""PIP,  yd.Hr,  "he  arouses";  Ke- 
thibh  "V12P,  ycfur;  a  different  name  from  [1]  above) : 
The  father  of  Elhanan,  the  giant-slayer  (1  Ch  20  ')). 
In  the  ]j  passage  (2  S  21  19)  his  name  is  given  as 
"Jaare-oregim,"  but  the  text  should  be  corrected  to 
Jair,  "oregim"  ('dreghim)  having  crept  in  from  the 
line  below  through  a  copyist's  error. 

James  Crichton 
JAIRITE,  ja'er-It  Pl^,  yd'irl,  "of  Jair"):  In 
2  S  20  20,  Ira  the  Jairite  is  "chief  minister  unto 
David."  He  was  a  descendant  of  Jair  who  was  a 
Manassite  (Nu  32  41,  etc)  and  whose  territory  was 
in  Oilead.  LXX  Luc  and  Syr  suggest  "HI-P ,  yatliri, 
"Jattirite,"  i.e.  a  native  of  Jattir  mentioned  in  1  S 
30  27  as  one  of  the  towns  friendly  to  David  when  he 
was  in  Ziklag.  It  is  not  improbable  that  a  native 
of  Jattir  would  be  given  such  a  post  by  David.  See 
Ira,  and  cf  2  S  23  38. 


JAIRUS,  ja'i-rus,  ja-I'rus  (Tdeipos,  Ideiros;  1  Esd 
5  31;  Ad  Est  11  2).     See  Amis;  Jair. 

JAIRUS,  ja'i-rus,  ja-I'rus  ('Idapos,  Ideiros):  A 
ruler  in  a  synagogue  near  Capernaum  whose  only 
daughter,  aged  about  12  years,  was  raised  from  the 
dead  by  Jesus  (Mt  9  18-20;  Mk  5  22-43;  Lk 
8  41-50).  The  accounts  of  the  miracle  are  sub- 
stantially the  same,  but  vary  in  detail.  According 
to  Mk  and  Lk  the  arrival  of  Jairus  in  Capernaum 
fell  immediately  after  the  return  of  Jesus  from 
Gadara,  but  according  to  Mt  the  sequence  of  events 
was  that  Jesus  had  returned  to  Capernaum,  had 
called  Matthew,  had  joined  the  feast  of  the  publi- 
cans, and  had  just  finished  His  discourse  on  fast- 
ing when  Jairus  came  to  Him.  Mt  and  Mk  both 
testify  to  the  great  faith  of  Jairus,  who  besought  of 
Jesus  that  He  should  but  lay  His  hand  upon  the 
maid  and  she  should  live.  According  to  Mt  she 
was  already  dead  when  Jairus  came  to  Capernaum; 
according  to  the  others  she  was  on  the  point  of 
death;  but  all  agree  as  to  her  death  before  the 
arrival  of  Jesus  and  His  followers  at  her  abode. 
Mt  implies  that  Jesus  alone  was  present  at  the 
actual  raising;  MTv  and  Lk  state  that  Peter,  James, 
John  and  the  parents  were  also  there.  The  healing 
of  the  woman  with  the  issue  of  blood  by  Jesus  on  the 
way  is  given  by  all.  C.   M.  Kerr 

JAKAN,  ja'kan  ("j^"^,  yiCdkan).     See  Jaakan. 

JAKEH,  ja'ke  (HJS'J ,  yukch,  perhaps  from  Arab, 
root  meaning  "carefully  religious";  iip^ ,  ydke', 
as  if  from  fc^p ,  Jci') :  The  fat  her  of  Agur,  t  he  author 
of  the  sayings  recorded  in  Prov  30  1.  Nothing  is 
known  of  eit  her  Jakeh  or  Agur.  The  immediate  con- 
nection in  the  Heb  text  of  ha-massd',  "the  prophecy" 
or  "burden"  (AV  "even  the  prophecy,"  RV  "the 
oracle")  with  nc'u?n,  "orach;"  (AV  "spake,"  RV 
"saith")  is  quite  exceptional,  while  the  ver  is  un- 
intelligible and  the  text,  as  the  LXX  shows,  is  evi- 
dently corrupt.  The  best  emendationis  that  which 
changes  ha-massd',  "the  prophecy,"  into  ha-massd'i, 
"the  Massaite,"  or  into  mimmassd',  "of  Massa" 
(RVm),  Massa  being  the  name  of  the  country  of  an 
Ishmaelite  tribe  (cf  Gen  25  14;  1  Ch  1  30;  Prov 
31  1  RVm).     See  Agur.  James  Crichton 

JAKIM,  ja'kim  (&"£?,  yukTm,  "he  [God]  lifteth 
up";   cf  Eliakim): 

(1)  A  Bcnjamite,  a  son  of  Shimei  (1  Ch  8  19). 

(2)  A  priest,  the  head  of  the  12th  of  the  24 
courses  into  which  the  priests  were  divided  (1  Ch 
24  12). 

JALAM,  ja'lam  (057? ,  yaHdm,  according  to 
BDB  following  LXX  'Ie-yXoix,  Ieglom,  in  Gen,  from 
i/  D<y,  *dlam,  meaning  "to  conceal";  according  to 
Gunkel,  Gen3,  390,  from  5!P,  yd*el,  "mountain- 
goat";  see  HPN,  90,  n.  5;  AV  Jaalam):  In  Gen  36 
5.14.18;  1  Ch  1  35,  a  son  of  Esau,  mentioned  as  the 
2d  son  by  Oholibamah;  probably  an  Edomite  clan. 

JALON,  ja'lon  ("*5^,  ydlon,  meaning  unknown): 
In  1  Ch  4  17,  a  son  of  Ezrah,  a  Judahite. 

JAMBRES,  jam'brez.  See  Jannes  and  Jam- 
bres. 

JAMBRI,  jam'brl  (ol  viol  'Ia(j.(3p€iv,  hoi  huioi 
Iambrein;  1  Mace  9  36-41):  The  sons  of  Jambri 
are  said  to  have  come  out  of  Medeba  (originally 
Med'ba),  a  city  of  the  Moabites,  and  subsequently 
a  possession  of  the  Amorites,  and  to  have  carried 
off  John,  the  brother  of  Jonathan,  who  succeeded 
Judas    Maccabaeus   as   leader   of   the   Jews.     The 


James 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STAN  DAK  I)  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1560 


Israelites  gol    possession  of  the  place  and   assigned 

it  to  the  tl'ilie  of  Hellliell.  No  mention  is  1 1 1 : 1  ■  I  <  ■ 
elsewhere  of  I  lie  .laml.ri.  Ill  Jos  (.1///,  Nil  I.  i.  2) 
i  h.\  tire  called  "sons  of  Amaraous." 

JAMES,  jfunz  (TdKiopos,  Tnrohos):  English  form 
of  Jacob,  and  the  name  of  )!  NT  men  of  note: 

il)  The  Son  of  Zebedee,  one  of  1  he  Twelve 
Apostles  (6  Toi)  Ze(3eSaiov,  ho  loi'i  Zcbala'iou): 

I.  In    NT. —  To    the    Synoptists    alone    are    we 

indebted   for  any  account    of  this  James.      He  was 

the  .son  of  Zebedee  and  the  brother  of 

1.  Family  John  (Mt  4  21:  Mk  1  19;  l.k  5 
Relations,  10).  As  the  Synoptists  generally  place 
etc  1  he  name  of  James  before  1  hat  of  John, 

and  allude  to  t  he  latter  as  "t  he  brother 
of  James,"  it  is  inferred  thai  James  was  the  elder 
of  the  two  brothers.  His  mother's  name  was 
probably  Salome,  the  sister  of  the  mother  of  Jesus 
(cf  Mt  27  50;  Mk  15  40;  .In  19  25),  but.  this 
is  disputed  by  some  (cf  Brethren  of  the  Lotto). 
J.  was  a  fisherman  by  trade,  and  worked  along  with 
his  father  and  brother  (Mt  4  21).  According  to 
l.k,  t  hese  were  partners  wit  h  Simon  (5  10),  and  this 
is  also  implied  in  Mk  (1  19).  As  they  owned 
several  boat  sand  employed  hired  servants  (Lk  5  11; 
Mk  1  20),  the  establishment  they  possessed  must 
have  been  considerable. 

The  call  to  J.  1o  follow  Christ  (Mt  4  1S-22;  Mk 
1  ](i  20;    Lk  5  1-11)  was  given  by  Jesus  as  He 

was    walking    by    the    sea    of    Galilee 

2.  First  (Mt  4  18).  There  He  saw  "James 
Call                 the    son    of    Zebedee,    and    John    his 

brother,  in  the  boat  with  Zebedee  their 
father,  mending  their  nets;  and  he  called  them.  And 
they  straightway  left  t  lie  boat  and  their  father,  and 
followed  him"  (Mt  4  21.22).  The  account  of  Lk 
varies  in  part  from  these  of  Mt  and  Mk,  and  con- 
tains the  additional  del  ail  of  the  miraculous  draught 
of  fishes,  at  which  J.  and  John  also  were  amazed. 
This  version  of  Lk  is  regarded  by  some  as  an 
amalgamation  of  the  earlier  accounts  with  Jn  21  1-8. 
As  the  above  incident  took  place  after  the  im- 
prisonment of  John  the  Baptist,  when  Jesus  had 

departed  into  Galilee  (Mt  4  12;    Mk 

3.  Proba-  1  14),  and  as  there  is  no  mention  of  J. 
tion  and  among  those  who  received  the  pre- 
ordination    liminary  call  recorded  by  John  (cf  Jn 

1  35-51;  3  24,  and  cf  Andrew),  it  is 
probable  that  while  Peter  and  Andrew  made  the 
pilgrimage  to  Bethany,  J.  and  the  other  partners 
remained  in  Galilee  to  carry  on  the  business  of  their 
trade.  Yet,  on  the  return  of  Peter  and  Andrew, 
the  inquiries  of  J.  must  have  been  eager  concerning 
what  they  had  seen  and  heard.  His  mind  and 
imagination  became  filled  with  their  glowing  ac- 
counts of  the  newly  found  ''Lamb  of  God"  (Jn  1 
30)  and  of  the  preaching  of  John  the  Baptist,  until 
he  inwardly  dedicated  his  life  to  Jesus  and  only 
awaited  an  opportunity  to  declare  his  allegiance 
openly.  By  this  is  the  apparently  abrupt  nature 
of  the  call,  as  recorded  by  the  Synoptists,  to  be  ox- 
plained.  After  a  period  of  companionship  and 
probat ionership  with  his  Master,  when  ho  is  men- 
tioned as  being  present  at  the  healing  of  Simon's 
wile'.-  mother  at  Capernaum  (Mk  i  29-31),  he 
was  ordained  one  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  (Mt  10 
2;    Mk  3  17;    Lk  6  14;    Acts  1  13). 

From  this  time  onward  he  occupied  a  prominent 
place  among  the  apostles,   and,  along  with  Peter 

and   John,   became   the  special   confi- 

4.  Apostle-    (laid,  of  Jesus.     These  three  alone   of 
ship  the  apostles  wen>  present  at  the  rais- 
ing   of    Jairus'    daughter    (Mk  5  .'57; 

Lk  8  51),  at  the  Transfiguration  (Mt  17  1-8; 
Mk  9  2-8;  Lk  9  28-30),  and  at  the  Agony  in  the 
Card. mi    of    Gethsemane    (Mt  26  36-46;     Mk  14 


32  42).  Shortly  after  the  Transfiguration,  when 
Jesus,  having  "stedfastly  set.  his  face  to  go  to  Jerusa- 
lem" (Lk  9  51),  was  passing  through  Samaria,  the 
ire  of  J.  and  John  was  kindled  by  the  ill  reception 
accorded  to  Him  by  the  populace  (Lk  9  53).  They 
therefore  asked  of  Jesus,  "Lord,  wilt  thou  that 
we  bid  fire  to  come  down  from  heaven,  and  con- 
sume them?"  (Lk  9  54).  "But  he  turned,  and  re- 
buked them"  (ver  55).  It  was  probably  this  hot- 
headed impetuosity  and  fanaticism  that  won  for 
them  the  surname  "Boanerges,  which  is,  Sons  of 
thunder,"  bestowed  on  them  when  they  were  or- 
dained to  the  Twelve  (Mk  3  17).  Yet  upon  this 
last  occasion,  there  was  some  excuse  for  their  action. 
The  impression  left  by  the  Transfiguration  was  still 
deep  upon  them,  and  they  felt  strongly  that  their 
Lord,  whom  they  had  lately  beheld  "in  his  glory" 
with  "countenance  altered"  and  "glistering  raiment," 
should  be  subjected  to  such  indignities  by  the 
Samaritans.  Lpon  the  occasion  of  Jesus'  last 
journey  to  Jerus  (Mk  10  32),  t  he  two  brot  hers  gave 
expression  to  this  presumptuous  impetuosity  in 
a  more  selfish  manner  (Mk  10  35-45).  Presum- 
ing on  their  intimacy  with  Jesus,  they  made  the 
request  of  him,  "Grant  unto  us  that  we  may  sit, 
one  on  thy  right  hand,  and  one  on  thy  left  hand,  in 
thy  glory"  (Mk  10  37).  In  the  account  of  Mt 
(20  20  -28),  the  words  are  put  in  the  mouth  of  their 
mother.  The  request  drew  forth  the  rebuke  of 
Jesus  (Mk  10  38),  and  moved  the  ten  with  indig- 
nation (Mk  10  40);  but  by  the  words  of  their 
Lord  peace  was  again  restored  (Mk  10  42-45). 
After  the  arrival  of  Jesus  in  Jerus,  when  He  "sat 
on  the  mount  of  Olives  over  against  the  temple," 
J.  was  one  of  the  four  who  put  the  question  to 
Him  concerning  the  last  things  (Mk  13  3.4).  He 
was  also  present  when  the  risen  Jesus  appeared 
for  the  3d  time  to  the  disciples  and  the  miraculous 
draught  of  fishes  was  made  at  the  sea  of  Tiberias 
(Jn  21  1-14). 

J.  was  the  first  martyr  among  the  apostles,  being 
slain   by   King    Herod   Agrippa   I    about   44    AD, 

shortly  before  Herod's  own  death. 
5.  Death        The  vehemence  and  fanaticism  which 

were  characteristic  of  J.  had  made  him 
to  be  feared  and  hated  among  the  Jewish  enemies 
of  the  Christians,  and  therefore  wdien  "Herod  the 
king  put  forth  his  hands  to  afflict  certain  of  the 
church  .  ...  he  killed  J.  the  brother  of  John  with 
the  sword"  (Acts  12  1.2).  Thus  did  J.  fulfil  the 
prophecy  of  Our  Lord  that  he  too  should  drink  of 
the  cup  of  his  Master  (Mk  10  39). 

//.  In  Apocryphal  Literature. — According  to  the 
"Genealogies  of  the  Twelve  Apostles"  (cf  Budge,  Con- 
tendings  of  the  Apostles,  II,  49),  "Zebedee  was  of  the 
house  of  Levi,  and  his  wife  of  the  house  of  Judah.  Now, 
because;  the  father  of  James  loved  him  greatly  he  counted 
him  among  the  family  of  his  father  Levi,  and  similarly 
because  the  mother  of  John  loved  him  greatly,  she 
counted  him  among  the  family  of  her  father  Judah. 
And  they  were  surnamed  'Children  of  Thunder,'  for 
they  were  of  both  the;  priestly  house  and  of  the  royal 
house."  The  Acts  of  St.  John,  a  heretical  work  of  the 
2d  cent.,  referred  to  by  Clement  of  Alexandria  in  his 
Hypotyposis  and  also  by  Eusebius  (HE,  III,  25),  gives  an 
account  of  the  call  of  J.  and  his  presence  at  the  Trans- 
figuration, similar  in  part  to  that  of  the  Gospels,  but 
giving  fantastic  details  concerning  the  supernatural 
nature  of  Christ's  body,  and  how  its  appearances  brought 
confusion  to  J.  and  other  disciples  (cf  Ilennecke,  Iland- 
liurh  zu  den  neutestamentlichen  Apokryphen,  423-59). 
The  Acts  of  St.  James  in  India  (cf  Budge,  II,  295-303) 
tells  of  the  missionary  journey  of  J.  and  Peter  to  India, 
of  the  appearance  of  Christ  to  them  in  the  form  of  a 
beautiful  young  man,  of  their  healing  a  blind  man,  and 
of  their  imprisonment,  miraculous  release,  and  their 
conversion  of  the  people.  According  to  the  Martyrdom 
of  St.  James  (Budge,  II,  304-8),  J.  preached  to  the  12 
tribes  scattered  abroad,  and  persuaded  them  to  give 
their  first-fruits  to  tin;  church  instead  of  to  Herod.  The 
accounts  of  his  trial  and  death  are  similar  to  that  in 
Acts   12  1-2. 

.1.  is  the  patron  saint  of  Spain.  The  legend  of  his 
preaching  there,  of  his  death  in  Judaea,  of  the  trans- 


1561 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


James 


portation  of  his  body  under  the  guidance  of  angels  to 
Iria  and  of  the  part  that  his  miraculous  appearances 
played  in  the  history  of  Spain,  is  given  in  Mrs.  Jameson's 
Sacred  and   Legendary   Art,   I,   230—41. 

(2)  James  the  son  of  Alphaeus  (6  toO  'AX^cuou, 
ho  toil  Alphaiou;  for  etymology,  etc,  of  James,  see 
above):  One  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  (Mt  10  3; 
Mk  3  18;  Lk  6  15;  Acts  1  13).  By  Mt  and 
Mk  he  is  coupled  with  Thaddaeus,  and  by  Lk  and 
Acts  with  Simon  Zelotes.  As  Matthew  or  Levi  is 
also  called  the  son  of  Alphaeus  (cf  Mt  9  9;  Mk  2 
14),  it  is  possible  that  he  and  James  were  brothers. 
According  to  the  Genealogies  of  the  Apostles  (cf 
Budge,  Conlendings  of  the  Apostles,  II,  50),  James 
was  of  the  house  of  Gad.  The  Martyrdom  of  St. 
James,  the  son  of  Alphaeus  (cf  Budge,  ib,  2G4-6G) 
records  that  James  was  stoned  by  the  Jews  for 
preaching  Christ ,  and  was  "buried  by  the  Sanctuary 
in  Jerus." 

This  James  is  generally  identified  with  James  the 
Little  or  the  Less,  the  brother  of  Joses  and  son  of 
Mary  (Mt  27  50;  Mk  15  40).  In  Jn  19  25  this 
Mary  is  called  the  wife  of  Cleophas  (AV)  or  Clopas 
(RV),  who  is  thus  in  turn  identified  with  Alphaeus. 
There  is  evidence  in  apocryphal  lit.  of  a  Simon,  a 
son  of  Clopas,  who  was  also  one  of  the  disciples  (cf 
Nathanael).  If  this  be  the  same  as  Simon  Ze- 
lotes, it  would  explain  why  he  and  James  (i.e.  as 
being  brothers)  were  coupled  together  in  the  apos- 
tolic lists  of  Lk  and  Acts.  Some  have  applied  the 
phrase  "his  mother's  sister"  in  Jn  19  25  to  Mary 
the  wife  of  Clopas,  instead  of  to  a  separate  person, 
and  have  thus  attempted  to  identify  James  the  son 
of  Alphaeus  with  James  the  brother  of  Our  Lord. 
For  a  further  discussion  of  the  problem,  see  Breth- 
ren  of  the  Loud. 

(3)  James,  "the  Lord's  brother"  (6  d86\<{>6s  tov 
Kupiov,  ho  adelphos  toil  Kuriou): 

I.  NT  References. — This  James  is  mentioned  by 

name  only  twice  in  the  Gospels,  i.e.  when,  on  the 

visit  of  Jesus  to  Nazareth,  the  country- 

1.  In  the        men    of    Our    Lord    referred    in    con- 
Gospels  temptuous     terms     to     His     earthly 

kindred,  in  order  to  disparage  His 
preaching  (Mt  13  55;  Mk  6  3).  As  J.  was  one 
of  "his  brethren,"  he  was  probably  among  the 
group  of  Christ's  relatives  who  sought  to  interview 
Him  during  His  tour  through  Galilee  with  the 
Twelve  (Mt,  12  40).  By  the  same  reasoning,  he 
accompanied  Jesus  on  His  journey  to  Capernaum 
(Jn  2  12),  and  joined  in  attempting  to  persuade 
Him  to  depart  from  Galilee  for  Judaea  on  the  eve 
of  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles  (Jn  7  3).  At  this 
feast  J.  was  present  (7  10),  but  was  at  this  time  a 
non-believer  in  Jesus  (cf  7  5,  "Even  his  brethren 
did  not  believe  on  him"). 

Yet   the  seeds  of   conversion   were  being  sown 

within  him,  for,  after  the  crucifixion,  he  remained 

in  Jerus  with  his  mother  and  brethren, 

2.  In  the        and  formed  one  of  that  earliest  band 
Epistles         of   believers   who    "with   one   accord 

continued  stodfastly  in  prayer"  (Acts 
1  14).  While  there,  he  probably  took  part  in  the 
election  of  Matthias  to  the  vacant  apostleship 
(Acts  1  15-25).  J.  was  one  of  the  eariiest  wit- 
nesses to  the  resurrection,  for,  after  the  risen  Lord 
had  manifested  Himself  to  the  five  hundred,  "he 
was  seen  of  James"  (1  Cor  15  7  AY).  By  this 
his  growing  belief  and  prayerful  expectancy  received 
confirmation.  About  37  or  38  AD,  J.,  "the  Lord's 
brolher"  (Gal  1  19),  was  still  in  Jerus,  and  had 
an  interview  there  for  the  first  time  with  Paul, 
when  the  latter  returned  from  his  3  years'  sojourn 
in  Damascus  to  visit  Cephas,  or  Peter  (Gal  1  18. 
19;  cf  Acts  9  20).  In  several  other  passages  the 
name  of  J.  is  coupled  with  that  of  Peter.  Thus, 
when  Peter  escaped  from  prison  (about  44  AD),  he 


gave  instruct  ions  to  those  in  the  house  of  John  Mark 
that  they  should  immediately  inform  "James  and 
the  brethren"  of  the  manner  of  his  escape   (Acts 
12  17).     By  the  time  of  the  Jerus  convention,  i.e. 
about  51  AD  (cf  Gal  2  1),  J.  had  reached  the  posi- 
tion of  first  overseer  in  the  church  (cf  Acts  15  13. 
19).     Previous  to  this  date,  during  Paul's  ministry 
at  Antioch,  he  had  dispatched  certain  men  thither 
to  further  the  mission,  and  the  teaching  of  these 
had  caused  dissension  among  the  newly  converted 
Christians  and  their  leaders   (Acts  15  1.2;    Gal  2 
12).     The  conduct  of  Peter,  over  whom  J.  seems 
to  have  had  considerable  influence,  was  the  prin- 
cipal matter  of  contention  (cf  Gal  2  11  ff).     How- 
ever, at  the  Jerus  convention  the  dispute  was  ami- 
cably settled,  and  the  pillars  of  the  church,  J.,  John 
and  Cephas,  gave  to  Paul  and  Barnabas  the  right 
hand  of  fellowship   (Gal  2  9).     The  speech  of  J. 
on  this  occasion    (Acts  15  13-29),    his  sympathy 
with  the  religious  needs  of  the  gentile  world  (ver 
17),  his  desire  that  formalism  should  raise  no  bar- 
rier to  their  moral  and  spiritual  advancement  (vs 
19.20.28.29),  and  his  large-hearted  tributes  to  the 
"beloved  Barnabasand  Paul"  (vs  25.20),  indicate 
that  J.  was  a  leader  in  whom  the  church  was  blessed, 
a  leader  who  loved  peace  more  than  faction,  the 
spirit  more  than  the  law,  and  who  perceived  that 
religious  communities  with  different  forms  of  ob- 
servance might  still  live  and  work  together  in  com- 
mon allegiance  to  Christ.     Once  more   (58  AD), 
J.  was  head  of  the  council  at  Jerus  when  Patil  made 
report  of  his  labors,  this  time  of  his  3d  missionary 
journey    (Acts  21  17  ff).     At    this    meeting    Paul 
was  admonished  for  exceeding  the  orders  he  had 
received  at  the  first  council,  in  that  he  had  en- 
deavored to  persuade  the  converted  Jews  also  to 
neglect  circumcision   (Acts  21  21),   and  was  com- 
manded to  join  in  the  vow  of  purification  (Acts 
21  23-26).     There  is  no  Scriptural  account  of  the 
death  of  J.     From  1  Cor  9  5  it  has  been  inferred 
that  he  was  married.     This  is,  however,  only  a  con- 
jecture,  as  the  passage  refers  to  those  who  "lead 
about  a  sister,  a  wife"  (AY),  while,  so  far  as  we  know, 
J.  remained  throughout,  his  life  in  Jerus. 
^  This  J.  has  been  regarded  as  the  author  of  the 
Ep.  of  Jas,  "a  servant  of  God  and  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ";    cf  James,  Epistle  of.     Also,  for  details 
concerning  his  relationship  to  Christ,  cf  Brethren 
of  the  Lord. 

//.  References  in  Apocryphal  Literature. — J.  figures  in 
one  of  the  miraculous  events  recorded  in  the  gnostic 
"Gospel  of  the  Infancy,  by  Thomas  the  Israelite  phi- 
losopher," being  cured  of  a  snake-bite  by  the  infant 
Jesus  (cf  Hennecke,  Handbuch  zu  den  neutestamentlichen 
Apokryphen,  73).  According  to  the  Gospel  of  the  He- 
brews (cf  ib,  11-21),  J.  had  also  partaken  of  the  cup  of 
of  the  Lord,  and  refused  to  eat  till  he  had  seen  the  risen 
Lord.  Christ  acknowledged  this  tribute  by  appearing 
to  .).  first.  In  the  Acts  of  Peter  (cf  Budge,  Contending*. 
of  the  Apostles,  II,  47o),  it  is  stated  that  "three  days 
after  the  ascension  of  our  Lord  into  heaven,  James,  whom 
our  Lord  called  his  'brother  in  the  flesh,'  consecrated 
the  Offering  and  we  all  drew  nigh  to  partake  thereof: 
and  when  ten  days  had  passed  after  the  ascension  of 
our  Lord,  we  all  assembled  in  the  holy  fortress  of  Zion, 
and  we  stood  up  to  say  the  prayer  of  sanctification,  and 
we  made  supplication  unto  God  and  besought  Him  with 
humility,  and  James  also  entreated  Him  concerning  the 
descent  of  the  Holy  Ghost  upon  the  Offering."  The 
Preaching  of  St.  James  the  Just  (cf  Budge,  II,  78-81) 
tells  of  the  appointment  of  J.  to  the  bishopric  of  Jerus, 
of  his  preaching,  healing  of  the  sick  and  casting  out  of 
devils  there.  This  is  confirmed  by  the  evidence  of 
Clement  of  Alexandria  (Euseb.,  HE,  II,  1).  In  the 
Martyrdom  of  St.  James  the  Just  (cf  Budge,  II,  82-89), 
it  is  stated  that  J.,  "the  youngest  of  the,  sons  of  Joseph," 
alienated,  by  his  preaching,  Piobsata  from  her  husband 
Ananus,  the  governor  of  Jerus.  Ananus  therefore  in- 
flamed the  Jews  against  J.,  and  they  hurled  him  down 
from  off  the  pinnacle  of  the  temple.  Hegesippus,  quoted 
by  Kusebius  {HE,  11,23),  and  Jos  (Ant,  XX,  ix,  1),  testify 
to  the  general  truth  of  this.  It  is  thus  probable  that 
James  was  martyred  about  62  or  03  AD. 

Besides  the  ep.  which  bears  his  name,  J.  was  also  the 
reputed  author  of  the  Protevangelium  Jacobi.   a  work 


James,  Ep.  of 


[IE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1562 


which  originated  in  tin* 
tioiis  (ef  1 1  t'lin,  .V.l,  i: 
M.uivj. 

JAMES,  EPISTLE  OF: 


nl .  and  received  later  addi- 
also   Josf.fh,    II  i  sua  N  i)    of 

C.   M.   Kkkk 


1. 

(  'll  \K.\o  IM0K1ST1OS    <)  1      I'll  K 

1.  Jewish 

2.  Authoritative 
:i.    Practical 

■'.  liSTI.I 

II. 

A  I     I'lldll     "1        I'll  1       1''  I'ISTI.E 

III. 

1.  Plainness 

2.  (  .ood  (  ireek 
:■;.    Vividness 

4.  Duadiplosis 

5.  Kigures  of  Speech 
<i.    I'nlikeness  to  I'aul 
7.    Likeness  to  Jesus 

IV. 

1) ati:    of   tiii:    K I'lsri.K 

V. 

II  IsTOKY     OF    -I'll  10     Kl'lSTLK 

VI. 

M  F.sS  WHO    OK   'I'll  10    Kl'lSTl.10 

1.  To  the  Pietisl 

2.  To  the  Sociologist 

in  Oil 

Times 

:i.   To  the  Student  of  tlie  Lif 

eand( 

har;icter< 

f  .lesus 

/.    Characteristics  of  the   Epistle. —  The   Ep.   <  '' 

Jas  is  the  most  Jewish  writing  in  the  NT.  The 
Gospel  according  to  Mt  was  written 
1.  Jewish  for  the  Jews.  The  Ep.  to  the;  lie  is 
addressed  explicitly  to  them.  The 
Apocalypse  is  full  of  the  spirit  of  the  OT.  The  Ep. 
of  Judo  is  Jewish  loo.  Yet  till  of  these  books  have 
more  of  1  lie  distinctively  Christian  element  in  them 
than  we  can  find  in  the  Ep.  of  Jas.  If  we  eliminate 
two  or  three1  passages  containing  references  to 
Christ,  the  whole  epistle  might  find  its  place  just 
as  properly  in  the  Canon  of  the  OT  as  in  that  of  t  he 
NT,  as  far  as  its  substance  of  doctrine  and  contents 
is  concerned.  That  could  not  be  s.aid  of  any  other 
book  in  the  NT.  Then1  is  no  mention  of  the  in- 
carnation or  of  the  resurrection,  Ihe  two  funda- 
ment til  facts  of  the  Christian  faith.  The  word 
"gospel"  does  not  occur  in  the  ep.  There  is  no  sug- 
gestion that  the  Messiah  has  appeared  and  no 
presentation  of  the  possibility  of  redemption  through 
Him.  The  teaching  throughout  is  that  of  a  lofty 
morality  which  aims  at  the  fulfilment  of  the  re- 
quirements of  the  Mosaic  law.  It,  is  not  strange 
therefore  that  Spitta  and  others  have  thought  that 
we  have  in  the  Ep.  of  Jas  a  1  realist1  written  by  an 
unconverted  Jew  which  has  been  adapted  to  Chris- 
tian use  by  the  interpolation  of  the  two  phrases 
containing  the  name  of  Christ  in  1  1  and  2  1. 
Spitta  thinks  that  this  can  be  the  only  explanation 
of  tht1  fact  that  we  have  here  an  ep.  practically 
ignoring  the  life  and  work  of  Jesus  and  every  dis- 
tinctively Christian  doctrine,  and  without  a  trace 
of  any  of  the  great  controversies  in  the  early  Chris- 
tian church  or  any  of  the  specific  features  of  its 
propaganda.  This  judgment  is  a  superficial  one, 
and  rests  upon  superficial  indications  rather  than 
any  appreciation  of  the  underlying  spirit  and  prin- 
ciples of  the  book.  The  spirit  of  Christ  is  here, 
and  there  is  no  need  to  label  it.  The  principles  of 
this  ep.  are  the  principles  of  the  Sermon  on  the 
Mount.  There  are  more  s  to  that  Sermon  in  this 
e)).  than  can  be  found  anywhere  else  in  the  NT  in 
the  same  space.  The  ep.  represents  the  idealiza- 
tion of  Jewish  legalism  under  the  transforming  in- 
fluence of  the  Christian  motive  and  life  It  is  not 
a  theological  discussion.  It  is  an  ethical  appeal. 
It  has  to  do  with  the  outward  life  for  the  most  part, 
and  the  life  it  pictures  is  that  of  a  Jew  informed 
with  the  spirit  of  Christ.  The  spirit  is  invisible! 
in  the  ep.  as  in  the  individual  num.  It  is  the  body 
which  appears  and  the  outward  life  with  which  that 
body  has  to  do.  The  body  of  the  ep.  is  Jewish, 
and  the  outward  life  to  which  it  exhorts  is  that  of 
a  profoundly  pious  Jew.  The  Jews  familiar  with 
the  OT  would  read  this  ep.  and  find  its  language 
and  tone  that  to  which  they  were  accustomed  in 
their  sacred  books.     Jas  is  evidently  written  by  a 


Jew  for  Jews.  It  is  Jewish  in  character  throughout. 
This  is  apparent  in  the  following  particulars:  (1) 
The  ep.  is  addressed  to  the  12  tribes  which  tire  of 
t  he  Dispersion  (1  1).  The  Jews  were;  scattered 
abroad  through  the  ancient  world.  From  Babylon 
to  Rome,  wherever  any  community  of  them  might 
be  gathered  for  commercial  or  social  purposes,  these 
exhortations  could  be  carried  and  read.  Probably 
the  ep.  was  circulated  most  widely  in  Syria  and 
Asia  Minor,  but  it  may  have  gone  out  to  the1  ends 
of  the  earth.  Here  and  there  in  the  ghettos  of  the 
Pom  Empire,  groups  of  the  Jewish  exiles  would 
gather  and  listen  while  one  of  their  number  read 
this  letter  from  home.  All  of  its  terms  and  its  allu- 
sions would  recall  familiar  home  scenes.  (2)  Their 
meeting-place   is   called    "your   synagogue"    (2  2). 

(3)  Abraham  is  mentioned  as  "our  father"  (2  21). 

(4)  Cod  is  given  the  OT  name,  "the  Lord  of  Sa- 
baoth"  (5  4).  (5)  The  law  is  not  to  be  spoken 
against  nor  judged,  but,  reverently  and  loyally 
obeyed.  It  is  a  royal  law  to  which  every  loyal  Jew 
will  be  subject.  It  is  a  law  of  liberty,  to  be  freely 
obeyed  (2  8-12;  4  11).  (6)  The  sins  of  the  flesh 
are  not  inveighed  against  in  the  ep.,  but  those  sins 
to  which  the  Jews  were  more  conspicuously  liable, 
such  as  the  love  of  money  and  the  distinction  which 
money  may  bring  (2  2— i),  worldliness  and  pride  (4 
4-6),  impatience  and  murmuring  (5  7-11),  and  other 
sins  of  the  temper  and  tongue  (3  1-12;  4  11.12). 
(7)  The  illustrations  of  faithfulness  and  patience  and 
prayer  are  found  in  ( )T  characters,  in  Abraham  (2  21), 
Rahab(2  25),  Job  (5  11),  and  Elijah  (5  17.18).  The 
whole  atmosphere  of  the  ep.  is  Jewish. 

The   writer   of   this   ep.   speaks   as   one   having 

authority.     Pie  is  not  on  his  defence,  as  Paul  so 

often  is.     There  is  no  trace  of  apology 

2.  Authori-   in  his  presentation  of  the  truth.     His 
tative  official  position  must  have  been  recog- 
nized   and    unquestioned.     He    is    as 

sure  of  his  standing  with  his  readers  as  he  is  of  the 
absoluteness  of  his  message. 

No  OT  lawgiver  or  prophet  was  more  certain  that  he 
spoke  the  word  of  the  Lord,  lie  has  the  vehemence  of 
Elijah  and  the  assured  meekness  of  Moses.  He  has 
been  called  "the  Amos  of  the  NT,"  and  there  are  para- 
graphs which  recall  the  very  expressions  used  by  Amos 
and  which  are  full  of  the  same  fiery  eloquence  and  pro- 
photic  fervor.  Both  till  their  writings  with  metaphors 
drawn  from  the  sky  and  the  sea,  from  natural  objects 
and  domestic  experiences.  Both  seem  to  be  country- 
bred  and  to  be  in  sympathy  with  simplicity  and  poverty. 
Both  inveigh  against  the  luxury  and  the  cruelty  of  the 
idle  rich,  and  both  abhor  the  ceremonial  and  the  ritual 
which  are  substituted  for  individual  righteousness. 
Malachi  was  not  the  last  of  the  prophets.  John  the 
Baptist  was  not  the  last  prophet  of  the  Old  Dispensation. 
The  writer  of  this  ep.  stands  at  the  end  of  that  prophetic 
line,  and  he  is  greater  than  John  the  Baptist  or  any  who 
have;  preceded  him  because  he  stands  within  the  borders 
of  the  kingdom  of  Christ.  ITe  speaks  with  authority, 
as  a  messenger  of  Cod.  He  belongs  to  the  goodly  fellow- 
ship of  the  prophets  and  of  the  apostles.  He  lias  the 
authority  of  both.  There  are  5-1  imperatives  in  the  108 
verses  of  this  ep. 

The  ep.  is  interested  in  conduct  more  than  in 

creed.     It  has  very  little  formulated  theology,  less 

than  any  other  ep.  in  the  NT;    but 

3.  Practical  it     insists    upon    practical    morality 

throughout.  It,  begins  and  it,  closes 
with  an  exhortation  to  patience  and  prayer.  It 
preaches  a  gospel  of  good  works,  based  upon  love 
to  God  and  love  to  man.  It  demands  liberty, 
equality,  fraternity  for  all.  It  enjoins  humility 
and  justice  and  peace.  It  prescribes  singleness 
of  purpose  and  stedfastness  of  sotd.  It  requires 
obedience  to  the  law,  control  of  the  passions,  ai.d 
control  of  the  tongue.  Its  ideal  is  to  be  found  in  a 
good  life,  characterized  by  the  meekness  of  wis- 
dom. The  writer  of  the  ep.  has  caught  the  spirit 
of  the  ancient  prophets,  but  the  lessons  that  he 
teaches  are  t  aken,  for  the  most,  part ,  from  t  he  Wisdom 
lit.  of  the  OT  and  the  Apoc.     His  direct  quotations 


1563 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA       James,  Ep.  of 


are  from  the  Pent  and  the  Book  of  Prov;  but  it 
has  been  estimated  that  there  are  10  allusions  to  the 
Book  of  Prov,  6  to  the  Hook  of  Job,  5  to  the  Book 
of  Wisd,  and  15  to  the  Book  of  Ecclus.  This  Wis- 
dom lit.  furnishes  the  staple  of  his  meditation  and 
the  substance  of  his  teaching.  He  has  little  or 
nothing  to  say  about  the  great  doctrines  of  the 
Christian  church. 

He  has  much  to  say  about  the  wisdom  that  cometh 
down  from  above  and  is  pure,  peaceable,  gentle,  easy 
to  be  entreated,  full  of  mercy  and  good_  fruits,  without 
partiality,  without  hypocrisy  (3  15-17).  The  whole 
ep.  shows  that  the  author  had  stored  his  mind  with  the 
rich  treasure  of  the  ancient  wisdom,  and  his  material, 
while  otfered  as  his  own,  is  both  old  and  new.  The  form 
is  largely  that  of  the  Wisdom  lit.  of  the  Jews.  It  has 
more  parallels  with  Jesus  the  son  of  Sirach  than  with  any 
writer  of  the  sacred  books. 

The  substance  of  its  exhortation,  however,  is  to 
be  found  in  the  Synoptics  and  more  particularly 
in  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount.  Its  wisdom  is  the 
wisdom  of  Jesus  the  son  of  Joseph,  who  is  the  Christ . 

These  are  the  three  outstanding  characteristics  of 
this  ep.  In  form  and  on  the  surface  it  is  the  most  Jew- 
ish and  least  Christian  of  the  writings  in  the  NT.  Its 
Christianity  is  latent  and  not  apparent.  Yet  it  is  the 
most  authoritative  in  its  tone  of  any  of  the  epp.  in  the 
NT,  unless  it  be  those  of  the  apostle  John.  John  must 
have  occupied  a  position  of  undisputed  primacy  in  the 
Christian  church  after  the  death  of  all  the  other  apostles, 
when  lie  wrote  his  epp.  It  is  noteworthy  that  the  writer 
of  this  ep.  assumes  a  tone  of  like  authority  with  thai  of 
John.  John  was  the  apostle  of  love,  Paul  of  faith,  and 
Peter  of  hope.  This  writer  is  the  apostle  of  good  works, 
the  apostle  of  the  wisdom  which  manifests  itself  in  peace 
and  purity,  mercy  and  morality,  and  in  obedience  to  the 
royal  law,  the  law  of  liberty.  In  its  union  of  Jewish 
form,  authoritative  tone,  and  insistence  upon  practical 
morality,  the  ep.  is  unique  among  the  NT  books. 

//.  Author  of  the  Epistle. — The  address  of  the 
ep.  states  that  the  writer  is  "James,  a  servant  of 
God  and  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ"  (1  1).  The 
tradition  of  the  church  lias  identified  this  James 
with  the  brother  of  Our  Lord.  Clement  of  Alex- 
andria says  that  Peter  and  James  and  John,  who 
were  the  three  apostles  most  honored  of  the  Lord, 
chose  James,  tin;  Lord's  brother,  to  be  the  bishop 
of  Jerus  after  the  Lord's  ascension  (Euseb.,  UK, 
II,  1).  This  tradition  agrees  well  with  all  the  no- 
tices of  James  in  the  NT  books.  After  the  death 
of  James  the  brother  of  John,  Peter  was  thrown 
into  prison,  and  having  been  miraculously  released, 
he  asked  that  the  news  be  sent  to  James  and  to  the 
brethren  (Acts  12  17).  This  James  is  evidently 
in  authority  in  the  church  at  this  time.  In  the 
apostolical  conference  held  at  Jerus,  after  Peter 
and  Paul  and  Barnabas  had  spoken,  this  same 
James  sums  up  the  whole  discussion,  and  his  de- 
cision is  adopted  by  the  assembly  and  formulated 
in  a  letter  which  has  some  very  striking  |s  in  its 
phraseology  to  this  ep.  (Acts  15  6-29).  When 
Paul  came  to  Jerus  for  the  last  time  he  reported  his 
work  to  James  and  all  the  elders  present  with  him 
(Acts  21  18).  In  the  Ep.  to  the  Gal  Paul  says 
that  at  the  time  of  one  of  his  visits  to  Jerus  he  saw 
none  of  the  apost  les  save  Pet  er  and  James  t  he  Lord's 
brother  (Gal  1  18.19).  At  another  visit  he  re- 
ceived the  right  hand  of  fellowship  from  James  and 
Cephas  and  John  (Gal  2  9).  At  a  later  time  cer- 
tain who  came  from  James  to  Antioch  led  Peter 
into  backsliding  from  his  former  position  of  toler- 
ance of  the  Gentiles  as  equals  in  the  Christian 
church  (Gal  2  12). 

All  of  these  references  would  lead  us  to  suppose 
that  James  stood  in  a  position  of  supreme  authority 
in  the  mother-church  at  Jerus,  the  oldest  church  of 
Christendom.  He  presides  in  the  assemblies  of  the 
church.  He  speaks  the  final  and  authoritative 
word.  _  Peter  and  Paul  defer  to  him.  Paul  men- 
tions his  name  before  t  hat  of  Peter  and  John.  When 
he  was  exalted  to  this  leadership  we  do  not  know, 


but  all  indications  seem  to  point  to  the  fact  that  at 
a  very  early  period  James  was  the  recognized 
executive  authority  in  the  church  at  Jerus,  which 
was  the  church  of  Pentecost  and  the  church  of  the 
apostles.  All  Jews  looked  to  Jerus  as  the  chief 
seat  of  their  worship  and  the  central  authority  of 
their  religion.  All  Christian  Jews  would  look  to 
Jerus  as  the  primitive  source  of  their  organization 
and  faith,  and  the  head  of  t  he  church  at  Jerus  would 
be  recognized  by  them  as  their  chief  authority. 
The  authoritative  tone  of  this  ep.  comports  well 
with  this  position  of  primacy  ascribed  to  James. 

All  tradition  agrees  in  describing  James  as  a  Hebrew 
of  the  Hebrews,  a  man  of  the  most  rigid  and  ascetic 
morality,  faithful  in  his  observance  of  all  the  ritual  regu- 
lations *of  the  Jewish  faith.  Hegesippus  tells  us  that  he 
was  holy  from  his  mother's  womb.  He  drank  no  wine 
nor  strong  drink.  He  ate  no  flesh.  He  alone  was  per- 
mitted to  enter  with  the  priests  into  the  holy  place,  and 
he  was  found  there  frequently  upon  his  knees  begging 
forgiveness  for  the  people,  and  his  knees  became  hard 
like  those  of  a  camel  in  consequence  of  his  constantly 
bending  them  in  his  worship  of  God  and  asking  forgive- 
ness for  the  people  (Euseb.,  HE,  II,  2:5).  He  was  called 
James  the  Just.  All  had  confidence  in  his  sincerity  and 
integrity,  and  many  were  persuaded  by  him  to  believe 
on  the  Christ.  This  Jew,  faithful  in  the  observance  of 
all  that  the  Jews  held  sacred,  and  more  devoted  to  the 
temple-worship  than  the  most  pious  among  them,  was 
a  good  choice  for  the  head  of  the  Christian  church.  The 
blood  of  David  flowed  in  his  veins.  He  had  all  the  Jew's 
pride  in  the  special  privileges  of  the  chosen  race.  The 
Jews  respected  him  and  tiie  Christians  revered  him.  No 
man  among  them  commanded  the  esteem  of  the  entiro 
population  as  much  as  tie. 

Jos  {Ant,  XX,  ix)  tells  us  that  Ananus  the  high  priest 
had  James  stoned  to  death,  and  that  tiie  most  equitable 
of  the  citizens  immediately  roc^e  in  revolt  against  such  a 
lawless  procedure,  and  Ananus  was  deposed  after  only 
three  months'  rule.  This  testimony  of  Jos  simply  sub- 
stantiates all  that  we  know  from  other  sources  concern- 
ing tin:  high  standing  of  James  in  the  whole  community. 
Hegesippus  says  that  James  was  first  thrown  from  a  pin- 
nacle of  the  temple,  and  then  they  stoned  him  because 
he  was  not  killed  by  the  fall,  and  he  was  finally  beaten 
over  the  head  with  a  fuller's  club;  and  then  he  adds 
significantly,  "Immediately  Vespasian  besieged  them" 
(Euseb.,  HE,  II,  23).  There  would  seem  to  have  been 
quite  a  widespread  conviction  among  both  the  Christians 
and  the  Jews  that  the  afflictions  which  fell  upon  the  holy 
city  and  the  chosen  people  in  the  following  years  wen'  in 
part  a  visitation  because  of  the  great  crime  of  the  murder 
of  this  just  man.  We  can  understand  how  a  man  with 
this  reputation  and  character  would  write  an  ep.  so  Jew- 
ish in  form  and  substance  and  so  insistent  in  its  demands 
for  a  practical  morality  as  is  the  Ep.  of  Jas.  All  the 
characteristics  of  the  ep.  seem  explicable  on  the  suppo- 
sition of  authorship  by  James  the  brother  of  the  Eord. 
We  accept  the  church  tradition  without  hesitation. 

///.    The  Style  of  the  Epistle. — The  sentence  con- 
struction   is    simple    and    straightforward.     It    re- 
minds us  of  the  Eng.  of  Bunyan  and 

1.  Its  DeFoe.  There  is  usually  no  good 
Plainness       reason  for  misunderstanding  anything 

James  says.     He  puts  his  truth  plainly, 

and  the  words  he  uses  have  no  hidden  or  mystical 

meanings.     His  thought  is  transparent  as  his  life. 

It  is  somewhat  surprising  to  find  that  the  Gr  of 

the  Ep.  of  Jas  is  better  than  that  of  the  other  NT 

writers,   with  the  single  exception  of 

2.  Its  Good  the  author  of  the  Ep.  to  the  Hebrews. 
Greek  Of  course  this  may  be  due  to  the  fact 

that  James  had  the  services  of  an 
amanuensis  who  was  a  Gr  scholar,  or  that  his  own 
MS  was  revised  by  such  a  man;  but,  although  un- 
expected, it  is  not  impossible  that  James  himself 
may  have  been  capable  of  writing  such  Gr  as  this. 

It  is  not  the  good  C.r  of  the  classics,  and  it  is  not  the 
poor  and  provincial  Gr  of  Paul.  There  is  more  care  for 
literary  form  than  in  the  uncouth  periods  of  the  gentile 
apostle,  and  the  vocabulary  would  seem  to  indicate  an 
acquaintance  with  the  literary  as  well  as  the  commercial 
and  the  conversational  Gr.  "Calilee  was  studded  with 
Gr  towns,  and  it  was  certainly  in  the  power  of  any  Gali- 
lean to  gain  a  knowledge  of  Gr We  may  reason- 
ably suppose  that  our  author  woidd  not  have  scrupled 
to  avail  himself  of  the  opportunities  within  his  reach, 
so  as  to  master  the  Gr  language,  and  learn  something  of 
Gr  philosophy.  This  would  be  natural,  even  if  wo  think 
of  James  as  impelled  only  by  a  desire  to  gain  wisdom  and 


James,  Ep.  of       THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1564 


know  ledge  for  himself :  hut  if  wo  think  of  him  also  as  the 
principal  teacher  of  the  Jewish  believers,  many  of  whom 
were  Hellenists,  instructed  in  the  wisdom  of  Alexandria, 
then  the  natural  bent  would  take  the  shape  of  duty:  he 
would  be  a  st  udent  of  (  !r  in  order-  that  he  might  be  a  more 
ell'ective  instructor  to  his  own  people"  (Mayor,  Tin:  Ei>. 
of  st.  J, inn  .•>-,  ooxxxvi).  The  (ir  of  the  ep.  is  the  studied 
<ir  of  one  who  was  not  a  native  to  it,  but  who  had  famil- 
iarized himself  with  its  literature.  .lames  could  have 
done  so  and  the  ep.  may  be  proof  that  he  did. 

.lames  is  never  content    to  talk  in  abstractions. 
He  always  sets  a  picture  before  his  own  eyes  and 
those    of     his     readers.      He    lias    the 
3.  Its  dramatic  instinct.      lie  lias  the  secret 

Vividness  of  sustained  interest.  He  is  not  dis- 
cussing things  in  general  but  things 
in  particular.  He  is  an  artist  and  believes  in  con- 
crete realities.  At  the  same  time  lie  lias  :i  touch 
of  poetry  in  him,  and  a  fine  sense  of  the  analogies 
running  through  all  Nature  and  till  life.  The 
doubting  man  is  like  the  sea  spume  (1  6).  The 
rich  man  fades  away  in  his  goings,  even  as  the  beauty 
of  the  flower  Calls  and  perishes  (1  11).  The  syna- 
gogue scene  with  its  distinction  between  the  rich 
and  the  poor  is  set  before  us  with  the  clear-cut  im- 
pressiveness  of  a  cameo  (2  1-4).  The  Becksniffian 
philanthropist,  who  seems  to  think  that  men  can 
be  fed  not  by  bread  alone  but  by  the  words  that 
proceed  magnificently  from  his  mouth,  is  pilloried 
here  for  all  time  (2  15.16).  The  untamable  tongue 
thai  is  set  on  fire  of  hell  is  put  in  the  full  blaze  of  its 
world  of  iniquity,  and  the  damage  it  does  is  shown 
to  be  like  that  of  a  forest  fire  (3  1-12).  The  picture 
of  the  wisdom  that  comes  from  above  with  its 
sevenfold  excellences  of  purity,  peaceableness, 
gentleness,  mercy,  fruit  fulness,  impartiality,  sin- 
cerity, is  worthy  to  hang  in  1  he  gallery  of  the  world's 
masterpieces  (3  17).  The  vaunting  tradesmen, 
whose  lives  tire  like  vanishing  vapor,  stand  there 
before  the  eyes  of  all  in  Jerus  (4  13-16).  The  rich, 
whose  luxuries  he  describes  even  while  he  denounces 
their  cruelties  and  prophesies  their  coming  day  of 
slaughter,  are  the  rich  who  walk  the  streets  of  his 
own  city  (5  l-(>).  His  short  sentences  go  like  shots 
straight  to  the  mark.  We  feel  the  impact  and 
the  impress  of  them.  There  is  an  energy  behind 
them  and  a  reality  in  them  that  makes  them  live 
in  our  thought.  His  abrupt  questions  are  like  the 
quick  interrogations  of  a  cross-examining  lawyer 
(2  4-7.14.16;  3  11.12;  4  1.4.5.12.14).  His  prov- 
erbs have  the  intensity  of  the  accumulated  and 
compressed  wisdom  of  the  ages.  They  tire  irredu- 
cible minimums.  They  tire  memorable  sayings,  1  rea- 
sured  in  the  speech  of  the  world  ever  since  his  day. 

Sometimes  James  adds  sentence  to  sentence  with  the 
repetition  of  some  leading  word  or  phrased  1-6.  19-24; 
3  2-8).     It  is  the  painful  style  of  one  who  is 
4    Its  Dua-    1")t  altogether  at  home  with  the  language 
,'.    ,      .  which  he  lias  chosen  as  the  vehicle  of  his 

OlplOSlS  thought.     It  is  the  method  by  which  a  dis- 

cussion could  t)c  continued  indefinitely. 
Nothing  but  the  vividness  of  the  imagery  and  the  intcn- 
si'tj  of  the  thought  saves  James  from  fatal  monotony  in 
the  use  of  this  device. 

James  has  a  keen  eye  for  illustrations.     He  is  not 
blind  to  the  beauties  and  wonders  of  Nature.     He 
sees  what  is  happening  on  every  hand, 
5.  Its  and  he  is   quick  to  catch  any  homi- 

Figures  of  Ictical  suggestion  it  may  hold.  Does 
Speech  he  stand  by  the  seashore?     The  surge 

that  is  driven  by  the  wind  and  tossed 
reminds  him  of  the  man  who  is  unstable  in  all  his 
ways,  because  he  has  no  anchorage  of  faith,  and 
his  convictions  are  like  driftwood  on  a  sea  of  doubt 
(1  6).  Then  he  notices  that  the  great  ships  are 
turned  about  by  a  small  rudder,  and  he  thinks  how 
the  tongue  is  a  small  member,  but  it  accomplishes 
great  things  (3  4.5).  Does  he  walk  under  the  sun- 
light and  rejoice  in  it  as  the  source  of  so  many  good 
and  perfect  gifts?     He  sees  in  it  an  image  of  the 


goodness  of  Cod  thai  is  never  eclipsed  and  never 
exhausted,  unvarying  for  evermore  (1  17).  He 
uses  t  he  natural  phenomena  of  the  land  in  which  he 
lives  to  make  his  meaning  plain  at  every  turn:  the 
flower  of  the  held  thai  passes  away  (1  10.11),  the 
forest  fire  thai  sweeps  the  mountain  side  and  like  a 
living  torch  lights  up  the  whole  kind  (3  5),  the 
sweet  and  salt  springs  (3  11),  the  fig  trees  and  the 
olive  trees  and  the  vines  (3  12),  the  seed-sowing 
and  the  fruit-bearing  (3  IS),  the  morning  mist 
immediately  lost  to  view  (4  1-1),  the  early  and  the 
latter  rain  for  which  the  husbandman  waiteth 
patiently   (5  7). 

There  is  more  of  the  appreciation  of  Nature  in 
this  one  short  ep.  of  Jas  than  in  all  the  epp.  of  Baul 
put  together.  Human  life  was  more  interesting 
to  Paul  than  natural  scenery.  However,  James  is 
interested  in  human  life  just  as  profoundly  as  Baul. 
lie  is  constantly  endowing  inanimate  things  with 
living  qualities.  He  represents  sin  as  a  harlot, 
conceiving  and  bringing  forth  death  (1  15).  The 
word  of  truth  has  a  like  power  and  conceives  and 
brings  forth  those  who  live  to  Cod's  praise  (1  18). 
Bleasures  are  like  gay  hosts  of  enemies  in  a  tourna- 
ment, who  deck  themselves  bravely  and  ride  forth 
with  singing  and  laughter,  but  whose  mission  is  to 
wage  war  and  to  kill  (4  1.2).  The1  laborers  may 
be  dumb  in  the  presence  of  the  rich  because  of  their 
dependence  and  their  fear,  but  their  wages,  fraudu- 
lently withheld,  have  a  tongue,  and  cry  out  to  high 
heaven  for  vengeance  (5  4).  What  is  friendship 
with  the  world?  It  is  adultery,  James  says  (4  4). 
The  rust  of  unjust  riches  testifies  against  those  who 
have  accumulated  them,  and  then  turns  upon  them 
and  eats  their  flesh  like  fire  (5  3).  James  observed 
the  man  who  glanced  at  himself  in  the  mirror  in 
th"  morning,  and  saw  that  his  face  was  not  clean, 
and  who  went  away  and  thought  no  more  about  it 
for  that  whole  day,  and  he  found  in  him  an  illus- 
tration of  the  one  who  heard  1  he  word  and  did  not 
do  it  (1  23.24).  The  ep.  is  full  of  these  rhetorical 
figures,  and  they  prove  that  James  was  something 
of  a  poet  at  heart,  even  as  Jesus  was.  He  writes 
in  prose,  but  there  is  a  marked  rhythm  in  all  of  his 
speech.  He  litis  an  ear  for  harmony  as  he  lias  an 
eye  for  beauty  everywhere. 

The  Pauline  epistles  begin  with  salutations  and  close 

with  benedictions.     They  are  filled  with  autobiographical 

touches     and     personal     messages.      None 

6.  Its  Un-  °f  these  things  appear  here.  The  ep. 
lilrpnpss  begins  and  ends  with  all  abruptness,  it 
uKenebb  llas  an  a(j(}resSi  j)Ut  no  thanksgiving, 
to  Paul            There  are  no  personal   messages   and  no 

indications  of  any  intimate  personal  rela- 
tionship between  the  author  and  his  readers.  They  are 
his  "  beloved  brethren."  lie  knows  their  needs  and  their 
sins,  but  he  may  never  have  seen  their  faces  or  visited 
their  homes.  The  ep.  is  more  like  a  prophet's  appeal 
to  a  nation  than  a  personal  letter. 

Both   the   substance   of   the    teaching    and    the 
method  of  its  presentation  remind  us  of  the  dis- 
courses   of    Jesus.      James    says    less 

7.  Its  Like-  about  the  Master  than  any  other 
ness  to  writer  in  the  NT,  but  his  speech  is 
Jesus              more  like  that  of  the  Master  than  the 

speech  of  any  one  of  them.  There  are 
at  least  ten  parallels  to  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount 
in  this  short  ep.,  and  for  almost  everything  that 
James  has  to  say  we  can  recall  some  statement  of 
Jesus  which  might  have  suggested  it.  When  the 
parallels  fail  at  any  point,  we  are  inclined  to  suspect 
that  James  may  be  repeating  some  unrecorded 
ut  terance  of  Our  Lord.  He  seems  absolutely  fait  h- 
ful  to  his  memory  of  his  brother's  teaching.  He  is 
the  servant  of  Jesus  in  all  his  exhortation  and  per- 
suasion. 

Did  the  Master  shock  His  disciples'  faith  by  the 
loftiness  of  the  Christian  ideal  He  set  before  them 
in  His  great  sermon,  "Ye  therefore  shall  be  perfect, 


15G5 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA       James,  Ep.  of 


as  your  heavenly   Father  is   perfect"    (Mt  5  48)? 
James  sets  the  same  high  standard  in  the  very  fore- 
front of  his  ep. :  "Let  patience  have  its  perfect  work, 
that    ye    may    be    perfect    and    entire,    lacking   in 
nothing"    (1  4).     Did  the  Master  say,   "Ask,  and 
it  shall  be  given  you"  (Mt  7  7)?     James  says,  "If 
any  of  you  lacketh  wisdom,   let   him  ask  of    God 
.  .  .   .   ;   and  it  shall  be  given  him"  (1  5).     Did  the 
Master  add  a  condition  to  His  sweeping  promise 
to   prayer   and    say,    "Whosoever  ....  shall   not 
doubt  m  his  heart,  but  shall  believe  that  what  he 
saith  cometh  to  pass;    he  shall  have  it"   (Alk  11 
23)?     James   hastens  to  add  the  same  condition, 
"Let  him  ask  in  faith,  nothing  doubting:    for  he 
that  doubt eth  is  like  the  surge  of  the  sea  driven  by 
the  wind  and  tossed"  (1  (i).     Did  the  Master  close 
the  great  sermon   with  His   parable  of    the  Wise 
Man   and   the   Foolish   Man,   saying,    "Every  one 
that  heareth  these  words  of  mine",  and  doeth  them, 
shall  be  likened  unto  a  wise  man.     And  every  one 
that  heareth  these  words  of  mine,  and  doeth  them 
not,  shall  be  likened  unto  a  foolish  man"  (Mt  7  24. 
26)?     James  is  much  concerned  about  wisdom,  and 
therefore  he  exhorts  his  readers,   "He  ye  doers  of 
the  word,  and  not  hearers  only,  deluding  your  own 
selves"  (1  22)._    Had  the  Master  declared,  "If  ye 
know  these  things,  blessed  are  ye  if  ye  do  them" 
(Jn   13  17)?     James  echoes   the  thought  when  he 
says,    "A    doer   that   worketh,    this   man   shall   be 
blessed  in  his  doing"  (1  25).     Did  the  Master  say  to 
the  disciples,  "Blessed  are  ye  poor:  for  yours  is  the 
kingdom  of  God"  (Lk  6  20)?    James  has  the  same 
sympathy  with  the  poor,  and  he  savs,   "Hearken, 
my  beloved  brethren;    did  not   God  choose  them 
that  are  poor  as  to  the  world  to  be  rich  in  faith,  and 
heirs  of  the  kingdom  which  he  promised  to  them 
that   love  him?"    (2  5).     Did  the   Master  inveigh 
against  the  rich,  and  say,  "Woe  unto  you  that  are 
rich!  for  ye  have  received  your  consolation.     Woe 
unto  you,  ye  that  are  full  now!  for  ye  shall  hunger. 
Woe  unto  you,   ye  that  laugh  now!  for  ye  shall 
mourn    and    weep"    (Lk  6  24.25J?     James    bursts 
forth  into  the  same  invective  and  prophesies  the 
same  sad  reversal  of  fortune,  "Come  now,  ye  rich, 
weep  and  howl  for  your  miseries  that  are  coming 
upon  you"    (5  1).     "Cleanse  your  hands,   ye  sin- 
ners;   and   purify  your  hearts,   ye  doubleminded. 
Be  afflict  ed,  and  mourn,  and  weep :  let  your  laughter 
be  turned  to  mourning,  and  your  joy  to  heaviness" 
(4  8.0).     Had  Jesus  said,  "Judge  not,  that  ye  be 
not    judged"    (Mt  7  1)?     James    repeats   the   ex- 
hort at  ion,  "Speak  not  one  against  another,  brethren. 
He  that  ....  judgeth  his  brother  ....  judgeth 
the  law:    ....  but  who  art  thou  that  iudgest  thy 
neighbor9"     (4  11.12).     Had    Jesus    said,     "Who- 
soever shall  humble  himself  shall  lie  exalted"  (Mt 
23   12)  ?   We  find  the  very  words  in  James,  "Humble 
yourselves  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord,  and  he  shall 
exalt,  you"    (4  10).     Had   Jesus  said,   "I  say  unto 
you,  Swear  not  at  all;    neither  by  the  heaven,  for 
it  is  the  throne  of   God;   nor  by  the  earth,  for  it 

is  the  footstool   of   his   feet But    let    your 

speech  be,  Yea,  yea;  Nay,  nay:  and  whatsoever 
is  more  than  these  is  of  the  evil  one"  (Mt  5  34-37)  ? 
Here  in  James  we  come  upon  the  exact  ||:  "But 
above  all  things,  my  brethren,  swear  not,  neither 
by  t  he  heaven,  nor  by  the  earth,  nor  by  any  other 
oath;  but  let  your  yea  be  yea,  and  your  nay,  nay; 
that  ye  fall  not  under  judgment"  (5  12). 

We  remember  how  the  Master  began  the  Sermon 
on  the  Mount  with  the  declaration  that  even  those 
who  mourned  and  were  persecuted  and  reviled  and 
reproached  were  blessed,  in  spite  of  all  their  suffer- 
ing and  trial.  Then  we  notice  that  James  begins 
his  ep.  with  the  same  paradoxical  putting  of  the 
Christian  faith,  "Count  it  all  joy,  my  brethren, 
when  ye  fall  into  manifold  trials"  (1  2  ARVm).     We 


remember  how  Jesus  proceeded  in  His  sermon  to 

set  forth  the  spiritual  significance  and  the  assured 

permanence  of  the  law;    and  we  notice  that  James 

treats  the  law  with  the  same  respect  and  puts  upon 

it  the  same  high  value.     He  calls  it  "the  perfect 

law"   (1  25),   "the  royal  law"    (2  8),  the  "law  of 

liberty      (2  12).     We   remember   what   Jesus   said 

about  forgiving  others  in  order  that  we  ourselves 

may  be  forgiven;    and  we  know  where  James  got 

his   authority   for   saying,    "Judgment    is    without 

mercy  to  him  that  hath  showed  no  mercy"  (2  13) 

We  remember  all  that  the  Master  said  about  good 

trees  and  corrupt  trees  being  known  by  their  fruits, 

"Do  men  gather  grapes  of  thorns,  or  figs  of  thistles'"'' 

(Mt  7  10-20).     Then  in  the  Ep.  of  Jas  we  find  a 

like  question,   'Can  a  fig  tree,  my  brethren,  yield 

olives,  or  a  vine  figs?"  (3  12).     We  remember  that 

the   Master   said,  "Know  ye  that  he  is  nigh,  even 

at  the  doors"  (Mt  24  33).     We  are  not  surprised 

to  find  the  statement  here  in  James,  "Behold,  the 

judge   standeth    before   the   doors"    (5  9).     These 

reminiscences  of  the  sayings  of  the  Master  meet 

us  on  every  page.     It  may  be  that  there  are  many 

more  of  them  than  we  are  able  to  identify.     Their 

number  is  sufficiently  large,  however,  to  show  us 

that  James  is  steeped  in  the  truths  taught  by  Jesus, 

and  not  only  their  substance  but  their  phraseology 

constantly  reminds  us  of  Him. 

IV.  Date  of  the  Epistle.—  There  arc  those  who 
think  that  the  Ep.  of  Jas  is  the  oldest  ep.  in  the  NT. 
Among  those  who  favor  an  early  date  are  Mayor, 
Plumptre,  Alford,  Stanley,  Renan,  Weiss,  Zahn, 
Beyschlag,  Neander,  Schneckenburger,  Thiersch, 
and  Dods. 

The  reasons  assigned  for  this  conclusion  are:  (1)  the 
general  Judaic  tone  of  the  ep.,  which  seems  to  antedate 
admission  of  the  Gentiles  in  any  alarming  numbers  into 
the  church;  but  since  the  ep.  is  addressed  only  to  Jews 
why  should  the  Gentiles  be  mentioned  in  it,  whatever 
its  date  ?  and  (2)  the  fact  that  Paul  and  Peter  are  sup- 
posed to  have  quoted  from  .Jas  in  their  writing;  but  this 
matter  of  quotation  is  always  an  uncertain  one.  and  it 
has  been  ably  argued  that,  tin;  quotation  has  been  the 
other  way  about. 

Others  think  that  the  ep.  was  written  toward  the 
close  of  James's  life.  Among  these  are  Kern,  Wio- 
singer,  Schmidt,  Bruckner,  Wordsworth,  and  Farrar. 

These  argue  (1)  that  the  ep.  gives  evidence  of  a  con- 
siderable lapse  of  time  in  the;  history  of  the  church, 
sufficient  to  allow  of  a  declension  from  the  spiritual  fervor 
of  Pentecost  and  the  establishment  of  distinctions  among 
the  brethren;  but  any  of  the  sins  mentioned  in  the  ep 
in  all  probability  could  have  been  found  in  the  church 
in  any  decade  of  its  history.  (2)  James  has  a  position 
of  established  authority,  and  those  to  whom  he  writes 
are  not  recent  converts  but  members  in  long  standing; 
but  the  position  of  James  may  haye  been  established 
from  a  very  early  date;,  and  in  an  encyclical  of  this  sort 
we  could  not  expect  any  indication  of  shorter  or  longer 
membership  in  the  church.  Doubtless  some  of  those 
addressed  were  recent  converts,  while  others  may  have 
been  members  for  many  years.  (3)  There  are  references 
to  persecutions  and  trials  which  fit  the  later  rather  than 
the  earlier  date;  but  all  that  is  said  on  this  subject  might 
be  suitable  in  any  period  of  the  presidency  of  James  at 
Jerus.  (4)  There  are  indications  of  a  long  and  disap- 
pointing delay  in  the  Second  Coming  of  the  Lord  in  the 
repeated  exhortation  to  patience  in  waiting  for  it;  but 
on  the  other  hand  .James  says,  "The  coming  of  the  Lord 
is  at  hand,"  and  "The  judge  standeth  before,  the  doors" 
(5  7-9).  The  same  passage  is  cited  in  proof  of  a  belief 
that  the  immediate  appearance  of  the  Lord  was  expected, 
as  in  the  earliest  period  of  the  church,  and  in  proof  that 
there  had  been  a  disappointment  of  this  earlier  belief 
and  that  it  had  been  succeeded  by  a  feeling  that  there 
was  need  of  patience  in  waiting  for  the  coming  so  long 
delayed. 

It  seems  clear  to  us  that  there  are  no  decisive 
proofs  in  favor  of  any  definite  date  for  the  ep.  It 
must  have  been  written  before  the  martyrdom  of 
James  in  the  year  63  AD,  and  at  some  time  during 
his  presidency  over  the  church  at  Jerus;  but  there 
is  nothing  to  warrant  us  in  coming  to  any  more 
definite  conclusion  than  that  Davidson,  Hilgenfeld, 
Baur,  Zeller,  Hausrath,  von  Soden,  Julicher,  liar- 


James,  Ep.  of 
Jamin 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1566 


nack  Baron  and  others  dale  the  ep.  variously  in 
the  post-Pauline  pcri.nl,  69  70  to  140  50  AD.  The 
arguments  for  any  of  these  dates  fall  far  short  ol 
proof,  rest  largely  if  not  wholly  upon  conjectures 
and  presuppositions,  and  of  course  are  inconsistent 
with  any  belief  in  the  authorship  by  James. 

V.  History  of  the  Epistle.    -Eusebius  classed  .las 
among  those  whose  authenticity  was  disputed  by 
some.      ".lames  is  said  to  be  the  author  of  the  first 
of  the  so-called  Catholic  Epp.      But  it  is  to  be  ob- 
served that  it  is  disputed;   at  least,  not  many  of  the 
ancients  have  mentioned  it,  as  is  the  case  likewise 
with  the  ep.  that   bears  the  name  of  Jude,  which 
is  also  one  of   the   seven    so-called   Catholic  Epp. 
Nevertheless,   we  know  that    these  also,   with   the 
rest,   have  been  read   publicly   in  most    churches" 
(HE,   II,  23).     Eusebius  himself,  however,   quotes 
Jas  4   11   as  Scripture  and  Jas  5  13  as  spoken  by 
the  holy  apostle.      Personally  he  does  not  seem  dis- 
posed to  question  the  genuineness  of  the  ep.     There 
are     s  in  phraseology  which  make  it  possible  that 
the  ep.  is  quoted  in  Clement  of  Rome  in  the  1st 
cent.,  and   in    Ignatius,   Polycarp,  Justin    Martyr, 
the  Ep.  to  Diognetus,  Irenaeus,  and  Hernias  in  the 
2d  cent.     It  is  omitted  in  the  canonical  list  of  the 
Muratorian  Fragment  and  was  not  included  in  the 
Old  bat  version.     (  >rigen  seems  to  be  the  first  writer 
to  quote  the  ep.  explicitly  as  Scripture  and  to  assert 
t  hat  it  was  writ  t  en  by  James  t  he  brot  her  of  t  he  Lord. 
It  appears  in  the  Pesh  version  and  seems  to  have 
been   generally   recognized   in   the   East.     Cyril   of 
Jerus,  Gregory  of  Nazianzus,  Ephraem  of  Edessa, 
Didymus  of  Alexandria,  received  it   as  canonical. 
The  3d  Council  of  Carthage  in  397  AD  finally  settled 
its  status  for  the  Western  church,  and  from  that 
date  in  both  the  East  and  the  West  its  canonieity 
was  unquestioned  until  the  time  of  the  Reformation. 
Erasmus  and  Cajetan  revived  the  old  doubts  con- 
cerning it.     Luther  thought  it  contradicted  Paul 
and   therefore  banished  it    to  the  appendix  of  his 
Bible.     "James,"   he   says,    "has  aimed   to   refute 
those  who  relied  on  faith  without  works,  and  is  too 
weak   for   his   task   in   mind,   understanding,   and 
words,  mutilates  the  Scriptures,  and  thus  directly 
contradicts    Paul    and    all    Scriptures,    seeking    to 
accomplish  by  enforcing  the  law  what  the  apostles 
successfully  effect  by  love.     Therefore  I  will  not 
place  his  Ep.  in  my  Bible  among  the  proper  leading 
books"   (Werke,  XIV,   14S).     He  declared  that  it 
was  a  downright  strawy  ep.,  as  compared  with  such 
as  those  to  the  Rom  and  to  the  Gal,  and  it  had  no 
real     evangelical     character.     This     judgment     of 
Luther  is  a  very  hasty  and  regrettable  one.     The 
modern  church  has  refused  to  accept  it,  and  it  is 
generally  conceded  now  that  Paul  and  James  are 
in  perfect  agreement  with  each  other,  though  their 
presentation  of  the  same  truth  from  opposite  points 
of  view  brings  them  into  apparent  contradiction. 
Paul  says,  "By  grace  have  ye  been  saved  through 
faith  ....  not    of   works,    that   no    man   should 
glory"  (Eph  2  8.9).     "We  reckon  therefore  that  a 
man  is  justified  by  faith  apart  from  the  works  of 
the  law"   (Rom  3  28).     James  says,  "Faith,  if  it 
have  not  works,  is  dead  in  itself"  (2  17).     "Ye  see 
that  by  works  a  man  is  justified,  and  not  only  by 
faith"    (2  24).     With   these   passages   before   him 
Luther  said,  "Many  have  toiled  to  reconcile  Paul 
with  James  ....  but  to  no  purpose,  for  they  are 
contrary,  'Faith  justifies';    'Faith  does  not  justify'; 
I  will  pledge  my  life  that  no  one  can  reconcile  those 
propositions;    and  if  he  succeeds  he  may  call  me  a 
fool"  (Colloquia,  II,  202). 

It  would  be  difficult  to  prove  Luther  a  fool  if 
Paid  and  James  were  using  these  words,  faith, 
works,  and  justification,  in  the  same  sense,  or  even 
if  each  were  writing  with  full  consciousness  of  what 
the  other  had  written.     They  both  use  Abraham  for 


an  example,  James  of  justification  by  works,  and 
Paul  of  justification  by  faith.  How  can  that,  be 
possible?  The  faith  meant  by  James  is  the  faith 
of  a  dead  orthodoxy,  an  intellectual  assent  to  the 
dogmas  of  the  church  which  does  not  result  in  any 
practical  righteousness  in  life,  such  a  faith  as  the 
demons  have  when  they  believe;  in  the  being  of  God 
and  simply  tremble  before  Him.  The  faith  meant 
by  Paid  is  intellectual  and  moral  and  spiritual, 
affects  the  whole  man,  and  leads  him  into  conscious 
and  vital  union  and  communion  with  God.  It  is 
not,  f  he  fail  h  of  demons;  it  is  t  he;  fait  h  t  hat  redeems. 
Again,  the  works  meant  by  Paul  are  the;  works  of  a 
dead  legalism,  the  works  done  under  a  sens.;  of  com- 
pulsion or  from  a  feeling  of  duty,  the  works  done  in 
obedience  to  a  law  which  is  a  taskmaster,  the  works 
of  a  slave  and  not  of  a  son.  These  dead  works,  he 
declares,  can  never  give  life.  The  works  meant  by 
James  are  t  he  works  of  a  believer,  t  he  fruit  of  t  he  fait  h 
and  love  born  in  every  believer's  heart  and  manifest 
in  every  believer's  life.  The  possession  of  faith 
will  insure  this  evidence  in  his  daily  conduct  and 
conversation;  and  without  this  evidence  the  mere 
profession  of  faith  will  not  save  him.  The  justifi- 
cation meant  by  Paul  is  the  initial  justification  of 
the  Christian  life.  No  doing  of  meritorious  deeds 
will  make  a  man  worthy  of  salvation.  He  conies 
into  the  kingdom,  not,  on  the  basis  of  merit  but  on 
the  basis  of  grace.  The  sinner  is  converted  not  by 
doing  anything,  but  by  believing  on  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  'He  approaches  the  threshold  of  the  king- 
dom and  he  finds  that  he  has  no  coin  that  is  current 
there.  He  cannot  buy  his  way  in  by  good  works; 
he  must  accept  salvation  by  faith,  as  the  gift  of 
(iod's  free  grace.  The  just  ificat  ion  meant  by  James 
is  the  justification  of  any  after-moment  in  the 
Christian  life,  and  the  final  justification  before  the 
judgment  throne,  (iood  works  are  inevitable  in 
the  Christian  life.  There  can  be  no  assurance  of 
salvation  without  them. 

Paul  is  looking  at  the  root ;  James  is  looking  at 
the  fruit.  Paul  is  talking  about  the  beginning  of 
the  Christian  life;  James  is  talking  about  its  con- 
tinuance and  consummation.  With  Paul,  the  works 
he  renounces  precede  faith  and  are  dead  works. 
With  James,  the  faith  he  denounces  is  apart  from 
works  and  is  a  dead  faith. 

Paul  believes  in  the  works  of  godliness  just  as 
much  as  James.  He  prays  that  God  may  estab- 
lish the  Thessalonians  in  every  good  work  (2  Thess 
2  17).  He  writes  to  the  Corinthians  that  "God  is 
able  to  make  all  grace  abound  unto"  them;  that 
they,  "having  always  all  sufficiency  in  everything, 
may  abound  unto  every  good  work"  (2  Cor  9  8). 
He  declares  to  the  Ephesians  that  "we  are  his  work- 
manship, created  in  Christ  Jesus  for  good  works, 
which  God  afore  prepared  that  we  should  walk  in 
them"  (Eph  2  10).  He  makes  a  formal  statement 
of  his  faith  in  Rom:  God  "will  render  to  every  man 
according  to  his  works:  to  them  that  by  patience 
in  well-doing  seek  for  glory  and  honor  and  incor- 
rupt ion,  eternal  life:  but  unto  them  that  are  fac- 
tious, and  obey  not  the  truth,  but  obey  unrighteous- 
ness, shall  be  wrath  and  indignation,  tribulation 
and  anguish,  upon  every  soul  of  man  that  worketh 
evil,  of  the  Jew  first,  and  also  of  the  Gr;  but  glory 
and  honor  and  peace  to  every  man  that  worketh 
good,  to  the  Jew  first,  and  also  to  the  Gr"  (Rom  2 
0-10).  This  is  the  final  justification  discussed  by 
James,  and  it  is  just,  as  clearly  a  judgment  by  works 
with  Paul  as  with  him.  _ 

On  the  other  hand  James  believes  in  saving  faith 
as  well  as  Paul.  He  begins  with  the  statement 
that  the  proving  of  our  faith  works  patience  and 
brings  perfection  (1  3.4).  He  declares  that  the 
prayer  of  faith  will  bring  the  coveted  wisdom  (1  6). 
He  describes  the  Christian  profession  as  a  holding 


1567 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


James,  Ep.  of 
Jamin 


"the  faith  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  Lord  of 
glory' '  (2  1 ) .  He  says  t  hat  t  he  poor  as  t o  t lie  world 
are  rich  in  faith,  and  therefore  heirs  to  the  kingdom 
(2  5).  He  quotes  the  passage  from  Gen,  "Abraham 
believed  God,  and  it  was  reckoned  unto  him  for 
righteousness"  (2  23),  and  he  explicitly  asserts  that 
Abraham's  "faith  wrought  with  his  works,  and  by 
works  was  faith  made  perfect"  (2  22).  The  faith 
mentioned  in  all  these  passages  is  the  faith  of  the 
professing  Christian;  it  is  not  the  faith  which  the 
sinner  exercises  in  accepting  salvation.  James  and 
Paul  are  at  one  in  declaring  that  faith  and  works 
must  go  hand  in  hand  in  the  Christian  life,  and  that 
in  the  Christian's  experience  both  faith  without 
works  is  dead  and  works  without  faith  are  dead 
works.  They  bot  h  believe  in  fait  h  working  through 
love  as  that  which  alone  will  avail  in  Christ  Jesus 
(Gal  5  6).  Fundamentally  they  agree.  Super- 
ficially they  seem  to  contradict  each  other.  That 
is  because  they  are  talking  about  different  things 
and  using  the  same  terms  with  different  meanings 
for  those  terms  in  mind. 

VI.    The  Message  of  the  Epistle  to  Our  Times. — 
There  are  those  who  talk  holiness  and  are  hypo- 
crites; those  who  make  profession  of 

1.  To  the  perfect  love  and  yet  cannot  live  peace- 
Pietist  ably  with  their  brethren;  those  who 

are  full  of  pious  phraseology  but  fail 
in  practical  philanthropy.  This  ep.  was  written 
for  them.  It,  may  not  give  them  much  comfort, 
but  it  ought  to  give  them  much  profit.  The  mys- 
ticism  that  contents  itself  with  pious  frames  and 
phrases  and  comes  short  in  actual  sacrifice  and  de- 
voted service  will  find  its  antidote  here.  The 
antinomianism  that  professes  great  confidence  in 
free  grace,  but  does  not  recognize  the  necessity  for 
corresponding  purity  of  life,  needs  to  ponder  the 
practical  wisdom  of  this  ep.  The  quietists  who  are 
satisfied  to  sit  and  sing  themselves  away  to  everlast- 
ing bliss  ought  to  read  this  ep.  until  they  catch  its 
bugle  note  of  inspiration  to  present  activity  and 
continuous  good  deeds.  All  who  are  long  on  theory 
and  short  on  practice  ought  to  steep  themselves  in 
the  spirit  of  James;  and  since  there  are  such  people 
in  every  community  and  in  every  age,  the  message 
of  the  ep.  will  never  grow  old. 

The  sociological  problems  are  to  the  front  today. 
The  old  prophets  were  social  reformers,  and  James 

is  most  like  them  in  the  NT.     Much 

2.  To  the  that  he  says  is  applicable  to  present- 
Sociologist     day    conditions.     He    lays   down    the 

right  principles  for  practical  philan- 
thropy, and  the  proper  relationships  between  master 
and  man,  and  between  man  and  man.  If  the  teach- 
ings of  this  ep.  were  put  into  practice  through- 
out the  church  it  would  mean  the  revitalizat ion  of 
Christianity.  It  would  prove  that  the  Christian 
religion  was  practical  and  workable,  and  it  would 
go  far  to  establish  the  final  brotherhood  of  man  in 
the  service  of  God. 

The  life  of  Our  Lord  is  the  most  important  life 
in  the  history  of  the  race.     It  will  always  be  a  sub- 
ject of  the  deepest  interest  and  study. 

3.  To  the  Modern  research  has  penetrated  every 
Student  of  contributory  realm  for  any  added  light 
the  Life  and  upon  the  heredity  and  the  environ- 
Character  ment  of  Jesus.  The  people  and  the 
of  Jesus         land,   archaeology  and   contemporary 

history,  have  been  cultivated  inten- 
sively and  ext  ensively  for  any  modicum  of  knowl- 
edge they  might  add  to  our  store  of  information 
concerning  the  Christ.  We  suggest  that  there  is  a 
field  here  to  which  sufficient  attention  has  not  yet 
been  given.  James  was  the  brother  of  the  Lord. 
His  ep.  tells  us  much  about  himself .  On  the  sup- 
posit  ion  that  he  did  not  exhort  others  to  be  what 
he  would  not  furnish  them  an  example  in  being,  we 


read  in  this  ep.  his  own  character  writ  large.  He 
was  like  his  brother  in  so  many  things.  As  we  st  udy 
the  life  and  character  of  James  we  come  to  know 
more  about  the  life  and  character  of  Jesus. 

Jesus  and  James  had  the  same  mother.  From 
her  they  had  a  common  inheritance.  As  far  as  t  hey 
reproduced  their  mother's  characteristics  they  were 
alike.  They  had  the  same  home  training.  As  far 
as  the  father  in  that  home  could  succeed  iii  putting 
the  impress  of  his  own  personality  upon  the  boys, 
they  would  be  alike.  It  is  noticeable  in  this  con- 
nection that  Joseph  is  said  in  the  Gospel  to  have 
been  "a  just  man"  (Mt  1  19  AV),  and  that  James 
came  to  be  known  through  all  the  early  church  as 
James  the  Just,  and  that  in  his  ep.  he  gives  this 
title  to  his  brother,  Jesus,  when  he  says  of  the  un- 
righteous rich  of  Jerus,  "Ye  have  condemned  and 
killed  the  just"  man  (5  6AV).  Joseph  was  just, 
and  James  was  just,  and  Jesus  was  just.  The 
brothers  were  alike,  and  they  were  like  the  father 
in  this  respect.  The  two  brothers  seem  to  think 
alike  and  talk  alike  to  a  most  remarkable  degree. 
They  represent  the  same  home  surroundings  and 
human  environment,  the  same  religious  training 
and  inherited  characteristics.  Surely,  then,  all 
that  we  learn  concerning  James  will  help  us  the 
better  to  understand  Jesus. 

They  are  alike  in  their  poetical  insight  and  their  prac- 
tical wisdom.  They  are  both  fond  of  figurative  speech, 
and  it  seems  always  natural  and  unforced.  The  dis- 
courses of  Jesus  are  filled  with  birds  and  flowers  and 
winds  and  clouds  and  all  tin;  sights  and  sounds  of  rural 
life  in  Pal.  The  writings  of  James  abound  in  reference 
to  the  field  flowers  and  the  meadow  grass  and  the  salt 
fountains  and  the  burning  wind  and  the  early  and  the 
latter  rain.  They  are  alike  in  mental  attitude  and  in 
spiritual  alertness.  They  have  much  in  common  in  the 
material  equipment  of  their  thought.  James  was  well 
versed  in  the  apoc  lit.  May  we  not  reasonably  conclude 
that  Jesus  was  just  as  familiar  with  these  books  as  he? 
James  seems  to  have  acquired  a  comparative  mastery 
of  the  Gr  language  and  to  have  had  some  acquaintance 
with  the  Gr  philosophy.  Would  not  Jesus  have  been 
as  well  furnished  in  these  lines  as  he  ? 

What  was  the  character  of  James?  All  tradition 
testifies  to  his  personal  purity  and  persistent  devotion, 
commanding  the  reverence  and  the  respect  of  all  who 
knew  him.  As  we  trace  the  various  elements  of  his 
character  manifesting  themselves  in  his  anxieties  and 
exhortations  in  this  ep.,  we  find  rising  before  us  the 
image  of  Jesus  as  well  as  the  portrait  of  James.  He 
is  a  single-minded  man,  stedfast  in  faith  and  patient 
in  trials.  He  is  slow  to  wrath,  but  very  quick  to 
detect  any  sins  of  speech  and  hypocrisy  of  life.  He 
is  full  of  humility,  but  ready  to  champion  the;  cause; 
of  the  oppressed  and  the  poor.  He  hates  all  insincerity 
and  he  loses  wisdom,  and  he  believes  in  prayer  and  prac- 
tises it  in  reference  to  both  temporal  and  spiritual  good. 
He  believes  in  absolute  equality  in  the  house  of  God. 
He  is  opposed  to  anything  that  will  establish  any  dis- 
tinctions between  brethren  in  their  place  of  worship.  He 
believes  in  practical  philanthropy.  He  believes  that  the 
right  sort  of  religion  will  lead  a  man  to  visit  the  fatherless 
and  widows  in  their  affliction,  and  to  keep  himself  un- 
spotted from  the  world.  A  pure  religion  in  his  estima- 
tion will  mean  a  pure  man.  He  believes  that  we  ought 
to  practise  all  that  we  preach. 

As  we  study  these  characteristics  and  opinions  of 
the  younger  brother,  does  not  the  image  of  his  and 
our  Elder  Brother  grow  ever  clearer  before  our 
eyes? 

Literature. — Works  on  Introduction:  by  Zalm, 
Weiss,  Julicher,  Salmon,  Dods,  Bacon,  Bennett  and 
Adeney;  MacOlymont,  The  NT  and  Its  Writers; 
Farrar,  The  Messages  of  the  Books,  and  Early  Days  of 
Christianity;  Fraser,  Lectures  on  the  Bible;  Godct,  Bib. 
Studies.  Works  on  the  Apostolic  Age:  McGiffert, 
Schaff,  Hausrath,  Weizsacker.  Commentaries:  Mayor, 
Hort,  Beyschlag,  Dale,  Huther,  Plummer,  Plumptre, 
Stier. 

DoriEMrs  Almy  Hayes 
JAMES,  PROTEVANGELIUM,  pr&-te-van-jel'- 
i-um,  OF.     See  Apocryphal  Gospels. 

JAMIN,  ja'min  CF#1,  yamln,  "right  hand"): 
(1)  In   Gen  46  10;    Ex  6  15;    Nu  26  12;   1  Ch 
4  24,  a  "son"  (clan)  of  Simeon. 


Jaminites 
Jareb 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1568 


(2)  In  1  Ch  2  27.  :i  Judahite,  "son"  of  Rain  and 
grandson  of  Jerahmeel. 

(3)  Iii  Ncli  8  7,  a  Lovitc  ('.'),  one  of  those  who 
"caused  the  people  to  understand"  the  Torah  when 
Ezra  enforced  it="Iadinus"  in  1  Esd  9  48. 

JAMINITES,  ja'min-Its  C'.^o ,  ha-ydnrini,  coll. 
with    art.):     In    Nu  26   12,  descendants  of   Jamin 

([1]  above). 

JAMLECH,  jani'lek  (^?P- ,  yamlekh,  "may  lie 
[God]  cause-  to  reign"):  A  "prince"  or  chief  of  the 
tribe  of  Simeon  (1  Ch  4  .'ID.  If  ver  41  refers  to 
the  preceding  list,  he  lived  in  the  time  of  Hezekiah. 

JAMNIA,  jam'ni-a.     See  Jabneel. 

JAMNITES,  jam'nlts  (TanviTtu,  Iamnitai): 
The  inhabitants  '  (2  Mace  12  9)  of  Jamtiia,  the 
ancient  Jabneel,  a  town  on  the  northern  border  of 
Judah  near  1 1  it-  sea.  Its  port  and  navy  were  burned 
by  Judas  Maccabaeus  (loc.  cit.). 

JANAI,  ja'na-I.  ja'nl  0'."1 ,  yaKnay,  "he  answers"; 
as  to  whether  final  y  is  the  third  radical,  or  may  be 
taken  as  equivalent  to  the  Divine  name  Yah,  see 
IIP.X,  149-51):  A  chief  of  a  family  descended  from 
Gad  (1  Ch  5  12,  AV  "Jaanai"). 

JANGLING,  jan'gling  ((iaTcuoXoYia,  mataiologia, 

"vain  discourse,"  "babbling"):  This  word  is  not 
found  in  ARV;  once  only  in  AV  (1  Tim  1  6).    ARV 

has  "vain  talking,"  instead  of  "vain  jangling,"  and 
evidently  means  proud,  self-conceited  talking  against 
what  God  has  revealed  and  against  God  Himself. 

JANIM,  ja'nim  (p%1 ,  yariim;  AV  Janum) :  A 
place  in  the  Hebron  uplands  named  with  Eshan 
and  Beth-tappuah  (Josh  15  53);    unidentified. 

JANNAI,  jan'a-i  ('IavvaC,  Iannai,  Tisch.,  Treg., 
WH;  'Iawa,  lannd,  TR;  AV  Janna);  An  ancestor  of 

Jesus  in  Lk's  genealogy,  the  5th  before  Joseph,  the 
husband  of  Mary  (Lk  3  24). 

JANNES,    jan'ez,    AND    JAMBRES,    jam'brez 

f'lawfis  Kal  'Iap.(3pfis,  Iannis  kal  Iarnbris,  2  Tim 

3  Jsj :    These  are   the  names  of   two  magicians  in 

ancient  Egypt,  who  withstood  Moses 

1.  Egyptian  before  Pharaoh.  This  is  the  only 
Magicians     place  where  t  he  names  occur  in  the  NT, 

and  they  are  not  mentioned  in  the  OT 
at  all.  In  Ex  7  11.22  Egyp  magicians  are  spoken 
of,  who  were  called  upon  by  Pharaoh  to  oppose 
Moses  and  Aaron:  "Then  Pharaoh  also  called  for 
the  wise  men  and  the  sorcerers:  and  they  also,  the 
magicians  of  Egypt,  did  in  like  manner  with  their 
enchant  inents."  Jannes  and  Jambres  were  evidently 
two  of  the  persons  referred  to  in  this  passage.  It 
should  be  observed  that  the  word  trd  here  "magi- 
cians" occurs  also  in  Gen  41  8  in  connection  with 
Pharaoh's  dreams:  Pharaoh  "sent  and  called  for 
all  the  magicians  of  Egypt,  and  all  the  wise  men 
thereof."  RVm  reads  for  "magicians,"  "or  sacred 
scribes."  The-  Heb  word  is  hartummim,  and  means 
sacred  scribes  who  were  skilled  in  the  sacred  writing, 
that  is  in  the  hieroglyphics;  they  were  a  variety  of 
Egyp  priests.  J.  and  J.  were  doubtless  members  of 
one  or  other  of  the  various  classes  spoken  of  in  the 
passages  in  Ex  and  Gen,  the  wise  men,  the  sorcerers, 
ami  the  magicians  or  sacred  scribes. 

J.  and  J.,  one  or  both,  are  also  men- 

2.  Men-  tioned  by  Pliny  (23-79  AD),  by  Apuleius 
tioned  by  (c  130AD),bothofwhornspeakof  Mosea 
Pliny  and  and  Jannes  as  famous  magicians  of  an- 
Others  tiquity.    The  Pythagorean  philosopher 

Numenius  (2d  cent.  AD)  speaks  of  J. 
and  J.  as  Egyp  hierogrammateis,  or  sacred  scribes. 


There  are  many  curious  Jewish  traditions  regarding 
.1.    and   .J.     These   traditions,    which    are   found    in    the 

Tg  and  elsewhere,  are  full  of  contradic- 
3.  Tradi-  t  ions  and  impossibilities  and  anachronisms, 
tions  They  are  to  the  eirect  that  J.  and  J.  were 

sons  of  Balaam,  the  soothsayer  of  Pethor. 
Notwithstanding  this  impossibility  in  the  matter  of  date, 
they  were  said  to  have  withstood  Moses  40  years  pre- 
viously at  the  court  of  Pharaoh,  to  whom  it  was  also 
said,  they  so  interpreted  a  dream  of  that  king,  as  to 
foretell  the  birth  of  Moses  and  cause  the  oppression  of 
the  Israelites.  They  are  also  said  to  have  become 
proselytes,  and  it  is  added  that  they  left  Egypt  at  tin; 
Kxodus,  among  the  mixed  multitude.  They  are  reported 
to  have  instigated  Aaron  to  make;  the  golden  calf.  The 
traditions  of  their  death  are  also  given  in  a  varying  fash- 
ion. They  were  said  to  have  been  drowned  in  the  Red 
Sea,  fir  to  have  been  put  to  death  after  the  making  of  the 
golden  calf,  or  during  the  slaughter  connected  with  the 
name  of  Phinehas. 

According  to  Origen  (Comm.  on  Mt   27  8)  there 
was   an   apocryphal   book — not   yet   rediscovered 
a     f\  ■        y      called     "The     Book     of     J.    and     J." 
%•  yngen  s    Origen's  statement  is   that  in    2  Tim 
Statement     3  g  paul  ig  quoting  from  that  ))()ok_ 

In  theTargumic  lit.  "Mambrcs"  occurs  as  a  vari- 
ant reading  instead  of    "Jambres."      It  is  thought 

that  Jambres  is  derived  from  an  Aram. 
5.  Deriva-  root,  meaning  "to  oppose,"  the  parti- 
tion ciple   of   which    would   be    Mambres. 

The  meaning  of  either  form  is  "he  who 
opposes."  Jannesis  perhaps  a  corrupt  ion  of  Ioannes 
or  Iohannes  (John).  John  Rtjtherfurd 

JANNES    AND    JAMBRES,    BOOK    OF:     An 

apocryphal  work  condemned  by  Pope  Gelasius. 
See  preceding  art.,  Jannes  and  Jambres. 

JANOAH,  ja-no'a  (Hl!^ ,  ydnoah,  "resting- 
place")  : 

(1)  A  place  named  on  the  eastern  boundary  of 
Ephraim  (Josh  16  (if;  AV  "Janohah").  Onom  (s.v. 
"Jano")  places  it  in  Akrabattine,  12  Rom  miles  E.  of 
Neapolis  (Nablus).  This  points  definitely  to  Khirbt  t 
Ydnun.  On  a  hill  near  by,  the  Moslems  show  the 
Makdm  of  Neby  Nun,  the  father  of  Joshua. 

(2)  A  town  in  the  uplands  of  Naphtali,  mentioned 
as  having  been  captured  and  depopulated  by  Tiglath- 
pileser.  It  is  named  with  Abel-bet h-maacah  and 
Kedesh  (2  K  15  29).  It  may  be  identical  with 
Van  uh,  a  village  about  6  miles  E.  of  Tyre. 

\Y.    EWING 

JANUM,  ja'num   (K('re  D13^,    yanum,    K'tlribh 

U^'l ,  ydnirn).     See  Janim. 

JAPHETH,    ja'feth    fXlSP,    yepheth;    r^ ,    yd- 

pheth;    'Idc^e,  Idpheth):    This  name,  in  Gen  9  27, 

seems  to  be  explained  by  the  phrase 

1.  Ety-  "may  God  make  wide  [yapht,  ARV 
mologies  of  "enlarge"]  for  Japheth,"  where  yapht 
Japheth          and   Japheth  are   represented   by   the 

same  consonants,  but  with  different 
vowel-points.  The  root  of  yapht  is  pdthdh,  "to 
make  wide."  This  etymology,  however,  is  not 
universally  accepted,  as  the  word-play  is  so  obvious, 
and  the  association  of  Japheth  with  Shorn  ("dark") 
and  Ham  ("black")  suggests  a  name  on  similar  lines 
— either  gentilic,  or  descriptive  of  race.  Japheth 
has  therefore  been  explained  as  meaning  "fair," 
from  ydphdh,  the  non-Sem  and  non-Hamitic  races 
known  to  the  Jews  being  all  more  or  less  white- 
skinned.  The  Tg  of  Onkelos  agrees  with  the  EV, 
but  that  of  Jonathan  has  "God  shall  beautify 
Japheth,"  as  though  from  ydphdh. 

The  immediate  descendants  of  J.  were  seven  in 
number,  and  are  represented  by  the  nations  desig- 
nated Corner,  Magog,   Madai,  Javan, 

2.  His  De-  Tubal,  Mesech,  and  Tiras;  or,  rough- 
scendants      ly,    the  Armenians,   Lydians,   Medes, 

Greeks,  Tibarenians,  and  Moschians, 
the  last,  Tiras,  remaining  still  obscure.     The  sons 


1569 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jaminites 
Jareb 


of  Gomer  (Ashkenaz,  Riphath  and  Togarmah)  were 
all  settled  in  the  West  Asian  tract;  while  the  sons 
of  Javan  (Elisah,  Tarshish,  Kittim  and  Dodanim  or 
Rodanim)  occupied  the  Mediterranean  coast  and 
the  adjacent  islands. 

In  Gen  9  27,  as  in  other  passages,  Japheth  occu- 
pies the  3d  place  in  the  enumeration  of  the  sons  of 
Noah,  but  he  is  really  regarded  as  the 

3.  His  2d  son,  Ham  being  the  youngest.  In 
Place  the  genealogical  table,  however  (Gen 
among  the  10  Iff),  the  descendants  of  Japheth 
Sons  of  are  given  first,  and  those  of  Shem  last, 
Noah              in  order  to  set  forth  Sem  affinities  at 

greater  length.  Though  this  would 
seem  to  indicate  that  the  fair  races  were  the  least 
known  to  the  Jews,  it  implies  that  the  latter  were 
well  disposed  toward  them,  for  Japheth  was  (ulti- 
mately) to  dwell  in  the  tents  of  Shem,  and  therefore 
to  take  part  in  Shem's  spiritual  privileges. 

It  seems  unlikely  that  the  Gr  giant-hero,  Iapetos, 
father  of  Prometheus,   who  was  regarded  by  the 

Greeks  as  the  father  of  the  human  race, 

4.  Japheth  lias  any  connection  with  the  Heb 
and  Iapetos  Japheth.     The    original    of    the    Heb 

record  probably  belongs  to  a  date  too 
early  to  admit  borrowing  from  the  Gr,  and  if  the 
name  had  been  borrowed  by  the  Greeks  from  the 
Hebrews,  a  nearer  form  might  be  expected.  See 
Shem;  Ham;  Table  of  Nations. 

T.  G.  Pinches 
JAPHETH,  ja'feth  (Td<{>e9,  Idphdh):  A  region 
mentioned  only  in  Jth  2  25,  where  no  particulars 
are  given  which  may  lead  to  its  identification. 
Holofcrnes  "came  unto  the  borders  of  Japheth, 
which  were  toward  the  south,  over  against  Arabia." 

JAPHIA,  ja-fl'a,  jaf'i-a  (T%1 ,  ydphl"\  perhaps 
"tall";   cf  Arab.;   'L^Ga,  Uphtha): 

(1)  King  of  Lachish,  one  of  the  5  "kin^s  of  the 
Amorites"  who  allied  themselves  together  in  an 
expedition  against  Gibeon  on  account  of  its  treaty 
with  tli<-  Israelites  (Josh  10  3-5).  After  their 
discomfiture  by  Joshua  in  the  battle  of  Beth-horon 
(ver  10),  "one  of  the  most  important  in  the  history 
of  the  world"  (Stanley),  they  fled  and  hid  them- 
selves in  the  cave  at  Makkedah  (ver  16).  As 
Joshua  passed,  he  was  informed  of  this,  but,  unwill- 
ing to  delay  his  pursuit  of  the  fugitive's,  he  ordered 
great  stones  to  be  rolled  unto  the  mouth  of  the  cave, 
leaving  a  guard  in  charge  (vs  17  f).  On  the  com- 
pletion of  his  victory,  Joshua  returned  to  Makkedah 
and  commanded  the  Israelites  to  bring  forth  the 
imprisoned  kings,  and  summoned  the  chiefs  of  his 
army  to  planl  their  feet  upon  their  necks.  Then 
he  put  them  to  death;  and  after  Ik;  had  hung  their 
bodies  on  5  trees,  he  ordered  the  Israelites  in  the 
(>vening  to  take  them  down  and  cast  them  into  the 
cave  (vs  22 -27 J. 

(2)  (LXX  'lecpUs,  Iephies,  'Ia<pie,  Taphii):  One  of 
the  sons  of  David  who  were  born  to  him  at  Jerus 
(2  S  5  15;  1  Ch  3  7;  14  6).     James  Ckichton 

JAPHIA,  ja-fi'a,  jaf'i-a  (3^2?,  yaphin<):  A  town 
on  the  southern  boundary  of  Zebulun  named  with 
Chisloth-tabor  and  Daberath  (Josh  19  12).  It  is 
represented  by  the  modern  Yafa,  about  \\  miles 
S.W.  of  Nazareth,  near  the  foot  of  the  hills.  It  was 
one  of  the  places  fortified  by  Jos  {Vita,  45;  BJ,  II, 
xx,  6). 

JAPHLET,  jaf'let  (*J>S^,  yaphlet, "he escapes'^?]): 
In  1  Ch  7  32.33,  a  "son"  of  Heber,  an  Asherite. 

JAPHLETI,  jaf'le-ti,  jaf-le'tl:  AV  in  Josh  16  3, 
where  Heb  is  "'TJ.^S^n,  ha-yaphletl,  "the  Japhletites," 
RV,  a  clan  said  to  border  on  the  territory  of  Joseph, 
but  not  mentioned  elsewhere. 


JAPHO,  ja'fo:  AV  and  ARVm  in  Josh  19  46 
for  Joppa  (q.v.). 

JAR,  jar.     See  Barrel. 

JARAH,  ja'ra  (•~H2^  ,  ya'rdh,  "honey-comb"  [?]): 
A  descendant  of  King  Saul  (1  Ch  9  42);  but  LXX 
B,  A,  have  'Ia6&,  ladd  =  ffllP ,  ya*ddh,  a  name 
found  in  LXX  of  1  Ch  8  T36,  where  MT  has 
rTWTP,  yho'adddh,  Jehoaddah.  Some  Heb  MSS 
have  ya\ldh  in  9  42,  and  it  should  probably  be 
accepted  as  the  correct  reading  there,  for  ya\ldli  = 
Jehoaddah  yehd\idddh,  linguistically;  cf  Jonathan 
and  Jehonathan,  etc. 

JAREB,   ja'reb,    jar'eb    (3T! ,    yarebh,   "let   him 

contend";    LXX   'Iapcijx,   Iarelm):    Is    mentioned 

twice  in  Hos  (5  13;   10  6)  as  an  Assyr 

1.  Obscurity  king  who  received  tribute  from  Israel, 
of  the  We  do  not,  however,  know  of  an  Assyr 
Name             king  of  that  name,  or  of  such  a  place 

as  is  indicated  by  "the  king  of  Jareb" 
(5  13  AVm).  Sayce  (HCM,  417)  thinks  Jareb 
may  possibly  be  the  earlier  name  of  Sargon  who 
took  Samaria  in  722  BC,  as  the  passages  in  which 
it  appears  seem  to  relate  to  the  last  struggles  of 
the;  Northern  Kingdom.  This  conjecture  he  bases 
on  the  probability  that  the  successor  of  Shalmaneser 
IV,  following  the  example  of  other  usurpers  of  the 
Assyr  throne  before  him,  assumed  the  name  of  Sar- 
gon. Those  who  hold  that  Hosea's  prophecies  are 
probably  not  later  than  734  BC  reject  this  view. 

If  we  take  the  Heb  text  in  5  13  asitstands  {melekh 

ydrcbh),  Jareb  cannot  be  regarded  as  the  name  of 

a  person,  owing  to  the  absence  of  the 

2.  Meaning  art.  before  melekh,  "king,"  which  is 
of  the  Word  always  inserted  in  such  a  case.     It  is 

probably  an  epithet  or  nickname  applied 
to  the  Assyr  king,  as  is  suggested  by  RVm  ("a  king 
that  should  contend")  and  AVm  ("the  king  that 
should  plead"),  being  derived  from  the  ]/  ribh,  "to 
strive."  The  rendering  would  then  be  "King  Com- 
bat," "King  Contentious,"  indicating  Assyria's 
general  hostility  to  Israel  and  the  futility  of  apply- 
ing for  help  to  that  quarter  against  the  will  of  Jeh. 
Some  suggest  that  for  melekh  yarebh  we  should  read 
malkl  rabh  {l  being  the  old  nominative  termination), 
or  melekh  rabh,  "Great  King,"  a  title  frequently  ap- 
plied to  Assyr  monarchs.  Others,  following  the 
LXX,  would  read  melekh  ram,  "High  King." 

The  historical  reference,  if  it  be  to  any  recorded 
incident,  may  be  to  the  attempt  of  Menahem,  king 

of  Israel  in  738  BC,  to  gain  over  the 

3.  Histori-  Assyrians  by  a  large  subsidy  to  Pul, 
cal  Ref-  who  assumed  the  name  of  Tiglath- 
erence            pileser  (2  K  15  19).     In  this  case,  as 

both  Ephraim  and  Judah  are  men- 
tioned in  the  protasis,  we  should  have  to  suppose 
that  Ephraim  made  application  on  behalf  of  both 
kingdoms.  If  "Judah"  be  inserted  before  "sent" 
to  complete  the  parallel,  then  the  clause  would  be 
interpreted  of  Ahaz,  king  of  Judah,  who  offered  a 
heavy  bribe  to  Tiglath-pileser  to  help  him  to  with- 
stand the  combined  attack  of  Rezin  of  Syria  and 
Pekah  of  Israel  (2  K  16  7f)._  But  perhaps  there 
may  be  no  particular  allusions  in  the  two  clauses  of 
the  apodosis,  but  oidy  a  reference  to  a  general  tend- 
ency on  the  part  of  both  kingdoms  to  seek  Assyr  aid. 
Cheyne  would  make  a  violent  change  in  the  verse. 
He  would  substitute  "Israel"  for  "Judah"  as  war- 
ranted by  Hos  12  2,  insert  "Israel"  be- 

4.  Other  fore  "sent,"  change  'ashshur,  "Assyria," 
Views  into  iniecur,  the  North  Arabian  land  of 

Musri,  "references  to  which  underlie 
many  passages  in  the  OT,"  and  for  melekh  yarebh, 
he  would  read  melekh  *arabhl,  "king  of  Arabia."  For 
other  views  see  ICC.  James  Crichton 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jared 
Jattir 

JARED,  ja/red  (T?. ,  ycredh,  "descent";  pausal 
form,  TV,  yaredh,  in' Gen  5  15;  1  Ch  1  2,  hence 
EV  "Jared"  for  "Jered";  'Iapt'8,  lured):  In  Gen 
5  15-20;  1  Cli  1  2;  Lk  3  37,  son  of  Mahalaleel 
and  father  of  Enoch.     AV  has  "Jered"  in  1  Ch  1  2. 

The,  name  is  supposed  by  Budde  to  denote  a  degenera- 
tion of  the  human  race,  the  first  five  generations  being 
righteous,  their  successors  not .  except  Enoch  and  Noah. 
The  name  lias  been  identified  with  that  of  Irad  (  n"  . 
'irddh).  Gen  4  18.      See  Skinner,   Gen,  117,  129,  131. 

JARESIAH,  jar-e-si'a:  AV  for  Jaareshiah  (q.v.). 

JARHA,  jar'ha  (ST}"]1 ,  yarhd\  meaning  unknown) : 
An  Egyp  slave  of  Shesham,  about  Eli's  time  (cf 
IIl'.X,  235),  who  married  his  master's  daughter,  and 
became  the  founder  of  a  house  of  the  Jerahmeelites 
(1  Ch  2  34  ff). 

JARIB,  ja'rib,  jar'ib  P"1"^,  yarlbh,  "he  contends," 
or  "takes  [our]  part,"  or  "conducts  four]  case"): 

(1)  In  1  Ch  4  24,  a  "son"  (clan)  of  Simeon  = 
"Jachin"  of  Gen  46  10;   Ex  6  15;    Nil  26  12. 

(2)  In  Ezr  8  1(>,  one  of  the  "chief  men"  for 
whom  Ezra  sent,  and  dispatched  by  him  to  Casiphia 
to  f(M  eh  ministers  for  God's  house  =  "Joribus"  (1  Esd 
8  44). 

(3)  In  Ezr  10  IS,  a  priest  who  had  married  a 
foreign  wife  =  "Joribus"  (1  Esd  9   19). 

JARIMOTH,  jar'i-moth  ('Iapifwie,  Iarimdth): 
1  Esd  9  28;  called  "Jeremoth"  in  Ezr  10  27. 

JARMUTH,  jar'muth  (DIET ,  yarmuth) : 

(1)  A  city  of  the  Canaanites  in  the  Shephelah 
(Josh  15  35)  of  Judah  whose  "king,"  Piram,  joined 
the  league  of  the  "five  kings"  against  Joshua  (Josh 
10  3-5),  was  defeated  at  Gibeon  and  slain  at  Mak- 
kedah  (ver  23).  One  of  the  31  "kings"  defeated 
in  Joshua's  campaign  (Josh  12  11).  In  Josh  15 
35  it  is  mentioned  in  conjunction  with  Adullam, 
Socoh  and  Azekah,  and  in  Neh  11  29  with  Zorah, 
Zanoah  and  Adullam.  Cheyne  (EB)  suggests  that 
the  "Maroth"  of  Mic  1  12  may  be  a  copyist's  error 
for  Jarmuth.  In  Onom  (OS2  132  31;  266  38) 
mention  is  made  of  a  'iepMox^s,  Iermochos,  or  Jer- 
mncha,  10  Rom  miles  N.E.  of  Eleutheropolis  (Beit 
Jibrln).  The  site  of  this  once  important  place  is 
Khirbet  el  Yarmuk,  a  ruin,  with  many  old  walls 
and  cisterns,  on  the  top  of  a  hill  1,465  ft.  above  sea- 
level.  It,  is  nearly  2  miles  N.W.  of  Beit  Nattif, 
from  winch  it  is  visible,  and  82  miles,  as  measured 
on  map,  N.N.E.  of  Beit  Jibrln.  Cf  PEF,  III,  128, 
Sh  XVIII. 

(2)  A  city  of  Issachar  belonging  to  the  "children 
of  Gershon,  of  the  families  of  the  Levites"  (Josh 
21  29);  in  the  duplicate  list  in  1  Ch  6  73  we  have 
Ramoth,  while  in  the  LXX  version  of  Josh  21  29 
we  have,  in  different  VSS,  Rhemmdth  or  Iermoth. 
In  Josh  19  21  "Remeth"  occurs  (in  Heb)  in  the  lists 
of  cities  of  Issachar;  in  the  LXX  Rhemmas  or 
Rhamdth.  The  name  was  probably  "Remeth"  or 
"Ramoth,"  but.  the  place  has  never  been  identified 
with  any  certainty.     See  Ramoth. 

.  E.  W.  G.  Masterman 
JAROAH,  ja-ro'a  (nl"V ,    yaro"h,   meaning   un- 
known):   A  Gadite  chief T  (1  Ch  5  14).     But  the 
text  is  doubtful;   see  Curtis,  Ch,  124. 

JASAELUS,  jas-a-e'lus  ('Iao-atiXos,  Tasdelos;  B, 
Asdelos;  AV  Jasael,  ja'sa-el  [1  Esd  9  30]):  Called 
"Sheal"  in  Ezr  10  29. 

JASHAR,  ja'shar,  jash'ar,  BOOK  OF  flSD 
"ItTn ,  sepher  ha-yasfiar;  AV  Book  of  Jasher,  m  "the 
book  of  the  upright"):  The  title  of  an  ancient  Heb 
national  song-book  (lit.  "book  of  the  righteous  one") 


1570 


from  which  two  quotations  are  made  in  the  OT: 
(1)  Josh  10  12-14,  the  command  of  Joshua  to  the 
sun  and  moon,  "Sun,  stand  thou  still  upon  Gibeon. 
....  Is  not  this  written  in  the  book  of  Jashar?" 
(see  Beth-horon;  LXX  in  this  place  omits  the 
reference  to  Jashar);  and  (2)  2  SI  18  ff,  "the  song 
of  the  bow,"  or  lament  of  David  over  Saul  and 
Jonathan.      (3)  Some  conjecture  a  third  extract  in 

I  1(8  12,  "Then  spake  Solomon,  Jeh  hath  said  that 
he  would  dwell  in  the  thick  darkness."  The  words 
of  Jeh  are  quoted  by  LXX  in  ver  53  as  "written 
in  the  book  of  the  song"  (en  biblid  tes  odes),  and  it  is 
pointed  out  that  the  words  "the  song"  (in  Heb 
Tl^n,  ha-shir)  might  easily  be  a  corruption  of 
"ITirn,  ha-ydshar.  A  similar  confusion  ("song"  for 
"righteous")  may  explain  the  fact  that  the  Pesh 
Syr  of  Josh  has  for  a  title  "the  book  of  praises  or 
hymns."  The  book  evidently  was  a  well-known 
one,  and  may  have  been  a  gradual  collection  of 
religious  and  national  songs.  It  is  conjectured  that 
it  may  have  included  the  Song  of  Deborah  (Jgs  5), 
and  older  pieces  now  found  in  the  Pent  (e.g.  Gen 
4  23.24;  9  25-27;  27  27-29);  this,  however,  is 
uncertain.  On  t  he  curious  theories  and  speculations 
of  the  rabbis  and  others  about  the  book  (that  it  was 
the  Book  of  the  Law,  of  Gen,  etc),  with  the  fantastic 
reconstructive  theory  of  Dr.  Donaldson  in  his  Jas- 
har, see  the  full  art.  in  HDB.  James  Orr 

JASHEN,  ja'shen,  jash'en  0jW*l,  yashen, 
"asleep"  [?]) :  Seemingly  the  father  of  some  of 
David's  thirty  valiant  men  (2  S  23  32  f).  The  MT 
reads  "Eliahba  the  Shaalbonite,  the  sons  of  Jashen, 
Jonathan,  Shammah  the  Hararite,  .  .  .   ."     1  Ch 

II  33  f  has  "Eliahba  the  Shaalbonite,  the  sons  of 
Hashem  the  Gizonite,  Jonathan  the  son  of  Shagee 
the  Hararite  .  .  .  ."  It  is  clear  that  "sons  of "  are  a 
dittography  of  the  last  three  consonants  of  the  pre- 
vious word.  LXX,  Luc  in  2  S  and  1  Ch  has  6  Yowl, 
ho  Gonni,  "the  Gunite,"  for  "the  Gizonite,"  perhaps 
correctly  (cf  Gen  46  24;  Nu  26  48  for  "Guni," 
"Gunite").  So  2  S  23  32  maybe  corrected  thus: 
"Eliahba  the  Shaalbonite,  Jashen  the  Gunite,  Jona- 
than the  son  of  Shammah  the  Hararite."  Jashen 
thus  becomes  one  of  the  thirty  =  "Hashem"  of  1  Ch 
11  34.  David  Francis  Roberts 

JASHER,  ja'sher,  jash'er,  BOOK  OF:    AV  for 

Jashar  (q.v.),  and  see  Beth-horon,  Battle  of. 

JASHOBEAM,  ja-sho'be-am  (US2& ,  yashobh- 
Kdm,  probably  "people  will  return";  see  discussion 
of  names  compounded  with  US ,  Kam,  in  HPN, 
41-59) :  Jashobeam  is  mentioned  in  three  passages 
(1  Ch  11  11;  12  6  [Heb  7];  27  2f),  but  opinions 
vary  as  to  the  number  of  persons  referred  to.  In 
1  Ch  11  11  he  is  called  "the  son  of  a  Hachmonite" 
(reference  unknown)  and  "the  chief  of  the  three" 
("three,"  the  best  reading;  RV  "thirty";  AV,  RVm 
"captains"),  mighty  men  of  David.  He  is  said  to 
have  slain  300  (800  in  2  S  23  8)  at  one  time,  i.e. 
one  after  another. 

The  gibborim,  or  heroes,  numbered  600  and  were  di- 
vided into  bands  of  200  each  and  subdivided  into  smaller 
bands  of  20  each,  with  a  captain  for  each  company  large 
and  small.  Jashobeam  had  command  of  the  first  of  the 
three  bands  of  200  (see  Ewald,  ///,  III,  140  f;  Stanley, 
IIJC,  II,  78).  From  the  indeflniteness  of  the  descrip- 
tion, "three  of  the  thirty  chief,"  he  can  hardly  be  re- 
garded as  one  of  the  three  mighty  men  who  broke  through 
the  ranks  of  the  Philis,  and  brought  water  from  the  well 
of  Bethlehem  to  David  on  the  hill-fortress  of  Adullam 
(1  Ch  11  15-17),  and  the  fact  that  "the  thirty"  have 
not  yet  been  mentioned  would  seem  to  indicate  that  this 
story  is  not  in  its  proper  place.  But  "Jashobeam"  here 
(1  Oh  11  11)  is  probably  an  error  for  "Ishbaal."  the 
reading  of  many  of  the  MSS  of  the  LXX  (HPN,  46,  n.). 

In  the  ||  passage  (2  S  23  8)  he  is  called  "Josheb- 
basshebeth,  a  Tahchemonite."    This  verse,  however, 


1571 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jared 
Jattir 


is  probably  corrupt  (RVm),  and  the  text  should  be 
corrected  in  accordance  with  Ch  to  "Ishbaal,  the 
Hachmonite."  In  1  Ch  27  2  f  Jashobeam  is  said 
to  have  been  "the  son  of  Zabdiel,"  of  the  family  of 
Perez,  and  the  commander-in-chief  of  the  division 
of  David's  army  which  did  duty  the  first  mouth. 
The  army  consisted  of  12  divisions  of  24,000  each, 
each  division  serving  a  month  in  turn.  In  1  Ch 
12  6  (Heb  7)  Jashobeam  is  mentioned  among  those 
who  joined  David  at  Ziklag  in  the  time  of  Saul,  and 
is  described  as  a  Korahite,  probably  one  belonging 
to  a  family  of  Judah  (cf  2  43).     James  Crichton 

JASHUB,  ja'shub,  jash'ub  (ITO?,  yashubh; 
X*V1 ,  yashlbh,  in  Ch,  but  K>re  3W?  ,  yashubh,  "he 
returns"): 

(1)  In  Nu  26  24;  1  Ch  7  1,  a  "son"  (clan)  of 
Issachar.  Gen  46  13  has  incorrectly  lob,  but  LXX 
Jashub. 

(2)  In  Ezr  10  29,  one  of  those  who  had  married 
foreign  wives  =  "Jasubus"  in  1   Esd  9  30. 

(3)  In  Isa  7  3,  part  of  the  name  Shear-jashub 
(q.v.). 

JASHUBI-LEHEM,  ja-shoo-bl-le'hem  C^l 
Drib,  yashubhi-lehem) :  A  name  in  1  Ch  4  22 
where  commentators  insert  Vi^2 ,  belh,  between  the 
two  words  and  translate;  "[and]  returned  to  Beth- 
lehem." 

JASHUBITES,  ja'shub-Its,  jash'ub-its,  THE 
On^n,  ha-yashubhl,  coll.  with  art.):  In  Nu  26 
24,  descendants  of  Jashub  (q.v.  [1]). 

JASIEL,  ja  si-el,  jas'i-el  (b&npjn,  ya'dsl'el,  "God 
is  maker,"  1  Ch  11  47  A V).     See  Jaasiel. 

JASON,  ja'sun  ('Ido-cov,  Idson):  A  common  name 
among  the  Hellenizing  Jews  who  used  it  for  Jesus 
or  Joshua,  probably  connecting  it  with  the  Gr  vb. 
idsthai  ("to  heal"). 

(1)  Son  of  Eleazar,  sent  (161  BC)  by  Judas 
Maccabaeus  with  other  deputies  to  Rome  '  to  make 
a  league  of  amity  and  confederacy"  (1  Mace  8  17; 
Jos,  Ant,  XII,  x,  6),  and  perhaps  to  be  identified 
with  (2). 

(2)  The  father  of  Antipater  who  went  as  am- 
bassador of  Jonathan  to  Rome  in  144  BC  (1  Mace 
12  1(5;   14  22;  Ant,  XIII,  v,  8). 

(3)  Jason  of  Cyrene,  a  Jewish  historian,  who  is 
known  only  from  what  is  told  of  him  in  2  Mace 
2  19-23.  2  Mace  is  in  fact  simply  an  abridgment 
in  one  book  of  the  5  books  written  by  Jason  on  the 
Jewish  wars  of  liberation.  He  must  have  written 
after  102  BC,  as  his  books  include  the  wars  under 
Antiochus  Eupator. 

(4)  Jason  the  high  priest,  second  son  of  Simon 
II  and  brother  of  Onias  III.  The  change  of  name 
from  Jesus  (Jos,  Ant,  XII,  v)  was  part  of  the  Hel- 
lenizing policy  favored  by  Antiochus  Epiphanes 
from  whom  he  purchased  the  high-priesthood  by  a 
large  bribe,  thus  excluding  his  elder  brother  from 
the  office  (2  Mace  4  7-26).  He  did  everything 
in  his  power  to  introduce  Gr  customs  and  Gr  life 
among  the  Jews.  He  established  a  gymnasium  in 
Jerus,  so  that  even  the  priests  neglected  the  altars 
and  the  sacrifices,  and  hastened  to  be  partakers  of 
the  "unlawful  allowance"  in  the  palaestra.  The 
writer  of  2  Mace  calls  him  "that  ungodly  wretch" 
and  "vile"  Jason.  He  even  sent  deputies  from 
Jerus  to  Tyre  to  take  part  in  the  worship  of  Her- 
cules; but  what  he  sent  for  sacrifices,  the  deputies 
expended  on  the  "equipment  of  galleys."  After 
3  years  of  this  Hellenizing  work  he  was  supplanted 
in  172  BC  in  the  favor  of  Antiochus  by  Menelaus 
who  gave  a  large  bribe  for  the  high  priest's  office. 


Jason  took  refuge  with  the  Ammonites;  on  hearing 
that  Antiochus  was  dead  he  tried  with  some  suc- 
cess to  drive  out  Menelaus,  but  ultimately  failed 
(2  Mace  5  5  ff).  He  took  refuge  with  the  Am- 
monites again,  and  then  with  Aretas,  the  Arabian, 
and  finally  with  the  Lacedaemonians,  where  he 
hoped  for  protection  "as  being  connected  by  race," 
and  there  "perished  miserably  in  a  strange  land." 

(5)  A  name  mentioned  in  Acts  17  5-9  and  in 
Rom  16  21.     See  following  article. 

J.  Hutchison 

JASON,  ja'sun  ('Idcrtov,  Idson):  A  Gr  name  as- 
sumed by  Jews  who  bore  the  Heb  name  Joshua. 
This  name  is  mentioned  twice  in  the  NT.  (See 
also  preceding  article.) 

(1)  Jason  was  the  host  of  St.  Paul  during  his 
stay  in  Thessalonica,  and,  during  the  uproar  or- 
ganized by  the  Jews,  who  were  moved  to  jealousy 
by  the  success  of  Paul  and  Silas,  he  and  several 
other  "brethren"  were  severely  handled  by  the  mob. 
When  the  mob  failed  to  find  Paul  and  Silas,  they 
dragged  Jason  and  "certain  brethren"  before  the 
politarchs,  accusing  Jason  of  treason  in  receiving 
into  his  house  those  who  said  "lliere  is  another 
king,  one  Jesus."  The  magistrate's,  being  troubled, 
took  security  from  them,  and  let  them  go. 

There  are  various  explanations  of  the  ptirpose  of  this 
security.  "By  this  expression  it  is  most  probably  meant 
that  a  sum  of  money  was  deposited  with  the  magistrates, 
and  that  the  Christian  community  of  the  place  made 
themselves  responsible  that  no  attempt  should  be  made 
against  the  supremacy  of  Rome,  and  that  peace  should 
be  maintained  in  Thessalonica  itself"  (Conybeare  and 
lloH'SOll,  St.  Paul).  Ramsay  {St.  Paul  the  Traveller) 
thinks  that  the  security  was  given  to  prevent  Paul  from 
returning  to  Thessalonica  and  that  St.  Paul  refers  to 
this  in  1  Thess  2  18. 

The  immediate  departure  of  Paul  and  Silas  seems 
to  show  the  security  was  given  that  the  strangers 
would  leave  the  city  and  remain  absent  (Acts  17 
5-9). 

(2)  Jason  is  one  of  the  companions  of  St.  Paul 
who  unite  with  him  in  sending  greetings  to  the  Rom 
Christians  (Rom  16  21).  He  is  probably  the  same 
person  as  (1).  Paul  calls  him  a  kinsman,  which 
means  a  Jew  (cf  Rom  9  3;   16  11.21). 

S.  F.  Hunter 
JASPER,  jas'per,  JASPIS,  jas'pis.     See  Stones, 
Precious. 

JASUBUS,  ja-su'bus  ('Ido-oufios,  Idsoubos):  An 
Israelite  who  in  the  time  of  Ezra  had  to  put  away 
his  foreign  wife  (1  Esd  9  30);  called  "Jashub"  in 
Ezr  10  29. 

JATAL,  ja'tal  (1  Esd  5  28).     See  Atar. 

JATHAN,  ja'than  ('Ia9dv,  Iathdn;  K,  Nathan): 
For  "Jonathas"  in  AV,  which  is  the  Lat  form  for  the 
Heb  "Jonathan."  Jonathan  was  brother  of  Ananias 
and  "son  of  that  great  Sammaias"  (Tob  5  13). 

JATHBATH,  jath'bath.     See  Jotbathah. 

JATHNIEL,  jath'ni-el  (bfcTjri- ,  yathni'el,  "God 
lives"):  Fourth  "son"  of  Meshelemiah,  a  Kora- 
hite (1  Ch  26  2). 

JATTIR,  jat'er  ("PIjP ,  yattir,  and  "IpP ,  yattir): 
A  town  in  the  hill  country  of  Judah,  mentioned  in 
conjunction  with  Shamir  and  Socoh  (Josh  15  48); 
one  of  the  cities  given  to  the  "children  of  Aaron  the 
priest"  (Josh  21  14;  1  Ch  6  57).  David  after  his 
victory  over  the  Amalekites  sent  a  present  of  the 
spoil  from  Ziklag  "to  them  that  were  in  Jattir" 
(1  S  30  27). 

It  is  now  Khirbct  xAttir,  an  important  ruin,  in 
the  extreme  S.  of  the  hill  country,  5  miles  S.E.  of 


Javan 
Jedidah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1572 


edh  Dhariych  and  20  miles  S.E.  of  Beit  Jibuti.  This 
must  correspond  to  the  "very  large  village  Jethira" 
which  is  mentioned  in  Onom  (119  27;  133  3;  134 
24,  etc)  as  20  miles  S.E.  of  Eleutheropolis  (i.e.  Beit 
Jibrin).  The  site  is  full  of  eaves.  See  PEF,  III, 
408,  Sh  XXV.  E.  VV.  G.  Mastekman 

JAVAN,  ja'van  ("V  ,  ydwdn,  meaning  unknown): 

(1)  In  Gen  10  2.4  =  1  Ch  1  5.7  (LXX  'luviv, 
Ioudn);  Isa  66  lit;  Ezk  27  13  (LXX  'EXXds,  Hellas, 
Greece);  Dnl  8  21  m;  10  20;  11  2;  Zee  9  13; 
Joel  3  6  (Heb  4  6)  (LXX  oi  EXX^es,  hot  Hellenes, 
i.e.  "Greeks"),  "son''  of  Japhcth,  and  "father"  ol 
Elishah,  Tarshish,  Kittim,  and  Itodarim,  i.e.  Rhodes 
(incorrectly  "Dodanim"  in  Gen  104).  Javan  is 
tlio  Gr  ldi>v,  Iddn,  or  'ld(p)uv,  Id(v)on,  and  in  Gen 
and  1  Ch  =  the  Ionian  Greeks  of  Asia  Minor,  prob- 
ably here  =  Cyprus.  The  reference  in  Ezk  27  13 
(from  which  that  in  Isa  66  19  is  copied)  is  the 
country  personified.  In  Joel  the  pi.  ~~<r'p, ,  ycu)dnl?n, 
is  found.  In  Did  the  name  is  extended  to  the  Greeks 
generally.  Corroboration  of  the  name  is  found  in 
Assyr  (KB,  II,  4:5).  "The  Pers  Yauna  occurs  in  the 
same  double  reference  from  the  time  of  Darius;  cf 
Aesch.  Pers.,  176,  562"  (Skinner,  Gen,  198).  In 
Egyp  the  word  is  said  to  be  y'r'',t-{n)a;  in  the  Am 
Tab  Yivana  is  mentioned  as  being  in  the  land  oi 
Tyre.     See  HDB,  II,  552b. 

(2)  Place  (Ezk  27  19);    name  wanting  in  LXX. 

David  Francis  Roberts 
JAVELIN,  jav'lin,  jav'e-lin.     See  Armor;  Arms. 

JAW,  jo  (Tib,  Vhl,  "cheek  [bone],"  "jaw  [bone]"), 
JAWBONE,  jo'bon,  JAW  TEETH:  In  Job  41  2, 
RV  gives  "pierce  his  jaw  through  with  a  hook"  for 
AV  "bore  his  jaw  through  with  a  thorn"  (see  Hook; 
Leviathan).  Ps  22  15,  "My  tongue  cleaveth  to 
my  jaws  [malkoah],"  is  descriptive  of  the  effect  of  a 
fever  or  physical  torture,  a  dryness  and  a  horrible 
clamminess'.  Malkohayim  is  an  ancient  dual  form 
meaning  the  two  jaws,  and,  metaphorically,  malkoah 
indicates  that  which  is  caught  between  the  jaws, 
booty,  prev,  including  captives  (Nu  31  11.20.32; 
Isa  49  24  f). 

Figurative:  (1)  Of  the  power  of  the  wicked,  with 
a  reference  to  Divine  restraint  and  discipline: 
"I  brake  the  jaws  [Heb  "great  teeth"]  of  the  un- 
righteous" (Job  29  17;  Prov  30  14);  cf  Ps  58  6, 
"Break  out  the  great  teeth  [malhtdlh,  "jaw  teeth"] 
of  the  young  lions,  O  Jeh."  Let  the  wicked  be 
deprived  of  their  ability  for  evil;  let  them  at  least 
be  disabled  from  mischief.  LXX  reads  "God  shall 
break,"  etc.  (Cf  Edmund  Prys's  Metrical  Para- 
phrase of  the  Pss,  in  loc.)  "A  bridle  ....  in  the 
jaws  of  the  peoples"  (Isa  30  28;  cf  2  K  19  28) 
is  descriptive  of  the  ultimate  check  of  the  Assyr 
power  at  Jerus,  "as  when  a  bridle  or  lasso  is  thrown 
upon  the  jaws  of  a  wild  animal  when  you  wish  to 
catch  and  tame  him"  (G.  A.  Smith,  Isa,  I,  235). 
Cf  Ezk  29  4  (concerning  Pharaoh);  38  4  (con- 
cerning Gog),  "I  will  put  hooks  in  [into]  thy  jaws." 
(2)  Of  human  labor  and  trials,  with  a  reference  to 
the  Divine  gentleness:  "I  was  to  them  as  they  that 
lift  up  the  yoke  on  their  jaws"  (Hos  11  4),  or  'take 
the  yoke  off  their  jaws,'  as  the  humane  driver  eased 
the  yoke  with  his  hands  or  'lifted  it  forward  from 
neck  to  the  jaws';  or  it  may  perhaps  refer  to  the 
removal  of  the  yoke  in  the  evening,  when  work  is 
over. 

Jawbone  (Jgs  15  15  ff).     See  Ramath-lehi. 

M.  O.  hi  VANS 
JAZER,  ja'zer  (IT^  or  TT^ ,  ya'zer;  LXX 
To.£t|v,  Iaztn  in  A;  X,  Inzer):  In  some  cases,  e.g. 
Nu  21  32,  AV  reads  "Jaazer."  This  was  a  city  of 
the  Amorites  E.  of  the  Jordan  taken,  along  with  its 
towns,  by  Moses,  and  occupied  by  the  tribe  of  Gad 


(Nu  21  32;  32  35).  The  country  was  very  fertile, 
and  its  spacious  pasture-lands  attracted  the  flock- 
masters  of  Gad  (32  1),  the  southern  border  of  whose 
territory  it  marked  (Josh  13  25).  It  was  assigned 
t,,  the  Merarite  Levites  (Josh  21  30;  1  Ch  6  81). 
The  place  was  reached  by  Joab  when  taking  the 
census  (2  S  24  5).  In  the  40th  year  of  King  David 
mighty  men  of  valor  were  found  here  to  whom  he 
intrusted  the  oversight  in  Reuben  and  Gad  "for 
every  matter  pertaining  to  God,  and  for  the  affairs 
of  the  king"  (1  Ch  26  32  f).  The  fruitfulness  of 
the  country  is  alluded  to  in  Isa  16  8f;  Jer  48  32. 
(Note:  "Sea  of"  Jazer  in  this  verse  lias  arisen 
through  accidental  repetition  of  yam,  "sea,"  from 
the  preceding  clause.)  The  city  was  taken  from 
the  Ammonites  by  Judas  Maccabaeus,  and  burned 
(1   Mace  5  7.8;     Ant,  XII,  viii,  1). 

Onom  places  Jazer  10  Rom  miles  W.  of  Philadelphia 
(' Amman),  and  about  15  miles  from  Heshbon,  where  a 
great  stream  rises,  which  flows  into  the  Jordan.  Many 
would  identify  it  with  Khirbet  Sar,  on  the  S.  of  Wady 
Sir,  about  5  miles  W.  of  'Amman.  The  perennial  stream 
from  Wady  Sir  reaches  the  Jordan  by  Wady  el-Kefrem. 
Cheyne  (KB,  s.v.)  suggests  Ynjuz  on  Wady  Zorby,  a 
tributary  of  the  Jabbok,  with  extensive  Horn  remains. 
It  lies  a*  little  way  to  the  E.  of  el  Jubeihat  ("Jogbehah. 
Nu  32  :*.r)).  It  is  situated,  however,  to  the  N.  and  not 
to  the  W.  of  'Amman,  when;  Onom  places  it.  Neither 
identification  is  certain. 

W.    EWING 

JAZIZ,  ja'ziz  (~**1,  ydzlz,  meaning  uncertain): 
The  Hagrite  who  was  over  David's  flocks  (1  Ch 
27  30  [Heb  31]). 

JEALOUSY,  jel'us-i  (HX:p  ,  kin'ah;  £f|Xos, 
zilos):  Doubtless,  the  root  idea  of  both  the  Gr  and 
the  Heb  trd  "jealousy"  is  "warmth,"  "heat."  Both 
arc  used  in  a  good  and  a  bad  sense — to  represent 
right  and  wrong  passion. 

When  jealousy  is  attributed  to  God,  the  word  is 
used  in  a  good  sense.  The  language  is,  of  course, 
anthropomorphic;  and  it  is  based  upon  the  feeling 
in  a  husband  of  exclusive  right  in  his  wife.  God 
is  conceived  as  having  wedded  Israel  to  Himself, 
and  as  claiming,  therefore,  exclusive  devotion.  Dis- 
loyalty on  1  he  part  of  Israel  is  represents  1  as  adultery, 
and  as  provoking  God  to  jealousy.  See,  e.g.,  Dt  32 
16.21;  1  K  14  22;  Ps  78  58;  Ezk  8  3;  16  38.42; 
23  25;    36  5;    38  19. 

When  jealousy  is  attributed  to  men,  the  sense 
is  sometimes  good,  and  sometimes  bad.  In  the 
good  sense,  it  refers  to  an  ardent  concern  for  God's 
honor.  See,  e.g.,  Nu  25  11  (ci"  1  K  19  10;  2  K 
10  16);  2  Cor  11  2  (cf  Rom  10  2).  In  the  bad 
sense,  it  is  found  in  Acts  7  9;  Rom  13  13;  1  Cor 
3  3;   2  Cor  12  20;   Jas  3  14.16. 

The  "law  of  jealousy"  is  given  in  Nu  5  11-31. 
It  provided  that,  when  a  man  suspected  his  wife 
of  conjugal  infidelity,  an  offering  should  be  brought 
to  the  priest,  and  the  question  of  her  guilt  or  inno- 
cence should  be  subjected  to  a  test  there  carefully 
prescribed.  The  test  was  intended  to  be  an  appeal 
to  God  to  decide  the  question  at  issue.  Sec  Adul- 
tery;   Sacrifice.  E.  J.  Forrester 

JEALOUSY,  IMAGE  OF.     See  Images. 

JEALOUSY,  WATER  OF.     See  Adultery,  (2). 

JEARIM,  je'a-rim,  jo-a'rim,  MOUNT  (D'H^plS , 
har-yeKdrlm):  A  mountain  by  the  side  of  which 
passed  the  border  of  Judah  (Josh  15  10).  It  is 
mentioned  here  only,  and  is  identical  with  Ches- 
alon  (q.v.). 

JEATHERAI,  je-ath'O-ri  (RV),  JEATERAI,  jg- 
at'e-rl  (AV)  ("HnNP  ,  y°'atheray,  meaning  unknown) : 
A  descendant  of  Gershom,  "son"  of  Levi  (1  Ch  621 
[Heb  6]),  and  probably  an  ancestor  of  Asaph  (so 


1573 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Javan 
Jedidah 


commentators);  in  vs  39-43  the  corresponding 
name  is  "Ethni."  The  difference  in  the  Heb  words 
is  not  great. 

JEBERECHIAH,  je-ber-e-kl'a  OrP}"^ ,  ifbhe- 
rekhyahu,  "Jeh  blesses"):  The  father  of  the  Zech- 
ariah  whom  Isaiah  (8  2)  took  as  a  witness  of  his 
prophecy  against  Syria  and  Ephraim  (c  734  BCj. 

JEBUS,  je'bus  (C*n^ ,  ybhus;  'L-povs,  Iebous): 
InJgs  19  10.11,  "Jebus  (the  same  is  Jerus)";  1  Ch 
11  4.5,  "Jerus  (the  same1  is  Jebus)."  It  was  once 
thought  that  this  was  the  first  name1  of  Jerus,  as 
indeed  might  be  suggested  by  the  Bib.  references, 
but  it  is  now  known  from  the  Am  Tab  that  Uru- 
sa-lem  was  a  name  used  centuries  before  the  time  of 
David  (see  Jerusalem,  I).  It  would  appear  prob- 
able that  the  name  "Jebus"  was  evolved  by  the  He- 
brews as  an  alternate  name,  and  possibly  they  may 
have  imagined  an  earlier  name,  for  Jerus  from 
Jebusite  (q.v),  the  name  of  the  local  tribe  who 
owned  the  district  in  the  first  centuries  of  Israel's 
occupation  of  Canaan.        E.  W.  G.  Masterman 

JEBUS,   je'bus,    JEBUSI,   jeb'u-si,    JEBUSITE, 

job'ii-zit  (CIQi ,  y'l)ltus,  ^C7-"!"  ,  ha-yebhu§i):  "Je- 
bus" is  an  old  name  for  Jerus  (Jgs  19  10.11;  1  Ch 
4.5  ||  2  S  5  G-9,  "the  same  is  Jerus";  see  pre- 
ceding article).  "Jebusi"  (lit.  "Jebusite")  is  also 
used  as  a  name  for  the  city  in  AV  (Josh  18  16.28; 
cf  15  8);  RV  correctly  renders  "Jebusite"  (see 
Jerusalem).  "Jebusites,"  for  the  people  (in  AV 
Gem  15  21;  Ex  3  8.17,  etc),  does  not  occur  in  Hel> 
in  the  pi.;  hence  in  RV  is  always  rendered  in  the 
sing.,  "Jebusite."  The  "Jebusite"  is  said  in  Gen 
10  16;  1  Ch  1  14  to  be  the  3d  son  of  Canaan, 
i.e.  of  the  country  of  Canaan.  Elsewhere  he  repre- 
sents a  tribe  separate  from  the  Canaanites.  He 
stands  between  Heth  and  the  Amorite  (cf  Nil  13 
29;  Josh  11  3;  Ezk  16  3.45).  In  the  lists  of  the 
peoples  inhabiting  Pal  the  "Jebusite"  is  always 
placed  last,  a  fact  indicative,  probably,  of  their 
smaller  number. 

To  what  race  the  Jebusites  belonged  is  doubtful. 
Their  nanus  does  not  seem  Sem,  and  they  do  not 
make  their  appearance  till  after  the  patriarchal 
period. 

The  original  name  of  Jerus  was  Bab,  Uru-Salim,  "the 
city  of  Salim,"  shortened  into  Salem  in  Gen  14  is  and 
in  the  inscriptions  of  the  Egyp  kings  Ramses  II  and 
Ramses  111.  In  the  Am  Tab  (1400  BC)  Jerus  is  still 
known  as  Uru-Salim,  and  its  king  bears  a  Hittite  name, 
implying  that  it  was  at  the  time  in  the  possession  of  the 
Hittites.  His  enemies,  however,  wen;  closing  around 
him,  and  one  of  the  tablets  shows  that  the  city  was 
eventually  captured  and  its  king  slain.  These  enemies 
would  seem  to  have  been  the  Jebusites,  since  it  is  after 
this  period  that  the  name  "Jebus"  makes  its  appearance 
for  the  first  time  in  the  OT  (Jgs  19   10.11). 

The  Jebusite  king  at  the  time  of  the  conquest 
was  Adoni-zodek,  who  met  his  death  at  Beth-horon 
(Josh  10  1  ff;  in  ver  5  the  word  "Amorite"  is  used 
in  its  Bab  sense  to  denote  the  inhabitants  of  Canaan 
generally).  The  Jebusites  were  a  mountain  tribe 
(Xu  13' 29;  Josh  11  3).  Their  capital  "Jebus"  was 
taken  by  the  men  of  Judah  and  burned  with  fire 
(Jgs  1  8),  but  they  regained  possession  of,  and  held, 
the  fortress  till  the  time  of  David  (2  S  5  6  ff). 

When  Jerus  was  taken  by  David,  the  lives  and 
property  of  ils  Jebusite  inhabitants  were  spared, 
and  they  continued  to  inhabit  the  temple-hill, 
David  and  his  followers  settling  in  the  new  Citv  of 
David  on  Mt.  Zion  (Josh  15  8.63;  Jgs  1  21;  19  11). 
And  as  Araunah  is  called  "king"  (2  S  24  23),  we 
may  conclude  that  their  last  ruler  also  had  been  al- 
lowed to  live.  His  name  is  non-Sem,  and  the  vari- 
ous spellings  of  it  (cf  1  Ch  21  15,  "Oman")  indicate 
that  the  Heb  writers  had  some  difficulty  in  pro- 


nouncing it.  The  Jebusites  seem  ultimately  to 
have  blended  with  the  Israelit  ish  population. 

James  Orr 
JECAMIAH,    jek-a-ml'a:      AV    for     Jekamiah 

(q-v.). 

JECHILIAH,  jek-i-ll'a  (Tl^?") ,  y'khilyah).  See 
Jecholiah;  K'thlbh  and  2  Ch  26  3  RV,  where 
lyre  is  n^D^,  ifkholyah  =  " Jecoliah"  (AV). 

JECHOLIAH,    jek-6-H'a     OTPb?? ,     ykholyahu; 

2  K  15  2  AV  =  rpblP ,  ykholyah,  Kere  in  2  Ch 
26  3,  "Jeh  is  able"' or  "Jeh  has  been  able"):  The 
mother  of  King  Uzziah  (Azariah)  of  Judah.  RV 
has  "Jecoliah"  in  2  K  and  so  AV  in  2  Ch. 

JECHONIAS,  jek-6-nl'as  ('Lxovias,  Icchonias, 
AV;    Gr  form  of  "Jechoniah,"  RV): 

(1)  The  altered  form  of  Jehoiachin  (Ad  Est,  11 
4;  Bar  1  3.9;  Mt  1  11.12).  The  last  but  one  of 
the  kings  of  Judah. 

(2)  The  son  of  Zeelus  (1  Esd  8  92),  called  "Shec- 
aniah"  in  Ezr  10  2. 

JECOLIAH,  jek-o-ll'a:  2  K  15  2;  2  Ch  26  3  AV; 
see  Jechiliah;  Jecholiah. 

JECONIAH,  jek-6-nl'a.     See  Jehoiachin. 

JECONIAS,  jek-6-ni'as  ('Iexovias,  Icchonias): 

(1)  One  of  the  chiliarchs  who  made  great  gifts 
of  sheep  and  calves  at  the  Passover  of  Josiah  (1 
Esd  1  9);    called  "Conaniah"  in  2  Ch  35  9. 

(2)  One  reading  makes  Jeconias  (not  Joachaz) 
son  of  Josiah  in  1  Esd  1  34  m. 

JEDAIAH,  je-da'ya,  je-di'a: 

(1)  (n^"~n  ,  y'dhaUjdh,  "Jeh  knows"): 

(a)  A  priest  in  Jerus  (1  Ch  9  10;    24  7). 

(//)  Ezr  2  36  =  Neh  7  39,  where  "children  of 
Jedaiah"  are  mentioned  =  "Jeddu"  in  1  Esd  5  24. 

(c)  J.  is  among  "the  priests  and  the  Levites"  that 
returned  with  Zerubbabel  (Neh  11  10;   12  6.19). 

(rf)  Another  priest  of  the  same  name  (Neh  12 
7.21). 

(e)  One  of  the  exiles  whom  Zechariah  was  com- 
manded to  send  with  silver  and  gold  to  Jerus.  LXX 
does  not  take  the  word  as  a  proper  name  (Zee  6 
10.14). 

(2)  (rW,  ydhayah,  "Jeh  throws"  [?]): 

(a)  Father  of  a  Simeonite  prince  (1   Ch  4  37). 

(b)  One  of  the  repairers  of  the  wall  of  Jerus  (Neh 

3  10).  David  Francis  Roberts 

JEDDU,  jod'67)  (Tt'SSov,  Uddou):  Called  Je- 
daiah (q.v.  1,  [b])  in  canonical  books  (1   Esd   5  24). 

JEDEUS,  je-de'us  (TeSatos,  Tedaios):  Called 
Adaiah  (q.v.)  in  Ezr  10  29  (I  Esd  9  30). 

JEDIAEL,  je-dl'a-cl  (bSKFT; ,  ifdhfd'cl,  "God 
makes  known"[?]): 

(1)  A  "son"  of  Benjamin  or  probably  of  Zebu- 
lun  (1  Ch  7  6.10.11).'  See  Curtis,  Ch,  145-49, 
who  suggests  emending  the  name  to  '^fi~P  ,  yahle'el, 
Jahleel,  in  agreement  with  Gen  46  24. 

(2)  One  of  David's _ mighty  men  (1  Ch  11  45), 
probably=the  Manassite  who  deserted  to  David  at 
Ziklag  (1  Ch  12  20  [Heb  21]). 

(3)  A  Korahite  doorkeeper  in  David's  reign  (1 
Ch  26  2). 

JEDIDAH,  je-di'da  (rTT"P ,  ydhldhdh,  "be- 
loved"): Mother  of  King  Josiah  of  Judah,  daughter 
of  Adaiah  of  Bozkath  (2   K  22  1). 


Jedidiah 
Jehoash 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1574 


JEDIDIAH,  jod-i-di'a  (rVHT) ,  ifdhldh-ydh,  "the 
beloved  of  Jeh"):  The  name  conferred  by  Cod 
through  Nathan  upon  Solomon  at  his  birth  (2  S 
12  25). 

JEDUTHUN,  je-du'thun.     See  Asaph. 

JEELI,  je-e'll  (>Itn)\l,  Jcieli):  Called  "Jaalah" 
in  Ezr  2  56  and  "Jaala"  in  Neh  7  5S  (I  Esd  5 
33). 

JEELUS,  je-e'lus  Cl€T|\os,  FeHos):  Called  "Je- 
hiel"  in  Ezr  10  2  (1  Esd  8  92). 

JEEZER,  jS-e'zer  (AV)  ("THPS,  'i\>zer;  RV 
IEZER):  The  name  of  a  elan  of  Gilead  (Nu  26  30). 
but  read  "^T"n2X~  ,  lii-'dbhl^ezer,  i.e.  "of  Abiezer"  (cf 
Josh  17  2).     See  Abiezer. 

JEEZERITES,  jc-e'zcr-Its.     See  Abiezer. 

JEGAR-SAHA-DUTHA,     je-garsa-ha-du'tha, 

(Xr^nt?  "l!>n ,  yghar  sdhddhulhd';  LXX  Bowos 
(xaprvpet,  Bounds  marturei,  "[the]  mound  witnesses") : 
The  name  given  by  the  Aramaean,  Laban,  to  the 
"cairn  of  witness,"  called  by  Jacob  Calked  (q.v.) 
(Gen  31  47).  The  rest  of  the  second  part  of  this 
name  appears  again  in  Job  16  19,  where  "HfllE , 
sahadhi,  should  be  rendered  with  RV,  "he  that 
voucheth  for  me,"  i.e.  "my  witness." 

JEHALLELEL,  je-hal'e-lel  (RV).  JEHALELEEL, 
je-ha-le'le-el  (AV)  (bs6|rP ,  y'hallel'el,  "he  shall 
praise  God"): 

(1)  AJudahite  (1   Ch  4  16). 

(2)  A  Levite,  a  descendant  of  Merari  (2  Ch  29 
12). 

JEHDEIAH,  je-de'ya,  ja'dS-ya  pirP'Hrn,  yehde- 
yahu,  "may  Jeh  give  joy!"): 

(1)  A  Levite,  head  of  the  family  of  Shubael 
(1  Ch  24  20). 

(2)  An  officer  of  David  "over  the  asses"  (1  Ch 
27  30). 

JEHEZKEL,  je-hez'kel  (RV),  JEHEZEKEL, 
je-hez'e-kel  (AV)  (bSpTrP,  ifhvzkcl,  "God  strength- 
ens"): 

(1)  A  priest  of  David's  time  (1   Ch  24  16). 

(2)  Jehezkel  in  Ezk  1  3  AVm,  for  Ezekiel 
(q.v.). 

JEHIAH,  je-hl'a  (!"PrP,  y'hlydh,  "may  Jeh 
live!"):  Keeper  of  the  ark  with  Obed-edom  (1  Ch 
15  24),  but  in  ver  18  the  name  is  bs^P ,  yH'el, 
Ieiel  (q.v.) 

JEHIEL,  je-hl'el  fripTVl,  if  fuel,  "may  God 
live!"): 

(1)  A  Levite,  one  of  the  musicians  appointed  to 
play  upon  instruments  at  the  bringing  up  of  the  ark 
by  David  (1  Ch  15  18.20;  16  5);  Jehieli,  je-hl'e-ll 
(vXTP,  ifhVell):  A  patronymic  of  this  name  (1  Ch 
26  21.22).  but  Curtis  (Ch,  286-87)  reads  "Jehiel 
[ver  21]  and  his  brethren  Zetham  and  Joel"  (ver  22) ; 
cf  23  8,  where  the  three  seem  to  be  brothers.  See 
(2)  above. 

(2)  A  ( lershonite,  head  of  a  Levitical  house  (1  Ch 
23  8;    29  8). 

(3)  Son  of  a  Hachmonite;  he  was  "with  the 
king's  [David's]  sons,"  i.e.  their  tutor  (1  Ch  27  32). 

(4)  A  son  of  King  Jehoshaphat  (2  Ch  21  2). 

(5)  In  2  Ch  29  14  AV,  where  K"re  is  bxirP, 
yhu'el,  RV  "Jehuel,"  a  Hermanite  Levite  who  took 
part  in  cleansing  the  temple  in  Hezekiah's  reign. 


(6)  An  overseer  in  Hezekiah's  reign  (2  Ch  31  13). 

(7)  One  of  the  three  "rulers"  of  the  temple  in 
Hezekiah's  reign   (2  Ch  35  S). 

(S)  Father  of  Obadiah,  a  returned  exile  (Ezr  8 
9)  =  "Jezelus"  of  1    Esd   8  35. 

(9)  Father  of  Shecaniah  (Ezr  10  2)  =  "Jeelus"  of 
1  Esd  8  92.  He  was  a  "son"  of  Elam,  and  so 
probably  the  same  as  "Jehiel"  in  Ezr  10  26,  one;  of 
those  who  had  married  foreign  wives  =  "Jezrielus" 
of  1    Esd  9  27. 

(10)  A  "son"  of  Harim,  and  one  of  those  who 
had  married  foreign  wives  (Ezr  10  21)  =  "Hiereel" 
of  1   Esd  9  21. 

(11)  AV  in  1  Ch  9  35  =  Jeiel  (q.v.  [2]). 

(12)  AV  in  1  Ch  11  44  =  Jeiel  (q.v.  [3]). 

David  Francis  Roberts 
JEHIZKIAH,  je-hiz-ki'a  OrPpTTT ,  y'hizkiydhu, 
"Jeh  strengthens"):  One  of  the  Epfiraimite  chiefs 
(2  Ch  28  12)  who  with  Obed  are  said  to  have  op- 
posed the  enslavement  of  the  Judahites  taken  cap- 
tive by  Pekah  in  his  war  against  Ahaz  (c  734  BC). 

JEHOADDAH,  je-hci-ad'a  (RV),  JEHOADAH, 
je-ho'a-da  (AV)  (i"HJ"ir"P  ,  iflufadddh,  "Jeh  has  de- 
posed" or  "numbered"):  A  descendant  of  King  Saul 
(1  Ch  8  36),  called  "Jarah"  in  1  Ch  9  42,  where 
LXX  has  'laSd,  I  add  =  ""*-'],  ya\ldh.     See  Jarah. 

JEHOADDAN,  je-ho-ad'an  (" ~T^  ,  ifhd'addun, 
meaning  unknown) :  In  2  Ch  25  1 ;  and  Kere,  AV 
in  2  K  14.2,  where  K-thibh  and  RV  are  "Jehoad- 
din"  (VHyirTj ,  jfhd'addiu),  the  mother  of  King 
Amaziah  of  Judah. 

JEHOADDIN,  je-hd-ad'in.     See  Jehoaddan. 

JEHOAHAZ,  je-hd'a-haz,  je-ho-a'haz  (TJlSirP, 
ifho'dhdz,  "Jeh  has  grasped";  'Icoaxas,  Idachds; 
2  K  13  1-9): 

(1)  Son  of  Jehu,  and  11th  king  of  Israel.  He  is 
stated  to  have  reigned  17  years. 

Jos  was  already  aware  (Ant,  IX,  viii.  5)  of  the  chrono- 
logical difficulty  involved  in  the  cross-references  in  vs 
1  and  10,  the  former  of  which  states  that 

1.  Chro-  Jehoahaz  began  to  reign  in  the  23d  year 
Iopv  -r         of  Jehoash  of  Jerus,  and  reigned  17  years; 

noiogy  ui  while  the  latter  gives  him  a  successor  in 
Reign  Jehoash's    37th    year,    or    14    years    later. 

Jos  alters  the  figure  of  ver  1  to  21:  and, 
to  meet  the  same  difficulty,  the  LXX  (Aldine  ed)  changes 
'A7  to  89  in  ver  10.  The  difficulty  may  be  met  by  sup- 
posing that  Jehoahaz  was  associated  with  his  father  Jehu 
for  several  years  in  the  government  of  the  country  before 
the  death  of  the  latter,  and  that  these  years  were  counted 
as  a  part  of  his  reign.  This  view  has  in  its  favor  the 
fact  that  Jehu  was  an  old  man  when  he  died,  and  may 
have  been  incapacitated  for  the  full  discharge  of  ad- 
ministrative duties  before  the  end  came.  The  accession 
of  Jehoahaz  as  sole  ruler  may  be  dated  about  825  BC. 

When  Jehoahaz  came  to  the  throne,  he  found  a 

discouraged  and  humiliated  people.     The  territory 

beyond  Jordan,  embracing  2\  tribes, 

2.  Low  or  one-fourth  of  the  whole  kingdom, 
Condition  had  been  lost  in  warfare  with  the 
of  the  Syrian  king,  Hazael  (2  K  10  32.33). 
Kingdom  A  heavy  annual  subsidy  was  still  pay- 
able to  Assyria,  as  by  his  father  Jehu. 

The  neighboring  kingdom  of  Judah  was  still  un- 
friendly to  any  member  of  the  house  of  Jehu. 
Elisha  the  prophet,  though  then  in  the  zenith  of  his 
influence,  does  not  seem  to  have  done  anything 
toward  the  stability  of  Jehu's  throne. 

Specially  did  Israel  suffer  during  this  reign  from 

the  continuance  of  the  hostilitv  of  Damascus  (2  K 

13  3.4.22).     Hazael  had  been  selected, 

3.  Israel  together  with  Jehu,  as  the  instrument 
and  Syria       by  which  the  idolatry  of  Israel  was  to 

be  punished  (1  K  19  16).  Later  the 
instruments  of  vengeance  fell  out.  On  Jehu's 
death,  the  pressure  from  the  cast  on  Hazael  was 


1575 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jedidiah 
Jehoash 


greatly  relieved.  The  great  conqueror,  Shalma- 
neser  II,  had  died,  and  his  son  Samsi-Ramman  IV 
had  to  meet  a  revolt  wit  hin  the  empire,  and  was 
busy  with  expeditions  against  Babylon  and  Media 
during  the  12  years  of  his  reign  (824-812  BC).  Dur- 
ing these  years,  the  kingdoms  of  the  seaboard  of  the 
Mediterranean  were  unmolested.  They  coincide 
with  the  years  of  Jehoahaz,  and  explain  the  freedom 
which  Hazael  had  to  harass  the  dominions  of  that 
king. 

Particulars  of  the  several  campaigns  in  which  the 
troops  of  Damascus  harassed  Israel  are  not  given.     The 

life  of  Elisha  extended  through  the  3 
.     T,  reigns   of   Jehoram    (12    years),    Jehu    (28 

4.    ine  years)    and    Jehoahaz    (12    or    13    years), 

Elisha  into  the  reign  of  Joash  (2  K  13  14).     It 

Episodes  *s  therefore  probable  that  in  the  memora- 
v  bilia  of  his  life  In  2  K  4-8,  now  one  and 

now  another  king  of  Israel  should  figure, 
and  that  some  of  the  episodes  there  recorded  belong  to 
the  reign  of  Jehoahaz.  There  are  evidences  that  strict 
chronological  order  is  not  observed  in  the  narrative  of 
Elisha,  e.g.  Gehazi  appears  in  waiting  on  the  king  of 
Israel  in  8  5,  after  the  account  of  his  leprosy  in  5  27. 
The  terrible  siege;  of  Samaria  in  ch  7  is  generally  referred 
to  the  reign  of  Jehoram;  but  no  atmosphere  is  so  suitable 
to  it  as  that  of  the  reign  of  Jehoahaz,  in  one  of  the  later 
years  of  whom  it  may  have  occurred.  The  statement 
in  13  7  that  "  the  king  of  Syria  destroyed  them,  and  made 
them  like  the  dust  in  threshing,"  and  the  statistics  there 
given  of  the  depleted  army  of  Jehoahaz,  would  corre- 
spond with  the  state  of  things  that  siege  implies.  In  this 
case  the  Ben-hadad  of  2  K  6  24  would  be  the  son  of 
Hazael  (13  3). 

Jehoahaz,  like  his  father,  maintained  the  calf- 
worship  in  Bethel  and  Dan,  and  revived  also  the 

cult  of  the  Asherah,  a  form  of  Canaan- 
6.  His  itish    idolatry    introduced    by    Ahab 

Idolatry  (1  K  16  33).     It    centered    round    a 

sacred  tree  or  pole,  and  was  probably 
connected  with  phallic  worship  (cf  1  K  15  13, 
where;  Maaeah,  mother  of  Asa,  is  said  to  have  "made 
an  abominable  image  for  an  Asherah"  in  Jerus). 

The  close  of  this  dark  reign,  however,  is  bright- 
ened by  a  partial  reform.     In  his  distress,  we  are 

told,  "Jehoahaz  besought  Jeh,  and 
6.  Partial  Jeh  hearkened  unto  him"  (2  K  13  4). 
Reform  If  the  siege  of  Samaria  in  ch  6  belongs 

to  his  reign,  we  might  connect  this 
with  his  wearing  "sackcloth  within  upon  his  flesh" 
(ver  30) — an  act  of  humiliation  only  accidentally 
discovered  by  the  rending  of  his  garments.  Ver 
5  goes  on  to  say  that  "Jeh  gave  Israel  a  saviour,  so 
that  they  went  out  from  under  the  hand  of  the 
Syrians."  The  "saviour"  may  refer  to  Joash, 
under  whom  the  deliverance  began  (13  25),  or  to 
Jeroboam  II,  of  whom  it  is  declared  that  by  him 
God  "saved"  Israel  (14  27).  Others  take  it  to 
refer  to  Ramman-nirari  III,  king  of  Assyria,  whose; 
conquest  of  Damascus  mack;  possible  the  victories 
of  these  kings.     See  Jehoasu. 

W.  Shaw  Caldecott 
(2)  A  king  of  Judah,  son  and  successor  of  Josiah; 
reigned  three  months  and  was  deposed,  608  BC. 
Called  "Shallum"  in  Jer  22  11;  cf  1  Ch  3  15. 
The  story  of  his  reign  is  told  in  2  K  23  30-35, 
and  in  a  briefer  account  in  2  Ch  36  1-3.  The 
historian  of  2  K  characterizes  his  reign  as  evil; 
2  Ch  passes  no  verdict  upon  him.  On  the  death 
of  his  fat  her  in  battle,  which  threw  the  realm  into 
confusion,  he,  though  a  younger  son  (cf  2  K  23  31 
with  23  3(>;  1  Ch  3  15  makes  him  the  fourth 
son  of  Josiah),  was  raised  to  the  throne  by  "the 
people  of  the  land,"  the  same;  who  had  secured 
the  accession  to  his  father;  see  under  Josiah. 
Perhaps,  as  upholders  of  the  sterling  old  Davidic 
idea,  which  his  father  had  carried  out  so  well,  they 
saw  in  him  a  better  hope  for  its  integrity  than  in 
his  elder  brother  Jehoiakim  (Eliakim),  whose 
tyrannical  tendencies  may  already  have  been  too 
apparent.  The  prophets  also  seem  to  have  set 
store  by  him,  if  we  may  judge  by  the  sympathetic 


mentions  of  him  in  Jer  22  11  and  Ezk  19  3.4. 
His  career  was  too  short,  however,  to  make  any 
marked  impression  on  the  history  of  Judah. 

Josiah's  ill-advised  meddling  with  the  designs 
of  Pharaoh-necoh  (see;  under  Josiah)  had  had,  in 
fact,  the  ill  effect  of  plunging  Judah  again  into  the 
vortex  of  oriental  politics,  from  which  it  had  long 
been  comparatively  free.  The  Egyp  king  imme- 
diately concluded  that  so  presumptuous  a  state 
must  not  be  left  in  his  rear  unpunished.  Arrived 
at  Riblah  on  his  Mesopotamian  expedition,  he  put 
Jehoahaz  in  bonds,  and  later  carried  him  prisoner 
to  Egypt,  where  he  died;  raised  his  brother  Je- 
hoiakim to  the  throne  as  a  vassal  king;  and  im- 
posed on  the  realm  a  fine  of  a  hundred  talents  of 
silver  and  a  talent  of  gold.  So  the  fortunes  of  the 
Judaean  state,  so  soon  after  Josiah's  good  reign, 
began  their  melancholy  change  for  the  worse. 

John  Franklin  Genung 

(3)  In  2  Ch  21  17;  25  23  =  Ahaziah,  king  of 
Judah  (q.v.)  (2  K  8  25  ff ;  2  Ch  22  1  ff). 

JEHOASH,  je-ho'ash,  the  uncontracted  form  of 
JOASH  (EKVP/  yhd'ash,  ©§i\  yo'ash,  "Jeh 
hath  bestowed" ;'cf  2  K  11  2.21;  12  1  19;  2  Ch 
24  1.  etc;   'Itods,  Idas): 

(1)  The  9th  king  of  Judah;  son  of  Ahaziah  and 
Zibiah,  a  woman  of  Beersheba  (2  K  11-12;  2  Ch 
22  10—24  27).  Jehoash  was  7  years  old  at  his 
accession,  and  reigned  40  years.  His  accession 
may  be  placed  in  852  BC.  Some  include;  in  the 
years  of  his  reign  the  6  years  of  Athaliah's  usur- 
patiem. 

When,  on  Athaliah's  usurpation  of  the  throne, 

she  massacred  the1  royal  princes,  J.  was  save>d  from 

her  unnatural  fury  by  the  action  of  his 

1.  His  aunt  Jehosheba,  the  wife  of  Jehoiada, 
Early  the  high  priest  (2  K  11  1.2;  2  Ch 
Preser-  22  10.11).  During  6  years  he  was  con- 
vation             cealed  in  the  house  of  Jehoiada,  which 

adjoined  the  temple;  he'ne-e  is  saiel  to 
have  been  "hid  in  the  house  of  Jeh" — a  perfectly 
legitimate  use  of  the  phrase  according  to  the  idiom 
of  the  time. 

During  these  formative  years  of  J.'s  early  life,  he 
was   under   the;   moral   and   spiritual   influence  of 

Jehoiada — a   man   of   lofty   character 

2.  The  anel  devout  spirit.  At  the  enel  of  6 
Counter-  years,  a  counter-revolution  was  plan- 
Revolution    ned  by  Jehoiada,  and  was  successfully 

carried  out  on  a  Sabbath,  at  one;  of  the 
great  festivals.  The  accounts  of  this  revolution 
in  K  and  Ch  supplement  each  other,  but  though 
the  Levitical  inte-re^st  of  the  Chronicler  is  apparent 
in  the  details  to  which  he  give>s  prominence,  the 
narratives  do  not  necessarily  collide,  as  has  often 
be>e;n  represented.  The  event  was  prepared  for  by 
the  young  king  being  privately  exhibited  to  the  5 
captains  of  the  "exe'eutione'rs"  (RV  "Carites")  and 
"runners"  (2  K  11  4;  2  Ch  23  1).  These  en- 
tered into  covenant  with  Jehoiada,  and,  by  his 
direction,  summoned  the  Le>vite>s  from  Judah  (2 
Ch  23  2),  and  made  the  necessary  arrangements  for 
guareling  the  palace  anel  the  person  of  the  king. 
In  these  dispositions  both  the  royal  be>ely-guarel 
and  the  Levites  se>e'in  to  have  hael  the'ir  parts. 
J.  next  appears  standing  on  a  platform  in  front  of 
the  temple,  the  law  e>f  the  testimony  in  his  hand 
anel  the  crown  upem  his  head.  Amid  acclamations, 
he  is  anointe-el  king.  Athaliah,  rushing  on  the  scene 
with  e:ries  of  "treason"  (sen;  Athaliah),  is  driven 
forth  and  slain.  A  new  covenant  is  maele  between 
Jeh  and  the  king  anel  people,  anel,  at  the;  eone'lusion 
of  the  ceremony,  a  great  procession  is  formed,  and 
the  king  is  conelue'teel  with  honor  to  the  royal  house 
(2  K  11  19;  2  Ch  23  20).  Thus  auspiciously  did 
the  new  reign  be>gin. 


Jehoash 
Jehohanan 


TIIK 


INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


157G 


Crown  to  manhood  (cf  the  ago  of  his  son  Amaziah, 

•»   K   14  25)    .)     married   two  wives,   and  by  them 

had  sons  and  (laughters  (2  Ch  24  3). 

3.  Repair  His  great  concern  at  this  period,  how- 
of  the  ever,  was  the  repair  of  the  teniph — 
Temple  the    "house    of    Jeh" — which    in    the 

reign  of  Athaliah  had  been  broken 
up  in  many  places,  plundered,  and  allowed  to 
become  dilapidated  (2  K  12  5.12;  2  Ch  24  7). 
To  meet  the  expense  of  its  restoration,  the  king 
gave  orders  thai  all  monies  coming  into  the  temple, 
whether  dues  or  voluntary  offerings,  should  be 
appropriated  for  this  purpose  (2  K  12  4),  and 
from  the  account  in  Ch  would  seem  to  have  con- 
templated a  revival  of  the  half-shekel  tax  appointed 
by  Moses  for  the  construction  of  the  tabernacle 
(2  Ch  24  5.6;  ef  Ex  30  11-16;  38  25).  To  en- 
force this  impost  would  have  involved  a  new  census, 
and  the  memory  of  the  judgments  which  attended 
David's  former  at  tempt  of  this  kind  may  well  have 
had  a  deterrent  effect  on  Jehoiada  and  the  priest- 
hood. "The  Levites  hastened  it  not,"  it  is  declared 
(2  Ch  24  5).  ,    ,      ,  •     , 

Time  passed,  and  in  the  23d  year  of  the  kings 
reign  (his  30th  vear),  it  was  found  that  the  breaches 
of 'the  house  had  still  not  been  repaired. 

4.  A  New  A  new  plan  was  adopted.  It  was 
Expedient      arranged    that     a    chest    with    a    hole 

bored  in  its  lid  should  be  set  up  on  the 
right  side  of  the  altar  in  the  temple-court,  under 
the  care  of  two  persons,  one  the  king's  scribe,  the 
other  an  officer  of  the  high  priest,  and  that  the 
people  should  be  invited  to  bring  voluntarily  their 
half-shekel  tax  or  other  offerings,  and  put  it  in  this 
box  (2  K  12  9;  2  Ch  24  8.9).  Gifts  from  wor- 
shippers who  did  not  visit  the  altar  were  received 
by  priests  at  the  gate,  and  brought,  to  the  box. 
The  expedient  proved  brilliantly  successful.  The 
people  cheerfully  responded,  large  sums  were  con- 
tributed, the  money  was  honestly  expended,  and 
the  temple  was  thoroughly  renovated.  There  re- 
mained even  a  surplus,  with  which  gold  and  silver 
vessels  were  made,  or  replaced,  for  the  use  of  the 
temple.  Jehoiada  s  long  and  useful  life  seems  to 
have  closed  soon  after. 

With  the  death  of  this  good  man,  it  soon  became 

evident  that  Hie  strongest _ pillar  of  the  state  was 

removed.     It  is  recorded  that  "J.  did 

5.  The  that  which  was  right  in  the  eyes  of 
King's  De-  Jeh  all  his  days  wherein  Jehoiada  the 
clension         priest     instructed    him"     (2  K  12  2), 

but  after  Jehoiada  had  been  honor- 
ably interred  in  the  sopulchers  of  the  kings  (2  Ch 
24  16),  a  sad  declension  became  manifest.  The 
princes  of  Judah  came  to  J.  and  expressed  their 
wish  for  greater  freedom  in  worship  than  had  been 
permitted  them  by  the  aged  priest.  With  weak 
complaisance,  the  king  "hearkened  unto  them"  (ver 
17).  Soon  idols  and  Asherahs  began  to  be  set  up 
in  Jerus  and  the  other  cities  of  Judah.  Unnamed 
prophets  raised  their  protests  in  vain.  _  The  high 
priest  Zechariah,  a  worthy  son  of  Jehoiada,  testi- 
fied in  his  place  that  as  the  nation  had  forsaken 
Jeh,  he  also  would  forsake  it,  and  that  disaster 
would  follow  (ver  20).  Wrathful  at  the  rebuke, 
the  king  gave  orders  that  Zechariah  should  be  stoned 
with  stones  in  the  temple-court  (ver  21).  This  was 
done,  and  the  act  of  sacrilege,  murder,  and  ingrati- 
tude was  perpetrated  to  which  Jesus  seems  to  refer 
in  Mt  23  35;  Lk  11  51  ("son  of  Barachiah"  in  t  In- 
former passage  is  probably  an  early  copyist's  gloss 
through  confusion  with  the  prophet  Zechariah). 

The  high  priest's  dying  words,  "Jeh  look  upon 
it,  and  require  it,"  soon  found  an  answer.  Within 
a  year  of  Zechariah's  death,  the  armies  of  Hazael, 
the  Syrian  king,  were  ravaging  and  laying  waste 
Judah.     The  city  of  Gath  fell,  and  a  battle,  the  place 


of  which  is  not  given,  placed  Jerus  at  the  mercy 
of  the  foe  (2  K  12  17;  2  Ch  24  23.24).  To  save 
the  capital  from  the  indignity  of 
6.  Calami-  foreign  occupation,  J.,  then  in  dire 
ties  and  sickness,     collected    all    the    hallowed 

Assassi-  things  of  the  temple,  and  all  the  gold 

nation  of   the  palace,   and   sent  them  to   Ha- 

zael (2  K  12  17.18).  This  failure  of 
his  policy,  in  both  church  and  state,  excited  such 
popular  'feeling  against  J.,  that  a  conspiracy  was 
formed  to  assassinate  him.  His  physical  suffer- 
ings won  for  him  no  sympathy,  and  two  of  his  own 
officers  slew  him,  while  asleep,  in  the  fortress  of 
Millo,  where  he  was  paying  a  visit  (ver  20).  He 
was  buried  in  the  city  of  David,  but  not  in  the  royal 
sepulchcrs,  as  Jehoiada  had  been  (2  Ch  24  25). 

J.  is  mentioned  as  the  father  of  Amaziah  (2  K  14 
1;  2  Ch  25  25).  His  contemporaries  in  Israel  wen; 
Jehoahaz  (2  K  13  1)  and  Jehoash  (2  K  13  10). 

(2)  The  son  of  Jehoahaz,  and  12th  king  of  Israel 
(2  K  13  10-25;     14  8-16;     2  Ch  25  17-24).     Je- 
hoash reigned  for  16  years.     His  acces- 

1.  Accession  sion  may  be  placed  in  813  BC.  There 
and  Reign      were    almost    simultaneous  changes  in 

the  sovereignties  of  Judah  and  of  As- 
syria— Amaziah  succeeding  to  the  throne  of  Judah 
in  the  2d  vear  of  J.,  and  Ramman-nirari  III  coming 
to  the  throne  of  Assyria  in  811  BC— which  had 
important  effects  on  the  history  of  Israel  in  this 
reign.  .  . 

During  the  three  previous  reigns,  lor  hall  a  cen- 
tury, Elisha  had  been  the  prophet  of  Jeh  to  Israel. 

He  was  now  aged  and  on  his  deathbed. 

2.  Elisha  Hearing  of  his  illness,  the  young  king 
and  came  to  Dothan,  where  the  prophet 
Jehoash         was,  and  had  a  touching  interview  with 

him.  His  affectionate  exclamation, 
"My  father,  my  father,  the  chariots  of  Israel  and 
the  horsemen  thereof"  (2  K  13  14;  cf  2  12),  casts 
a  pleasing  light  upon  his  character.  On  his  lips 
the  words  had  another  meaning  than  they  bore 
when  used  by  Elisha  himself  at  Elijah's  translation. 
Then  they  referred  to  the  "appearance"  which 
parted  Elisha  from  his  master;  now  they  referred 
to  the  great  service  rendered  by  the  prophet  to  the 
kingdom.  Not  only  had  Elisha  repeatedly  saved 
the  armies  of  Israel  from  the  ambushes  prepared 
for  them  by  the  Syrians  (2  K  6  8-23),  but  he  had 
given  assurance  of  the  relief  of  the  capital  when  it 
was  at  its  worst  extremity  (6  24  ff).  To  J.,  Elisha's 
presence  was  indeed  in  place  of  chariots  and  horse. 
The  truth  was  anew  demonstrated  by  the  promise 
which  the  dying  prophet  now  made  to  him.  Direct- 
ing J.  in  the  symbolical  action  of  the  shooting  of 
certain  arrows,  he  predicted  three  victories  over  the 
Syrians — the  first  at  Aphek,  now  Fik,  on  the  E.  of 
the  Lake  of  Galilee — and  more  would  have  been 
granted,  had  the  faith  of  the  king  risen  to  the  oppor- 
tunity  then  afforded  him  (6  15-19). 

An'  interesting  light  is  thrown  by  the  annals  of 
Assyria  on  the  circumstances  which  may  have  made 

these  victories  of  J.   possible.     Ram- 

3.  Assyria  man-nirari  III,  who  succeeded  to  the 
and  throne  in  811  BC,  made  an  expedition 
Damascus     against  Damascus,  Edom  and  Philist  ia, 

in  his  account  of  which  he  says:  "I  shut 
up  the  king  [of  Syria]  in  his  chief  city,  Damascus. 
....  He  clasped  my  feet,  and  gave  himself  up. 
.  .  .  .His  countless  wealth  and  goods  I  seized 
in  Damascus."  With  the  Syrian  power  thus 
broken  during  the  remainder  of  this  ruler's  reign 
of  27  years,  it  may  be  understood  how  J.  should  be 
able  to  recover,  as  it  is  stated  he  did,  the  cities  which 
Ben-hadad  had  taken  from  his  father  Jehoahaz 
(2  K  13  25).  Schrader  and  others  see  in  this 
Assvr  ruler  the  "saviour"  of  Israel  alluded  to  in 


1577 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jehoash 
Jehoiachin 


2  K  13  5;    more  usually  the  reference  is  taken  to 

be  to  J.  himself,  and  to  Jeroboam  II  (cf  2  K  14  27). 

The  epitome  of  J.'s  reign  is  very  brief,  but  the 

favorable  impression  formed  of  him  from  the  acts 

of  Elisha  is  strengthened  by  another 

4.  War  gained  from  the  history  of  Amaziah 
with  Judah  of    Judah     (2  K  14  8-16;     2  Ch  25 

17-24).  For  the  purpose  of  a  southern 
campaign,  Amaziah  had  hired  a  large  contingent 
of  troops  from  Samaria.  Being  sent  back  unem- 
ployed, these  mercenaries  committed  ravages  on 
their  way  home,  for  which,  apparently,  no  redress 
was  given.  On  the  first  challenge  of  the  king  of 
Judah,  J.  magnanimously  refused  the  call  to  arms, 
but  on  Amaziah  persisting,  the  peace  established 
nearly  80  years  before  by  Jehoshaphat  (1  K  22  44) 
was  broken  at  the  battle  of  Beth-shemesh,  in  which 
Amaziah  was  defeated  and  captured.  Jems  opened 
its  gates  to  the  victor,  and  was  despoiled  of  all  its 
treasure,  both  of  palace  and  temple.  A  portion  of 
the  wall  was  broken  down,  and  hostages  for  future 
behavior  were  taken  to  Samaria  (2  K  14  13.14). 

J.  did  not  long  survive  his  crowning  victory,  but 

left  a  resuscitated  state,  and  laid  the- foundation 

for    a    subsequent    rule    which    raised 

5.  Character  Israel  to  the  zenith  of  its  power.     Jos 

gives  J.  a  high  character  for  godliness, 
but,  like  each  of  his  predecessors,  he  followed  in  the 
iootsteps  of  Jeroboam  1  in  permitting,  if  not  en- 
couraging, the  worship  of  the  golden  calves.  Hence 
his  conduct  is  pronounced  ''evil"  by  the  historian 
(2  K  13  11).  He  was  succeeded  by  his  son 
Jeroboam  II.  W.  Shaw  Caldecott 

JEHOHANAN,  je-ho-ha'nan  OjZTV.rP ,  y'hoha- 
nan,  "Jeh  is  [or  has  been]  gracious"*): 

(1)  A  Korahite  doorkeeper  in  David's  reign,  '•son" 
of  Meshelemiah  (1  Ch  26  3).  LXX,  Luc,  has 
"Jehonathan." 

(2)  One  of  the  five  captains  over  King  Jehosha- 
phat s  army  (2  Ch  17  15),  probably  father  of 
Ishmacl,  "son  of  J."  (2  Ch  23  1). 

(3)  Ezr  10  6  (AV  lias  "Johanan")  =  "Johanan"  of 
r>eh  12  22.23  =  "Jonathan"  of  Neh  12  11,  "son"  of 
Ehashib  (Ezr  10  6;  but  "grandson"  in  Neh  12  ID. 
He  was  high  priest  in  Ezra's  time  =  "Jonas"  in  1  Esd 
9  1   (AV  "Joanan"). 

(4)  One  of  those  who  had  married  foreign  wives 
(Ezr  10  28)  =  "Joannes"  RV,  "Johannes"  AV  (1  Esd 
9  29). 

(5)  Son  of  Tobiah,  the  Ammonite,  Nehemiah's 
opponent  (Neh  6  18,   AV  "Johanan"). 

1    (6)  Head  of  the  priestly  family  of  Amariah  (Neh 

1  £    1  o  J  . 

(7)  A  priest  present  at  the  dedication  of  the  walls 
of  Jerus  (Neh  12  42). 

(8)  The  name  in  the  Heb  of  2  Ch  28  12.  See 
Johanax,  (7).  David  Francis  Roberts 

JEHOIACHIN,  je-hoi'a-kin  (^Z^rP,  y*hoyd- 
khjn  "Jeh  will  uphold";  called  also  "Jeconiah"  in 
1  Ch  3  16;  Jer  24  1;  PP?^,  ykhonyah,  "Jeh 
Willie  stedfast,"  and  "Coniah"  in  Jer  22  24.28; 
"•"POD,  konyahu,  "Jeh  has  upheld  him";  'Wxcifj.,' 
Ioakeirn):  A  king  of  Judah;  son  and  successor  of 
Jehoiakim;  reigned  three  months  and  surrendered 
to  Nebuchadnezzar;  was  carried  to  Babylon,  where 
alter  being  there  37  years  a  prisoner,  he  died. 

the  story  of  his  reign  is  told  in  2  K  24  8-16 
ami  more  briefly  in  2  Ch  36  9-10.  Then,  after  the 
1     c  reign   of   his   successor   Zedekiah   and 

1.  bources    the  final  deportation  are  narrated,  the 
account  of  his  release  from  prison  37 
years  afterward  and  the  honor  done  him  is  given  as 
the  final  paragraph  of  2  K  (25  27-30).     The  same 


thing  is  told  at  the  end  of  the  Book  of  Jer  (52  31-34). 
Neither  for  this  reign  nor  for  the  succeeding  is  there 
the  usual  reference  to  state  annals;  these  seem  to 
have  been  discontinued  after  Jehoiakim.  In  Jer 
22  24-30  there  is  a  final  pronouncement  on  this 
king,  not  so  much  upon  the  man  as  upon  his  inevi- 
table fate,  and  a  prediction  that  no  descendant  of  his 
shall  ever  have  prosperous  rule  in  Judah. 

Of  the  brief  reign  of  J.  there  is  little  to  tell.     It 

was  rather  a  historic  landmark  than  a  reign;    but 

its  year,  597  BC,  was  important  as  the 

2.  His  dateof  the  first  deportation  of  Jewish 
Reign  captives  to  Babylon  (unless  we  except 

the  company  of  hostages  carried  away 
in  Jehoiakim's  3d  [4th]  year,  Did  1  1-7).  His 
coming  to  the  throne  was  just  at  or  near  the  time 
when  Nebuchadnezzar's  servants  were  besieging 
Jerus;  and  when  the  Chaldaean  king's  arrival  in 
person  to  superintend  the  siege  made  apparent  the 
futility  of  resistance,  J.  surrendered  to  him.  with 
all  the  royal  household  and  the  court.  He  was 
carried  prisoner  to  Babylon,  and  with  him  ten 
thousand  captives,  comprising  all  the  better  and 
sturdier  element  of  the  people  from  prince  to  crafts- 
man, leaving  only  the  poorer  sort  to  constitute  the 
body  of  the  nation  under  his  successor  Zedekiah. 
With  the  prisoners  were  carried  away  also  the  most 
valuable  treasures  of  the  temple  and  the  royal 
palace. 

Ever  since  Isaiah  fostered  the  birth  and  education 

of  a  spiritually-minded  remnant,  for  him  the  vital 

hope  of  Israel,  the  growth  and  influ- 

3.  The  Two  ence  of  this  element  in  the  nation 
Elements       has   been   discernible,    as  well   in   the 

persecution  it  has  roused  (see  under 
Manasseh),  as  in  its  fiber  of  sound  progress.  It 
is  as  if  a  sober  sanity  of  reflection  were  curing  the 
people  of  their  empty  idolatries.  The  feeling  is 
well  expressed  in  such  a  passage  as  Hab  2  18-20. 
Hitherto,  however,  the  power  of  this  spiritual  Israel 
has  been  latent,  or  at  best  mingled  and  pervasive 
among  the  various  occupations  and  interests  of  the 
people.  The  surrender  of  Jehoiachin  brings  about 
a  segmentation  of  Israel  on  an  unheard-of  principle: 
not  the  high  and  low  in  wealth  or  social  position, 
but  the  weight  and  worth  of  all  classes  on  the  one 
side,  who  are  marked  for  deportation,  and  the  refuse 
element  of  all  classes  on  the  other,  who  are  left  at 
home.  With  which  element  of  this  strange  sifting 
Jeremiah's  prophetic  hopes  are  identified  appears 
in  his  parable  of  the  ( Jood  and  Bad  Figs  (Jer  24),  in 
which  he  predicts  spiritual  integrity  and  upbuilding 
to  the  captives,  and  to  the  home-staying  remainder, 
shame  and  calamity.  Later  on,  he  writes  to  the 
exiles  in  Babylon,  advising  them  to  make  themselves 
at  home  and  be  good  citizens  (Jer  29  1-10).  As  for 
the  hapless  king,  "this  man  Coniah,"  who  is  to  be 
their  captive  chief  in  a  strange  land,  Jeremiah 
speaks  of  him  in  a  strain  in  which  the  stern  sense  of 
Jeh's  inexorable  purpose  is  mingled  with  tender  svm- 
pathy  as  he  predicts  that  this  man  shall  never  have 
a  descendant  on  David's  throne  (Jer  22  24-30). 
It  is  as  if  he  said,  All  as  Jeh  has  ordained,  but— the 
pity  ot  it ! 

In  the  first  year  of  Nebuchadnezzar's  successor, 
perhaps  by  testamentary  edict  of  Nebuchadnezzar 

t,   .  himself,     a    strange    thing     occurred. 

4.  Thirty-  J.,  who  seems  to  have  been  a  kind  of 
seven  Years  hostage  prisoner  for  his  people,  was 
Later  released  from  prison,   honored   above 

all  the  other  kings  in  similar  case,  and 
thenceforth  to  the  end  of  his  life  had  his  portion  at 
the  royal  table  (2  K  25  27-30;  Jer  52  31-34). 
This  act  of  clemency  may  have  been  due  to  some 
such  good  influence  at  court  as  is  described  in  the 
Book  of  Dnl;  but  also  it  was  a  tribute  to  the  good 
conduct  of  that  better  element  of  the  people  of 


Jehoiada 
Jehoiakim 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1578 


which  he  was  hostage  and  representative.     It  was 

the  lust  event  of  Judaean  royalty;  and  suggestive 
for  the  glimpse  it  seems  to  afford  of  a  people  whom 
the  Second  Isaiah  could  address  as  redeemed  and 
forgiven,  and  of  a  king  taken  from  durance  and  judg- 
ment (cf  Isa  53  S),  whose  career  makes  strangely 
vivid  the  things  that  are  said  of  the  mysterious 
"Servant  of  Jeli."  John  Fkanklin  GenunQ 

JEHOIADA,  je-hoi'a-da  (yTHrP,  ifhdyadha\ 
"Jeh  knows";    'ItoStU,  Iodd< ■): 

(1)  Father  of  Benaiah,  the  captain  of  David's 
body-guard  (2  S  8  IS;  20  23;  23  20.22;  1  K  1 
S,  etc;.  J.  was  "the  son  of  a  valiant  man  of  Kab- 
zeel"  (2  S  23  20),  but  commentators  read  with 
LXX  and  Ewald,  "Benaiah  (the  son  of  Jehoiada) 
a  man  of  valour."  Kabzeel  was  a  town  belonging 
to  Judah  on  the  border  of  Edom  in  the  S.  (Josh 
15  21).  In  1  Ch  27  5,  we  read  "Benaiah,  the  son 
of  Jehoiada  the  priest,  chief,"  RV,  but  RVm  has 
"chief  minister"  wrongly.  Yet  J.  is  nowhere  else 
called  a  priest  or  even  a  Levite,  though  in  1  Ch 
12  27  (Heb  28)  a  J.  is  mentioned  as  a  military 
"leader  of  the  house  of  Aaron,"  who  came  to  David 
to  Hebron  with  other  members  of  the  house  of  Levi. 
In  1  Ch  27  34  there  is  named  among  David's 
counsellors,  "J.  the  son  of  Benaiah,"  where  some 
commentators  would  read  with  two  MSS,  "B.,  the 
son  of  J."  though  Curtis,  Crit.  and  Exeget.  Cumm. 
on  the  Books  of  Ch,  295,  keeps  the  MT. 

(2)  Priest  in  the  reigns  of  Ahaziah,  Queen 
Athaliah,  and  Jehoash  (Joash)  of  Judah  (2  K  11 
4—12  lb  [Heb  171  =  2  Ch  23  1—24  14;  2  Ch  22 
11;  24  14-16.17-20.22.25).  In  2  K  12  10  (Heb 
11)  he  is  called  "high  priest,"  and  is  the  first-  to 
be  given  that  title,  but  as  the  priest  lived  in  the 
temple,  there  is  no  meaning  in  saying  that  he  "came 
up,"  so  commentators  omit  the  words,  "and  the 
chief  priest."  According  to  2  Ch  22  11,  he  had 
married  Jehoshabeath  (  =  Jehosheba),  the  daughter 
of  the  king,  i.e.  Jehoram. 

(a)  The  account  in  2  Ch  23  1-21  differs  in  many 
respects  from  that  in  2  K  11  4-20,  but  even  the 
latter  has  its  problems,  and  Stade 
1.  Jehoiada  (ZATW,  1885,  280 ff)  pointed  out 
and  the  two  sources  in  it.     This  view  is  ac- 

Revolt  cepted  by  many.     A  reader  is  struck 

against  at  once  by  the  double  reference  to  the 

Athaliah  death  of  Athaliah  (vs  16.20),  and  the 
construction  of  the  Heb  for  "making 
a  covenant"  is  different  in  ver  4  from  that  in  ver 
17.  Stade  holds  that  there  is  one  narrative  in 
11  4-12. 186-20  and  another  in  vs  13-lSa. 

In  the  first,  J.  makes  an  agreement  with  the  cap- 
tains of  the  foreign  body-guard,  and  arranges  that 
both  the  incoming  and  outgoing  temple-guard  shall 
be  kept  in  the  temple  at  the  time  when  the  guard 
should  be  changed  on  the  Sabbath,  and  also  that 
the  young  prince,  Jehoash,  who  had  been  kept  in 
hiding,  shall  be  proclaimed.  The  captains  do  this, 
and  the  prince  is  crowned  and  proclaimed  (vs  4-12). 
Then  officers  are  set  up  in  the  temple,  and  Jehoash 
is  taken  to  the  royal  palace  and  enthroned.  The 
revolt  proves  popular  with  the  people  of  Jerus  and 
those  of  the  district,  and  Athaliah  is  slain  in  the 
palace. 

But  there  are  difficulties  in  this  narrative,  though  the 
above  gives  the  trend  of  events;  ver  5  refers  to  a  third 
of  the  guard  who  "came  in  on  the  sabbath,"  and  ver  7 
to  two  companies  who  "go  forth  on  the  sabbath";  the 
Heb  is,  "they  that  enter  the  sabbath"  and  "they  that 
go  out  of  the  sabbath."  Ver  9  makes  clear  the  connec- 
tion between  vs  5  and  7.  But  ver  G  introduces  a  diffi- 
culty: it  seems  to  denote  a  division  of  those  who  "enter" 
into  three  divisions,  i.e.  the  two  in  ver  (>  and  one  in  ver  5. 
If  ver  r>  lie  omitted,  as  is  proposed  by  many,  this  diffi- 
culty vanishes,  lint  there  still  remains  the  question 
of  the  change  of  guards.  Commentators  say  that  "they 
who  enter  the  sabbath"  are  those  who  leave  the  temple 
and  enter  their  quarters  at  the  beginning  of  the  Sabbath, 


presumably,  while  "those  who  go  out"  are  those  who  leave 
their  quarters  to  mount  guard.  This  Is  not  impossible 
as  an  explanation  of  the  Heb.  It  is  further  believed  that 
the  guard  at  the  temple  on  the  Sabbath  was  double  that 
on  other  days.  The  oilier  explanation,  held  by  older 
commentators  is  that  on  the  Sabbath  the  guard  was  only 
half  its  usual  size;  this  gives  another  meaning  to  the 
Heb  phrases.  On  the  other  hand,  it  may  be  held  that 
thi'  revolt  took  place  at  the  close  of  the  Sabbath,  and  that 
the  double-sized  guard  was  kept  by  J.  even  after  the 
usual-sized  one  had  come  to  take  their  place,  it  should 
be  added  that  Wellhausen  proposed  to  read  FlTiyS 
(ge'ddhoth),  "armlets"  (cf  Isa  3  19),  for  Pfliy  (edlnah), 
"testimony."  in  ver  12;  and  in  ver  1!)  the  words  "and 
all  the  people  of  the  land"  are  held  to  be  an  addition. 

Q))  The  2d  narrative  (vs  13-18a)  begins  suddenly. 
Presumably  its  earlier  part  was  identical  with  the 
earlier  part  of  the  1st  narrative,  unless  ver  6  was  a 
part  originally  of  this  2d  account.  Athaliah  hears 
the  noise  of  the  people  (ver  13,  where  "the  guard" 
is  a  gloss  and  so  to  be  omitted),  and  comes  to  the 
temple,  where  she  witnesses  the  revolt  and  cries, 
"Treason!  treason!"  J.  orders  her  to  be  put  forth 
(omit  "between  the  ranks"  in  ver  15),  so  that  she 
should  not  be  slain  in  the  temple,  and  she  is  murdered 
at  one  of  the  palace  entrances  (ver  10,  where  RV, 
following  LXX  of  2  Ch  23  15,  tra  the  first  sentence 
wrongly:  it  should  be  "So  they  laid  hands  on  her"). 
J.  then  makes  the  king  and  the  people  enter  into  a 
solemn  covenant  to  be  Jeh's  people,  and  the  result  is 
the  destruction  of  the  temple  of  Baal,  and  the  death 
of  Mattan,  its  priest  (vs  17.18a).  This  2d  narrative 
gives  a  religious  significance  to  the  revolt,  but  it  is 
incomplete.  The  other  narrative  presents  a  very 
natural  course  of  events,  for  it  was  absolutely  neces- 
sary for  J.  to  secure  the  allegiance  of  the  royal  foreign 
body-guard. 

(c)  The  account  in  2  Ch  23  1-21,  though  following 
that  of  2  K  in  the  main,  differs  from  it  considerably. 
The  guard  is  hen;  composed  of  Levites;  it  does  not  men- 
tion the  foreign  body-guard,  and  relates  how  the  revolt 
was  planned  with  the  Levites  of  the  cities  of  Judah — a 
method  which  would  have  become  known  to  Athaliah 
and  for  which  she  would  have  made  preparations,  no 
doubt.  Ch  makes  it  a  wdiolly  religious  movement,  while 
2  K  gives  two  points  of  view.  The  value  of  the  Chroni- 
cler's account  depends  largely  on  one's  estimate  of  the 
Books  of  Ch  and  one's  views  as  to  the  development  of 
the  Jewish  priestly  system.  A.  Van  Hoonacker,  Le 
sacerdoce  ISvitique  /latin  la  loi  it  dan*  Vhistoire  dcti  Hebrcux, 
93-100,  defends  the  account  in  2  Ch. 

The  part  which  J.  played  in  the  restoration  of  the 
temple  buildings  is  described  in  2  K  11  21 — 12  16 
(Heb  12  1-17)  ||  2  Ch  24  1-14.    Here 
2.  Jehoiada  again  the  narratives  of  2  K  and  2  Ch 
and  the  differ  to  a  large  extent. 

Restoration  («)  According  to  2  K  (i)  the  priests 
of  the  are  commanded  by  Jehoash  to  devote 

Temple  the  dues  or  free-will  offerings  of  the 

people  to  repairing  the  breaches  in  the 
temple.  They  fail  to  do  so,  and  (ii)  J.  is  sum- 
moned by  the  king  and  rebuked.  Then  (iii)  a  new 
regulation  is  put  into  force:  the  offerings,  except 
the  guilt  offerings  and  sin  offerings,  are  no  longer 
to  be  given  to  the  priests,  but  to  be  put  into  a  chest 
provided  in  the  temple  for  the  purpose,  (iv)  The 
money  got  in  this  way  is  devoted  to  repairing  the 
temple,  but  (v)  none  of  it  is  used  to  provide  temple 
vessels. 

(/>)  Ch,  on  the  other  hand,  (i)  relates  that  the 
priests  and  Levites  are  commanded  to  go  through 
Judah  to  collect  the  necessary  money.  They  "has- 
tened it  not."  Then  (ii)  J.  is  summoned  to  account 
for  this  disobedience,  and  (iii)  a  chest  is  put  outside 
the  temple  to  receive  the  tax  commanded  by  Moses, 
(iv)  This  the  people  pay  willingly,  and  the  temple 
is  repaired.  There  is  such  a  surplus  that  (v)  there 
is  money  also  to  provide  vessels  for  the  temple. 

It  is  at  least  questionable  whether  the  additions 
in  2  Ch  are  trustworthy;  the  contradictions  against 
2  K  are  clear,  and  the  latter  gives  the  more  likely 


1579 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jehoiada 
Jehoiakim 


narrative,  although  Van  Hoonackcr  (op.  cit.,  101- 
14)  defends  the  former. 

According  to  2  Cli  24  15,  J.  lived  to  be  130  years 
old,  and  was  buried  among  the  kings — a  unique 
distinction. 

(3)  AV  in  Neh  3  6  =  Joiada  (q.v.). 

(4)  There  is  a  Jehoiada,  the  priest  mentioned  in 
Jer  29  26,  in  whose  stead  Zephaniah  was  declared 
priest  by  Shemaiah  in  a  letter. 

Giesebrecht  takes  him  to  be  the  same  as  the  priest  of 
Athaliah's  time  (see  [2]  above),  but  Uulim  says  that 
nothing  is  known  of  him.  In  any  case,  Zephaniah  could 
not  have  been  the  direct  successor  of  the  well-known 
.Jehoiada.  and  so  the  reference;  can  scarcely  be  to  him 
if  it  is  to  have  any  meaning. 

David  Francis  Robekts 
JEHOIAKIM,  je-hoi'a-kim  (D^IrT  ,  yhoyaklm, 
"Jeh  will  establish";  'IwaKeifj.,  Ioakeim):  The  name 
given  him  by  Pharaoh-necoh,  who  raised  him  to  the 
throne  as  vassal  king  in  place  of  his  brother  Jehoa- 
haz,  is  changed  from  Eliakim  (Cp^-X,  'elyakim, 
"God  will  establish").  The  change  compounds  the 
name,  after  the  royal  Judaean  custom,  with  that 
of  Jeh;  it  may  also  imply  that  Necoh  claims  Jeh's 
authorization  for  his  act,  as  in  a  similar  way  Sen- 
nacherib had  claimed  it  for  his  invasion  of  Judah 
(2  K  18  25).  He  has  represented  the  campaign 
with  which  Josiah  interfered  as  undertaken  by 
Divine  command  ('El,  2  Ch  35  21);  this  episode 
of  it  merely  translates  the  authorization,  rather 
arrogantly,  into  the  conquered  nation's  dialect. 

A  king  of  Judah,  elder  (half-)  brother  and  suc- 
cessor of  Jehoahaz;  reigned  11  years  from  608  BC. 

/.   Sources  for  His  Life  and  Time. — The  circum- 

stances  of  his  accession  and  raising  of  the  indemnity 

to  Pharaoh-necoh,  followed  by  a  brief 

1.  Annalistic  resume  of  his  reign,   are  narrated   in 

2  K  23  34—24  6.  The  naming  of 
the  source  for  "the  rest  of  his  acts"  (24  5)  is  the  last 
reference  we  have  to  "the  book  of  the  chronicles 
of  the  kings  of  Judah."  The  acccount  in  2  Ch  36 
5-8,  though  briefer  still,  mentions  Nebuchadnezzar's 
looting  of  the  temple  at  some  uncertain  date  in  his 
reign.  Neither  account  has  any  good  to  say  of  J.; 
to  the  writer  of  2  K,  however,' his  ill  fortunes  are 
due  to  Jeh's  retributive  justice  for  the  sins  of 
Manasseh;  while  to  the  Chronicler  the  sum  of  his 
acts,  apparently  connected  with  the  desecration  of 
the  sanctuary,  is  characterized  as  "the  abomina- 
tions which  he  did."  For  "the  rest  of  his  acts"  we 
are  referred,  also  for  the  last  time,  to  the  "book  of 
the  kings  of  Israel  and  Judah." 

For  the  moral  and  spiritual  chaos  of  the  time,  and 

for  prophecies  and  incidents  throwing  much  light 

on  the  king's  character,  Jeremiah  has 

2.  Prophetic  a  number  of  extended  passages,  not, 

however,  in  consecutive  order. 

The  main  ones  clearly  identifiable  with  this  reign  are: 
22  13-19,  inveighing  against  the  king's  tyrannies  and 
predicting  his  ignominious  death;  ch  26,  dated  in  the 
beginning  of  his  reign  and  again  predicting  (as  had  been 
predicted  before  in  7  12-15)  the  destruction  of  the 
temple;  ch  25,  dated  in  his  4th  year  and  predicting  the 
conquest  of  Judah  and  surrounding  nations  by  Nebuchad- 
nezzar; ch  36,  dated  in  the  4th  and  5th  years,  and  telling 
the  story  of  the  roll  of  prophecy  which  the  king  destroyed ; 
ch  45,  an  appendix  from  the  4th  year,  reassuring  Bafuch 
the  scribe,  in  terms  of  the  larger  prophetic  scale,  for  his 
dismay  at  what  he  had  to  write;  cli  46,  also  an  appen- 
dix, a  reminiscence  of  the  year  of  Carchemish,  containing 
the  oracle  then  pronounced  against  Egypt,  and  giving 
words  of  the  larger  comfort  to  Judah.  The  Book  of  the 
prophet  Habakkuk,  written  in  this  reign,  gives  expression 
to  the  prophetic  feeling  of  doubt  and  dismay  at  the 
unrequited  ravages  of  the  Chaldaeans  against  a  people; 
more  righteous  than  they,  with  a  sense  of  the  value  of 
stedfast  faith  and  of  Jeh's  world-movement  and  purpose 
which  explains  the  seeming  enormity. 

//.   Character  and  Events  of  His  Reign. — The 

reign  of  J.  is  not  so  significant  for  any  personal  im- 
press of  his  upon  his  time  as  for  the  fact  that  it 
fell  in  one  of  the  most  momentous  epochs  of  ancient 


history.  By  the  fall  of  Nineveh  in  606  to  the 
assault  of  Nebuchadnezzar,  then  crown  prince  of  the 

rising  Bab  empire,  Assyria,  "the  rod 
1.  The  of    [Jeh's]    anger"    (Isa  10  5),    ended 

Epoch  its     arrogant     and     inveterate     sway 

over  the  nations.  Nebuchadnezzar, 
coming  soon  after  to  the  Chaldaean  throne,  followed 
up  his  victory  by  a  vigorous  campaign  against 
Pharaoh-necoh,  whom  we  have  seen  at  the  end  of 
Josiah's  reign  (see  under  Josiah)  advancing  toward 
t lip  Euphrates  in  his  attempt  to  secure  Egyp  do- 
minion over  Syria  and  Mesopotamia.  The  en- 
counter took  place  in  605  at  Carchemish  on  the 
northern  Euphrates,  where  Necoh  was  defeated  and 
driven  back  to  the  borders  of  his  own  land,  never 
more  to  renew  his  aggressions  (2  K  24  7).  The 
dominating  world-empire  was  now  in  the  hands  of 
the  Chaldaeans,  "that  bitter  and  hasty  nation" 
(I lab  1  6);  the  first  stage  of  the  movement  by 
which  the  world's  civilization  was  passing  from 
Sem  to  Aryan  control.  With  this  world-movement 
Israel's  destiny  was  henceforth  to  be  intimately 
involved;  the  prophets  were  already  dimly  aware 
of  it ,  and  were  shaping  their  warnings  and  promises, 
as  by  a  Divine  instinct,  to  that  end/  It  was  on  t  his 
larger  scale  of  things  that  they  worked;  it  had  all 
along  been  their  endeavor,  and  continued  with  in- 
creasing clearness  and  fervor,  to  develop  in  Israel 
a  conscience  and  stamina  which  should  be  a  leaven- 
ing power  for  good  in  the  coming  great  era  (cf  lsa 

2  2  4;  Mic  4  1-3). 

Of  all  these  prophetic  meanings,  however,  neither 
the  king  nor  the  ruling  classes  had  the  faintest  reali- 
zation;   they  saw   only  the    political 
2.  The  exigencies  of   the   moment.     Nor  did 

King's  the  king  himself,  in  any  patriotic  way, 

Perverse  rise  even  to  the  immediate  occasion. 
Character  As  to  policy,  he  was  an  unprincipled 
opportunist :  vassal  to  Necoh  to  whom 
he  owed  his  throne,  until  Necoh  himself  was  de- 
feated;   enforced    vassal    to    Nebuchadnezzar    for 

3  years  along  with  the  other  petty  kings  of  Western 
Asia;  then  rebelling  against  the  latter  as  soon  as 
he  thought  he  could  make  anything  by  it.  As  to 
responsibility  of  administration,  he  had  simply  the 
temper  of  a  despotic  self-indulgent  Oriental.  He 
raised  the  immense  fine  that  Necoh  imposed  upon 
him  by  a  direct  taxation,  which  he  farmed  out  to 
unscrupulous  officials.  He  indulged  himself  with 
erecting  costly  royal  buildings,  employing  for  the 
purpose  enforced  and  unpaid  labor  (Jer  22  13-17); 
while  all  just  interests  of  his  oppressed  subjects 
went  wholly  unregarded.  As  to  religion,  he  let  mat- 
ters go  on  as  they  had  been  under  Manasseh,  prob- 
ably introducing  also  tin;  still  more  strange  and 
heathenish  rites  from  Egypt  and  the  East  of  which 
we  see  the  effects  in  Ezk  8  5-17.  And  meanwhile 
the  reformed  temple-worship  which  Josiah  had 
introduced  seems  to  have;  become  a  mere  formal 
and  perfunctory  matter,  to  which,  if  we  may  judge 
by  his  conspicuous  absence  from  fast  and  festal 
occasions  (e.g.  Jer  26,  36),  the  king  paid  no  atten- 
tion. His  impious  act  of  cutting  up  and  burning 
Jeremiah's  roll  (36  23),  as  also  his  vindictive  pur- 
suit and  murder  of  Uriah  for  prophesying  in  the 
spirit  of  Jeremiah  (26  20-23),  reveal  his  antipathy 
to  any  word  that  does  not  prophesy  "smooth 
things"  (cf  Isa  30  10),  and  in  fact  a  downright 
perversity  to  the  name  and  will  of  Jeh. 

With  the  onset  of  the  Chaldaean  power,  prophecy,  as 
represented  in  the  great  seers  whose  words  remain  to  us, 

reached  a  crisis  which  only  time  and  the 
3.  The  consistent  sense  of  its  larger  issues  could 

Pmnliotif  enable  it  to  weather.  Isaiah,  in  his  time, 
i-ropntHH,  had  stood  for  the  inviolability  of  Zion,  and 
Attitude  a   miraculous   deliverance   had   vindicated 

his  sublime  faith.  But  with  Jeremiah, 
conditions  had  changed.  The  idea  thus  engendered, 
that  the  temple  was  bound  to  stand  and  with  it  Jerus, 


Jehoiarib 
Jehoshaphat 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1580 


an  idea  confirmed  by  Josiah's  centralizing  reforms  had 
become  a  superstition  and  a  presumption  (cf  .let  7  4) 
and  Jeremiah  hud  reached  the  conviction  that  it  with 
it"  wooden  rites  and  glaring  abuses,  must  go:  tha  nothing 
short  of  a  .'Iran  sweep  of  the  old  religious  fetishes  could 
cure  the  inveterate  inspirit uality  of  the  nation.     This 


in   to  many  1  i I- 


cure   .. 

conviction  of  his  must   needs.. 

consistency  to  set  prophecy  against,  itself.  And  win 
theChatdaean  appeared  on  the  scene,  his  counsel  of  sul>- 
tlon  and  prediction  of  captivity  would  ^adouhto 
inconsistency;  not  only  a  traversing  of  a  tested  propneo, 
'tn'ason-to  the  state.  This  was  the  situation  that 
,„.  hiul  lo  encounter;  and  for  it  he  gave  Ins  tender  ft-elings 
his  liberty,  his  life.  It  is  in  this  reign.of  .1.  that  f 
sake  of  jell's  won!  and  purpose,,  ho  is  engulfed  m  the 
deep  tragedy  of  his  career.  And  m  this  he  must  be  vir- 
tually  alone. 


Habakkuk  is  indeed   with   him  in   s.\ 


tuaiv    alone,      i     m   hmi»    >.-i    m,.,  .  ,. -  ■ 

paUy;  but  his  vision  is  not  so  clear;  he  must  weather 
disheartening  doubts,  and  cherish  the  faith  of  the 
ritrhteous  (Hab  2  4),  and  wait  until  the  vision  of  Jell  s 
secret  purpose  clears  (Hah  2  l--:<).  If  the  prophets 
themselves  are  thus  having  such  an  equivocal  crisis  we 
can  imagine  how  forlorn  is  the  plight  of  Jeh  s*  remnant 
who  are  dependent  on  prophetic  faith  and  courage  to 
guide  them  through  the  depths.  The  humble  nucleus 
of  the  true  Israel,  which  is  some  day  to  be  the  nations 
redeeming  element,  is  undergoing  a  stern  seasoning. 

\fter  Syria  fell  into   Nebuchadnezzar's  power, 
he  seems  to  have  established  his  headquarters  for 
some  years   at   Riblah;    and   after   J. 
4.  Harass-     attempted  to  revolt  from  his  authority, 
ing  and  lie   sent,    against    him    guerilla    bands 

Death  from  the  neighboring  nations,  and  de- 

tachments from  his  Chaldaean  garri- 
sons who  harassed  him  with  raids  and  depredations. 
In  2  Ch  36  0.7,  it  is  related  that  Nebuchadnezzar 
carried  some  of  the  vessels  of  the  temple  to  Baby- 
lon and  bound  the  king  in  fetters  to  carry  htm  also 
to  Babylon— the  latter  purpose  apparently  not 
carried  out.  This  was  in  J.'s  4th  year.  In  Dnl  1 
1.2,  though  ascribed  to  Jehoiakim's  3d  year,  this 
same  event  is  related  as  the  result  of  a  siege  of 
Jerus.  It  is  ambiguously  intimated  also  that  the 
king  was  deported;  and  among  "the  seed  royal  and 
of  the  nobles"  who  were  of  the  company  were 
Daniel  and  his  three  companions  (Dnl  1  3.6).  The 
manner  of  J's  death  is  obscure.  It  is  merely  said 
(2  K  24  (i)  that  he  "slept  with  his  fathers";  _  but 
Jos  (A  xt,  X,  vi,  3),  perhaps  assuming  that  Jeremiah's 
prediction  (Jer  22  19)  was  fulfilled,  states  that  Neb- 
uchadnezzar slew  him  and  cast  his  body  outside  the 
walls  unburied.  John  Franklin  Gentjng 

JEHOIARIB,  jg-hoi'a-rib  P'H'^rn ,  y'hoyarlbh, 
"Jeh  pleads"  or  "contends"):  A  priest  in  Jerus 
(1  Ch  9  10);  the  name  occurs  again  in  1  Ch  24  7 
as  the  name  of  a  family  among,  the  24  courses  of 
priests  =  the  family  Joiarib  P"1"!^"1 ,  yoyarlbh,  same 
meaning  as  above,  Neh  12  6),  the  head  of  which  is 
Mattenai  in  Neh  12  19.  In  Neh  11  10  we  should 
probably  read  "Jedaiah  and  Joiarib"  for  "Jedaiah 
the  son  of  Joiarib"  (cf  1  Ch  9  10).  Jehoiarib  = 
Joarib  in  1   Mace  2  1. 

JEHONADAB,  je-hon'a-dab  pnjlTTj,  yhond- 
dhabh,  either  "Jeh  is  noble"  or  "liberal,"  or  "Jeh 
litis  impelled")  =  Jonadab  P"""1 ,  yonddhdbh,  same 
meaning): 

(1)  Jehonadab  in  Heb  of  2  S  13  5;  but  Jonadab 
in  EV,  and  in  Heb  and  EV  of  13  3.32.3.");  son  of 
Shimeah,  King  David's  brother.  He  was  friendly 
with  Amnon  his  cousin,  and  is  said  to  be  "a  very 
shrewd  [RV  "subtle"]  man."  He  planned  to  get 
Tamar  to  wait  upon  Amnon.  Two  years  after, 
when  Absalom  had  murdered  Amnon,  and  David 
had  heard  that  all  the  king's  sons  were  assassinated, 
J.  assured  him  that  only  Amnon  was  killed;  and 
his  reassuring  tone  is  justified  (ver  35);  possibly 
he  knew  of  Absalom's  intentions.  LXX,  Luc,  has 
"Jonathan"  in  13  3  ff ;  and  in  2  S  21  21  ||  1  Ch 
20  7,  there  is  mentioned  a  son  of  Shimei  (=  "Shim- 
ea,"  1  Ch  20  7  =  "Shammah,"  1  S  16  9),  whose 
name  is  Jonathan.     See  Jonathan,  (4). 


(2)  Jehonadab  in  2  K  10  15.23;  in  Heb  of  Jer 
35  S.14.1G.18  =  Jonadab  in  Jer  35  0.10.19,  and 
I  A  of  35  8.14.10.18,  "son"  of  Rechab,  of  the  Kenite 
clan  (1  Ch  2  55).  J.  is  described  in  2  K  10  as 
tin  ally  of  Jehu  in  the  abolition  of  Baal-worship  in 
Samaria.  Jehu  met  him  after  slaying  the  son  of 
Ahab  (10  15);  the  second  part  of  the  verse  should 
probably  be  tr'1  'And  he  greeted  him  and  said  to 
him,  Is  thy  heart  upright  [with  me]  as  my  heart  is 
with  thee?  And  Jehonadab  answered,  Yes.  Then 
spake  Jehu  [so  LXX],  If  so,  give  me  thy  hand.' 
In  Jer  35  (where  EV  has  Jonadab  throughout),  he 
is  called  the  "lather"  of  the  Rechabites,  who  derived 
from  him  their  ordinances  for  their  nomadic  life 
and  abstention  from  wine.  See  Rechab,  Re- 
chabites. David  Francis  Roberts 

JEHONATHAN,  je-hon'a-than  (""""■],  yhona- 
than,  "Jeh  has  given"):  The  name  is  the  same  as 
Jonathan:  the  Heb  has  the  two  forms  for  the  same 
person  sometimes;  sometimes  only  one  is  found. 
See  Jonathan.  The,  form  "Jehonathan"  occurs  as 
follows  in  EV: 

(1 )  A  Levite  who  took  part  in  teaching  the  Torah 
in  the  cities  of  Judah  under  Jehoshaphat  (2  Ch  17 
8  EV  and  Heb). 

(2)  Head  of  the  priestly  family  of  Shemaiah 
(Neh  12  18  EV  and  Heb). 

(3)  AV  and  Heb  in  1  Ch  27  25;  see  Jonathan, 
(7). 

JEHORAM,  jo-ho'ram,  written  also  in  the  abbre- 
viated form,  JORAM  (D"VirP,  ifhbrum,  CTP, 
yorum,  "Jeh  is  high";  RV  retains  "Joram"  for  Heb 
yhorum  in  2  K  9  15-24): 

(1)  Ninth  king  of  Israel  (2  K  1  17—9  28),  son 
of  Ahab  and  Jezebel,  successor  to  his  brother 
Ahaziah,  who  died  childless.  He  began  to  reign 
853  BC,  and  reigned  12  years  (2  K  3  1;  8  16). 

The  statement  in  2  K  1  17,  "the  second  year  of  Je- 
horam  "  follows  a  system  of  chronology  common  to  the 
Lucian  group  of  MSS,  in  which  the  1st  year  of  Jehosha- 
phat falls  in  the  11th  year  of  Omri;  the  24th  year  of 
Jehoshaphat  in  the  1st  year  of  Ahaziah;  and  the  1st 
year  of  Jehoram  in  the  2d  year  of  Jehoram  of  Judah. 
The  double  chronology  (2  K  1  17  and  2  K  3  D  is  due 
to  the  intention  of  the  compiler  of  K  to  refer  all  the  acts 
of  Elisha  to  the  reign  of  Jehoram,  thus  dislocating  the 
order  of  events  in  that  reign.  Elisha,  however,  survived 
Jehoram  many  years,  and  it  is  possible  that  some  of  the 
events  are  to  be  referred  to  subsequent  reigns. 

It  is  difficult  to  estimate  the  religious  character 

of  J.     Apparently  the  fierce  fanaticism  of  Jezebel 

and   the  boldness  of   Ahab   reappear 

1.  His  in  the  son  in  the  form  of  duplicity  and 
Religious  superstition.  The  attempt  of  Jezebel 
Policy  to  substitute  Baal  for  Jeh  had  failed. 

The  people  were  on  the  side  of  Jeh. 
Otherwise  Jehu  could  not  have  carried  out  his 
bloody  reform.  All  the  worshippers  of  Baal  in  the 
land  could  be  gathered  into  one  temple  of  Baal 
(2  K  10  IS  if).  Evidently  J.  feared  the  people. 
Accordingly  he  posed  as  a  reformer  by  putting 
away  the  pillar  of  Baal  (2  K  3  2),  while  secretly 
he  worshipped  Baal  (3  13a).  Nevertheless,  when  he 
got  into  straits,  he  expected  to  receive  the  help  of 
Jeh  (3  136) .  He  had  not  learned  that  a  dual  nature 
is  as  impossible  as  a  union  of  Baal  and  Jeh. 

Immediately   upon   his  accession,   J.   came  into 

conflict  with  Mesha,  king  of  Moab   (2  K  3  4  ff). 

The  account  of  the  conflict  is  of  special 

2.  The  interest  because  of  the  supplementary 
Moabite  information  concerning  Mesha  fur- 
War  nished  by  the  Moabite  Stone.     There 

we  learn  (11.  1-8)  that  Moab  became 
tributary  to  Israel  in  the  days  of  Omri,  and  remained 
so  for  forty  years,  but  that  it  rebelled  in  the  days  of 
Ahab.  This  probably  brings  us  to  the  si  at  ement  in 
2  K  3  4  ff  that  Mesha  "rendered  unto  the  king  of 


1581 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Israel  the  wool  of  a  hundred  thousand  lambs,  and  of 
a  hundred  thousand  rams,"  and  that  "when  Ahab 
was  dead,  ....  the  king  of  Moab  rebelled  against 
the  king  of  Israel."  The  victories  of  Mesha,  glorified 
by  the  M  S,  possibly  took  place  before  the  events  of 
2  K  3  4ff.  Accordingly,  J.  resolved  to  recover  the 
allegiance  of  the  Moabites.  He  called  to  his  aid  the 
ally  of  his  father,  Jehoshaphat,  king  of  Judah,  and 
the  latter's  vassal,  the  king  of  Edom.  J.  was  enter- 
tained at  Jerus  (Jos,  Ant,  IN,  iii,  1).  The  allies 
marched  against  Moab  by  the  longer  route,  around 
the  southern  end  of  the  Dead  Sea,  indicating  that 
Moab  was  fortified  against  attack  from  the  W.,  and 
that  Israel  was  weak  in  the  East  Jordan  country. 
After  t  lie  allies  had  been  miraculously  delivered  from 
perishing  for  lack  of  water,  they  devastated  the  land 
and  sacked  the  cities,  and  finally  they  succeeded  in 
shutting  up  Mesha  in  Kir-hareseth.  Driven  to 
despair,  Mesha  offered  his  eldest  son  upon  the;  wall 
as  a  burnt  offering  to  Chemosh.  This  seems  to 
have  caused  the  tide  to  turn,  for  "there  was  great 
wrath  against  Israel,"  and  the  allies  returned  to  their 
own  land,  apparently  having  failed  to  secure  a  last- 
ing advantage. 

Assuming  that  2  K  4-8  belong  to  the  reign  of  J., 

it  appears  that  the  Syrians  made  frequent  incursions 

into  the  land  of  Israel,  perhaps  more 

3.  The  in  the  nature  of  plundering  robber 
Conflicts  bands  than  invasions  by  a  regular  army 
with  Syria      (2  K  6).    Finally, however, Ben-hadad 

in  person  invaded  the  country  and  be- 
sieged Samaria.  The  inhabitants  were  reduced  to 
horrible  st  raits  by  famine,  when  the  oppressors  took 
sudden  flight  and  Israel  was  saved.  In  the  years 
8-49,  848,  and  845,  Shalmaneser  II  invaded  Syria. 
It  is  probable  that  during  this  period  J.  recovered 
Ramoth-gilead,  which  had  fallen  to  Syria  under 
Ahab.  Hazael  succeeded  Ben-hadad  as  ruler  of 
Syria,  and  his  first  act,  after  having  murdered  his 
predecessor,  was  to  regain  Ramoth-gilead.  In  the 
defence  of  the  city,  J.,  who  was  assisted  by  his 
nephew,  Ahaziah,  was  wounded,  and  returned  to 
Jezreel  to  be  healed  of  his  wounds. 

J.  left  the  army  at  Ramoth-gilead  under  the  com- 
mand of  Jehu,  a  popular  cap!  am  of  the  host.     While 
J.  was  at  Jezreel,  Elisha  sent  a  prophet 

4.  The  Con-  to  anoint  Jehu  as  king  of  Israel.  Jehu 
spiracy  of  had  been  a  witness  of  the  dramatic 
Jehu  scene    when    Elijah   hurled   the   curse 

of  Jeh  at  Ahab  for  his  crime  against 
Naboth.  Jehu  at  once  found  in  himself  the  instru- 
ment to  bring  the  curse  to  fufihnent.  Accordingly, 
he  conspired  his  crime  against  J.  With  a  company 
of  horsemen  he;  proceeded  to  Jezreel,  where  Ahaziah 
was  visiting  his  sick  uncle,  J.  J.  suspected  treach- 
ery, and,  in  company  with  Ahaziah,  he  rode  out  to 
meet  Jehu.  On  his  question,  "Is  it  peace,  Jehu?" 
he  received  a  brutal  reply  that  no  longer  left  him 
in  doubt  as  to  the  intention  of  the  conspirator.  As 
J.  turned  to  flee,  Jehu  drew  his  bow  and  shot  him 
in  the  back  so  that  the  arrow  pierced  his  heart. 
His  dead  body  was  thrown  into  the  plat  of  ground 
that  had  belonged  to  Naboth. 

(2)  King  of  Judah,  son  of  Jehoshaphat  (2  K  8 
16-24;  2  Ch  21  1-20),  he  began  to  rule  about, 
849  and  reigned  8  years.  With  reference  to  the 
chronological  difficulty  introduced  by  2  K  1  17, 
see  (1)  above. 

In  the  beginning  of  the  reigns  of  Ahab  and  Je- 
hoshaphat, an  attempt  was  made  to  end  the  old  feud 
between  Israel  and  Judah.  At  the 
1.  His  suggestion  of  Ahab,  the  two  kingdoms, 

Marriage  for  the  first  time,  joined  forces  against 
the  common  foe  from  the  N.,  the 
Syrians.  To  seal  the  alliance,  Athaliah,  daughter  of 
Jezebel  and  Ahab,  was  married  to  J.,  son  of  Je- 
hoshaphat.    Thus  Jehoram  was  brother-in-law  to 


Jehoiarib 
Jehoshaphat 

(1)  above.  No  doubt  this  was  considered  as  a  mas- 
ter stroke  of  conciliatory  policy  by  the  parties  inter- 
ested. However,  it  proved  disastrous  for  Judah. 
Beyond  a  doubt,  the  unholy  zeal  of  Jezebel  included 
the  Baahzing  of  Judah  as  well  as  of  Israel.  This 
marriage  was  a  step  in  that  direction. 

"A  man  shall  leave  his  father  and  his  mother,  and 

shall  cleave  unto  his  wife."     J.  did  so.     "lb;  walked 

in  the  ways  of  the  kings  of  Israel,  as 

2.  His  did  the  house  of  Ahab"  (2  K  8  18) 
Idolatry  According    to   2  Ch  21  11.13,    J.    not 

only  accepted  the  religion  of  Athaliah, 
but  he  became  a  persecutor,  compelling  the  inhabit- 
ants of  Jerus  and  of  the  land  to  become  apostates. 

Because  of  his  gross  idolatry  and  his  wickedness, 

he  is  said   (2  Ch  21  12  if)  to  have  received  a  de- 

nunciatory    letter    from    the    prophet 

3.  The  Elijah,  which,  however,  had  no  effect 
Letter  of  on  him.  But  this  leads  to  a  chrono- 
Ehjah             logical    difficulty.     Was    Elijah    still 

alive?  The  inference  from  2  K  3  11 
is  that  he  was  not.  Then,  too,  the  Chronicler  other- 
wise never  mentions  Elijah.  Oettli  is  of  the  opinion 
that  one  should  either  read  "Elisha"  for  "Elijah," 
or  else  consider  the  letter  to  have  been  the  con- 
ception of  a  later  writer,  who  felt  that  Elijah  must 
have  taken  note  of  the  wickedness  of  J.  and  his  wife, 
Athaliah,  daughter  of  Ahab.  In  the  latter  event! 
the  letter  might  be  called  a  haggadic  Midrash. 

A   man's   religion   cannot    be  divorced   from  his 

character.     Baalism    had    in    it    the    elements    of 

„.  tyranny    and     civic    unrighteousness. 

4.  His  In  keeping  with  his  religion,  and  in 
Character       true    oriental    fashion,    J.    began    his 

_         reign  by  murdering  his  brothers,  and 

other  princes  of  the  land,  to  whom  Jehoshaphat  had 

given  valuable  gifts  and  responsible  positions.     The 

only  event  belonging  to  his  reign  re- 

5.  The  corded  in  K  is  the  revolt  of  Edom. 
Revolt  of        Edom   was   subdued   by   David,   and, 
Edom             probably  with  the  exception  of  a  tem- 
porary revolt  under  Solomon  (1  K  11 

14  ff),  it  had  remained  subject-  to  the  united  king- 
dom or  to  Judah  until  the  revolt  under  J.  The 
text  is  somewhat  obscure,  but  both  accounts  indicate 
that  the  expedition  of  J.  against  Edom  ended  in 
failure  In  the  account  we  are  told  that  at  the  same 
time  Libnah  revolted. 

Perhaps  the  revolt  of  Libnah  should  be  taken  in 
connection  with  the  invasion  of  the  Philis  and  of 
a  ru  t,  .j  !h,°  A,rabians>  mentioned  in  2  Ch  21. 
b.  ine  Raid  Libnah  was  located  on  the  south- 
mto  Judah  western  border  of  Judah.  Since  it 
xl  .,    was  a  border  city,  it  is  possible  that 

the  compiler  of  K  considered  it  as  belonging  to 
i  hihstia.  In  the  account  in  Ch,  J.  is  represented 
as  having  lost  all  his  possessions  and  all  his  family, 
save  Jehoahaz,  the  youngest  of  his  sons,  when  the 
town  was  sacked  and  the  palace  plundered  by  the 
invading  force  of  Philis  and  Arabians.  The  account 
appears  to  be  based  upon  reliable  sources. 

In  his  last  days,  he  was  afflicted  with  a  frightful 
disease  in  the  bowels.     His  death  was  unregretted, 

and   his  burial  without   honor.     Con- 
7.  His  trast,  however,  2  X  8  24  with  2  Ch 

Death  21  20.    Ahaziah,  also  called  Jehoahaz, 

his   younger  son,    then    became    king 
m  his  stead.  sj.  K.  Mosiman 

JEHOSHABEATH,  je-hd-shab'S-ath  (r?nt;in\ 

yhoshabh'alh,  "Jeh  is  an  oath"):   In  2  Ch  22  11  = 
Jkhoshkisa  (q.v.)  of  2  K  11  2. 

JEHOSHAPHAT,  jp-hosh'a-fat  (B^in?,  y'ho- 
shdphat,  "Jeh  has  judged"): 

(1)  King  of  Judah.     See  separate  article. 

(2)  Son  of  Ahilud.     He  was  recorder  under  David 


Jehoshaphat 
Jehovah-Jireh 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1582 


(2  S  8  10;  20  21;  I  Cli  18  15)  and  Solomon  (1  K 
4  3). 

(3)  Son  of  I'aruali,  and  Solomon's  overseer  m 
Issachar  to  provide  victuals  for  tin;  royal  household 
for  one  month  of  the  year  ( 1    K  4   17). 

(1)  Son  of  Nimshi,  and  father  of  Jehu,  king  of 
Northern  Israel  (2  K  9  2.14).  1  lis  name  is  omit  ted 
in  9  20  and  1  K  19  10,  where  Jehu  is  called  "son 
of  Nimshi." 

(5)  AV  (but  not  Heb)  in  1  Ch  15  2-1;  RV  correctly 
JosiiAi'iiAT  (([.v.).  David   Francis   Uobkrts 

JEHOSHAPHAT,  jcl-hosh'a-fat  (BpttJirP ,  yejld. 
shit  phut,  "Jch  judges"):  The -1th  king  of  Judah,  son 
of  Asa!  His  mother  was  Azubah,  the  daughter  of 
Shilhi,  of  whom  nothing  further  is  known.  _  He  was 
35  years  of  age  at  his  accession,  and  reigned  2") 
years,  c  S73  S49  BC.  The  history  of  his  reign  is 
contained  in  1  K  22  4 1  -50  and  in  2  Ch  17  1  - 
21  1.  The  narrative  in  1  K  22  l-35a  and  in 
2  K  3  4  ff  belongs  to  the  history  of  the  Northern 
Kingdom.  The  absence  from  K  of  the  details  con- 
tained in  2  Ch  al'fords  no  presumption  against  their 
truth.  Neither  do  high  numbers,  embellished 
statements,  and  t he  coloring  of  the  writer's  own  age 
destroy  the  historical  perspective. 

The  reign  of  J.  appears  to  have  been  one  of  un- 
usual religious  activity.  It  was,  however,  charac- 
terized not  so  much  by  striking  reli- 

1.  His  gious  measures  as  it  was  by  the  religious 
Religious  spirit  that  pervaded  every  act  of  the 
Policy  king,  who  sought   the  favor  of  Jeh  in 

every  detail  of  his  life  (2  Ch  17  3.4). 
He  evidently  felt  that  a  nation's  character  is  de- 
termined by  its  religion.  Accordingly,  he  made  it 
his  duty  to  purify  the  national  worship.  The 
"sodomites,"  i.e.  those  who  practised  immorality 
in  the  worship  of  Jeh  in  the  temple  precincts,  were 
banished  from  the  land  (1  K  22  40).  The  Asherim 
were  taken  out  of  Judah  (2  Ch  17  6;  19  3),  and 
"the  people  from  Beer-sheba  to  the  hill-country  of 
Ephraim  were  brought  back  unto  Jeh,  the  Cod  of 
their  fathers"  (19  4).  Because  of  his  zeal  for  Jeh, 
J.  is  rewarded  with  power  and  "riches  and  honor 
in  abundance"  (17  5). 

Believing  that   religion  and  morals,  the  founda- 
tion and  bulwarks  of  civilization,  suffer  from  igno- 
rance, J.  introduced  a  system  of  public 

2.  His  instruction  for  the  whole  land  (2  Ch 
System  of  17  7  if).  He  appointed  a  commission, 
Public  In-  composed  of  princes,  Levites  and 
struction  priests,  to  go  from  city  to  city  to  in- 
struct,  the   people.     Their  instruction 

was  to  be  based  on  the  one  true  foundation  of  sound 
morals  and  healthv  religious  life,  "the  book  of  1  he 
law  of  Jeh"   (17    7-9). 

Next    in  importance  to  J.'s  system  of  public  in- 
struction, was  his  provision  for  the  better  admin- 
istration    of     justice.     He     appointed 

3.  His  judges  to  preside  over  courts  of  coin- 
Judicial  mon  pleas,  which  he  established  in  all 
Institutions   the  fortified  cities  of  Judah.     In  addi- 
tion to  these  local  courts,  two  courts 

of  appeal,  an  ecclesiastical  and  a  civil  court,  were 
established  at  Jerus  to  be  presided  over  by  priests, 
Levites,  and  leading  nobles  as  judge's.  At  the  head 
of  the  ecclesiastical  court  of  appeal  was  the  high 
priest,  and  a  layman,  "the  ruler  of  the  house  of 
Judah,"  headed  the  civil  court  of  appeal  (2  Ch  19 
4-11).  The  insistence  that,  a  judge  was  to  be  in 
character  like  Jeh,  with  whom  there  is  "no  iniquity 
....  nor  respect  of  persons,  nor  taking  of  bribes" 
(19  7),  is  worthy  of  note. 

According  to  2  Ch  17  2,  J.  began  his  reign  with 
defensive  measures  against  Israel.  Furthermore, 
he  built  castles  and  cities  of  store  in  the  land  of 


Judah,  "and   h 
tarv    supplies, 


lad  many  works,"  probably  mili- 

n    the    cities   of    Judah"    (17    13). 

He    appears     to     have     had     a    large 

4.  His  standing  army,  including  cavalry  (1 
Military  K  22  4;  2  Ch  17  14  if).  However, 
Defences        the    numbers    in    2  Ch  17  14  if   seem 

to  be  impossibly  high. 
Godliness   and   security    at   home   were   followed 
by  respect    and  peace  abroad.     The  fact    that    the 
Philis     and      the     Arabians     brought 

5.  His  tribute  (17  11),  and  that  Edom  had 
Foreign  no  king  (1  K  22  47),  but  a  deputy 
Policy              instead,    who    possibly    was  appointed 

by  J.,  would  indicate"  that  he  held  the 
suzerainty  over  the  nations  and  tribes  bordering 
Judah  on  the  S.  and  \Y.  Holding  the  suzerainty 
over  the  weaker  nations,  and  being  allied  with  the 
stronger,  J.  secured  the  peace  for  the  greater  part 
of  his  reign  (1  Ch  17  10)  that  fostered  the  internal 
development,  of  the  kingdom. 

In  contrast  to  the  former  kings  of  Judah,  J.  saw 

greater  benefit  in  an  alliance  with   Israel  than  in 

civil  war.     Accordingly,  the  old  feud 

6.  His  between   the   two   kingdoms    (1   Iv  14 
Alliance  30;    15  0)  was  dropped,  and  J.  made 
with  Ahab     peace  with   Israel    (22  44).     The  po- 
litical   union    was    cemented    by    the 

marriage  of  Jehoram,  son  of  J.,  to  Athaliah,  daughter 
of  Ahab  and  Jezebel.  Shortly  after  the  marriage, 
J.  joined  Ahab  in  a  campaign  against  Syria  (2  Ch 
18  1-3).  In  view  of  the  subordinate  position  that 
J.  seems  to  take  in  the?  campaign  (1  K  22  4.30), 
and  in  view  of  the  military  service  rendered  to 
Jehoram  (2  K  3  4  IT),  Judah  seems  to  have  become 
a  dependency  of  Israel.  Nevertheless,  the  union 
may  have  contributed  to  the  welfare  and  prosperity 
of  Judah,  and  it  may  have  enabled  J.  to  hold  the 
suzerainty  over  the  neighboring  nations.  However, 
the  final  outcome  of  the  alliance  with  the  house  of 
Omri  was  disastrous  for  Judah.  The  introduction 
into  Judah  of  Baalism  more  than  counterbalanced 
any  political  and  material  advantage  gained,  and 
in  the  succeeding  reigns  it  indirectly  led  to  the 
almost  total  extinction  of  the  royal  family  of  Judah 
(11  1  ff). 

In  spite  of  the  denunciation  of  the  prophet  Jehu 

for  his   expedition  with  Ahab,  thus  "helping]  the 

wicked"   (2  Ch  19  2),  J.  entered  into 

7.  His  Al-  a  similar  alliance  with  Jehoram  of  Israel 
liance  with  (2  K3  4ff).  On  the  invitation  of  Je- 
Jehoram        horam  to  join   him   in   an   expedition 

against  Moab,  J.  was  ready  with  the 
same  set  speech  of  acceptance  as  in  the  case  of  Ahab 
(2  X  3  7;  cf  1  K  22  4).  For  the  details  of  the 
expedition  see  Jehoram,  (1). 

The  Chronicler  has  given  us  a  very  remarkable 

account  of  a  victory  gained  by  J.  over  the  Moabites 

and  Ammonites.     No  doubt  he  made 

8.  Victory  use  of  a  current  historical  Midr.  Many 
over  the  find  the  historical  basis  of  the  Midr  in 
Moabites  the  events  recorded  in  2  K  3  4  ff . 
and  Am-  However,  the  localities  are  different, 
monites  and  there  a  defeat  is  recorded,   while 

in  this  case  we  have  a  victory.  The 
story  in  outline  bears  the  stamp  of  probability.  1  K 
22  45  seems  to  suggest  wars  of  J.  that  are  not  men- 
tioned in  K.  The  tribes  mentioned  in  the  account 
are  represented  as  trying  to  make  permanent  settle- 
ment in  Judah  (2  Ch  20  11).  In  their  advance 
t  hrough  t  he  S.  of  Judah,  t  hey  were  doubtless  harassed 
by  the  shepherd  population  of  the  country.  J., 
according  to  his  custom,  sought  the  help  of  Jeh. 
The  invading  forces  fell  to  quarreling  among  them- 
selves (2  Ch  20  23),  and  destroyed  one  another. 
The  spoil  was  great,  because  the  invaders  had  brought 
all  their  goods  with  them,  expecting  to  remain  in  the 
land. 


15,83 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jehoshaphat 
Jehovah-Jireh 


The  destruction  of  J.'s  fleet  is  recorded  in  1  K 
22  48.49   and   in   2  Ch  20  35-37.      However,    the 

two  accounts  are  quite  different. 
9.  Destruc-  According  to  K,  J.  built  ships  of  Tac- 
tion of  Je-  shish  to  sail  to  Ophir  for  gold,  but  the 
hoshaphat's  vessels  were  wrecked  at  Ezion-geber. 
Fleet  Thereupon   Ahaziah  offered   to  assist 

J.  with  seamen,  but  J.  refused  to  enter 
into  the  alliance.  According  to  Ch  the  alliance 
had  been  formed,  and  together  they  built  ships  at 
Ezion-geber,  which  were  destroyed  because  J.  had 
made  an  alliance  with  the  wicked  king  of  Israel.  In 
view  of  J.'s  other  alliances,  the  Chronicler  may  be 
in  the  right.  Ch,  however,  misunderstood  the 
term  "ships  of  Tarshish." 


at  hand  at  the  resurrection.  This,  too,  was  an 
ordinary  place  for  Jewish  graves  in  preexilic  times 
(2  K  23  6,  etc).  The  valley  today,  esp.  that  part 
adjacent  to  the  temple,  is  crowded  with  Moslem 
and  Jewish  graves.  A  worthless  tradition  indicates 
the  tomb  of  Jehoshaphat  himself  close  to  the  so- 
called  "Pillar  of  Absalom."  See  King's  Vale. 
There  is  not  the  slightest  reason  for  believing  that 
this  is  the  spot  referred  to  by  Joel — indeed  he  may 
have  spoken  of  an  ideal  spot  only.  The  valley  of 
the  Kidron  is  a  nahal  ("ravine"),  not  an  x<ni<k 
("broad  valley").  It  is  impossible  not  to  suspect 
that  there  is  some  connection  between  the  name 
Jehoshaphat  and  the  name  of  a  village  near  the 
head  of  this  valley — Shdphat;   perhaps  at  one  time 


Valley  of  Jehoshaphat  (Looking  N.E.). 


J.  died  at  the  age  of  60.     Jos  says  (Ant,  IX,  iii, 
2)   that    he   was   buried   in  a  magnificent  manner, 
for    he    had    imitated    the    actions    of 
10.  His  David.       The    kingdom    was    left    to 

Death  Jehoram,  who  inaugurated  the  begin- 

ning of  his  reign  by  causing  the  mas- 
sacre of  his  brethren.  S.  K.  Mosiman 

JEHOSHAPHAT,  VALLEY  OF  (tt^JT?  p"02 , 
V///cA:  y'hdshdphdt;  the  latter  word  means  "Jeh 
judgeth,"  and  lnnek,  "wide,"  "open  valley";  LXX 
he  koilds  Iosaphdt):  The  name  is  used  in  Joel  3  2.12 
of  the  scene  of  Judgment:  "Let  the  nations  bestir 
themselves,  and  come  up  to  the  valley  of  Jehosha- 
phat; for  there  will  I  sit  to, judge  all  the  nations  round 
about"  (ver  12).  "The  valley  of  decision"  (or  "sharp 
judgment")  is  another  name  the  prophet  givesto 
this  spot  (ver  14).  Some  have  identified  it  with 
the  valley  ('emek)  of  Beracah  (q.v.)  of  2  Ch  20  26, 
where  King  Jehoshaphat  obtained  a  great  victory, 
but  this  is  improbable. 

Since  the  4th  cent.  AD  the  Kidron  (q.v.)  valley 
has  been  named  the  Valley  of  J.  The  tradition  is 
now  strongest  among  the  Moslems  who  point  out, 
the  exact  scene  of  the  Judgment;  the  Bridge  As 
Sirdt,  dividing  heaven  and  hell,  is  to  stretch  across 
this  valley  from  the;  Haram  area  to  the  Mount  of 
Olives.  It  is,  however,  the  ambition  of  every  pious 
Jew  to  be  buried  on  the  slopes  of  this  valley,  to  be 


it  was  Wddy  Shdphat,  which  name  would  readily 
suggest  the  traditional  one.     See  Gehenna. 

E.  W.  G.  Masterman 
JEHOSHEBA.jMiosli'r-ba.jr-ho-she'ba^L-n;, 
xfhoshebhef,  "Jeh  is  an  oath"):  Called  "Jehosha- 
beath"in2  Ch  22  11;  daughterof  Jehoram  king  of 
Judah,  possibly  by  a  wife  other  than  Athaliah  (2  K 
11  2).  According  to  2  Ch  22  11,  she  was  the  wife 
of  Jehoiada,  t  he  priest .  She  hid  Jehoash,  the  young 
son  of  King  Ahaziah,  and  so  saved  his  life  from 
Queen  Athaliah. 

JEHOSHUA,  je-hosh'fi-a  (J^iST,  ifhoshua\  "Jeh 
is  deliverance,"  or  "is  opulence"):  The  usual  Ileb 
form  of  the  name  "Joshua";  it  occurs  in  AV  of 
Nu  13  16  (ARV  "Hoshea");  and  in  some  editions 
of  AV  in  1  Ch  7  27,  where  others  have  the  form 
"Jehoshuah"  (h  being  wrongly  added  at  the  end). 
See  Joshua,  son  of  Nun. 

JEHOVAH,  je-hd'va,  je-hd'va.  See  God, 
Names  of,  II,  5. 

JEHOVAH-JIREH,  je-ho'va-jl're  (HX-P  TTST* , 
yahweh  yir'eh,  "Jeh  sees"):  The  name  given  by 
Abraham  to  the  place  where  he  had  sacrificed  a 
ram  provided  by  God,  instead  of  his  son  Isaac 
(Gen  22  14).  The  meaning  plainly  is  that  the 
Lord  sees  and  provides  for  the  necessities  of  His 


Jehovah-Nissi 
Jehu 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1584 


servants.  There  is  an  allusion  to  ver  R  where 
Abraham  says,  "God  will  provide  himself  [RVm 
"will  see  for  himself"]  t  lie  lamb  for  a  burnt  offering." 
The  ver  (14  AY)  goes  on  to  connect  the  incident 
with  the  popular  proverb,  "In  the  mount  of  the 
Lord  it  shall  be  seen"  (RV  "provided"),  RVm 
suggests  "he  shall  be  seen."  "The  mount  of  Jeh" 
in  other  places  denotes  the  temple  hill  at  Jerus 
(I's  24  3;  Isa  2  3,  etc).  With  changes  of  the 
punctuation  very  different  readings  have  been  sug- 
gested. According  to  Swete's  text  :  "And  A.  called 
the  name  of  that  place  [the]  'Lord  saw'  [aorist]  in 
order  that  they  may  say  today:  'In  the  mountain 
[the]  Lord  was  sent'  "  (aorist") .  LXX  reads,  "In 
the  mountain  Jeh  seeth,"  or  "will  see."  If  there 
is  merely  a  verbal  connection  between  the  clauses 
we  should  most  naturally  read,  "In  the  mount  of 
Jeh  one  is  seen  [appears],"  i.e.  men,  people,  appear 
— the  reference  being  to  the  custom  of  visiting  t  he 
temple  at  pilgrimages  (Driver,  HDli,  s.v.).  Hut 
if  the  connection  of  the  proverb  with  the  name 
"Jehovah-jireh"  depends  on  the  double  sense  of  the 
word  "see,"  then  the  best,  explanation  may  be,  Jeh 
sees  the  needs  of  those  who  come  to  worship  before 
Him  on  Zion,  and  there  "is  seen,"  i.e.  reveals  Him- 
self to  them  by  answering  their  prayers  and  supply- 
ing their  wants.  His  "seeing,"  in  other  words,  takes 
practical  effect  in  a  "being  seen"  (ibid). 

W.    EWING 

JEHOVAH-NISSI,  j.-nis'I  pD?  HVP,  yahweh 
?(/.s.s'7,  "Jeh  is  my  banner"):  S:>  Moses  named  the 
altar  which  he  reared  to  signalize  the  defeat  of  the 
Amalekitesby  Israel  under  Joshua,  at  Rephidim  (Ex 
17  1.")).  LXX  translates  "the  Lord  my  refuge,"  de- 
riving tiixsl  from  Z'Z  ,  nils;,  "to  flee."  Tg  Onkelos 
reads,  "Moses  built  an  altar  and  worshipped  on  it 
before  Jeh,  who  had  wrought  for  him  miracles" 
Cp§n5  ,  nlssiri).  The  suggestion  is  that  the  people 
should  rally  round  God  as  an  army  gathers  round 
its  standard.     He  it  is  who  leads  them  to  victory. 


JEHOVAH,   SERVANT  OF. 
Jehovah. 


See  Servant  of 


JEHOVAH-SHALOM,  j.-sha'lom  (Dibl^mPP, 
yahweh,  shdlom,  "Jeh  is  peace") :  This  was  the  name 
given  by  Gideon  to  the  altar  he  built  at  Ophra.  in 
allusion  to  the  word  spoken  to  him  by  the  Lord, 
"Peace  be  unto  thee"  (Jgs  6  24).  It  is  equivalent 
to  "Jeh  is  well  disposed." 

JEHOVAH-SHAMMAH,  j.-sham'a  (TtBTp  mn\ 
yahweh  shdmmdh,  "Jeh  is  there"):  The  name  to  be 
given  to  the  new  Jerus,  restored  and  glorified,  as 
seen  in  the  vision  of  Ezk  (48  35  m;  cf  Rev  21  3). 
Jeh  returns  to  the  temple  which  He  had  forsaken, 
and  from  that  time  forward  the  fact  of  supreme 
importance  is  that  He  is  there,  dwelling  in  the  midst 
of  His  people. 

JEHOVAH-TSIDKENU     (CIDKENU),     j.-tsid- 

ke'nu,  tsid'ke-nu  (*-p~>  HliT ,  yahweh  eidhkettu, 
"Jeh  [is]  our  righteousness"):  The  symbolic  name 
given  (1)  to  the  king  who  is  to  reign  over  the  restored 
Israel  (Jer  23  6);   (2)  to  the  state  or  capital  (33  16). 

JEHOZABAD,  je-hoz'a-bad  ("nfirP,  ,/hdzd- 
bhdilh,  "Jeh  has  bestowed"): 

(1)  A  servant  of  King  Jehoash  of  Judah.  Ac- 
cording to  2  K  12  21  (22),  he  was  a  son  of  Shomer, 
but  2  Ch  24  2G  makes  him  "son  of  Shimrith  the 
Moabitess." 

(2)  A  Korahite  doorkeeper,  son  of  Obed-edom 
(1  Ch  26  4). 

(3)  A  Benjamite,  one  of  King  Jehoshaphat 's 
warriors  (2  Ch  17  IS). 


JEHOZADAK,  je-hoz'a-dak  (p"Xirn ,  yhocd- 
dhdk,  "Jeh  is  righteous"):  Priest  at  the  time  of  the 
captivity  under  Nebuchadrezzar  (1  Ch  6  14.15 
[Heb  5  40.41]).  He  was  the  father  of  Joshua 
(Joshua)  the  priest  (Hag  1  1.12.14;  2  2,1;  Zee 
6  I  1  i.  AV  has  Josedcch  in  Hag  and  Zee.  Same 
as  "Jozadak"  (p~^T ,  ydcddhdk-,  same  meaning) 
in  Ezr  3  2.S;  5  2;  10'  IS;  Xeh  12  20;  and  = 
"Josedek"  (AV  "Joscdec")  of  1  Esd  5  5.48.56;  6  2; 
9  P.);  Sir  49  12. 

JEHU,  je'hu  (X^17"P,  yelut;  meaning  uncertain, 
perhaps  "Jeh  is  he";  i  K  19  Pi. 17;  2  K  9,  10; 
Elov,  Eiou);  Son  of  .Jehoshaphat,  and  descendant, 
of  Ximshi,  hence  commonly  called  "the  son  of 
Nimshi";  10th  king  of  Israel,  and  founder  of  its 
IVth  Dynasty.  Jehu  reigned  for  2S  years.  His 
accession  may  be  reckoned  at  c  752  BC  (some  date 
a  few  years  later). 


"V  -  <W  _.  w*f""«  -fXHK ■•WQ. ....saMAMvmmaiMMIjttgK 


*-VTT  *feT ^. feT, >&-*-  Zfr  "-T-  ^A  Sj&  ,  l£( 


Jehu's  Tribute — from  Obelisk  of  Shalmaneser. 

A  soldier  of  fortune,  J.  appears  first  as  an  officer 

in  the  body-guard  of  Ahab.     To  himself  we  owe 

the  information  that  he  was  present 

1.  Officer  at  the  judicial  murder  of  Naboth,  and 
of  Ahab  that  Naboth's  sons  were  put  to  death 

with  their  fat  her  (2  K  9  26).  He  was 
in  attendance  when  Ahab  drove  from  Samaria  to 
inspect  his  new  possession  in  Jezreel,  and  was  wit- 
ness of  the  dramatic  encounter  at-  the  vineyard 
between  the  king  and  the  prophet  Elijah  (cf  1  K 
21  16  ff).  Years  after,  J.  reminded  Bidkar,  his 
captain  (lit.  "thirdsman,"  in  chariot),  of  the  doom 
they  had  there  heard  pronounced  upon  Ahab  and 
his  house  (2  K  9  25  ft).  It  was  in  fulfilment  of 
this  doom  that  J.  at  that  time  ordered  the  body  of 
the  slain  Jehoram  to  be  thrown  into  the  inclosure 
which  had  once  been  Naboth's  (ver  2(5).  Ahab's 
temporary  repentance  averted  the  punishment 
from  himself  for  a  few  years  (1  K  21  27-29),  but 
the  blow  fell  at  the  battle  of  Ramoth-gilead,  and 
J.  would  not  be  unmindful  of  the  prophet 's  words  as 
he  beheld  the  dogs  licking  Ahab's  blood  as  they 
washed  his  chariot  "by  the  pool  of  Samaria"  (22  3S). 
A  different  fate  awaited  Ahab's  two  sons.  The 
elder,  Ahaziah,  died,  after  a  short  reign,  from  the 
effects  of    an    accident    (2  K  1).     He 

2.  Jehoram  was  succeeded  by  his  brother  Jehoram, 
at  Ramoth-  who  toward  the  close  of  his  reign  of 
gilead  and  12  years  (2  K  3  1)  determined  on  an 
Jezreel  attempt    to    recover    Ramoth-gilead, 

where  his  father  had  been  fatally 
stricken,  from  Hazael,  of  Syria.  Ramoth-gilead 
was  taken  (2  K  9  14),  but  in  the  attack  the  Israel- 
itish  king  was  severely  wounded,  and  was  taken  to 
Jezreel  to  be  healed  of  his  wounds  (ver  15).  The 
city  meanwhile  was  left  in  charge  of  J.  and  his 
fellow-captains.  At  Jezreel  he  was  visited  by 
Ahaziah,  of  Judah,  who  had  taken  part  with  him 
in  the  war  (8  28.29;  9  16). 

The  time  was  now  ripe  for  the  execution  of  the 
predicted  vengeance  on  the  house  of  Ahab,  and  to 
Elisha  the  prophet,  the  successor  of  Elijah,  it  fell 


1585 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jehovah-Nissi 
Jehu 


4.  The 
Revolution 
— Death  of 
Jehoram 


to  take  the  decisive  step  which   precipitated   the 
crisis.     Hazael  and  J.  had  already  been  named  to 
Elijah   as    the   persons   who   were   to 
3.  The  execute  the  Divine  judgment,  the  one 

Anointing      as  king  of  Syria,   the  other   as   king 
of  Jehu  of  Israel  (1  K  19  15-17).     Elijah  was 

doubtless  aware  of  this  commission, 
which  it  was  now  his  pari,  as  respected  J.,  to  ful- 
fil. A  messenger  was  hast  ily  dispatched  to  Ramoth- 
gilead,  with  instructions  to  seek  out  J.,  take  him 
apart,  anoint  him  king  of  Israel  in  Jeh's  name,  and 
charge  him  with  the  task  of  utterly  destroying  the 
house  of  Ahab  in  punishment  for  the  righteous 
blood  shed  by  Ahab  and  Jezebel.  The  messenger 
was  then  to  flee.  This  was  done,  and  J.,  the  sacred 
oil  poured  on  his  head,  found  himself  alone  with 
this  appalling  trust  committed  to  him  (2  K  9  1-10). 
Events  now  moved  rapidly.  J.'s  companions 
were  naturally  eager  to  know  what  had  happened, 
and  on  learning  that-  J.  had  been 
anointed  king,  they  at  _  once  impro- 
vised a  throne  by  throwing  their  gar- 
ments on  the  top  of  some  steps,  blew 
the  trumpet,  and  proclaimed,  "J.  is 
king."  Not  a  moment  was  lost.  No 
one  was  permitted  to  leave  t  lie  city  t  o  carry  forth  tid- 
ings, and  J.  himself,  with  characteristic  impetuos- 
ity, set  out,  with  a  small  body  of  horsemen,  in  his 
chariot  to  Jezreel.  Bidkar  was  there  as  charioteer 
(9  25).  As  they  came  within  sight  of  the  city,  a 
watchman  reported  their  advance,  and  messengers 
were  sent,  to  inquire  as  to  their  errand.  These  were 
ordered  to  fall  into  the  rear.  This  conduct  awaken- 
ed suspicion,  and  Jehoram  and  Ahaziah — who  was 
still  with  his  invalided  kinsman — ordered  their 
chariots,  and  proceeded  in  person  to  meet  J.  The 
companies  met  at  the  ill-omened  field  of  Naboth, 
and  there  the  first  stroke;  of  vengeance  fell.  The 
anxious  query,  "Is  it  peace?"  was  answered  by  a 
storm  of  denunciation  from  J.,  and  on  Jehoram 
turning  to  flee,  an  arrow  from  J.'s  powerful  bow 
shot  him  through  the  heart,  and  he  sank  dead  in 
his  chariot.  Ahaziah  likewise  was  pursued,  and 
smitten  "at  the  ascent  of  Gur,  which  is  by  Ibleam." 
He  died  at  Megiddo,  and  was  taken  to  Jerus  for 
burial  in  the  scpulcher  of  the  kings  (9  11-28).  A 
somewhat  variant  account,  of  Ahaziah's  death  is 
given  in  2  Ch  22  9.  It  is  possible  that  J.  came  to 
Megiddo  or  its  neighborhood,  and  had  to  do  with 
his  end  there. 

The  slaughter  of  Jehoram  was  at  once  followed  by 
that  of  the  chief  instigator  of  all  the  crimes  for  which 
the  house  of  Ahab  suffered — the  queen- 
6.  Death  mother  Jezebel.  Hot  from  the  pur- 
of  Jezebel  suit  of  Ahaziah,  J.  pressed  on  Jezreel. 
Jezebel,  now  an  aged  woman,  but  still 
defiant,  had  painted  and  attired  herself,  and,  looking 
from  her  window,  met  him  as  he  drove  into  the 
palace  court,  with  the  insulting  question,  "Is  it 
peace,  thou  Zimri,  thy  master's  murderer?"  (cf 
1  K  16  9-12).  J.'s  answer  was  an  appeal  for  aid 
from  those  within.  Two  or  three  eunuchs  of  the 
palace  gave  signs  of  their  concurrence.  These,  at 
J.'s  bidding,  threw  Jezebel  down  into  the  court- 
yard, where,  lying  in  her  blood,  she  was  trodden 
under  foot  by  the  chariot  horses.  When,  a  little 
later,  her  remains  were  sought  for  burial,  she  was 
found  to  have  been  almost  wholly  devoured  by  the 
dogs — a  lurid  commentary  on  Elijah's  earlier 
threatening,  which  was  now  recalled  (2  K  9  30- 
37).  J.  was  an  intrepid  minister  of  judgment,  but 
the  pitiless  zeal,  needless  cruelty,  and,  afterward, 
deceit,  with  which  he  executed  his  mission,  with- 
draw our  sympathy  from  him,  as  it  did  that  of  a 
later  prophet  (Hos  1  4). 

The  next  acts  of  J.  reveal  yet  more  clearly  his 
thoroughness  of  purpose  and  promptitude  of  action, 


Descend- 
ants 

cf  10  26). 


while  they  afford  fresh  exhibitions  of  his  ruthless- 

ness  and  unscrupulousness  of  spirit.     Samaria  was 

the  capital  of  the  kingdom,  and  head- 

6.  Slaughter  quarters  of  the  Baal-worship  intro- 
of  Ahab's       duced  by  Jezebel,  though  it  is  recorded 

of  Jehoram  that  he  had  removed,  at 
least  temporarily,  an  obelisk  of  Baal 
which  his  fat  her  had  set  up  (2  K  3  2; 
The  city  was  still  held  for  the  house  of 
Ahab,  and  70  of  Ahab's  "sons" — to  be  taken  here 
in  the  large  sense  of  male  descendants — resided  in 
it  (10  1.6).  J.  here  adopted  a  bold  and  astute 
policy.  He  sent  letters  to  Samaria  challenging 
those  in  authority  to  set  up  one  of  their  master's 
sons  as  king,  and  fight  for  the  city  and  the  king- 
dom. The  governors  knew  well  that  they  could 
make  no  effective  resistance  to  J.,  and  at  once 
humbly  tendered  their  submission.  J.,  in  a  second 
message,  bade  them  prove  their  sincerity  by  de- 
livering to  him  the  heads  of  the  70  princes  of  Ahab's 
house  in  baskets.  This  they  did,  by  their  act 
irrevocably  committing  themselves  to  J.'s  cause 
(ver  9).  The  ghastly  relics  were  piled  up  in  two 
heaps  at  the  gate  of  Jezreel — a  horrible  object- 
lesson  to  any  still  inclined  to  hesitate  in  their  alle- 
giance1. Friends  and  partisans  of  the  royal  house 
shared  the  fate  of  its  members  (ver  11). 

Apart  from  the  faultiness  in  the  agent's  motive,  the 
deeds  now  recounted  fell  within  the  letter  of  J.'s  com- 
mission.    As  much  cannot  be  said  of  the 
rr    cm        la      deeds  of  blood  that  follow.     J.  had  killed 

7.  slaughter  Ahaziah,  king  of  Judah.  Now,  on  his  way 
of  Ahaziah's  to  Samaria,  he  met  acompanyof  42persons, 
■Dr„tv,rf>n  described  as  "brethren  of  Ahaziah" — 
Dleuucu  evidently  blood-relations  of  various  de- 
grees, as' Ahaziah's  own  brethren  had  been 

earlier  slain  bv  the  Arabians  (2  Oh  21  17;  22  1) — and, 
on  learning  who  they  were,  and  of  their  purpose  to  visit 
their  kinsfolk  at  Jezreel,  gave;  orders  that  they  be  slain 
on  the  spot,  and  their  bodies  ignominiously  thrown  in- 
to the  pit  (or  "cistern")  of  the  shearing-house  where  he 
had  encountered  them.  It  was  a  cruel  excess  for  which 
no  sufficient  justification  can  be  pleaded  (2  K  10  12-14). 

Still  less  can  the  craft  and  violence  be  condoned 

by  which,  when  he  reached  Samaria,  J.  evinced  his 

"zeal  for  Jeh"  (ver  16)  in  the  extirpa- 

8.  Massacre  tion  of  the;  worshippers  of  Baal.  J. 
of  the  Wor-  had  secured  on  his  side  the  support  of 
shippers  of  a  notable;  man — Jehonadab  the  son  of 
Baal  Rcchab  (vs  15.16;    cf  Jer  35  6-19)— 

and  his  entrance  into  Samaria  was  sig- 
nalized by  further  slaying  of  all  adherents  of  Ahab. 
Then,  doubtless  to  the  amazement  of  many,  J. 
proclaimed  himself  an  enthusiastic  follower  of  Baal. 
A  great  festival  was  organized,  to  which  all  prophets, 
worshippers,  and  priests  of  Baal  were  invited  from 
every  part  of  Israel.  J.  himself  took  the  leading 
partin  the  sacrifice  (ver  25).  Vestments  were  dis- 
tributed to  distinguish  the  true  worshippers  of  Baal 
from  others.  Then  when  all  were  safely  gathered 
into  "the  house  of  Baal,"  the  gates  were  closed,  and 
80  soldiers  were  sent,  in  to  massacre  the  whole  de- 
luded company  in  cold  blood.  None  escaped.  The 
temple  of  Baal  was  broken  up.  Thus,  indeed,  "J. 
destroyed  Baal  out  of  Israel"  (ver  28),  but  at  what, 
a  frightful  cost  of  falsehood  and  treacherous  deal- 
ing! (2  K  10  18-28). 

The  history  of  J.  in  the  Bible  is  chiefly  the  history 
of  his  revolution  as  now  narrated.     His  reign  itself 

is  summed  up  in  a  few  vs,  chiefly  occu- 

9.  Wars  pied  with  the  attacks  made  by  Hazael, 
with  Hazael  king  of  Syria,  on   the  trans-Jordanic 

territories  of  Israel  (10  32.33).  These 
districts  were  overrun,  and  remained  lost  to  Israel 
till  the  reign  of  J.'s  great-grandson,  Jeroboam  II 
(2  K  14  28). 

It  is  in  another  direction,  viz.  to  the  annals  of  Assyria, 
we  have  to  look  for  any  further  information  we  possess 
on  the  reign  of  J.  In  these;  annals,  fortunately,  some 
interesting  notices  are  preserved.      In  854  BC  was  fought 


Jehubbah 
Jeremiah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1586 


the  great  battle  of  Karkar  (a  place  between  Aleppo  and 
Hamath),  when  Shalmaneser  II,  king  of  Assyria,  de- 
feated a  powerful  combination  formed 
m  iccvrnn  against  him  (Damascus,  Hamath,  Philistia, 
iu.  Assyrian  Ammon  t,tc).  Among  the  allies  on  thisoc- 
INOtices  casion  is  mentioned  "  Ahabbu  of  Sir'ilaa," 

who  took  the  third  place  with  2,000  chariots 
and  1 0.000  footmen.  There  is  a  difficulty  in  supposing 
Ahab  to  have  been  still  reigning  as  late  as  854,  and  Well- 
hausen,  Kamphausen  and  others  have  suggested  that 
A  Mali's  name  has  been  confused  with  that  of  his  successor 
Jehoram  in  the  Assyr annals.  Kittel.  in  his  History  of  the 
Hebrew*  (II.  2:V.5,  ET)  is  disposed  to  accept  this  view. 
G.  Smith,  in  his  Asx  y  r  E  pun  ym  Canon  (179),  is  of  the  opinion 
that  the  tribute  lists  were  often  carelessly  compiled  ami 
in  error  as  to  names.  The  point  of  interest  is  that  from 
this  time  Israel  was  evidently  a  tributary  of  Assyria. 

Willi  this  accord  the  further  notices  of   Israel  in  the 

inscriptions   of   Shalmaneser  II.  two   in  number.     Both 

belong   to    the   year    842   BO   and    relate 

11    Tribute    *°   "*•     <)n    Nhalmaneser's    Black    Obelisk 

f\  is  a  pictorial  representation  of  "the  tribute 

or  Jenu  OI    j^    son    ,,(•    Omri."     An    ambassador 

kneels  before  the  conqueror,  and  presents 

his  gifts.     They  include  silver,   gold,   a  gold  cup,   gold 

vessels,  a  golden  ladle,  lead,  a  statf  for  the  king's  hand, 

scepters.      An  allusion  to  the  same  event  occurs  in  the 

annals   of    Shalmaneser's   campaign    against    Hazacl    of 

Syria  in  this  year.      "At  that   time  1  received  the  tribute 

of  the  Tyrians,  Sidonians,  of  J.,  son  of  Omri." 

There  are  some  indications  that  in  his  latter 
years,  which  were  clouded  with  misfortune,  J. 
associated  with  himself  his  son  Jehoahaz  in  the 
government  (cf  2  K  13  1.10,  where  Jehoahaz  comes 
to  the  throne  in  the;  23d,  and  dies  in  the  37th  year 
of  Jehoash  of  Judah — 14  years — yet  has  a  total  reign 
of  17  years).  J.  is  not  mentioned  in  Ch,  except  in- 
cidentally in  connection  with  the  death  of  Ahaziah 
(2  Ch  22  9),  and  as  the  grandfather  of  Jehoash  (25 
17). 

The  character  of  J.  is  apparent  from  the  acts  re- 
corded of  him.  His  energy,  determination,  prompti- 
tude, and  zeal  fitted  him  for  the  work  he  had  to 
do.  It  was  rough  work,  and  was  executed  with 
relentless  thoroughness.  Probably  gentler  meas- 
ures would  have  failed  to  eradicate  Baal-worship 
from  Israel.  His  impetuosity  was  evinced  in  his 
furious  driving  (2  K  9  20).  He  was  bold,  daring, 
unscrupulous,  and  masterful  and  astute  in  his 
policy.  But  one  seeks  in  vain  in  his  character  for 
any  touch  of  magnanimity,  or  of  the  finer  qualities 
of  the  ruler.  His  "zeal  for  Jeh"  was  too  largely  a 
cloak  for  merely  worldly  ambition.  The  blood- 
shed in  which  his  rule  was  founded  early  provoked 
a  reaction,  and  his  closing  years  were  dark  with 
trouble,  lie  is  specially  condemned  for  tolerating 
the  worship  of  the  golden  calves  (2  K  10  29-31). 
Nevertheless  the  throne  was  secured  to  his  dynasty 
for  four  generations  (10  30;   cf  15  12). 

W.  Shaw  Caldecott 

JEHUBBAH,  je-hub'a  (HarT ,  yhubbah,  meaning 
unknowni:  A  descendant  of  Asher,  mentioned  in 
1  Ch  7  34,  where  K're  is  HSHT ,  Whubbdh,  "and 
Hubbah,"  but  Kethlbh  is  HarP  ]  yahbdh;  LXX  B 
follows  K'Te. 

JEHUCAL,  jS-hu'kal  &W),  yhukhal,  probably 
meaning  "Jeh  is  able"):  A  courtier  sent  by  King 
Zedekiah  to  Jeremiah  to  ask  the  prophet  to  pray 
for  the  king  and  the  people  (Jer  37  3).  Most  VSS 
except  LXX,  with  38  1,  have  "Jucal"  (53T1, 
yukhal,  same  meaning). 

JEHUD,  je'hud  ("-IT,  yhudh):  A  town  in  the 
lot  of  Dan  named  between  Baalath  and  Bene-berak 
(Josh  19  45).  The  only  possible  identification 
seems  to  be  with  el-Yehudlyeh,  which  lies  about  S 
miles  E.  of  Jaffa. 

JEHUDI,  j&--hu'dl  mrp ,  y'hudhl,  properly  "a 
Jew"):  An  officer  of  King  Jehoiakim  (Jer  36  14.21. 
23).  lb;  was  sent  by  the  princes  to  summon 
Baruch    to    read    the    roll    containing    Jeremiah's 


prophecies  to  them;  he  afterward  read  them  to  the 
king,  who  destroyed  them.  His  name  is  note- 
worthy, as  also  is  that  of  his  grandfather  Cushi 
(i.e.  "Ethiopian"),  and  the  two  are  said  to  point 
to  a  foreign  origin. 

JEHUDIJAH,  je-hu-dl'ja  (1  Ch  4  18  AV).  See 
Ha-jehudijah. 

JEHUEL,  je-hu'el  (K'thlbh  bSPrp,  yhu'cl;  but 
lyre  bSTP  ,  y'hl'el,  i.e.  "Jchiel"  AV,  in  2  Ch  29  14): 
A  Levite;  see  Jehiel,  (5). 

JEHUSH,  je'hush  (1  Ch  8  39).     See  Jeush,  (3). 

JEIEL,  je-i'el  (b&pIP,  ye*i'el,  meaning  unknown): 

(1)  A  Reubenite  (1  Ch  5  7). 
__  (2)  In  1  Ch  8  29,  added  in  RV  from  9  35,  where 
K'thlbh  is  "Jeuel,"  an  ancestor  of  King  Saul;  AV 
"Jehiel." 

(3)  One  of  David's  mighty  men  (1  Ch  11  44). 
AV  is  "Jehiel";    K'thlbh  is  "Jeuel." 

(4)  A  Levite,  keeper  of  the  ark  with  Obed-edom 
(1  Ch  15  18.21;  16  5;  2  Ch  20  14),  called  "Je- 
hiah"in  1  Ch  15  24. 

(5)  A  Levite  (1  Ch  16  5)  =  "Jaaziel"  of  1  Ch  15 
18  (q.v.). 

(0)  A  scribe  under  King  Uzziah  (2  Ch  26  11). 
(7)  A  chief  of  the  Levites,  present   at  King  Jo- 

siah's  great  Passover  feast  (2  Ch  35  9). 

(S)  One  of  those  who  had  married  foreign  wives 
(Ezr  10  43)  =  "Juel"in  1  Esd  9  35. 

(9)  AVin2  Ch  29  14;  see  Jehiel,  (5). 

(10)  AV  in  Ezr  8  13;   see  Jeuel,  (3). 

David  Fhancis  Roberts 
JEKABZELL,  je-kab'ze-el  (b>pp/!,   ykabhc°'el, 
"God  gathers";  Neh  11  25).     See  Kauzeel. 

JEKAMEAM,  jek-a-me'am,  je-kam'e-am  (ZyQp_1 , 
yrkam*dm,  probably  "may  kinsman  establish"): 
Head  of  a  Lcvitical  house  (1  Ch  23  P.);  24  23). 
The  meaning  of  the  name  depends  upon  that  of  E3? 
Cam)  in  compound  names;   see  HPN,  40,  51  ff. 

JEKAMIAH,  jek-a-ml'a  (rTC^ ,  ykamydh,  "may 
Jeh  establish"): 

(1)  A  Judahite,  son  of  Shallum  (1  Ch  2  41). 

(2)  A  son  of  King  Jeconiah  (Jehoiachin) ;  in  AV 
"Jecamiah"  (1  Ch  3  18). 

JEKTJTHIEL,  jc-ku'thi-el  (bSPrVlp'? ,  ykfdhl'el, 
meaning  doubtful):  A  Judahite  (1  Ch  4  18).  The 
meaning  may  be  "preservation  of  God,"  or  perhaps 
the  same  as  bsipp?,  yokthc'el,  "Joktheel,"  the  name 
of  a  place  in  Josh  15  38;  2  K  14  7. 

JEMIMAH,  jg-mi'ma  (<Tp'1'a^  ,  ifmimdh,  perhaps 
a  diminutive  meaning  "little  dove"):  The  first 
daughter  of  Job  (42  14),  born  after  his  restoration 
from  affliction. 

JEMNAAN,  jem'nS-an  ('Iefivdav,  Iemndan): 
A  city  on  the  coast  of  Pal;  mentioned  among  those 
affected  by  the  expedition  of  Holof ernes  (Jth  2  28; 
3  1  ff).  The  name  is  used  for  Jabniel,  generally 
called  "Jamnia"  by  the  Gr  writers. 

JEMUEL,  je-mu'el  (bKI'C? ,  ymil'cl,  meaning 
unknown):  A  "son"  of  Simeon  (Gen  46  10;  Ex  6 
15)  =  "Nemuel"  in  Nu  26  12;    1  Ch  4  24. 

Syr  version  has  "Jemuel"  in  the  4  passages,  but  Gray 
(  HPN,  307,  n.  G)  thinks  "Jemuel"  is  more  probably  a  cor- 
rection in  Gen  than  "Nemuel"  in  Nu. 

JEOPARD,  jep'ard,  JEOPARDY,  jep'ar-di: 
The  Eng.  word  referred  originally  to  a  game  where 


1587 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jehubbah 
Jeremiah 


the  chances  were  even  (from  OFr.  jeu  parti);  trans- 
ferred thence  to  designate  any  great  risk.  In  the 
NT,  represented  by  the  Gr  vb.  kinduneuo  (Lk  8 
23;  1  Cor  15  30).  In  the  OT  (Jgs  5  18)  for  a 
Heb  idiom,  "despise  the  soul,"  i.e.  they  placed  a 
small  value  upon  their  lives  (Vulg  "offered  their 
souls  to  death");  for  elliptical  expression,  "went 
with  their  lives,"  in  2  S  23  17  m. 

JEPHTHAH,  jef'tha  (ffijtp'!,  yiphtah,  "opened," 
or  "opener,"  probably  signifying  "Jeh  will  open"; 
'l€<f>0de,  fephthde;  used  as  the  name  of  a  place,  as 
in  Josh  15  43;  19  14;  of  a  man,  Jgs  10  0— 12  7): 
Ninth  judge  of  the  Israelites.  His  antecedents  are 
obscure.  Assuming  Gilead  to  be  the  actual  name  of 
his  father,  his  mother  was  a  harlot.  He  was  driven 
from  home  on  account  of  his  illegit  imacy,  and  went 
to  the  land  of  Tob  in  Eastern  Syria  (Jgs  11  2.3). 
Here  he  and  his  followers  lived  t  he  life  of  freebooters. 

The  Israelites  beyond  the  Jordan  being  in  danger 
of  an  invasion  by  the  Ammonites,  J.  was  invited 
by  the  elders  of  Gilead  to  be  their  leader  (11  5.6). 
Remembering  how  they  had  expelled  him  from  their 
territory  and  his  heritage,  J.  demanded  of  them  that 
in  the  event  of  success  in  the  struggle  with  the  Am- 
monites, he  was  to  be  continued  as  leader.  This 
condition  being  accepted  he  returned  to  Gilead  (11 
7-11).  The  account  of  the  diplomacy  used  by  J. 
to  prevent  the  Ammonites  from  invading  Gilead 
is  possibly  an  interpolation,  and  is  thought  by 
many  interpreters  to  be  a  compilation  from  Nu 
20  21.  It  is  of  great  interest,  however,  not  only 
because  of  the  fairness  of  the  argument  used  (11 
12-28),  but  also  by  virtue  of  the  fact  that  it  con- 
tains a  history  of  the  journey  of  the  Israelites  from 
Lower  Egypt  to  the  banks  of  the  Jordan.  This 
history  is  distinguished  from  that  of  the  Pent 
chiefly  by  the  things  omitted.  If  diplomacy  was 
tried,  it  failed  to  dissuade  the  Ammonites  from  seek- 
ing to  invade  Israel.  J.  prepared  for  battle,  but 
before  taking  the  held  paused  at  Mizpeh  of  Gilead, 
and  registered  a  vow  that  if  he  were  successful  in 
battle,  he  would  offer  as  a  burnt  offering  to  Jeh 
whatsoever  should  hrst  come  from  his  doors  to  greet 
him  upon  his  return  (11  29-31).  The  battle  is 
fought,  J.  is  the  victor,  and  now  his  vow  returns  to 
him  with  anguish  and  sorrow.  Returning  to  his 
home,  the  first  to  greet  him  is  his  daughter  and  only 
child.  The  father's  sorrow  and  the  courage  of  the 
daughter  are  the  only  bright  lights  on  this  sordid, 
cruel  conception  of  God  and  of  the  nature  of  sacri- 
fice. That  the  sacrifice  was  made  seems  certain 
from  the  narrative,  although  some  critics  choose 
to  substitute  for  the  actual  death  of  the  maiden 
the  setting  the  girl  apart  for  a  life  of  perpetual 
virginity.  The  Israelitish  laws  concerning  sacri- 
fices and  the  language  used  in  11  39  are  the  chief 
arguments  for  the  latter  interpretation.  The 
entire  narrative,  however,  will  hardly  bear  this 
construction   (11  34-40). 

J.  was  judge  in  Israel  for  6  years,  but  appears 
only  once  more  in  the  Scripture  narrative.  The 
men  of  Ephraim,  offended  because  they  had  had  no 
share  in  the  victory  over  the  Ammonites,  made 
war  upon  Gilead,  but  were  put  to  rout  by  the  forces 
under  J.  (12  1-6).  C.  E.  Schenk 

JEPHUNNEH,  jg-fun'e  (n2Eh  ,  ifphunneh,  mean- 
ing uncertain) : 

(1)  Father  of  Caleb    (Nu  13  6;     14  6.30,   etc). 

According  to  Nu  13  6,  he  was  of  the  tribe  of  Judah; 
according  to  32  12;  Josh  14  6,  a  Kenizzite;  the  Keniz- 
zites  were  incorporated  in  Judah  (cf  1   Ch  4  13—15). 

(2)  A  son  of  Jether,  an  Asherite  (1  Ch  7  38). 

JERAH,  je'ra  (H"V ,  yerah) :  A  son  of  Joktan 
(Gen  10  26  ||  1  Ch  120).      No  district   Jerah  has 


been  discovered.  However,  Yurakh  in  Yemen  and 
Yarah  in  Hijaz  are  places  named  by  the  Arab, 
geographers.  The  fact  that  the  word  in  Heb 
means  "moon"  has  led  to  the  following  suggestions: 
the  Barm  Hilal  ("sons  of  the  new  moon")  in  the  N. 
of  Yemen;  Ghubb el-Kamar  ("the  bay  of  the  moon"), 
Jebel  el-Kamar  ("the  mountains  of  the  moon")  in 
Eastern  Hadramant.  But  in  Southern  Arabia  wor- 
ship of  the  moon  has  caused  the  word  to  bulk  largely 
in  place-names. 

JERAHMEEL,  jS-ra'mg-el  (5Xpni%  jfrahm'' el, 
"may  God  have  compassion!"): 

(1)  In  1  Ch  2  9.25.26.27.33.42,  he  is  described 
as  the  son  of  Hezron,  the  son  of  Perez,  the  son  of 
Judah  by  Tamar  his  daughter-in-law  (Gen  38). 
In  1  S  27  10  is  mentioned  the  neghebh  of  the 
Jerahmeelites,  je"-ra'm6-el-Its  (TSfctfpi^Tjri  ,  ha-ifrah- 
me'ell,  a  collective  noun),  RV  "the  South  of  the 
Jerahmeelites."  The  latter  is  a  tribal  name  in  use 
probably  before  the  proper  name,  above;  their 
cities  are  mentioned  in  1  S  30  29.  Cheyne  has 
radical  views  on  J.  See  EB,  s.v. ;  also  T.  Witton 
Davies  in  Review  of  Theology  and  Philosophy,  III, 
689-708  (May,  1908);  and  Cheyne's  replies  in 
Hibbert  Journal,  VII,  132-51  (October,  1908),  and 
Decline  anil  Fall  of  the  Kingdom  of  Judah. 

(2)  A  Merarite  Levite,  son  of  Kish  (1  Ch  24  29). 

(3)  "The  king's  son,"  RV  and  AVm  (Jer  36  26). 
RVm,  AV  have  "son  of  Hammelech,"  taking  the 
word  y%'Q'>3  as  a  proper  name.  He  was  "probably 
a  royal  prince,  one  who  had  a  king  among  his  an- 
cestors but  not  necessarily  son  of  the  ruling  king; 
so  38  6;  IK  22  266;  esp.  Zeph  1  8  written  at  a 
time  when  the  reigning  king,  Josiah,  could  not  have 
had  a  grown-up  'son'"  (Driver,  Jer,  224,  n.  e).  J. 
was  with  two  others  commanded  by  Jehoiakim  to 
arrest  Jeremiah  and  Baruch. 

David  Francis  Roberts 
JERECHU,    jer'e-kii,     AV    Jerechus,    jer'e-kus 
(1  Esd  5  22).     See  Jericho. 

JERED,  je'red  (T£,  yeredh,  "descent"):  A 
Judahite,  father  of  Gedor  (1  Ch  4  18).  Sec  also 
Jared. 

JEREMAI,  jer'e-mi,  jer-C-ma'I  C^'V. ,  ifremay, 
meaning  unknown):  One  of  those  who  had  married 
foreign  wives  (Ezr  10  33).  See  Jere.mias  (1  Esd 
9  34). 

JEREMIAH,  jer-5-mI'a  ([a]  ^^P,'^T,  >  yimfyahu, 
or  [b]  shorter  form,  nTp"T\  yirmeydh,  both  differently 
explained  as  "Jeh  establishes  [so  Giesebrecht], 
whom  Jeh  casts,"  i.e.  possibly,  as  Gesenius  suggests, 
"appoints"  [A.  B.  Davidson  in  HDB,  II,  569a],  and 
"Jeh  looseneth"  [the  womb];  see  BDB):  The  form 
(6)  is  used  of  Jeremiah  t  he  prophet  only  in  Jer  27  1 ; 
28  5.6.10.11.126.15;  29  1;  Ezr  1  1;  Dnl  9  2,  while 
the  olher  is  found  116  t  in  Jer  alone.  In  1  Esd  1 
28.32.47.57;  2  Esd  2  18,  EV  has  "Jeremy,"  so  AV 
in  2  Mace  2  1.5.7;  Mt  2  17;  27  9;  in  Mt  16 
14,  AV  has  "Jeremias,"  but  RV  in  2  Mace  and  Mt 
has  "Jeremiah." 

(1)  The  prophet.  See  special  article.  Of  the  fol- 
lowing, (2),  (3)  and  (4)  have  form  (a)  above;  the 
others  the  form  (b). 

(2)  Father  of  Hamutal  (Hamital),  the  mother  of 
King  Jehoahaz  and  King  Jehoiakim  (2  K  23  31; 
24  18  i|  Jer  52  1). 

(3)  ARechabite  (Jer  35  3). 

(4)  In  1  Ch  12  13  (Heb  14),  a  Gadite. 

(5)  In  1  Ch  12  10  (Heb  11),  a  Gadite. 

(6)  In  1  Ch  12  4  (Heb  5),  a  Benjamite(?)  or 
Judaean.  (4),  (5)  and  (6)  all  joined  David  at 
Ziklag. 


Jeremiah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1588 


(7)   Head  of  a  Manassite  family  (1   Ch  5  24). 

(S)  A  priest  who  scaled  the  covenant  with  Nehe- 
iniah  (Neh  10  2),  probably  the  same  as  he  of  12  34 
who  took  part  in  the  procession  at  the  dedication 
of  the  walls  of  Jerns. 

(9)  A  priest  who  went,  to  Jerus  with  Zerubbabel 
from  exile  and  became  head  of  a  priestly  family  of 
that  name  (Neh  12   1). 

David   Francis  Roberts 

JEREMIAH,  jer-e-ml'a: 

1.  Name  and  Person 

2.  Life  of  Jeremiah 

;?.  The  Personal  Character  of  Jeremiah 

4.  The  Prophecies  of  Jeremiah 

5.  The  Book  of  Jeremiah 

(>.   Authenticity  and  Integrity  of  the  Book 
7.    Relation  to  the  LXX 
Liter itdbe 

The   name   of   one   of   (lie   greatest   prophets   of 

Israel.     The  Heb  irP'Q"!"! ,  yirm'ydhu,  abbreviated 

to    i-P^T!,    yirm'yah,    signifies    either 

1.  Name        "Jeh  hnrls"  or  "Jeh  founds."     LXX 
and  Person   reads  'IepM"*s,   Iermias,  and   the  Vulg 

Jercmias.  As  this  name  also  occurs 
not  infrequently,  the  prophet  is  called  "the  son 
of  Hilkiah"  (11),  who  is,  however,  not  the  high 
priest  mentioned  in  2  K  22  and  23,  as  it  is  merely 
stated  that  he  was  "of  the  priests  that  were  in 
Anathoth"  in  the  land  of  Benjamin.  In  Anathoth, 
now  Andtn,  a  small  village  U  hours  N.E.  of  Jerus, 
lived  a  class  of  priests  who  belonged  to  a  side  line, 
not  to  the  line  of  Zadok  (cf  11(2  2G). 

J.  was  called  by  the  Lord  to  the  office  of  a  prophet 
while  still  a  youth  (1  G)  about  20  years  of  age,  in 

the  13th  year  of  King  Josiah  (12;   25 

2.  Life  of       3),  in  the  year  627  BC,  and  was  active 
Jeremiah       in  this  capacity  from  this  time  onto 

the  destruction  of  Jerus,  586  BC,  under 
kings  Josiah,  Jehoahaz,  Jehoiakim,  Jehoiachin,  and 
Zedekiah.  Even  after  the  fall  of  the  capital  city 
he  prophesied  in  Egypt  at  least  for  several  years, 
so  that  his  work  extended  over  a  period  of  about 
50  years  in  all.  At  first  he  probably  lived  in 
Anathoth,  and  put  in  his  appearance  publicly  in 
Jerus  only  on  the  occasion  of  the  great  festivals; 
later  he  lived  in  Jerus,  and  was  there  during  the 
terrible  times  of  the  siege  and  the  destruction  of  the 
city. 

Although  King  Josiah  was  God-fearing  and' willing 
to  serve  Jeh,  and  soon  inaugurated  his  reformation 
according  to  the  law  of  Jeh  (in  the  18th  year  of  his 
reign),  yet  J.,  at  the  time  when  he  was  called  to  the 
prophetic  office,  was  not  left  in  doubt  of  the  fact 
that  the  catastrophe  of  the  judgment  of  God  over 
the  city  would  soon  come  (1  1 1  ff) ;  and  when, 
after  a  few  years,  the  Book  of  the  Law  was  found  in 
the  temple  (2  K  22  and  23),  J.  preached  "the 
words  of  this  covenant"  to  the  people  in  the  town 
and  throughout  the  land  (11  1-8;  17  19-27),  and 
exhorted  to  obedience  to  the  Divine  command; 
but  in  doing  this  then  and  afterward  he  became  the 
object  of  much  hostility,  esp.  in  his  native  city, 
Anathoth.  Even  his  own  brethren  or  near  rela- 
tives entered  into  a  conspiracy  against  him  by  de- 
claring that  he  was  a  dangerous  fanatic  (12  6). 
However,  the  condition  of  J.  under  this  pious  king 
was  the  most  happy  in  his  career,  and  he  lamented 
the  latter's  untimely  death  in  sad  lyrics,  which  the 
author  of  Ch  was  able  to  use  (2  Ch  35  25),  but 
which  have  not  come  down  to  our  times. 

Much  more  unfavorable  was  the  prophet's  condi- 
tion after  the  death  of  Josiah.  Jehoahaz-Shallum, 
who  ruled  oidy  3  months,  received  the  announce- 
ment of  his  sentence  from  J.  (22  10  ff).  Jehoiakim 
(609-598  BC)  in  turn  favored  the  heathen  worship, 
and  oppressed  the  people  through  his  love  of 
luxury  and  by  the  erection  of  grand  structures 
(Jer  22  13  ff).     In     addition,     his     politics     were 


treacherous.  He  conspired  with  Egypt  against 
his  superior,  Nebuchadnezzar.  Epoch-making  was 
the  4th  year  of  Jehoiakim,  in  which,  in  the  battle  of 
Carchemish,  the  Chaldaeans  gained  the  upper  hand 
in  Hither  Asia,  as  J.  had  predicted  (46  1-12). 
Under  Jehoiakim  J.  delivered  his  great  temple  dis- 
course (7-9;  10  17-25).  The  priests  for  this 
reason  determined  to  have  the  prophet  put  to 
death  (ch  26).  However,  influential  elders  inter- 
ceded for  him,  and  the  princes  yet  showed  some 
just  ice.  He  was,  however,  abused  by  the  authorities 
at  the  appeal  of  the  priests  (ch  20).  According  to 
36  Iff,  he  was  no  longer  permitted  to  enter  the 
place  of  the  temple.  For  this  reason  the  Lord  com- 
manded him  to  collect  his  prophecies  in  a  book- 
roll,  and  to  have  them  read  to  the  people  by  his 
faithful  pupil  Baruch  (ch  36;  cf  ch  45).  The 
book  fell  into  the  hands  of  the  king,  who  burned 
it .  However,  J.  dictated  the  book  a  second  time  to 
Baruch,  together  with  new  additions. 

Jehoiachin  or  Coniah  (22  24  ff),  the  son  of  Je- 
hoiakim, after  a  reign  of  3  months,  was  taken  into 
captivity  to  Babylon  by  Nebuchadnezzar,  together 
with  a  large  number  of  his  nobles  and  the  best  part 
of  the  people  (Jer  24  1;  29  2),  as  the  prophet  had 
predicted  (22  20-30).  But  conditions  did  not 
improve  under  Zedekiah  (597-586  BC).  This 
king  was  indeed  not  as  hostile  to  J.  as  Jehoiakim 
had  been;  but  all  the  more  hostile  were  the  princes 
and  the  generals,  wdio  were  now  in  command  after 
the  better  class  of  these  had  been  deported  to  Baby- 
lon. They  continually  planned  rebellion  against 
Babylon,  while  J.  was  compelled  to  oppose  and  put 
to  naught  every  patriotic  agitation  of  this  kind. 
Finally,  the  Bab  army  came  in  order  to  punish 
the  faithless  vassal  who  had  again  entered  into  an 
alliance  with  Egypt.  J.  earnestly  advised  sub- 
mission, but  the  king  was  too  weak  and  too  coward- 
ly as  against  his  nobles.  A  long  siege  resulted, 
which  caused  the  direst  sufferings  in  the  life  of  J. 
The  commanders  threw  him  into  a  vile  prison, 
charging  him  with  being  a  traitor  (37  11  ff).  The 
king,  who  consulted  him  secretly,  released  him  from 
prison,  and  put  him  into  the  "court  of  the  guard"  (37 
17  ff),  where  he  could  move  around  freely,  and  could 
again  prophesy.  Now  that  the  judgment  had 
come,  he  could  again  speak  of  the  hopeful  future 
(chs  32,  33).  Also  chs  30  and  31,  probably,  were 
spoken  about  this  time.  But  as  he  continued  to 
preach  submission  to  the  people,  those  in  authority 
cast  him  into  a  slimy  cistern,  from  which  the  pity 
of  a  courtier,  Ebed-melech,  delivered  him  (39 
15-18).  He  again  returned  to  the  court  of  the 
guard,  where  he  remained  until  Jerus  was  taken. 

After  the  capture  of  the  city,  J.  was  treated  with 
great  consideration  by  the  Babylonians,  who  knew 
that  he  had  spoken  in  favor  of  their  government 
(39  1  Iff;  40  Iff).  They  gave  him  the  choice  of 
going  to  Babylon  or  of  remaining  in  his  native  land. 
He  decided  for  the  latter,  and  went  to  the  governor 
Gedaliah,  at  Mizpah,  a  man  worthy  of  all  confi- 
dence. But  when  this  man,  after  a  short  time,  was 
murdered  by  conscienceless  opponents,  the  Jews 
who  had  been  left  in  Pal,  becoming  alarmed  and 
fearing  the  vengeance  of  the  Chaldaeans,  determined 
to  emigrate  to  Egypt.  J.  advised  against  this  most 
earnestly,  and  threatened  the  vengeance  of  Jeh,  if 
the  people  should  insist  upon  their  undertaking 
(42  Iff).  But  they  insisted  and  even  compelled 
the  aged  prophet  to  go  with  them  (43  1  ff).  Their 
first  goal  was  Tahpanhes  (Daphne),  a  town  in 
Lower  Egypt.  At  this  place  he  still  continued  to 
preach  the  word  of  God  to  his  fellow-Israelites;  cf 
the  latest  of  his  preserved  discourses  in  43  8-13, 
as  also  the  sermon  in  ch  44,  delivered  at  a  somewhat 
later  time  but  yet  before  570  BC.  At  that  time 
J.  must  have  been  from  70  to  80  years  old.     He 


f:\  sf, 


r 


J 

.'A'    » 


i 

p 


1589 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jeremiah 


probably  died  soon  after  this  in  Egypt.  The 
church  Fathers  report  t  hat  he  was  stoned  to  death 
at  Daphne  by  the  Jews  (Jerome,  Adv.  Jovin,  ii. 
37;  Tertullian,  Contra  Gnost.,  viii;  Pseudepiphan,, 
De  Proph.,  ch  viii;  Dorotheus,  146;  Isidorus,  Ort. 
et  Obit.  Patr.,  ch  xxxviii).  However,  this  report 
is  not  well  founded.  The  same  is  the  case  with  the 
rabbinical  tradition,  according  to  which  he,  in  com- 
pany with  Baruch,  was  taken  from  Egypt  to  Baby- 
lon by  Nebuchadnezzar,  and  died  there  (Sedher 
'Olam  Rabba'  26). 

The  Book  of  Jer  gives  us  not  only  a  fuller  account 

of  the  life  and  career  of  its  author  than  do  the  books 

of   the   other   prophets,    but   we   also 

3.  Personal  learn  more  about  his  own  inner  and 
Character  personal  life  and  feelings  than  we  do 
of  Jeremiah  of  Isaiah  or  any  other  prophet.    From 

this  source  we  learn  that  he  was,  by 
nature,  gentle  and  tender  in  his  feelings,  and  sym- 
pathetic. A  deckled  contrast  to  this  is  found  in 
the  hard  and  unmerciful  judgment  which  it  was 
his  mission  to  announce.  Cod  made  him  strong 
and  firm  and  immovable  like  iron  for  his  mission 
(1  IS;  15  20).  This  contrast  between  his  naturally 
warm  personal  feelings  and  his  strict  Divine  mis- 
sion not  rarely  appears  in  the  heart -utterances 
found  in  his  prophecies.  At  first  he  rejoiced  when 
Cod  spoke  to  him  (15  16);  but  soon  these  words 
of  God  were  to  his  heart  a  source  of  pain  and  of 
suffering  (15  17  ff).  Ik;  would  have  pref erred  not 
to  utter  them;  and  then  they  burned  in  his  breast 
as  a  fire  (20  7  if;  23  0).  He  personally  stood  in 
need  of  love,  and  yet  was  not  permitted  to  marry 
(16  1  f).  He  was  compelled  to  forego  the  pleasures 
of  youth  (15  17).  He  loved  his  people  as  nobody 
else,  and  yet  was  always  compelled  to  prophesy 
evil  for  it,  and  seemed  to  be  the  enemy  of  his  nation. 
This  often  caused  him  to  despair.  The  enmity  to 
which  he  fell  a  victim,  on  account  of  his  declaration 
of  nothing  but  the  truth,  he  deeply  felt;  see  his 
complaints  (9  Iff;  12  5f;  15  10;  17  14-18;  18 
23,  and  often).  In  this  sad  antagonism  between  his 
heart  and  the  commands  of  the  Lord,  he  would 
perhaps  wish  that  God  had  not  spoken  to  him;  he 
even  cursed  the  day  of  his  birth  (15  10;  20  14-18; 
cf  Job  3  1  ff).  Such  complaints  are  to  be  carefully 
distinguished  from  that  which  the  Lord  through  His 
Spirit  communicated  to  the  prophet.  God  rebukes 
him  for  these  complaints,  and  demands  of  him  to 
repent  and  to  trust  and  obey  Him  (15  19).  This 
discipline  makes  him  all  the  more  unconquerable. 
Even  his  bitter  denunciations  of  his  enemies  (11 
20  ff;  15  15;  17  IS;  18  21-23)  originated  in  part 
in  his  passionate  and  deep  nature,  and  show  how 
great  is  the  difference  between  him  and  that  perfect 
Sufferer,  who  prayed  even  for  His  deadly  enemies. 
But  J.  was  nevertheless  a  type  of  that  Suffering 
Saviour,  more  than  any  of  the  OT  saints.  He,  as 
a  priest,  praved  for  his  people,  until  God  forbade 
him  to  do  so  (7  16;  11  14;  14  11;  18  20).  He 
was  compelled  more  than  all  the  others  to  suffer 
through  the  anger  of  God,  which  was  to  afflict  his 
people.  The  people  themselves  also  felt  that  he 
meant  well  to  them.  A  proof  of  this  is  seen  in  the 
fact  that  the  rebellious  people,  who  always  did  the 
contrary  of  what  he  had  commanded  them,  forced 
him,  the  unwelcome  prophet  of  God,  to  go  along 
with  them,  to  Egypt,  because  they  felt  that  he  was 
their  good  genius. 

What  J.  was  to  preach  was  the  judgment  upon 
Judah.     As  the  reason  for  this  judgment  J.  every- 
where  mentioned   the   apostasy   from 

4.  The  Jeh,  the  idolatry,  which  was  practised 
Prophecies  on  bamoth,  or  the  "high  places"  by 
of  Jeremiah  Judah,  as  this  had  been  done  by  Israel. 

Many   heathenish   abuses   had   found 
their  way  into  the  life  of  the  people.     Outspoken 


heathenism  had  been  introduced  by  such  men  as 
King  Manasseh,  even  the  sacrifice  of  children  to  the 
honor  of  Baal-Molech  in  the  valley  of  Hinnom  (7 
31;  19  5;  32  35),  and  the  worship  of  "the  queen 
of  heaven"  (7  18;  44  19).  It  is  true  that  the 
reformation  of  Josiah  swept  away  the  worst  of  these 
abominations.  But  an  inner  return  to  Jeh  did  not 
result  from  this  reformation.  For  the  reason  that 
the  improvement  had  been  more  on  the  surface  and 
outward,  and  was  done  to  please  the  king,  J.  charges 
up  to  his  people  all  their  previous  sins,  and  the  guilt 
of  the  present  generation  was  yet  added  to  this 
(16  11  f).  Together  with  religious  insincerity  went 
the  moral  corruption  of  the  people,  such  as  dis- 
honesty, injustice,  oppression  of  the  helpless, 
slander,  and  the  like.  Compare  the  accusations 
found  in  5  1  ff.7  f.26  ff;  6  7.13;  7  5  f.9;  9  2  (».S; 
17  Off;  2112;  22  13  ff;  23  10;  29  23,  etc.  Esp. 
to  the  spiritual  leaders,  the  priests  and  prophets, 
are  these  things  charged  up. 

The  judgment  which  is  to  come  in  the  near  future, 
as  a  punishment  for  the  sins  of  the  people,  is  from 
the  outset  declared  to  be  the  conquest  of  1  he  count  ry 
through  an  enemy  from  abroad.  In  this  way  the 
heated  caldron  with  the  face  from  the  N.,  in  the 
vision  containing  the  call  of  the  prophet  (1  13  ff), 
is  to  be  understood.  This  power  in  the  N.  is  not 
named  until  the  4th  year  of  Jehoiakim  (ch  25), 
where  Nebuchadnezzar  is  definitely  designated  as 
the  conqueror.  It  is  often  thought,  that,  in  the 
earlier  years  of  his  career,  J.  had  in  mind  the 
Scythians  when  he  spoke  of  the  enemies  from  the 
N.,  esp.  in  chs  4-6.  The  Scythians  (according 
to  Herodotus  i.103  ff)  had,  probably  a  few  years 
before  J.'s  call  to  the  prophetic  office,  taken  pos- 
session of  Media,  then  marched  through  Asia  Minor, 
and  oven  forced  their  way  as  far  as  Egypt.  They 
crossed  through  Canaan,  passing  by  on  their  march 
from  E.  to  W.,  near  Beth-shean  (Scythopolis). 
The  ravages  of  t  his  fierce  people  probably  influenced 
the  language  used  by  J.  in  his  prophecies  (cf  4  11  ff; 
5  15  ff;  6  3ff.22ff).  But  it  is  unthinkable  that 
J.  expected  nothing  more  than  a  plundering  and  a 
booty-seeking  expedition  of  the  Scythian  nomad 
hordes.  Chariots,  such  as  are  described  in  4  13, 
the  Scythians  did  not  possess.  Moreover,  it  must 
not  be  forgotten  that  J.  from  the  outset  speaks  of 
a  deportation  of  his  people  to  this  foreign  land 
(3  18;  5  19),  while  an  exile  of  Israel  in  the  country 
of  the  Scythians  was  out  of  the  question.  At  all 
events  from  the  4th  year  of  Jehoiakim,  J.  regards 
the  Chaldaeans  as  the  enemy  who,  according  to  his 
former  announcement,  would  come  from  the  N. 
It  is  possible  that  it  was  only  in  the  course  of  time 
that  he  reached  a  clear  conviction  as  to  what  nation 
was  meant  by  the  revelation  from  God.  But,  upon 
further  reflection,  he  must  have  felt  almost  certain 
on  this  subject,  esp.  as  Isaiah  (39  6),  Micah  (4  10), 
and,  soon  after  these,  Habakkuk  had  named  Baby- 
lon as  the  power  that  was  to  carry  out  the  judgment 
upon  Israel.  Other  prophets,  too,  regard  the  Baby- 
lonians as  belonging  to  the  northern  group  of  na- 
tions (cf  Zee  6  8),  because  they  always  came  from 
the  N .,  and  because  they  were  the  legal  successors 
of  the  Assyrians. 

In  contrast  to  optimistic  prophets,  who  had  hoped 
to  remedy  matters  in  Israel  (6  14),  J.  .from  the 
beginning  predicted  the  destruction  of  the  city  and 
of  the  sanctuary," as  also  the  end  of  the  Jewish  na- 
tion and  the  exile  of  the  people  through  these 
enemies  from  abroad.  According  to  25  11;  29  10, 
the  Bab  supremacy  (not  exactly  the  exile)  was  to  con- 
tiniie~frir7t^yrars;  and  after  this,  deliverance  should 
come.  Promises  to  this  effect  are  found  only  now 
and  then  in  the  earlier  years  of  the  prophet  (3  14 
ff;  12  14  ff;  16  14  f).  However,  during  the  time 
of  the  siege  and  afterward,  such  predictions  are 


Jeremiah 
Jeremy,  Ep.  of 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


15(H) 


more  frequent   (cf  23  1  fT;    24  (if;   47  2-7;  and  in 
tin'  "Book  of  Comfort,"  chs  30-33). 

What  charact erizes  this  prophet  is  the  spiritual 
inwardness  of  his  religion;  the.  external  theocracy 
he  delivers  up  to  destruction,  because  its  forms  were 
not  animated  by  God-fearing  sentiments.  _  Ex- 
ternal cirenmeision  is  (if  no  value  without  inner 
purity  of  heart.  The  external  temple  will  be  de- 
stroyed, because  it  has  become  the  hiding-place  of 
sinners.  External  sacrifices  have  no  value,  because 
those  who  offer  them  are  lacking  in  spirituality, 
and  this  is  displeasing  to  God.  The  law  is  abused 
and  misinterpreted  (8  S) ;  the  words  of  the  prophets 
as  a  rule  do  not-  come  from  God.  Even  the  Ark  of 
the  Covenant  is  eventually  to  make  way  for  a  glori- 
ous presence  of  the  Lord.  The  law  is  to  be  written 
in  the  hearts  of  men  (31  31  ff).  The  glories  of  the 
Messianic  times  the  prophet  does  not  describe  in 
detail,  but  their  spiritual  character  he  repeatedly 
describes  in  the  words  "Jeh  our  righteousness'' 
(23  6;  33  16).  However,  we  must  not  overesti- 
mate the  idealism  of  J.  He  believed  in  a  realistic 
restoration  of  the  theocracy  to  a  form,  just  as  the 
other  prophets  (cf  chs  31,  32,  38-40). 

As  far  as  the  form  of  his  prophetic  utterances  is 
concerned.  J.  is  of  a  poetical  nature;  but  he  was  not 
only  a  poet.  He  often  speaks  in  the  meter  of  an 
elegy;  but-  he  is  not  bound  by  this,  and  readily 
passes  over  into  other  forms  of  rhythms  and  also 
at  times  into  prosaic  speech,  when  the  contents  of 
his  discourses  require  it.  The  somewhat  monoto- 
nous and  elegiac  tone,  which  is  in  harmony  with 
his  sad  message  to  the  people,  gives  way  to  more 
lively  and  varied  forms  of  expression,  when  the 
prophet  speaks  of  other  and  foreign  nations.  In 
doing  this  he  often  makes  use  of  the  utterances  of 
earlier  prophets. 

The  first  composition  of  the  book  is  reported  in  36 
1  ff.     In  the  4th  year  of  Jehoiakim,  at  the  command 
of  Jeh,  he  dictated  all  of  the  prophe- 
5.  The  cies  he  had  spoken  down  to  this  time 

Book  of  to  his  pupil  Baruch,  who  wrote  them 

Jeremiah  on  a  roll.  After  the  destruction  of 
t  his  book-roll  by  the  king,  he  would  not 
be  stopped  from  reproducing  the  contents  again  and 
making  additions  to  it  (36  32).  In  this  we  have 
the  origin  of  the  present  Book  of  Jer.  This  book, 
however,  not  only  received  further  additions,  but 
has  also  been  modified.  While  the  discourses  may 
originally  have  been  arranged  chronologically,  and 
these  reached  only  down  to  the  4th  year  of  King 
Jehoiakim,  we  find  in  the  book,  as  it  is  now,  as  early 
as  21  Iff;  23  Iff;  26  Iff,  discourses  from  the 
times*  of  Zedekiah.  However,  the  2d  edition  (36 
28)  contained,  no  doubt,  ch  25,  with  those  addresses 
directed  against  the  heathen  nations  extant  at  that 
time.  The  lack  of  order,  from  a  chronological 
point  of  view,  in  the  present  book,  is  attributable 
also  to  the  fact  that  historical  accounts  or  appendices 
concerning  the  career  of  J.  were  added  to  the  book 
in  later  times,  e.g.  chs  26,35,36  and  others;  and 
in  these  additions  are  also  found  older  discourses 
of  the  prophet.  Beginning  with  eh  37,  the  story 
of  the  prophet  during  the  siege  of  Jems  and  after 
the  destruction  of  the  city  is  reported,  and  in  con- 
nection with  this  are  his  words  and  discourses 
belonging  to  this  period. 

It  is  a  question  whether  those  pieces,  which  are 
more  narrative  in  character,  and  which  are  the  prod- 
uct of  a  contemporary,  probably  Baruch,  at  one 
t  ime  constituted  a  book  by  themselves,  out  of  which 
they  were  later  taken  and  incorporated  in  the  book 
of  the  prophet,  or  whether  they  were  inserted  by 
Baruch.  In  favor  of  the  first  view,  it  may  be  urged 
that  they  are  not  always  found  at  their  proper 
places  chronologically;  e.g.  ch  26  is  a  part  of  the 
temple  discourse  in  chs  7-9.     However,  this  "Book 


of  Baruch,"  which  is  claimed  by  some  critics  to  have 
existed  as  a  separate  book  beside  that  of  Jer,  would 
not  furnish  a  connected  biography,  and  does  not 
seem  to  have  been  written  for  biographical  purposes. 
It  contains  introductions  to  certain  words  and 
speeches  of  the  prophet  and  statements  of  what  the 
consequences  of  these  had  been.  Thus  it  is  more 
probable  that  Baruch,  at  a  later  time,  made  supple- 
mentary additions  to  the  original  book,  which  the 
prophet  had  dictated  without  any  personal  data. 
But-  in  this  work  the  prophet  himself  may  have 
cooperated.  At  places,  perhaps,  the  dictation  of 
the  prophet  ends  in  a  narrative  of  Baruch  (19  14 — 
20  6),  or  vice  versa.  Baruch  seems  to  have  written 
a  historical  introduction,  and  then  J.  dictated  the 
prophecy  (27  1;  18  1;  32  Iff,  and  others).  Of 
course,  the  portions  of  the  book  which  came  from 
the  pen  of  Baruch  are  to  be  regarded  as  an  authentic 
account. 

However,  critics  have  denied  to  J.  and  his  pupil 
certain  sections  of  the  present  book,  and  they  claim 

that  those  belong  to  a  later  date. 
6.  Authen-  Among  those  is  10  1-16,  containing  a 
ticity  and  warning  to  those  in  the  exile  against 
Integrity  of  idolatry  (and  related  to  Isa  40  ff), 
the  Book        which,  it  is  claimed,  could  not  possibly 

in  this  form  and  fulness  be  the  work  of 
J.  Also  17  19-27  is  without  reason  denied  to  J., 
upon  the  ground  that  he  could  not  have  thought  of 
emphasizing  the  Sabbath  law.  He  was,  however, 
no  modern  idealist,  but  respected  also  the  Divine 
ordinances  (cf  11  1-8).  Then  ch  25  is  rejected  by 
some,  while  others  attack  esp.  vs  12-14  and  27- 
38;  but  in  both  cases  without  reason.  On  the 
other  hand,  we  admit  that  ver  25  and  also  vs  13  f 
are  later  additions.  The  words,  "all  that  is  written 
in  this  book,  which  J.  hath  prophesied  against  all 
the  nations,"  are  probably  a  superscription,  which 
has  found  its  way  into  the  text.  In  ver  26  the 
words,  "and  the  king  of  Sheshaeh  shall  drink  after 
them,"  are  likewise  considered  spurious.  Sheshaeh 
is  rightly  regarded  here,  as  in  51  41,  as  a  cipher  for 
"Babel,"  but  the  use  of  'At-bash  (a  cipher  in  which 
the  order  of  the  letters  of  the  Heb  alphabet  is  re- 
versed, n  for  fc$,  ;i5  for  2,  etc,  hence  SIleSHaKH  = 
BaBHeL,  see  the  comms.)  does  not  prove  spurious- 
ness.  The  sentence  is  not  found  in  the  LXX.  The 
attacks  made  on  chs  30  and  31  are  of  little  moment. 
33  14-2G  is  not  found  in  the  LXX,  and  its  contents, 
too,  belong  to  the  passages  in  Jer  that  are  most 
vigorously  attacked.  Critics  regard  J.  as  too  spirit- 
ual to  have  perpet  uated  the  Levitical  priesthood.  In 
ch  39,  vs  1.2.4-10  are  evidently  additions  that  do 
not  belong  to  this  place.  The  remaining  portion  can 
stand.  Among  the  discourses  against  the  nations, 
chs  46-51,  those  in  46  1-12,  spoken  immediately  pre- 
ceding the  battle  of  Carchemish,  cannot  be  shown 
to  be  unauthentic;  even  vs  13-28  are  also  genuine. 
The  fact,  however,  is  that  the  text  has  suffered  very 
much.  Nor  are  there  any  satisfactory  reasons 
against  the  prophecy  in  chs  47-49,  if  we  assume 
that  J.  reasserted  some  of  his  utterances  against 
the  heathen  nations  that  did  not  seem  to  have  been 
entirely  fulfilled.  Chs  60  and  61,  the  discourses 
against  Babylon,  have  the  distinct  impress  of  J. 
This  impression  is  stronger  than  the  doubts,  which, 
however,  are  not  without  weight.  The  events  in 
51  59  ff,  which  are  not  to  be  called  into  question, 
presuppose  longer  addresses  of  J.  against  Babylon. 
The  possibility,  however,  remains  that  the  editing 
of  these  utterances  as  found  in  the  present  book 
dates  from  the  time  after  586  BC.  That  any  in- 
fluence of  Deutero-Isaiah  or  later  authors  can  be 
traced  in  Jer  cannot  be  shown  with  any  certainty. 
Ch  52  was  written  neither  by  Jeremiah  nor  for  his 
book,  but  is  taken  from  the  Books  of  K,  and  is  found 
there  almost  verbatim  (2  K  24,  25). 


1591 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jeremiah 
Jeremy,  Ep.  of 


A  special  problem  is  furnished  by  the  relation  of  the 
text  of  Jer  to  the  Alexandrian  version  of  the  Seventy 
(LXX).  Not  only  does  the  Heb  form  of 
7  Relation  *ne  book  differ  from  the  Gr  materially, 
' '  7/  T  VY  much  more  than  this  is  the  case  in  other 
to  the  LAX  books  of  the  OT,  but  the  arrangement,  too, 
is  a  different  one.  The  oracle  concerning 
the  heathen  nations  (chs  46-51)  is  in  the  LXX  found  in 
the  middle  of  ch  25,  ami  that,  too,  in  an  altogether  differ- 
ent order  (viz.  49  35ff.46;  50;  51;  47  1-7;  49  7-22; 
49  1-5. 28-33. 23-27;  48).  In  addition,  the  readings 
throughout  the  book  in  many  cases  are  divergent,  the 
text  in  the  LXX  being  in  general  shorter  and  more  com- 
pact. The  Or  text  has  about  2,700  Heb  words  less  than 
the  authentic  Heb  text,  and  is  thus  about  one-eighth 
shorter. 

As  far  as  the  insertion  of  the  addresses  against  the 
heathen  nations  in  ch  29  is  concerned,  the  Ur  order  is 
certainly  not  more  original  than  is  the  Heb.  It  rather 
tears  apart,  awkwardly,  what  is  united  in  ch  25,  and  has 
probably  been  caused  by  a  misunderstanding.  The 
words  of  25  13  were  regarded  as  a  hint  that  here  the 
discourses  against  the  heathen  were  to  follow.  Then, 
too,  the  order  of  these  discourses  in  the  Or  text  is  less 
natural  than  the  one  in  Heb.  In  regard  to  the  readings 
of  the  text,  it  has  been  thought  that  the  text  of  the  LXX 
deserves  the  preference  on  account  of  its  brevity,  and 
that  the  Heb  text  had  been  increased  by  additions. 
However,  in  general,  the  Gr  version  is  very  free,  and  often 
is  done  without  an  understanding  of  the  subject;  and 
there  are  reasons  to  believe  that  the  translator  shortened 
the  text,  when  he  thought  the  style  of  Jeremiah  too 
heavy.  Then,  too,  where  he  met  with  repetitions,  he 
probably  would  omit;  or  did  so  when  he  found  trouble 
with  the  matter  or  the  language.  This  does  not  deny 
that  his  tr  in  many  places  may  be  correct,  and  that  addi- 
tions may  have  been  made  to  the  Heb  text. 

Litf:kature. — Calvin,  Praelertiones  in  Librum  Pro- 
phetiae  Jer  et  Thren,  Geneva,  lG.r>3;  Sebastian  Schmidt, 
Commentarii  in  libr.  prophet.  Jer,  Argent,  L685.  Modern 
comm.  by  Hitzig,  Ewald,  (iraf,  Nagelsbach,  Keil;  also 
Cheyne  {I'ulpil  Comm.),  Peake,  Duhm,  and  von  Orelli. 

C.  von  Orelli 

JEREMIAH,  EPISTLE  OF.  Sec  Jeremy,  The 
Epistle  op. 

JEREMIAH,  THE  LAMENTATIONS  OF.     See; 

Lamentations. 

JEREMIAS,  jer-e'-mi'aa  ('IeptfiCas,  Ieremias): 

(1)  Named  among  the  .sous  of  Baani  as  one  of 
those;  who  had  married  foreign  wives  (1  Esd  9  34). 
In  Ezr  10  33  we  find,  "Jeremai"  among  the  sons 
of  Hashum.  In  1  Esd  it  should  come  in  9  33 
before  Manasses. 

(2)  See  Jeremiah  (general  art.). 

JEREMIEL,  jer-e-ml'el  (Lat  Hieremihel,  al. 
Jeremiel,  "El  hurls"  or  "El  appoints"):  AVm  and 
RV  in  2  Esd  4  36  for  AV  "Uriel."  He  is  here 
called  the  "archangel"  who  answers  the  questions 
raised  by  the  souls  of  the  righteous  dead.  He  is 
perhaps  identical  with  Ramiel  of  Apoc  Bar  or 
Remiel  of  Etli  Enoch. 

JEREMOTH,  jor'e-moth  ([a]  nTD"^,  and  [b] 
nWll,  ifretndth,  [r:J  niTS"1-)^,  y '  rlnioth,  meaning  un- 
known): Of  the  following  (1)  has  form  (b),  (5)  the 
form  (c),  the  rest  (a). 

(1)  In  1  Ch  7  8  (AV  "Jerimoth"),  and 

(2)  In  1  Ch  8  14,  Benjamites.    Cf  Jeroham,  (2). 

(3)  In  1  Ch  23  23,  and  (4)  in  1  Ch  25  22  = 
"Jerimoth,"  24  30;    heads  of  Levitical  houses. 

(5)  A  Naphtalite,  one  of  David's  tribal  princes 
(1  Ch  27  19);  AV  "Jerimoth." 

(6)  (7)  (8)  Men  who  had  married  foreign  wives. 
In  Ezr  10  26  (  =  "Hieremoth,"  1  Esd  9  27);  ver 
27  (="Jarimoth,"  1  Esd  9  28);  ver  29  (  =  "Hiere- 
moth,"  1  Esd  9  30);  the  Ij[ere  of  the  last  is  nittY} , 
WramuUi,  "and  Ranioth";  so  RVm,  AV. 

David  Francis  Roberts 
JEREMY,  jer'e-mi.     See  Jeremiah  (general  art.). 

JEREMY,  jer'e-mi,  THE  EPISTLE  OF  ('Em- 
o-toXti  'Iepe|i(ov,  Epistolt  Ieremiou): 

1.  Name 

2.  Canonicity  and  Position 

3.  Contents 


4.  Original  Language 

5.  Authorship.  Date  and  Aim 
(i.   Text  and  Versions 

Literature 

In   MSS  BA  the  title  is  simply  "An  Epistle  of 

Jeremiah."     But  in  B,  etc,  there  is  a  superscription 

introducing  the  letter:  "Copy  of  a  letter 

1.  Name        which  Jeremiah   sent  to  the  captives 

about  to  be  led  to  Babylon  by  [Pesh 
adds  Nebuchadnezzar]  the  king  of  the  Babylonians, 
to  make  known  to  them  what  had  been  commanded 
him  by  God."  What  follows  is  a  satirical  exposure 
of  the  folly  of  idolatry,  and  not  a  letter.  The  idea 
of  introducing  this  as  a  letter  from  Jeremiah  was 
probably  suggested  by  Jer  29  1  IT. 

The  early  Gr  Fathers  were  on  the  whole  favorably 
disposed   toward   this  tract,   reckoning  it  to  be  a 

part   of    the    Canon.     It    is    therefore 

2.  Canon-  included  in  the  lists  of  canonical 
icity  and  writings  of  Origen,  Epiphanius,  Cyril 
Position         of  Jerus  and  Athanasius,   and  it  was 

so  authoritatively  recognized  by  the 
Council  of  Laodicea  (360  AD). 

In  most  Gr  MSS  of  the  LXX  (BA  Codd.  March,  Chisl, 
in  the  Syr  Hex),  it  follows  Lam  as  an  independent  piece, 
closing  the  supposed  writings  of  Jeremiah.  In  the  best- 
known  printed  edd  of  the  LXX  (Tischendorf,  Swete,  etc), 
the  order  is  Jer,  Bar,  Lam,  Ep.  Jer.  In  Fritzsche,  Lib. 
Apoc  VT  Graece,  Ep.  Jer  stands  between  Bar  and  Tob. 
But  in  Lat  MSS,  including  those  of  the  Vulg,  it  is  ap- 
pended to  Bar,  of  which  it  forms  ch  6,  though  it  really 
has  nothing  to  do  with  that  book.  This  last  is  the  case 
with  Protestant  edd  (EV,  etc)  of  the  Apoc,  a  more  intel- 
ligible arrangement,  as  Jer  and  Earn  do  not  occur  in  the 
Apoc,  and  the  Bib.  Baruch  was  Jeremiah's  amanuensis. 

In  the  so-called  letter  (see  1,  above)  the  author 

shows   the   absurdity   and   wickedness   of   heat  hen 

worship.     The  Jews,  for  their  sins,  will 

3.  Contents  be  removed   to   Babylon,   where   they 

will  remain  7  generations.  In  that 
land  they  will  be  tempted  to  worship  the  gods  of  the 
people.  The  writer's  aim  is  ostensibly  to  warn 
them  beforehand  by  showing  how  helpless  and  use- 
less the  idols  worshipped  are,  and  how  immoral  as 
well  as  silly  the  rites  of  the  Bab  religion  are.  For 
similar  polemics  against  idolatry,  see  Isa  44  9-19 
(which  in  its  earnestness  resembles  the  Ep.  Jer 
closely);  Jer  10  3-9;  Ps  115  4-8;  135  15-18; 
Wisd  13  10-19;    15  13-17. 

That  the  Ep.  Jer  was  composed  in  Gr  is  the  opin- 
ion of  practically  all  scholars.     There  are  no  marks 

of  translation;    the  Gr  is  on  the  whole 

4.  Original  good,  and  abounds  in  such  rhetorical 
Language      terms    as     characterized     the    Gr    of 

Northern  Egypt  about  the  beginning 
of  our  era.  There  is  no  trace  of  a  Hob  original, 
though  Origen  has  been  mistakenly  understood 
to  say  there  was  one  in  his  day  (see  Schiirer, 
GJV\  III,  467  f).  Romanist  writers  defend  a  Heb 
original,  and  point  to  some  Hebraisms  (ver  44 
and  the  use  of  the  fut.  for  the  past),  but  these 
can  be  matched  in  admittedly  Hellenistic  Gr 
writings. 

The  writer  was  almost  certainly  a  resident  in 
Alexandria  toward  the  close  of  the  last  cent.  BC. 

The  Gr  of  the  book,  the  references  to 

5.  Author-  Egyp  religion  (ver  19,  where  the  Feast 
ship,  Date  of  Lights  at  Sais — Herod,  ii.62 — is 
and  Aim         referred   to),   and   the  allusion   to  the 

Ep.  Jer  in  2  Mace  2  2,  denied  by 
Schiirer,  etc,  make;  the  above  conclusion  very 
probable.  The  author  had  in  mind  the  dangers 
to  the  religion  of  his  fellow-countrymen  presented 
by  the  fascinating  forms  of  idolatry  existing  at 
Alexandria.  Certainly  Jeremiah  is  not  the  author, 
for  the  book  was  written  in  Gr  and  never  formed 
part  of  the  Heb  Canon.  Besides,  the  treatment  is 
far  below  the  level  of  the  genuine  writings  of  that 
prophet. 


Jeriah 
Jeroboam 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1592 


(1)  The.  (heck.  -This  op.  occurs  in  tho  principal  MSS 
of  the  I. XX   uncials   (ItA   Q  V  contain    ib   24u,  etc)   and 

cursives  (except    i  0.  '.)<>,  229). 
c     Tpvt  '-')     Tin   Syrim:       T    follows    the    Or,    hut 

°"    ,  verv   freelv.      The   Svr    II    follows   the   text, 

and  of   ii  closely,  often  at  the  expense  of  Syr 

Versions        idioms. 

(A)  Tin-  Latin.  -Tho  Vulg  is  made  direct 
from  the(ir.  There  is  a  different  I. at  VS  published  by 
Sabaticrin  his  Mb.  Sarr.  Lat  Ver.iionea  Antiquas,  II,  7:54  ir. 
It  is  freer  than  the  Villi;. 

(4)  There  are  also  Arabic  (following  A).  Coptic  (od  Quat- 
remere,  IS10),  and  Klliiopic  (ed  Uillmann,  1894)  versions. 

|,iTi:iuTniK.  -See  under  Apocuvpiia  for  Coram,  and 
editions.  Hut  note  in  addition  to  the  lit.  mentioned  in 
the  art.  the  following:  Keusch,  Erklar.  den  Ii.  Iinrur}u 
1S53;  Daubanton.  "Hot  Apok  bock  'En-ioToAi)  'Iept^uou," 
Thiol,  Studit  n,   1SSS,    lL'li-:{S. 

T.   WlTTON  Davies 

JERIAH,  je-rl'a  (TPT ,  yrlyuhu,  "fount let  1  of 
Jeh"):  I"  1  Ch  23  19;  24  23  =  "Jerijah"  (!"PT , 
i/nydh),  26  31,  head  of  a  Levitieal  Jiou.se:  called 
chief  of  the  Hebronites  in  24  2:5  (cf  ver  30). 

JERIBAI,  jer'i-bi,  jer-i-ba'I  P^T  >  ifrlbhay, 
meaning  uncertain):  One  of  David's  mighty  men  of 
the  armies  (1  Ch  11  46);  one  of  the  names  not 
found  in  the  list  in  2  S  23  24-29a. 

JERICHO,  jer'i-ko  (the  word  occurs  in  two  forms. 
In  the  Pent,  in  2  K  25  5  and  in  Ezr,  Neh,  Cli  it  is 
written  irH"1 ,  y'rcljd;  IrTH1? ,  yrlho,  elsewhere): 
In  1  K  16  34  the  final  letter  is  T\ ,  he,  instead  of  1 , 
waw.  The  termination  wclw  is  thought  to  preserve 
the  peculiarities  of  the  old  Can.  dialect.  In  the 
LXX  we  have  the  indeclinable  form,  'lepixd,  Ieri- 
cho  (Swete  has  the  form  Iereicho  as  well),  both  with 
and  without  the  fern,  art.;  in  the  NT  'lep^x^, 
Iereicho,  once  with  the  fem.  art.  The  Arab,  is 
er-Riha.  According  to  Dt  32  49  it  stood  opposite 
Nebo,  while  in  34  3  it.  is  called  a  city  grove  of 
palm  trees.  It  was  surrounded  with  a  wall  (Josh 
2  15),  and  provided  with  a  gate  which  was  closed 
at  night  (2  5),  and  was  ruled  over  by  a  king.  When 
captured,  vessels  of  brass  and  iron,  large  quantities 
of  silver  and  gold,  and  "a  goodly  Babylonish  gar- 
ment'' were  found  in  it  (7  21).  It  was  on  the 
western  side  of  the  Jordan,  not  far  from  the  camp  of 
Israel  at  Shittim,  before  crossing  the  river  (2  1). 
The  city  was  on  the  ''plains"  (4  13),  but  so  close 
to  "the  mountain"  on  the  W.  (probably  the  cliffs 
of  Quarantania,  the  traditional  scene  of  Christ's 
temptation)  that  it  was  within  easy  reach  of  the 
spies,  protected  by  Rahab.  It  was  in  the  lot  of 
Benjamin  (18  21),  the  border  of  which  ascended 
to  the  "slope  [EV  "side"]  of  J.  on  the  N."  (18  12). 
Authorities  are  generally  agreed  in  locating  the 
ancient,  city  at  Tel  es-Sultdn,  a  mile  and  a  half  N.W. 
of  modern  J.  Here  there  is  a  mound  1,200  ft.  long 
and  50  ft.  in  height  supporting  4  smaller  mounds, 
the  highest  of  which  is  90  ft.  above  the  base  of  the 
main  mound. 


Site  of  Ancient  Jericho. 

The  geological  situation  (see  Jordan  Valley)  sheds 
great  light  upon  the  capture  of  the  city  by  Joshua  (Josh 
6>.  If  the  city  was  built  as  we  suppose  it  to  have  been, 
upon  the  unconsolidated  sedimentary  deposits  which 
accumulated  to  a  great  depth  in  tin;  Jordan  valley  during 
the  enlargement  of  the  Dead  Sea,  which  took  "place  in 


Pleistocene  (or  glacial)  times,  the  sudden  falling  of  the 
walls  becomes  easily  credible  to  anyone  who  believes  in 
the  personality  of  Uod  and  in  His  power  either  to  fore- 
know the  future  or  to  direct  at  His  will  the  secondary 
causes  with  which  man  has  to  deal  in  Nature.  The  nar- 
rative does  not  state  that  the  blowing  of  the  rams'  horns  of 
themselves  effected  the  falling  of  the  walls.  It  wassimply 
said  that  at  a  specified  juncture;  on  the  7th  day  the  walls 
would  fall,  and  that  they  actually  fell  at  that  juncture. 
The  miracle  may,  therefore,  be  regarded  as  either  that  of 
prophecy,  in  which  the  Creator  by  foretelling  the  course 
of  things  to  Joshua,  secured  the  junction  of  Divine  and 
human  activities  which  constitutes  a  true  miracle,  or  we 
may  regard  the  movements  which  brought  down  the 
walls  to  be  the  result  of  direct  Divine  action,  such  as  is 
exerted  by  man  when  he  produces  an  explosion  of  dyna- 
mite at  a  particular  time  and  place.  The  phenomena 
are  just  such  as  occurred  in  the  earthquake  of  San  Fran- 
cisco in  1900,  where,  according  to  the,  report  of  the 
scientific  commission  appointed  by  the  state,  "the  most 
violent  destruction  of  buildings  was  on  the  made  ground. 
This  ground  siiems  to  have  behaved  during  the  earth- 
quake very  much  in  the  same  way  as  jelly  in  a  bowl,  or 
as  a  semi-liquid  in  a  tank."  Santa  Rosa,  situated  on  the 
valley  floor,  "underlain  to  a  considerable  depth  by  loose 

or    slightly    coherent     geological    formations 20 

miles  from  the  rift,  was  the  most  severely  shaken  town 
in  the  state  and  suffered  the  greatest  disaster  relatively 
to  its  population  and  extent"  (Report,  \A  and  15).  Thus 
an  earthquake,  such  as  is  easily  provided  for  along  the 
margin  of  this  great  Jordan  crevasse,  would  produce 
exactly  the  phenomena  here  described,  and  its  occurrence 
at  the  time  and  place  foretold  to  Joshua  constitutes  it 
a  miracle  of  the  first  magnitude. 

Notwithstanding  the  curse  pronounced  in  Josh 

6  2(5  AY,  prophesying  that  whosoever  should  rebuild 
the  city  "he  shall  lay  the  foundations  thereof  in  his 
firstborn,"  it  was  rebuilt  (I  K  16  34)  by  Hiel  the 
Bethelite  in  the  days  of  Ahab.  The  curse  was  lit- 
erally fulfilled.  Still  David's  messengers  are  said 
to  have  "tarried  at  Jericho"  in  his  day  (2  S  10  5; 
1  Ch  19  5).  In  Elisha's  time  (2  K  2  5)  then; 
was  a  school  of  prophets  there,  while  several  other 
references  to  the  city  oc<  ur  in  the  OT  and  the  Apoc 
(2  Ch  28  1"),  where  it  is  called  "the  city  of  palm- 
trees";  2  K  25  5;  Jer  39  5;  Ezr  2  34;    Neh  3  2; 

7  36;  1  Mace  9  50).  Jos  describes  it  and  the 
fertile  plain  surrounding  it,  in  glowing  terms.  In 
the  time  of  Christ,  it  was  an  important  place  yield- 
ing a  large  revenue  to  the  royal  family.  But  the 
city  which  Herod  rebuilt  was  on  a  higher  elevation, 
at  the  base  of  the  western  mountain,  probably  at 
Beit  Jubr,  where  there  are  the  ruins  of  a  small  fort. 
Jericho  was  the  place  of  rendezvous  for  Galilean 
pilgrims  desiring  to  avoid  Samaria,  both  in  going  to 
and  in  departing  from  Jems,  and  it  has  been  visited 
at  all  times  by  thousands  of  pilgrims,  who  go  down 
from  Jerus  to  bathe  in  the  Jordan.  The  road  lead- 
ing from  Jerus  to  Jericho  is  still  infested  by  robbers 
who  hide  in  the  rocky  caverns  adjoining  it,  and  ap- 
pear without  warning  from  the  tributary  gorges  of 
the  wadies  which  dissect  the  mountain  wall.  At 
the  present  time  Jericho  and  the  region  about  is 
occupied  only  by  a  few  hundred  miserable  inhabit- 
ants, deteriorated  by  the  torrid  climate  which  pre- 
vails at  the  low  level  about  the  head  of  the  Dead 
S:'a.  But  the  present  barrenness  of  the  region  is 
largely  due  to  the  destruction  of  the  aqueducts 
which  formerly  distributed  over  the  plain  the 
waters  brought  down  through  the  wadies  which 
descend  from  the  mountains  of  Judaea.  The  ruins 
of  many  of  these  are  silent  witnesses  of  the  cause  of 
its  decay.  Twelve  aqueducts  at  various  levels 
formerly  branched  from  the  W&dy  Kelt,  irrigating 
the  plain  both  N.  and  S.  Remains  of  Rom  masonry 
are  found  in  these.  In  the  Middle  Ages  they  were  so 
repaired  that  an  abundance  and  variety  of  crops  were 
raised,  including  wheat,  barley,  millet,  figs,  grapes 
and  sugar  cane.  See  further  Palestine  (Recent 
Exploration).  George  Frederick  Wright 

JERIEL,  je'ri-el,  jer'i-el  (bjiPT  ,  ifrVel,  "founded 
of  God";  cf  Jeriah):  Achief  of  Issachar  (1  Ch  7  2). 

JERIJAH,  je-ri'ja  (1  Ch  26  31).     See  Jeriah. 


1593 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jeriah 
Jeroboam 


JERIMOTH,  jer'i-moth  (see  Jeremoth,  [c]): 

(1)  A  Benjamite  (1  Ch  7  7). 

(2)  A  Benjamite  who  joined  David  at  Ziklag,  or 
perhaj)s  a  Judaean  (1   Cli  12  5  [Heb  6]). 

(3)  In  1  Ch  24  30= Jeremoth,  (4)  (q.v.). 

(4)  A  Levite  musician  in  David's  time  (1  Ch 
25  4). 

(5  J  Son  of  David  and  father  of  Mahalath,  Reho- 
boam's  wife  (2  Ch  11  18).  He  is  not  mentioned 
(2  S  3  2-5;  5  14-16;  1  Ch  3  1-9;  14  4-7)  anions 
the  sons  of  David's  wives,  so  Curtis  (Ch,  3(59)  thinks 
that  he  was  either  <  he  son  of  a  concubine,  or  possibly 
the  name  is  a  corruption  of  "Ithream"  (D3HrP , 
yithr'am,  1  Ch  3  3). 

(6)  A  Levite  overseer  in  Hezekiah's  time  (2  Ch 
31  13).  David  Francis  Roberts 

JERIOTH,  jer'i-oth,  jer'i-oth  (rWTj,  yrl'oth, 
"[tent-]  curtains"):  In  1  Ch  2  18,  where  MT  is 
corrupt,  Kittel  in  his  comm.  and  in  Bib.  Heb  reads 
"Caleb  begat  [children]  of  Azubah  his  wife,  Jerioth." 
Wellhausen  (De  (lent,  ct  Fam.  J  ad.,  33)  reads, 
"Caleb  begat  [children]  of  Azubah  his  wife,  the 
daughter  of  Jerioth."  According  to  EV,  Caleb  had 
two  wives,  but  the  context  docs  not  bear  this  out. 
J.  H.  Michaelis  regarded  J.  as  another  name  for  Azu- 
bah.    See  Curtis,  Comm.  on  Ch,  92. 

JEROBOAM,  jer-6-bo'am  (D?^,  yarobh'am; 
LXX  Tepopodfi,  Hierobodm,  usually  assumed  to 
have  been  derived  from  D"H  and  D37 ,  and  signifying 
"the  people  contend,"  or,  "he  pleads  the  people's 
cause") :  The  name  was  borne  by  two  kings  of  Israel. 

(1)  Jeroboam  I,  son  of  Nebat,  an  Ephraimite, 
and  of  Zeruah,  a  widow  (1  K  11  26-40;  12—14  20). 
He  was  the  first  king  of  Israel  after  the  disruption  of 
the  kingdom,  and  he  reigned  22  years  (937-915  BC). 

The  history  of  J.  is  contained  in  1  K  11  26-40; 

12  1—14  20;  2  Ch  10  1—11  4;  11  14-16;  12  15; 

13  3-20,    and   in   an   insertion   in  the 

1.  Sources    LXX  after  1  K  12  24(a-2).     This  in- 

sertion covers  about  the  same  ground 
as  the  MT,  and  the  LXX  elsewhere,  with  some 
additions  and  variations.  The  fact  that  it  calls 
J.'s  mother  a  pome  (harlot),  and  his  wife  the  Egyp 
princess  Ano  (cf  1  K  11);  that  J.  is  punished  by  the 
death  of  his  son  before  he  has  done  any  wrong;  that 
the  episode  with  the  prophet's  mantle  does  not 
occur  until  the  meeting  at  Shechem;  that  J.  is  not 
proclaimed  king  at  ail — all  this  proves  the  passage 
inferior  to  the  MT.  No  doubt  it  is  a  fragment,  of 
some  historical  work,  which,  after  the  manner  of  the 
later  Midr,  has  combined  history  and  tradition, 
making  rather  free  use  of  the  historical  kernel. 

J.,  as  a  highly  gifted  and  valorous  young 
Ephraimite,  comes  to  the  notice  of  Solomon  early 

in  his  reign  (1  K  11  28;   cf  9  15.24). 

2.  His  Rise   Having  noticed  his  ability,  the   king 
and  Revolt    made    him   overseer   of  the  fortifica- 
tions and  public  work  at  Jems,  and 

placed  him  over  the  levy  from  the  house  of  Joseph. 
The  fact  that  the  latter  term  may  stand  for  the 
whole  of  the  ten  tribes  (cf  Am  5  6;  6  (J;  Ob  ver 
18)  indicates  tin;  importance  of  the  position,  which, 
however,  he  used  to  plot  against  the  king.  No 
doubt  he  had  the  support  of  the  people  in  his  designs. 
Prejudices  of  long  standing  (2S1940f;  20  f) 
were  augmented  when  Israelitish  interests  were 
made  subservient  to  Judah  and  to  the  king,  while 
enforced  labor  and  burdensome  taxation  filled  the 
people's  hearts  with  bitterness  and  jealousy.  J., 
the  son  of  a  widow,  would  be  the  first  to  feel  the  gall 
of  oppression  and  to  give  voice  to  the  suffering  of 
the  people.  In  addition,  he  had  the  approval  of 
the  prophet  Ahijah  of  the  old  sanctuary  of  Shiloh, 
who,  by  tearing  his  new  mantle  into  twelve  pieces 
and  giving  ten  of  them  to  J.,  informed  him  that  he 


was  to  become  king  of  the  ten  tribes.  Jos  says 
(Ant,  VIII,  vii,  8)  that  J.  was  elevated  by  the  words 
of  the  prophet,  "and  being  a  young  man  of  warm 
temper,  and  ambitious  of  greatness,  he  could  not 
be  quiet,"  but  tried  to  get  the  government  into  his 
hands  at  once.  For  the;  time,  the  plot  failed,  and 
J.  fled  to  Egypt  where  he  was  received  and  kindly 
treated  by  Shishak,  the  successor  to  the  father-in- 
law  of  Solomon. 

The  genial  and  imposing  personality  of  Solomon 
had  been  able  to  stem  the  tide  of  discontent  ex- 
cited by  his  oppressive  regime,  which  at 
3.  The  his  death  burst  all  restraints.     Never- 

Revolt  of  theless,  the  northern  tribes,  at  a  popu- 
the  Ten  lar  assembly  held  at  Shechem,  solemnly 
Tribes  promised  to  serve  Rehoboam,  the  son 

of  Solomon,  who  had  already  been  pro- 
claimed king  at  Jerus,  on  condition  that  he  would 
lighten  the  burdens  that  so  unjustly  rested  upon 
them.  Instead  of  receiving  the  magna  charta  which 
they  expected,  the  king,  in  a  spirit  of  despotism, 
gave  them  a  rough  answer,  and  Jos  says  "the  people 
were  struck  by  his  words,  as  it  were,  by  an  iron 
hammer"  (Ant,  VIII,  viii,  3).  But  despotism  lost 
the  day.  The  rough  answer  of  the  king  was  met 
by  the  Marseillaise  of  the  people: 

"AVhat  portion  have  we  in  David  ? 
Neither  have  we  inheritance  in  the  son  of  Jesse: 
To  your  tents,  O  Israel: 
Now  see  to  thine  own  house,  David"  (1  K  12  16). 

Seeing  the  turn  affairs  had  taken,  but  still  unwill- 
ing to  make  any  concessions,  Rehoboam  sent 
Adoram,  who  had  been  over  the  levy  for  many 
years  (1  K  5  14;  12  18),  and  who  no  doubt  had 
quelled  dissatisfaction  before,  to  force  the  people 
to  submission,  possibly  by  the  very  methods  he  had 
threatened  to  employ  (1  K  12  14).  Jlowever,  the 
attempt  failed.  The  aged  Adoram  was  stoned  to 
death,  while  Rehoboam  was  obliged  to  flee  ignomini- 
ously  back  to  Jerus,  king  only  of  Judah  (1  K  12 
20).  Thus  the  great  work  of  David  for  a  united 
kingdom  was  shattered  by  inferiors,  who  put  per- 
sonal ambitions  above  great  ideals. 

As  soon  as  J.  heard  that  Solomon  was  dead,  he 

returned  from  his  forced  exile  in  Egypt   and  took 

up  his  residence  in  his  native  town, 

4.  The  Zeredah,  in  the  hill  countrv  of  Ephraim 
Election  (LXX   1  K  12  20  ff).     The  northern 

tribes,  having  rejected  the  house  of 
David,  now  turned  to  the  leader,  and  perhaps  insti- 
gator of  the  revolution.  Jeroboam  was  sent  for 
and  raised  to  the  throne  by  the  choice  and  approval 
of  the  popular  assembly.  Divinely  set  apart  for 
his  task,  and  having  the  approval  of  the  people, 
J.  nevertheless  failed  to  rise  to  the  greatness  of  his 
opportunities,  and  his  kingdom  degenerated  into 
a  mere  military  monarchy,  never  stronger  than  the 
ruler  who  chanced  to  occupy  the  throne.  In  trying 
to  avoid  the  Scylla  that  threatened  its  freedom  and 
faith  (1  K  11  33),  the  nation  steered  into  the 
Charybdis  of  revolution  and  anarchy  in  which  it 
finally  perished. 

Immediately  upon  his  accession,  J.  fortified 
Shechem,   the  largest   city  in   Central   Israel,   and 

made  it  his  capital.     Later  he  fortified 

5.  Political  Penuel  in  the  E.  Jordan  country.  Ac- 
Events  cording  to  1  K  14  17,  Tirzah  was  the 

capital  during  the  latter  part  of  his 
reign.  About  J.'s  external  relations  very  little  is 
known  beyond  the  fact  that  there  was  war  between 
him  and  Rehoboam  constantly  (1  K  14  30).  In 
2  Ch  13  2-20  we  read  of  an  inglorious  war  with 
Abijah  of  Judah.  \Yhen  Shishak  invaded  Judah 
(1  K  14  25  f),  he  did  not  spare  Israel,  as  appears 
from  his  inscription  on  the  temple  at  Karnak,  where 
a  list  of  the  towns  captured  by  him  is  given.  These 
belong  to   Northern   Israel   as   well   as  to   Judah, 


Jeroboam 
Jerusalem 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


ir.94 


6.  His 

Religious 
Policy 

primages  1 
lion    had 
establish 


moi 


ial  w: 


showing  thai  Shishak  exacted  tribute  (here,  even 
if  he  used  violence  only  in  Judah.  TIu)  fuel  thai 
J.  successfully  managed  a  revolution  but  failed  to 
establish  a  dynasty  shows  that  his  strength  lay 
in  the  power  of  his  personality  more  than  in  the 
soundness  of  his  principles. 

Despite  the  success  of  the  revolution  politically, 
J.  descried  in  the  halo  surrounding  the  temple  and 
its  ritual  a  danger  which  threatened 
the  permanency  of  his  kingdom.  He 
justifiably  dreaded  a  reaction  in  favor 
of  the  house  of  David,  should  the 
people  make  repeated  religious  pil- 
to  Jerus  after  the  first  passion  of  the  rebel- 
spent  itself.  He  therefore  resolved  to 
national  sanctuaries  in  Israel.  Accord- 
fixed  on  Bethel,  which  from  time  immc- 
ls  one  of  the  chief  sanctuaries  of  the  land 
(Oen  28  19;  35  1;  Hos  12  4),  and  Dan,  also  a 
holy  place  since  the  conquest,  as  the  chief  centers 
of  worship  for  Israel.  J.  now  made  "two  calves 
of  gold"  as  symbols  of  the  strength  and  creative 
power  of  ,leh.'  and  set  them  up  in  the  sanctuaries 
at  Bethel  and  Dan,  where  altars  and  other  sacred 
objects  already  existed.  It  appears  that  many  of 
the  priests  sti'll  in  the  land  were  opposed  to  his 
image-worship  (2  Ch  11  13  ff).  Accordingly,  he 
found  it  necessary  to  institute  a  new,  non-Levitical 
priesthood  (1  K  13  33).  A  new  and  popular  festi- 
val on  the  model  of  the  feasts  at  Jerus  was  also 
established.  J.'s  policy  might,  have  been  considered 
as  a  clever  political  move,  had  it  not,  contained  the 
dangerous  appeal  to  the  lower  instincts  of  the 
masses,  that  led  them  into  the  immoralities  of 
heathenism  and  hastened  the  destruction  of  the 
nation.  J.  sacrificed  the  higher  interests  of  reli- 
gion to  politics.  This  was  the  ''sin  of  Jeroboam  the 
son  of  Nebat,  wherewith  he  made  Israel  to  sin" 
(I  K  12  30;  16  26). 

It  may  be  that  many  of  the  prophets  sanctioned 

J.'s  religious  policy.     Whatever  the  attitude  of  the 

majority   may  have   been,   there   was 

7.  Hostility  no    doubt    a    party    who    strenuously 
of  the  opposed  the  image- worship. 
Prophets  (1)    The     anonymous     prophet. — On 

the  very  day  on  which  J.  inaugurated 
the  worship  at  the  sanctuary  at  Bethel  "a  man  of 
Cod  out  of  Judah"  appeared  at  Bethel  and  pub- 
licly denounced  the  service.  The  import  of  his 
message  was  that  the  royal  altar  should  some  day 
be  desecrated  by  a  ruler  from  the  house  of  David. 
The  prophet  was  saved  from  the  wrath  of  the  king 
only  by  a  miracle.  "The  altar  also  was  rent,  and 
the  ashes  poured  out  from  the  altar."  This  narra- 
tive of  1  K  13  is  usually  assumed  to  belong  to  a 
later  time,  but  whatever  the  date  of  compilation, 
the  general  historicity  of  the  account  is  little  affected 
by  it. 

(2)  The  prophet  Afajah. — At  a  later  date,  when 
J.  had  realized  his  ambition,  but  not  the  ideal  which 
the  prophet  had  set  before  him,  Ahijah  predicted 
the  consequences  of  his  evil  policy.  J.'s  eldest, 
son  had  fallen  sick.  He  thought  of  Ahijah,  now 
old  and  blind,  and  sent  the  queen  in  disguise  to 
learn  the  issue  of  the  sickness.  The  prophet  bade 
her  to  announce  to  J.  that  the  house  of  J.  should  be 
extirpated  root  and  branch;  that  the  people  whom 
he  had  seduced  to  idolatry  should  be  uprooted  from 
the  land  and  transported  beyond  the  river;  and, 
severest  of  all,  that  her  son  should  die. 

8.  His  J.  died  in  the  22d  year  of  his  reign, 
Death             having  "bequeathed  to  posterity  the 

reputation  of  an  apostate  and  a  suc- 
cession of  endless  revolutions." 

S.    K.    MOSIMAN 

(2)  Jeroboam  n  (2  K  14  23-29),  son  of  Joash 
and  13th  king  of  Israel;    4th  sovereign  of  the  dy- 


nasty of  Jehu.  He  reigned  41  years.  His  accession 
may  be  placed  c  70S  BC  (some  date  lower). 

J.  came  into  power  on  the  crest  of  the  wave  of 
prosperity   that  followed  the  crushing  of  the  su- 
premacy of   Damascus  by  his  father. 

1.  His  By  his  great  victory  at  Aphek,  followed 
Warlike  by  others,  Joash  had  regained  the  ter- 
Policy              ritory  lost  to  Israel  in  the  reigns  of  Jehu 

and  Jehoahaz  (2  K  13  17.25).  This 
sat  isfied  Joash,  or  his  death  prevented  further  hostili- 
ties.  J.,  however,  then  a  young  man,  resolved  on  a 
war  of  retaliation  against  Damascus,  and  on  further 
conquests.  The  condition  of  the  eastern  world 
favored  his  projects,  for  Assyria  was  at  the  time 
engaged,  under  Shalmaneser  III  and  Assurdan  III, 
in  a  life-and-death  struggle  with  Armenia.  Syria 
being  weakened,  J.  determined  on  a  bold  attempt  to 
conquer  and  annex  the  whole  kingdom  of  which 
Damascus  was  the  capital.  The  steps  of  the  cam- 
paign by  which  this  was  accomplished  are  unknown 
to  us.  The  result  only  is  recorded,  that  not  only 
the  intermediate  territory  fell  into  J.'s  hands,  but 
that  Damascus  itself  was  captured  (2  K  14  28). 
Hamath  was  taken,  and  thus  were  restored  the 
eastern  boundaries  of  the  kingdom,  as  they  were  in 
the  time  of  David  (1  Ch  13  5).  From  the  time  of 
Joshua  "the  entrance  of  Hamath"  (Josh  13  5),  a 
narrow  pass  leading  into  the  valley  of  the  Lebanons, 
had  been  the  accepted  northern  boundary  of  the 
promised  land.  This  involved  the  subjection  of 
Moab  and  Ammon,  probably  already  tributaries 
of  Damascus. 

J.'s  long  reign  of  over  40  years  gave  time  for  the 

collected  tribute;  of  this  greatly  increased  territory 

to  flow  into  the  coffers  of  Samaria,  and 

2.  New  the  exactions  would  be  ruthlessly  en- 
Social  forced.  The  prophet  Amos,  a  con- 
Conditions     temporary    of   J.    in    his    later   years, 

dwells  on  the  cruelties  inflicted  on  the 
trans-Jordanic  tribes  by  Hazael,  who_  "threshed 
Gilead  with  threshing  instruments  of  iron"  (Am 
1  3).  All  this  would  be  remembered  now,  and 
wealth  to  which  the  Northern  Kingdom  had  been 
unaccustomed  flowed  into  its  treasuries.  The 
hovels  of  unburned  brick  in  which  the  citizens  had 
lived  were  replaced  by  "houses  of  hewn  stone" 
(Am  5  11).  The  ivory  house  which  Ahab  built 
in  Samaria  (1  K  22  39;  decorations  only  are 
meant)  was  imitated,  and  there  were  many  "great 
houses"  (Am  3  15).  The  sovereign  had  both  a 
winter  and  a  summer  palace.  The  description  of 
a  banqueting  scene  within  one  of  these  palatial 
abodes  is  lifelike  in  its  portraiture.  The  guests 
stretched  themselves  upon  the  silken  cushions  of  the 
couches,  eating  the  flesh  of  lambs  and  stall-fed 
calves,  drinking  wine  from  huge  bowls,  singing  idle 
songs  to  the  sound  of  viols,  themselves  perfumed  and 
anointed  with  oil  (Am  6  4-6).  Meanwhile,  they 
were  not  grieved  for  the  affliction  of  Joseph,  and 
cared  nothing  for  the  wrongdoing  of  which  the 
country  was  full.  Side  by  side  with  this  luxury, 
the  poor  of  the  land  were  in  the  utmost  distress. 
A  case  in  which  a  man  was  sold  into  slavery  for  the 
price  of  a  pair  of  shoes  scorns  to  have  come  to  the 
prophet's  knowledge,  and  is  twice  referred  to  by 
him  (Am  2  6;  8  6). 

With  all  this,  and  as  part  of  the  social  organiza- 
tion, religion  of  a  kind  flourished.     Ritual  took  the 
place    of   righteousness;      and     in     a 

3.  Growth  memorable  passage,  Amos  denounces 
of  Cere-  the  substitution  of  the  one  for  the 
monial  other  (Am  5  21  ff).  The  worship 
Worship         took  place  in  the  sanctuaries  of  the 

golden  calves,  where  the  votaries 
prostrated  themselves  before  the  altar  clothed  in 
garments  taken  in  cruel  pledge,  and  drank  sacri- 
ficial wine  bought  with  the  money  of  those  who  were 


1595 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jeroboam 
Jerusalem 


fined  for  non-attendance  there  (Am  2  S).  There 
were  subsidiary  temples  and  altars  at  Gilgal  and 
Beersheba  (Am  4  4;  5  5;  8  14).  Both  of  these 
places  had  associations  with  the  early  history  of  the 
nation,  and  would  be  attended  by  worshippers  from 
Judah  as  well  as  from  Israel. 

Toward  the  close  of  his  reign,  it  would  appear 

that  J.  had  determined  upon  adding  greater  splendor 

and  dignity  to  the  central  shrine,  in 

4.  Mission  correspondence  with  the  increased 
of  Amos         wealth   of   the   nation.     Amos,    about 

the  same  time,  received  a  commission 
to  go  to  Bethel  and  testify  against  the  whole  pro- 
ceedings there.  He  was  to  pronounce  that  these 
sanctuaries  should  belaid  waste,  and  that  Jeh  would 
raise  the  sword  against  the  house  of  J.  (Am  7  9). 
On  hearing  his  denunciation,  made  probably  as  he 
stood  beside  the  altar,  Amaziah,  the  priest  of  Bethel, 
sent  a  messenger  to  the  king  at  Samaria,  to  tell  him 
of  the  "conspiracy"  of  Amos,  and  that  the  land  was 
not  able  to  bear  all  his  words.  The  messenger 
bore  the  report  that  Amos  had  declared  "J.  shall 
die  by  the  sword,"  which  Amos  had  not  done. 
When  the  messenger  had  gone,  priest  and  prophet 
had  a  heated  controversy,  and  new  threatenings 
were  uttered  (Am  7  10-17). 

The    large    extension   of    territory    acquired    for 

Israel  by  J.  is  declared  to  have  been  the  realization 

of  a  prophecy  uttered  earlier  by  Jonah, 

5.  Prophecy  the  son  of  Amittai  (2  K  i4  25) — 
of  Jonah        the  same  whose  mission  to   Nineveh 

forms  the  subject  of  the  Book  of  Jon 
(1  1).  It,  is  also  indicated  that  the  relief  which  had 
now  come  was  the  only  alternative  to  the  ut  ter  ex- 
tinction of  Israel.  But  Jeh  sent  Israel  a  "saviour" 
(2  K  13  5),  associated  by  some  with  the  Assyr 
king  Ramman-nirari  III,  who  crushed  Damascus, 
and  left  Syria  an  easy  prey,  first  to  Jehoash,  then 
to  J.  (see  Jehoash),  but  whom  the  historian  seems 
to  connect  with  J.  himself  (2  K  14  26.27). 

J.  was  succeeded  on  his  death  by  his  weak  son 
Zechariah  (ver  29).  W.  Shaw  Caldecott 

JEROHAM,  je-ro'ham  (EHT^ ,  yroham,  "may 
he  be  compassionate!"): 

(1)  An  Ephraimite,  the  father  of  Elkanah,  and 
grandfather  of  Samuel  (1  S  1  1;  1  Ch  6  27.34 
[Heb  12.19]):  Jerahmeel  is  the  name  in  LXX,  B,  in 
1  S  and  in  LXX,  L+MSS,  in  1  Ch. 

(2)  A  Benjamite  (1  Ch  8  27),  apparently  = 
Jehemoth,  (2)  (cf  ver  14),  and  probably  the  same  as 
Ik;  of  1  Ch  9  8. 

(3)  Ancestor  of  a  priest  in  Jerus  (1  Ch  9  12  = 
Neh  11  12).     . 

(4)  A  man  of  Gedor,  father  of  two  of  David's 
Benjamite  recruits  at  Ziklag,  though  Gedor  might 
be  a  town  in  Southern  Judah  (1  Ch  12  7  [Heb  8]). 

(5)  Father  of  Azarel,  David's  tribal  chief  over 
Dan  (1  Ch  27  22). 

(G)  Fattier  of  Azariah,  one  of  the  captains  who 
supported  Jehoiada  in  overthrowing  Queen  Atha- 
liah  (2  Ch  23  1).  David  Fkancis  Roberts 

JERUBBAAL,  jer-u-ba'al,  je-rub'a-al  (>?$T) , 
yrubbcfal,  "let  Baal  contend"):  The  name  given 
to  Gideon  by  his  father,  Joash,  and  the  people  in 
recognition  of  his  destruction  of  the  altar  of  Baal 
at  Ophrah  (Jgs  6  32).  For  this  name  the  form 
"Jerubbcsheth"  (2  S  11  21)  was  substituted  after 
the  analogy  of  "Ishbosheth"  and  "Mephibosheth," 
in  which  bosheth,  the  Heb  word  for  "shame,"  dis- 
placed the  word  ba\d,  no  doubt  because  the  name 
resembled  one  given  in  honor  of  Baal.     See  Gideon. 

JERUBBESHETH,  jer-ub-be'sheth,  jevrub'e:- 
sheth    (nttJZlT? ,    yrubbesheth,    see    Jerubbaal    for 


meaning):    It  is  found  once   (2  S  11  21)   for  Je- 
rubbaal. 

The  word  mZJ3.  bosheth,  "shameful  thing,"  was  sub- 
stituted by  later  editors  of  the  text  for  b"3 .  ba'al, 
"lord,"  in  the  text  of  Jer  3  24;  Hos  9  10;  in  2  S  2  8, 
etc,  we  find  Ish-bosheth  =  Eshbaal  (Ishbaal)  in  1  Ch  8 
33;  9  39.  The  reason  for  this  was  reluctance  to  pro- 
nounce the  word  Haul,  which  had  by  their  time  been 
associated  with  Canaanitic  forms  of  worship.  In  2  S  11 
21  LXX,  Luc,  has  "Jeroboal,"  which  LXX,  B,  has  cor- 
rupted to  "Jeroboam."  Cf  Meribbaal;  M  ephibosheth; 
and  see  (Hi,  Intro,  400  If.  For  a  NT  case  cf  Horn  11  4 
and  see  Sanday  and  lleadlam  ad  loc.  See  Jeruuhaal. 
David  Francis  Roberts 

JERUEL,  je-roo'el,  jer'66-el  (b^T,  ifru'el, 
"founded  by  El"):  Jahaziel  prophesied  that  King 
Jehoshaphat  should  meet  the  hordes  of  Moabites 
and  Ammonites,  after  they  had  come  up  by  the 
"ascent  of  Ziz,"  "at  the  end  of  the  valley  [i.e.  wddy], 
before  the  wilderness  of  Jeruel"  (2  Ch  20  16). 
The  particular  part  of  the  wilderness  intended,  is 
unknown.  Cheyne  (EB)  thinks  this  may  be  an  error 
for  the  Jezreel  of  Judah,  mentioned  in  Josh  15  5b, 
etc.     See  Jezrkkl. 

JERUSALEM,  je-n7o'sa-lem : 
1.     The  Name 

1.  In  Cuneiform 

2.  In  Hebrew 

3.  In  Creek  and  Latin 

4.  The  Meaning  of  Jerusalem 

5.  Other  Names 

II.     Geology,  Climate  and  Springs 

1.  Geology 

2.  Climate  and  Rainfall 

3.  The  Natural  .Springs 

III.  The  Natural  Site 

1.  The  Mountains  Around 

2.  The  Valleys 

3.  The  Hills' 

IV.  General  Topography  of  Jerusalem 

1.  Description  of  Josephus 

2.  Summary  of  the  Names  of  the  Five  Hills 

3.  The  Akra 

4.  The  Lower  City 

5.  City  of  David  and  Zion 

V.     Excavations  and  Antiquities 

1.  Robinson 

2.  Wilson,  and  the  Palestine,  Exploration  Fund 
(18(55) 

3.  Warren  and  Conder 

4.  Maudslay 

5.  Schick 

G.   Clermont-Ganneau 
7.   Bliss  and  Dickie 
s.  Jerusalem  Archaeological  Societies 
VI.     The  City's  Walls  and  Gates 

1.  The  Existing  Walls 

2.  Wilson's  Theory 

3.  The  Existing  Gates 

4.  Buried  Remains  of  Earlier  Walls 

5.  The  Great  Dam  of  the  Tyropceon 
G.   Ruins  of  Ancient  Gates 

7.  Josephus'  Description  of  the  Walls 

8.  First  Wall 

9.  Second  Wall 

10.  Third  Wall 

11.  Date  of  Second  Wall 

12.  Nehemiah's  Account  of  the  Walls 

13.  Valley  Gate 

14.  Dung  ( late 

15.  Fountain  ( late 
1G.  Water  Gate 

17.  Horse  Gate 

18.  Sheep  Gate 

19.  Fish  Gate 

20.  "Old  Gate" 

21.  Gate  of  Ephraim 

22.  Tower  of  the  Furnaces 

23.  The  Gate  of  Benjamin 

24.  Upper  Gate  of  the  Temple 

25.  The  Earlier  Walls 

VII.     Antiquarian    Remains     Connected    with    the 
Water  Supply 

1.  Gihon:    The  Natural  Spring 

2.  The  Aqueduct  of  the  Canaanites 

3.  Warren's  Shaft 

4.  Hezekiah's  "Siloam"  Aqueduct 

5.  Other  Aqueducts  at  Gihon 
G.    Btr  Etjiiub 

7.  Varieties  of  Cisterns 

8.  Birket  IsraSl 

9.  Pool  of  Bethesda 

10.  The  Twin  Pools 

11.  Birket  llammam  el  Batrak 


Jerusalem 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1596 


12. 
13. 
1 i. 
15. 
10. 
17. 
VIII.     To 


IX. 


Birkrt  Mamitla 
liirkrt  c.s  Sultan 
"  Solomon's  Pools" 

Lo\V-Eevcl    AqllcdUCl 

High-Level  Aqueduct 

Dates  of  Construction  of  These  Aqueducts 
Miis,  Antiquarian  Ki.  mains  and  He  cm:  si  a 
a  i.  Sites 

kings 


'The  Tombs  of  th( 
■2.   "  Herod's  Tomb" 
;{.    "  Absalom's  Tomb" 

4.  The  "Egyptian  Tomb" 

5.  The  "Garden  Tomb" 

0.  Tomb  of  "Simon  the  Just  " 
7.   ( >ther  Antiquities 

S.    Ecclesiastical  Sites 
History 

1.  Tell  ul-Amarna  Correspondence 
•>.   Joshua's  Conquest 

3.  Site  of  the  Jebusite  City 

4.  David 

5.  Expansion  of  the  City 

6.  Solomon 

7.  Solomon's  City  Wall 

8    The  Disruption  (933  BC) 


9. 
10. 
1  I. 
1-'. 
13. 
1  t. 
L5. 
16. 
17 
is. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

22. 
23. 

24. 
25. 
26. 

27. 
2S. 


Invasion  of  Shishak  (92.S  BC) 

City  Plundered  by  Arabs 

Hazael  King  of  Syria  Bought  Off  (797  BC) 

Capture  of  the  City  by  Jehoash  of  Israel 

Izziah's  Refortiflcation  (779-740  BCi 

\ha/.  Allies  with  Assyria  (736-728  BC) 

Hezekiah's  Great  Works 

His  Religious  Reforms 

Manasseh's  Alliance  with  Assyria 

ilis  Repair  of  the  Walls 

Josiah  and  Religious  Reforms  (640-609  BC) 

Jeremiah  Prophesies  the  Approaching  Doom 

Nebuchadnezzar     Twice     Takes     Jerusalem 

(586  BC) 

Cyrus  and  the  First  Return  (538  BC) 

Nehemiah  Rebuilds  the  Walls 

Bagohi  Governor 


Alexander  the  Great 
The  Ptolemaic  Rule 
Antiochus  the  Great 

Hellenization   of    the   City    under    Antiochus 
Epiphanes 
20.  Capture  of  the  City  (170  BC) 

30.  Capture  of  168  BC 

31.  Attempted  Suppression  of  Judaism 

32.  The  Maccabean  Rebellion 

33.  The  Dedication  of  the  Temple  (165  BC) 

34.  Defeat  of  Judas  and  Capture  of  the  City 

35.  His  Death  (161   BC) 

36.  Jonathan's  Restorations 

37.  Surrender  of  City  to  Antiochus  Sidetes   (134 
BC) 

38.  Hasmonean  Buildings 

39.  Rome's  Intervention 

40.  Pompey  Takes  the  City  by  Storm 

41.  Julius   Caesar   Appoints    Antipas   Procurator 
(47  BC) 

42.  Parthian  Invasion 

43.  Reign  of  Herod  the  Great  (37-4  BC) 

44.  Herod's  Great  Buildings 

45.  Herod  Archelaus  (4  BC-6  AD) 
40.    Pontius  Pilate 

47.    King  Agrippa 

48     Rising  against  Floras  and  Defeat  of  G alius 

49.  The  City  Besieged  by  Titus  (70  AD) 

50.  Party  Divisions  within  the  Besieged  Walls 

51.  Capture  and  Utter  Destruction  of  the  City 

52.  Rebellion  of  Bar-Cochba 

53.  Hadrian  Builds  .Klia  Capitolina 

54.  Constantine  Builds  the  Church  of  the  Anas- 
l  asis 

55.  The  Empress  Eudoxia  Rebuilds  the  Walls 

56.  Justinian 

57.  Chosroes  II  Captures  the  City 

58.  Heracleus  Enters  It  in  Triumph 

59.  Clemency  of  Omar 

60.  The  Seljuk  Turks  and  Their  Cruelties 

61.  Crusaders  Capture  the  City  in  1099 

62.  The  Kharizimians 

63.  Ottoman  Turks  Obtain  the  City  (1517  AD) 
X.     Modern  Jerusalem 

1 .  Jews  and  "  Zionism" 

2.  Christian  Buildings  and  Institutions 
Literature 

/.    The  Name. — The  curliest  mention  of  Jerus  is 
in  the  Am  Tab  (1450  BC),  where  it  appears  in  the 
form  Uru-sa-lim;   allied  with   this  we 
have  Ur-sa-li-immu  on  the  Assyr  monu- 
ments of  the  8th  cent.  BC. 


1.  In 

Cuneiform 


The  most  ancient  Bib.  form  is  D?Tp1"T) ,  yrusha- 
lem,  shortened  in  Ps  76  2  (cf  Gen  14  18)  to  Salem, 
but  in  MT  we  have  it  vocalized:  DbtftT],  yrushd- 
laim.     In  Jer  26  18;  Est  2  6;  2  Ch  25  1;  32  Owe 


4.  The 
Meaning 
of  Jeru- 
salem 


have  D  /;Tp^?,    y'rushalayim,  a  form  which  occurs 

on  the  Jewish  coins  of  the  Revolt  and  also  in  Jewish 

literature;    it,    is   commonly   used    by 

2.  In  modern  Talmudic  Jews.  The  form 
Hebrew  with  the  ending  -aim  or  -ayim  is  in- 
terpreted by  some  as  being  a  dual,  re- 
ferring to  the  upper  and  lower  Jerus,  but  such  forms 
occur  in  other  names  as  implying  special  solemnity; 
such  a  pronunciation  is' both  local  and  late. 

In   the    LXX    we    get    'lepovaaXrip.    (I  crousalem) , 

constantly  reflecting  the  earliest  and  the  common 

Heb  pronunciation,   the  initial  letter 

3.  In  Gr        being     probably     unaspirated;     soon, 
and  Latin      however,    we    meet    with    'lepovaaXrip. 

(Hierousattm) — with  the  aspiratt — the 
common  form  in  Jos,  and  'Iepoa6\vp.a  (Hierosoluma) 
in  Mace  (Books  II-IV),  and  in  Strabo.  This  last 
form  has  been  carried  over  into  the  Lat  writers, 
Cicero,  Pliny,  Tacitus  and  Suetonius.  It  was  re- 
placed in  official  use  for  some  centuries  by  Hadrian's 
Aelia  Capitolina,  which  occurs  as  late  as  Jerome, 
but  it  again  comes  into  common  use  in  the  docu- 
ments of  the  Crusades,  while  Solyina  occurs  at 
various  periods  as  a  poetic  abbreviation. 

In  the  NT  we  have  'IepoucaX^/x  (Ilierousalem), 
particularly  in  the  writings  of  St.  Luke  and  St.  Paul, 
and  to.  'Iepo<r6\v/j.a  (td  Hierosoluma)  elsewhere. 
The  AV  of  Kill  has  Ierosalem  in  the  OT  and  Hieru- 
salem  in  the  NT.  The  form  Jerusalem  first  occurs 
in  French  writings  of  the  12th  cent. 

With  regard  to  the  meaning  of  the  original  name 
there  is  no  concurrence  of  opinion.  The  oldest 
known  form,  Uru-sa-lim,  has  been 
considered  by  many  to  mean  either 
the  "City  of  Peace"  or  the  "City  of 
[the  god]  Salem,"  but  other  inter- 
pret ers,  considering  the  name  as  of 
Heb  origin,  interpret  it  as  the  "pos- 
session of  peace"  or  "foundation  of  peace."  _  It  is 
one  of  the  ironies  of  history  that  a  city  which  in 
all  its  long  history  has  seen  so  little  peace  and  for 
whose  possession  such  rivers  of  blood  have  been 
shed  should  have  such  a  possible  meaning  for  its 
name. 

Other  names  for  the  city  occur.  For  the  name 
Jebus  see  Jehus.  In  Isa  29  1,  occurs  the  name 
'STIS  ,  'art' el,  probably  "the  hearth  of 
God, "and  in  1  26  the  "city  of  right- 
eousness." InPs  72  16;  Jer  32  24  f; 
Ezk  7  23,  we  have  the  term  "VSTi, 
city"  in  contrast  to  "the  land."  A 
whole  group  of  names  is  connected  with  the  idea 
of  the  sanctity  of  the  site;  Hr  ha-lfodhesh,  the  "holy 
city"  occurs  in  Isa  48  2;  52  1;  Neh  11  1,  and 
y'rushalayim  ha-kedhoshah,  "Jerusalem  the  holy  is 
inscribed'on  Simon's  coins.  In  Mt  4  5;  27  53  we 
have  v  ayia  ttSXls,  he  hagia  polis,  "the  holy  city," 
and  in  Philo,  'lepdiroXis,  'ilierdpolis,  with  the  same 
meaning. 

In  Arab,  the  common  name  is  Beit  el  Makdis,  the 
holy  house,"  or  el  Mukaddas,  "the  holy,"  or  the 
common  name,  used  by  the  Moslems  everywhere 
today,  el  Kuds,  a  shortened  form  of  el  Kuds  esh 
Sheref,  "the  noble  sanctuary." 

Non-Moslems  usually  use  the  Arab,  form  Yeru- 
salem. 

//.  Geology,  Climate  and  Springs.—  The  geology 
of  the  site  and  environs  of  Jerus  is  comparatively 
simple,  when  studied  in  connection 
1.  Geology  with  that  of  the  land  of  Pal  as  a  whole 
(see  Geology  op  Palestine).  The 
outstanding  feature  is  that  the  rocks  consist  en- 
tirely  of  various  forms  of  limestone,  with  strata 
containing  flints;  there  are  no  primary  rocks,  no 
sandstone  (such  as  comes  to  the  surface  on  the  E. 
of  the  Jordan)  and  no  volcanic  rocks.     The  lime- 


5.  Other 

Names 

ha- 


'the 


1597 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jerusalem 


stone  formations  arc  in  regular  strata  dipping 
toward  the  S.E.,  with  an  angle  of  about  10°. 

On  the  high  hills  overlooking  Jerus  on  the  E., 
S.E.  and  SAV.  there  still  remain  strata  of  consider- 
able thickness  of  those  chalky  limestones  of  the 
post-Tertiary  period  which  crown  so  many  hilltops 
of  Pal,  and  once  covered  the  whole  land.  On  the 
"Mount  of  Olives,"  for  example,  occurs  a  layer  of 
conglomerate  limestone  known  as  Nari,  or  ''fire- 
stone,"  and  another  thicker  deposit,  known  as 
Ka'kuli,  of  which  two  distinct  strata  can  be  dis- 
tinguished. In  these  layers,  esp.  the  latter,  occur 
pockets  containing  marl  or  haur,  and  in  both  there 
are  bands  of  flint. 

Over  the  actual  city's  site  all  this  has  been  de- 
nuded long  ages  ago.  Here  we  have  three  layers 
of  limestone  of  varying  density  very  clearly  dis- 
tinguished by  all  the  native  builders  and  masons: 

(1)  Mizzeh  helu,  lit.  "sweet  mizzeh,"  a  hard, 
reddish-grey  layer  capable  of  polish,  and  reaching 
in  places  to  a  depth  of  70  ft.  or  more.  The  "holy 
rock"  in  the  temple-area  belongs  to  this  layer,  and 
much  of  the  ancient  building  stone  was  of  this 
nature. 

(2)  Below  this  is  the  Melekeh  or  "royal"  layer, 
which,  though  not  very  thick — 35  ft.  or  so — has 
been  of  great  importance  in  the  history  of  the  city. 
This  rock  is  peculiar  in  that  when  first  exposed  to 
the  air  it  is  often  so  soft  that  it  can  be  cut  with  a 
knife,  but  under  the  influence  of  the  atmosphere  it 
hardens  to  make  a  stone  of  considerable  durability, 
useful  for  ordinary  buildings.  The  great  impor- 
tance of  this  layer,  however,  lies  in  the  fact  that  in 
it  have  been  excavated  the  hundreds  of  caverns, 
cisterns,  tombs  and  aqueducts  which  honeycomb 
the  city's  site. 

(3)  Under  the  Melekeh  is  a  Cenomanian  limestone 
of  great  durability,  known  as  Mizzeh  Yehudeh,  or 
"Jewish  mizzeh."  It  is  a  highly  valued  building 
stone,  though  hard  to  work.  Geologically  it  is 
distinguished  from  Mizzeh  helu  by  its  containing 
ammonites.  Characteristically  it  is  a  yellowish- 
grey  stone,  sometimes  slightly  reddish.  A  variety 
of  a  distinctly  reddish  appearance,  known  as  Miz- 
zeh ahmar,  or  "red  mizzeh,"  makes  a  very  orna- 
mental stone  for  columns,  tombstones,  etc;  it  takes 
a  high  polish  and  is  sometimes  locally  known  as 
"marble." 

This  deep  layer,  which  underlies  the  whole  city, 
comes  to  the  surface  in  the  Kidron  valley,  and  its 
impermeability  is  probably  the  explanation  of  the 
appearance  there  of  the  one  true  spring,  the  "Vir- 
gin's Fount."  The  water  over  the  site  and  environs 
of  Jerus  percolates  with  ease  the  upper  layer,  but 
is  conducted  to  the  surface  by  this  hard  layer;  the 
comparatively  superficial  source  of  the  water  of 
this  spring  accounts  for  the  poorness  of  its  quality. 

The  broad  features  of  the  climate  of  Jerus  have 
probably  remained  the  same  throughout  history, 
although  there  is  plenty  of  evidence 
2.  Climate  that  there  have  been  cycles  of  greater 
and  and   lesser   abundance   of   rain.     The 

Rainfall  almost  countless  cisterns  belonging  to 

all  ages  upon  the  site  and  the  long  and 
complicated  conduits  for  bringing  water  from  a 
distance1,  testify  that  over  the  greater  part  of  his- 
tory the  rainfall  must  have  been,  as  at  present,  only 
seasonal. 

As  a  whole,  the  climate  of  Jerus  may  be  con- 
sidered healthy.  The  common  diseases  should  be 
largely  preventable — under  an  enlightened  govern- 
ment; even  the  malaria  which  is  so  prevalent  is  to 
a  large  extent  an  importation  from  the  low-lying 
country,  and  could  be  stopped  at  once,  were  efficient 
means  taken  for  destroying  the  carriers  of  infection, 
the  abundant  Anopheles  mosquitoes.  On  account 
of  its  altitude  and  its  exposed  position,  almost  upon 


the  watershed,  wind,  rain  and  cold  are  all  more 
excessive  than  in  the  maritime  plains  or  the  Jordan 
valley.  Although  the  winter's  cold  is  severely  felt, 
on  account  of  its  coinciding  with  the  days  of  heaviest 
rainfall  (cf  Ezr  10  9),  and  also  because  of  the 
dwellings  and  clothes  of  the  inhabitants  being  suited 
for  enduring  heat  more  than  cold,  the  actual  lowest 
cold  recorded  is  only  25°  P.,  and  frost  occurs  only 
on  perhaps  a  dozen  nights  in  an  average  year. 
During  the  rainless  summer  months  the;  mean  tem- 
perature rises  steadily  until  August,  when  it  reaches 
73.0°  P.,  but  the  days  of  greatest  heat,  with  tem- 
perature over  100°  P.  in  the  shade  at  times,  occur 
commonly  in  September.  In  midsummer  the  cool 
northwest  breezes,  which  generally  blow  during 
the  afternoons  and  early  night,  do  much  to  make 
life  healthy.  The  most  unpleasant  days  occur  in 
May  and  from  the  middle  of  September  until  the 
end  of  October,  when  the  dry  southeast  winds — 
the  sirocco — blow  hot  and  stifling  from  over  the 
deserts,  carrying  with  them  at  times  fine  dust 
sufficient  in  quantity  to  produce  a  marked  haze 
in  the  atmosphere.  At  such  times  all  vegetation 
droops,  and  most  human  beings,  esp.  residents  not 
brought  up  under  such  conditions,  suffer  more  or 
less  from  depression  and  physical  discomfort; 
malarial,  "sandfly,"  and  other  fevers  are  apt  to  be 
peculiarly  prevalent.  "At  that  time  shall  it  be 
said  ....  to  Jerus,  A  hot  wind  from  the  bare 
heights  in  the  wilderness  toward  the  daughter  of 
my  people,  not  to  winnow,  nor  to  cleanse"  (Jer 
4  11). 

_  During  the  late  summer — except  at  spells  of 
sirocco — heavy  "dews"  occur  at  night,  and  at  the 
end  of  September  or  beginning  of  October  the 
"former"  rains  fall — not  uncommonly  in  tropical 
downpours  accompanied  by  thunder.  After  this 
there  is  frequently  a  dry  spell  of  several  weeks,  and 
then  the  winter's  rain  falls  in  December,  January  and 
February.  In  some  seasons  an  abundant  rainfall 
in  March  gives  peculiar  satisfaction  to  the  inhabit- 
ants by  filling  up  the  cisterns  late  in  the  season  and 
by  producing  an  abundant  harvest.  The  average 
rainfall  is  about  20  in.,  the  maximum  recorded  in 
the  city  being  42.95  in.  in  the  season  1877-78,  and 
the  minimum  being  12.5  in.  in  1X09-70.  An  abun- 
dant rainfall  is  not  only  important  for  storage,  for 
replenishment  of  the  springs  and  for  the  crops,  but 
as  the  city's  sewage  largely  accumulates  in  the 
very  primitive  drains  all  through  tin;  dry  season, 
it  requires  a  considerable  force  of  water  to  remove 
it.  Snow  falls  heavily  in  some  seasons,  causing 
considerable  destruction  to  the  badly  built  roofs 
and  to  the  trees;  in  the  winter  of  1910-11  a  fall  of 
9  in.  occurred. 

There  is  only  one  actual  spring  in  the  Jerus  area, 
and  even  to  this  some  authorities  would  deny  the 
name  of  true  spring  on  account  of  the 
3.  The  comparatively   shallow   source    of   its 

Natural  origin;    this  is  the  intermittent  spring 

Springs  known  today  as  Win   Umm  ed  deraj 

(lit.  "spring  of  the  mother  of  the 
steps"),  called  by  the  native  Christians  KAin  Silti 
Miriam  (the  "spring  of  the  Lady  Mary"),  and  by 
Europeans  commonly  called  "The  Virgin's  Fount." 
All  the  archaeological  evidence  points  to  this  as 
the  original  source  of  attraction  of  earliest  occu- 
pants of  the  site;  in  the  OT  this  spring  is  known 
as  Gihon  (q.v.).  The  water  arises  in  the  actual 
bottom,  though  apparent  west  side,  of  the  Kidron 
valley  some  300  yds.  due  S.  of  the  south  wall  of  the 
Haram.  The  approach  to  the  spring  is  down  two 
flights  of  steps,  an  upper  of  10  leading  to  a  small  level 
platform,  covered  by  a  modern  arch,  and  a  lower, 
narrower  flight  of  14  steps,  which  ends  at  the  mouth 
of  a  small  cave.  The  water  has  its  actual  source 
in  a  long  cleft  (perhaps  10  ft.  long)  running  E.  and 


Jerusalem 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1598 


\Y  in  the  rocky  bottom  of  the  Kiclron  valley,  now 
manv  feet  below  the  present  surface.  Tlie  western 
or  higher  end  of  the  cleft  is  at  the  very  entrance  ot 
the  cave,  but  most,  of  the  water  gushes  forth  from 
the  lower  and  wider  part  which  lies  underneath  the 
steps.  When  the  water  is  scanty,  the  women  of 
Siloam  creep  down  into  the  cavity  under  the  steps 
and  fill  their  water-skins  there;  at  such  times  no 
water  at  all  finds  its  way  into  the  cave.  At  the  tar 
end  of  the  cave  is  the  opening  of  that  system  ot 
ancient  tunnel-aqueducts  which  is  described  in 
VI  below.  This  spring  is  "intermittent,"  the  water 
rising  rapidly  and  gushing  forth  with  considerable 
force,  several  limes  in  the  24  hours  alter  the  rainy 
season,  and  only  once  or  twice  in  the  dry.  This 
"intermittent"  condition  of  springs  is  not  uncom- 
mon in  Pal,  and  is  explained  by  the  accumulation 
of  the  underground  water  in  certain  cavities  or 
cracks  in  the  rock,  which  together  makeup  a  reser- 
voir which  empties  itself  by  syphon  action.  Y\  here 
the  accumulated  water  reaches  the  bend  of  the 
syphon,  the  overflow  commences  and  continues  to 
rim  until  the  reservoir  is  emptied.  Such  a  phe- 
nomenon is  naturally  attributed  to  supernatural 
agency  by  the  ignorant— in  this  case,  among  the 
modern  fdlahin,  to  a  dragon—and  natives,  specially 
Jews,  visit  the  source,  even  today,  at  times  of  its 
overflow,  for  healing.  Whether  this  intermittent 
condition  of  the  fountain  is  very  ancient  it  is  im- 
possible to  say,  but,  as  Jerome  (Comm.  in  Esa,  86) 
speaks  of  it,  it  was  probably  present  in  NT  times, 
and  if  so  we  have  a  strong  argument  for  finding 
here  the  "Pool  of  Bethesda."     See  Bkthesda. 

In  ancient  times  all  the  water  flowed  down  the 
open,  rocky  valley,  but  at  an  early  period  a  wall 
was  constructed  to  bank  up  the  water  and  convert 
the  source  into  a  pool.  Without  such  an  arrange- 
ment no  water  could  find  its  way  into  the  cave  and 
the  tunnels.  The  tunnels,  described  below  (VI), 
were  constructed  for  the  purpose  (1)  of  reaching  the 
water  supply  from  within  the  city  walls,  and  (2)  of 
preventing  the  enemies  of  the  Jews  from  getting 
at  the  water  (2  Ch  32  4).  The  water  of  this 
source,  though  used  for  all  purposes  by  the  people 
of  Siloam,  is  brackish  to  the  taste,  and  contains  a 
considerable  percentage  of  sewage;  it  is  quite  unfit 
for  drinking.  This  condition  is  doubtless  due  to 
the  wide  distribution  of  sewage,  both  intentionally 
(for  irrigation  of  the  gardens)  and  unintentionally 
(through  leaking  sewers,  etc),  over  the  soil  over- 
lying the  rocks  from  which  the  water  flows.  In 
earlier  times  the  water  was  certainly  purer,  and  it 
is  probable,  too,  that  the  fountain  was  more  copious, 
as  now  hundreds  of  cisterns  imprison  the  waters 
which  once  found  their  way  through  the  soil  to  the 
deep  sources  of  the  spring. 

The  waters  of  the  Virgin's  Fount  find  their  way 
through  the  Siloam  tunnel  and  out  at  xAin  Silwdn 
(the  "spring"  of  Siloam),  into  the  Pool  of  Siloam, 
and  from  this  source  descend  into  the  Kidron  valley 
to  water  the  numerous  vegetable  gardens  belonging 
to  the  village  of  Siloam  (see  Siloam). 

The  second  source  of  water  in  Jems  is  the  deep 
well  known  as  Bir  Eyyub,  "Job's  well,"  which  is 
situated  a  little  below  the;  point  where  the  Kidron 
valley  and  llinnom  meet.  In  all  probability  it 
derives  its  modern  name  from  a  legend  in  the  Koran 
{Sura  38  5.40-41)  which  narrates  that  God  com- 
manded Job  to  stamp  with  his  foot,  whereupon  a 
spring  miraculously  burst  up.  The  well,  which  had 
been  quite;  lost  sight  of,  was  rediscovered  by  the 
Crusaders  in  1 1S4  AD,  and  was  by  them  cleaned  out. 
It  is  125  ft.  deep.  The  supply  of  water  in  this  well 
is  practically  inexhaustible,  although  the  quality 
is  no  better  than  that  of  the  "Virgin's  Fount";  after 
several  days  of  heavy  rain  the  water  overflows 
underground   and   bursts   out  a  few   yards   lower 


down  the  valley  as  a  little;  stream.  It  continues 
to  run  for  a  few  days  after  a  heavy  fall  of  rain  is 
over,  and  this  "flowing  Kidron"  is  a  great  source 
of  attraction  to  tin;  native  residents  of  Jerus,  who 
pour  forth  from  the  city  to  enjoy  the  rare  sight  of 
running  water.  Somewhere  in  the  neighborhood  ot 
/>'/"/•  Eyyub  must  have  lain  lEn-Rogel,  but  if  that 
were  once  an  actual  spring,  its  source  is  now  buried 
under  the  great  mass  of  rubbish  accumulated  here 
(see  K\-ROGEl). 

Nearly  600yds.  S.  of  Bir  Eyyub  is  a  small  gravelly 
basin  where,  when  the  Bir  Eyyub  overflows,  a  small 
spring  called  KAin  el  Lozeh  (the  "spring  of  the 
almond")  bursts  forth.  It  is  not  a  true  spring,  but 
is  due  to  some  of  the  water  of  Job's  well  which  finds 
its  way  along  an  ancient  rock-cut  aqueduct  on  the 
west  side  of  t  he  Wddy  en  Ndr,  bursting  up  here. 

The  only  ot  her  possible  site  of  a  spring  in  the  Jerus 
area  is  the  Hamm&meshShefd,  "the  bath  of  healing. 
This  is  an  underground  rock-basin  in  the  Tyropceon 
valley,  within  the  city  walls,  in  which  water  collects 
by  percolation  through  the  debris  of  the  city. 
Though  once  a  reservoir  with  probably  rock-cut 
channels  conducting  water  to  it,  it  is  now  a  deep 
well  with  arches  erected  over  it  at  various  periods, 
as  tlit-  rubbish  of  the  city  gradually  accumulated 
through  the  centuries.  There  is  no  evidence  what- 
ever of  there  being  any  natural  fountain,  and  the 
water  is,  in  the  dry  season,  practically  pure  sewage, 
though  used  in  a  neighboring  Turkish  bath. 

(i.  A.  Smith  thinks  that  the  Jackals  Well 
(q.v.)  mentioned  by  Nehemiah  (2  13),  which  must 
have  been  situated  in  the  Valley  of  Hmnom,  may 
possiblv  have  been  a  temporary  spring  arising  there 
for  a  few  years  in  consequence  of  an  earthquake, 
but  it  is  extremely  likely  that  any  well  sunk  then 
would  tap  water  flowing  along  the  bed  of  the  valley. 
There  is  no  such  "spring"  or  "well"  there  today.  _ 

///.  The  Natural  Site.— Modern  Jerus  occupies 
a  situation  defined  geographically  as  31°  46'  45"  N. 
hit  by  35°  13'  25"  E.  long.  It  lies  in  the  midst  ot 
a  bare  and  rocky  plateau,  the  environs  being  one  of 
the  most  stony  and  least  fruitful  districts  in  the 
habitable  parts  of  Pal,  with  shallow,  grey  or  reddish 
soil  and  many  outcrops  of  bare  limestone.  Like 
all  the  hill  slopes  with  a  southeasterly  aspect,  it 
is  so  thoroughly  exposed  to  the  full  blaze  of  the 
summer  sun  that  in  its  natural  condition  the  site 
would  be  more  or  less  barren.  Today,  however,  as 
a  result  of  diligent  cultivation  and  frequent  watering, 
u  considerable  growth  of  trees  and  shrubs  has  been 
produced  in  the  rapidly  extending  suburbs  The 
only  fruit  tree  which  reaches  perfection  around  Jerus 
is  the  olive.  .  , 

The  site  of  Jerus  is  shut  in  by  a  rough  triangle  ot 
higher  mountain  ridges:  to  the  WT.  runs  the  main 
ridge,  or  water  parting,  of  Judaea, 
which  here  makes  a  sweep  to  the  west- 
ward. From  this  ridge  a  spur  runs 
S.E.  and  E.,  culminating  clue  E.  of  the 
city  in  the  Mount  of  Olives  (q.v.), 
nearly  2,700  ft.  above  sea-level  and  about  300  ft. 
above  the  mean  level  of  the  ancient  city.  Another 
spur,  known  as  Jebel  Deir  abu  Tor,  2,550  ft.  high, 
runs  E.  from  the  plateau  of  el  Bukei'a  and  lies  S.W  . 
of  the  city;  it  is  the  traditional  "Hill  of  Evil  Coun- 
sel." The  city  site  is  thus  dominated  on  all  sides 
by  these  higher  ranges — "the  mountains  [that]  are 
round  about  Jerus"  (Ps  125  2)— so  that  while  on 
the  one  hand  the  ancient  city  was  hidden,  at  any 
considerable  distance,  from  any  direction  except  the 
S.E.,  it  is  only  through  this  open  gap  toward  the 
desert  and  the  mountains  of  Moab  that  any  wide 
outlook  is  obtainable.  This  strange  vision  of  wilder- 
ness and  distant  mountain  wall— often  of  exquisite 
loveliness  in  the  light  of  the  setting  sun— must  all 
through  the  ages  have  been  the  most  familiar  and  the 


1.  The 

Mountains 
Around 


1599 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jerusalem 


most  potent  of  scenic  influences  to  the  inhabitants 
of  Jerus. 

Within  the  enfolding  hills  the  city's  proper  site 
is  demarked  by  two  main  valleys.     That  on  the  W. 

and  S.W.  commences  in  a  hollow  occu- 
2.  The  pied  by  the  Moslem  cemetery  around 

Valleys  the  pool  Birket  Mamilla.     The  valley 

runs  due  E.  toward  the  modern  Jaffa 
Gate,  and  there  bends  S.,  being  known  in  this  upper 
part  of  its  course  as  the  Wddy  el  Mes.  In  this  south- 
ern course  it  is  traversed  by  a  great  dam,  along  which 
the  modern  Bethlehem  road  runs,  which  converts 
a  large  area  of  the  valley  bed  into  a  great  pool,  the 
Birket  es  Sultan.  Below  this  the  valley — under  the 
name  of  Wddy  er  Rdbdbi — bends  S.E.,  then  E.,  and 
finally  S.E.  again,  until  near  Bir  Eyyub  it  joins  the 
western  valley  to  form  the  Wddy  en  Ndr,  670  ft.  be- 
low its  origin.  This  valley  has  been  very  generally 
identified  as  the  Valley  of  Hinnom  (see  Hinnom). 


Hills  and  Valleys  of  Jerusalem  with  Modern  Names. 

The  eastern  valley  takes  a  wider  sweep.  Com- 
mencing high  up  in  the  plateau  to  the  N.  of  the  city, 
near  the  great  water-parting,  it  descends  as  a  wide 
and  open  valley  in  a  southeasterly  direction  until, 
where  it  is  crossed  by  the  Great  North  Road,  being 
here  known  as  Wddy  eljoz  (the  "Valley  of  the  Wal- 
nuts"), it  turns  more  directly  E.  It  gradually 
curves  to  the  S.,  and  as  it  runs  E.  of  the  city  walls,  it 
receives  the  name  of  Wddy  Sitti  Miriam  (the  "Valley 
of  the  Lady  Mary").  Below  the  S.E.  corner  of 
the  temple-area,  near  the  traditional  "Tomb  of 
Absalom,"  the  valley  rapidly  deepens  and  takes  a 
direction  slightly  to  the  W.  of  S.  It  passes  the 
"Virgin's  Fount,"  and  a  quarter  of  a  mile  lower  it 
is  joined  by  el  Wad  from  the  N.,  and  a  little  farther 
on  by  the  Wddy  er  Rdbdbi  from  the  W.  South  of 
Bir  Eyyub,  the  valley  formed  by  their  union  is  con- 
tinued under  the  name  of  Wddy  en  Ndr  to  the  Dead 
Sea.  This  western  valley  is  that  commonly  known 
as  the  Brook  Kidron,  or,  more  shortly,  the  "Brook" 
(nahal),  or  ravine  (see  Kidkon),  but  named  from 
the  5th  cent,  onward  by  Christians  the  Valley 
of  Jehoshaphat  (q.v.).  The  rocky  tongue  of 
land  inclosed  between  these  deep  ravines,  an  area, 
roughly  speaking,  a  little  over  one  mile  long  by  half 
a  mile  wide,  is  further  subdivided  into  a  number  of 
distinct  hills  by  some  shallower  valleys.     The  most 


prominent  of  these — indeed  the  only  one  noticeable 
to  the  superficial  observer  today — is  the  great 
central  valley  known  to  modern  times  by  the  single 
name  el  Wad,  "the  valley."  It  commences  in  a 
slight  depression  of  the  ground  a  little  N.  of  the 
modern  "Damascus  Gate,"  and  after  entering  the 
city  at  this  gate  it  rapidly  deepens — a  fact  largely 
disguised  today  by  the  great  accumulation  of  rub- 
bish in  its  course.  It  traverses  the  city  with  the 
Haram  to  its  east,  and  the  Christian  and  Moslem 
quarters  on  rapidly  rising  ground  to  its  west.  Its 
course  is  observed  near  the  Bdb  es  Silseleh,  where 
it  is  crossed  by  an  ancient  causeway,  but  farther 
S.  the  valley  reappears,  having  the  walls  of  the 
Haram  (near  the  "wailing  place"  and  "Robinson's 
arch")  on  the  E.,  and  steep  cliffs  crossed  by  houses 
of  the  Jewish  quarter  on  the  W.  It  leaves  the  city 
at  the  "Dung  Gate,"  and  passes  with  an  open  curve 
to  the  E.,  until  it  reaches  the  Pool  of  Siloam,  below 
which  it  merges  in  the  Wddy  Sitti  Miriam.  This 
is  the  course  of  the  main  valley,  but  a  branch  of 
great  importance  in  the  ancient  topography  of  the 
city  starts  some  50  yds.  to  the  W.  of  the  modern 
Jaffa  Gate  and  runs  down  the  Suwaikat  Allun,  gen- 
erally known  to  travelers  as  "David's  Street,"  and 
thus  easterly,  along  the  Tartk  bdb  es  Silseleh,  until 
it  merges  in  the  main  valley.  The  main  valley  is 
usually  considered  to  be  the  Tyropceon,  or  "Cheese- 
mongers' Valley"  of  Jos,  but  some  writers  have 
attempted  to  confine  the  name  esp.  to  this  western 
arm  of  it. 

Another  interior  valley,  which  is  known  rather 
by  the  rock  contours,  than  by  surface  observations, 
being  largely  filled  up  today,  cuts  diagonally  across 
the  N.E.  corner  of  the  modern  city.  It  has  no 
modern  name,  though  it  is  sometimes  called  "St. 
Anne's  Valley."  It  arises  in  the  plateau  near 
"Herod's  Gate,"  known  as  es  Sahra,  and  entering 
the  city  about  100  yds.  to  the  E.  of  that  gate,  runs 
S.S.E.,  and  leaves  the  city  between  the  N.E.  angle 
of  the  Haram  and  the  Golden  Gate,  joining  the 
Kidron  valley  farther  S.E.  The  Birket  Israel  runs 
across  the  width  of  this  valley,  which  had  far  more 
influence  in  determining  the  ancient  topography 
of  the  city  than  has  been  popularly  recognized. 
There  is  an  artificially  made  valley  between  the 
Haram  and  the  buildings  to  its  north,  and  there  is 
thought  by  many  to  be  a  valley  between  the  S.E. 
hill,  commonly  called  "Ophel"  and  the  temple-area. 
Such,  then,  are  the  valleys,  great  and  small,  by 
which  the  historic  hills  on  which  the  city  stood  are 
defined.  All  of  them,  particularly  in  their  southern 
parts,  were  considerably  deeper  in  ancient  times, 
and  in  places  the  accumulated  debris  is  80  ft.  or 
more.  All  of  them  were  originally  torrent  beds, 
dry  except  immediately  after  heavy  rain.  The 
only  perennial  outflow  of  water  is  the  scanty  and 
intermittent  stream  which  overflows  from  the  Pool 
of  Siloam,  and  is  used  to  irrigate  the  gardens  in  the 
Wddy  Sitti  Miriam. 

The  E.  and  W.  valleys  isolate  a  roughly  quadri- 
lateral tongue  of  land  running  from  N.W.W.  to 
S.S.E.,  and  tilted  so  as  to  face  S.E. 
3.  The  This  tongue  is  further  subdivided  by 

Hills  el   Wad  into  two  long  ridges,   which 

merge  into  each  other  in  the  plateau 
to  the  N.  The  western  ridge  has  its  actual  origin 
considerably  N.  of  the  modern  wall,  being  part  of 
the  high  ground  lying  between  the  modern  Jaffa 
road  to  the  W.,  and  the  commencement  of  the 
Kidron  valley  to  the  E.  Within  the  city  walls  it 
rises  as  high  as  2,5S1  ft.  near  the  northwestern  corner. 
It  is  divided  by  the  west  branch  of  the  Tyropceon 
valley  into  two  parts:  a  northern  part — the  north- 
western hill — on  which  is  situated  today  the  Church 
of  the  Holy  Sepulchre  and  the  greater  part  of  the 
"Christian  quarter"  of  the  city,  and  a  southern  hill-  - 


Jerusalem 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1600 


the  southwestern— which  is  connected  with  the 
northwestern  hill  by  but  a  narrow  saddle — 50  yds. 
wide — near  the  Jaffa  (late.  This  hill  sustains  the 
citadel  (the  so-called  "Tower  of  David"),  the  bar- 
racks and  the  Armenian  quarter  within  the  walls, 
and  the  Coenaculum  and  adjacent  buildings  outside 
the  walls.  This  hill  is  from  2,500  to  2,350  ft.  high 
along  its  summit,  but  drops  rapidly  on  its  south- 
western, southern  and  southeastern  sides.  In  its 
central  part  it  falls  much  more  gently  toward  the 
eastern  hill  across  t  hi'  now  largely  filled  valley  el 
Wad. 

The  eastern  ridge  may  be  reckoned  as  beginning 
at  the  rocky  hill  el-Edhemiyeh — popularly  known 
as  Cordon's  Calvary — but  the  wide  trench  made 
here  by  quarrying  somewhat  obscures  this  fact. 
The  ridge  may  for  convenience  be  regarded  as 
presenting  three  parts,  the  northeastern,  central 
or  central-eastern,  and  southeastern  summits.  The 
northeastern  hill  within  the  modern  wall  supports 
the  .Moslem  quarter,  and  rises  in  places  to  a  height 
of  over  2,500  ft.;  it  narrows  to  a  mere  neck  near  the 
"Ecee  Homo"  arch,  where  it  is  joined  to  the  bar- 
racks, on  the  site  of  the  ancient  Antonia.  Under 
the  present  surface  it  is  here  separated  from  the 
temple  summit  by  a  dee])  rocky  trench. 

The  central,  or  central-eastern,  summit  is  that 
appearing  as  cs  Sakhra,  the  sacred  temple  rock,  which 
is  2,404  ft.  high.  This  is  the  highest  point  from 
which  the  ground  rapidly  falls  E.,  W.,  and  S.,  but 
the  natural  contours  of  the  adjacent  ground  are 
much  obscured  by  the  great  substructures  which 
have  been  made  to  sustain  the  temple  platform. 

The  sloping,  southeastern,  hill,  S.  of  the  temple- 
area  appeal's  today,  at  any  rate,  to  have  a  steady 
fall  of  from  2,350  ft.  just  S.  of  the  Haram  southern 
wall  to  a  little  over  2,100  ft.  near  the'  Pool  of  Siloam. 
It  is  a  narrow  ridge  running  in  a  somewhat  curved 
direction,  with  a  summit  near  200  ft.  above  the 
Kidron  and  100  ft.  above  the  bed  of  the  Tyropceon. 
In  length  it  is  not  more  than  GOO  yds.,  in  width,  at 
its  widest,  only  150  yds.,  but  its  chief  feature,  its 
natural  strength,  is  today  greatly  obscured  on  ac- 
count of  the  rubbish  which  slopes  down  its  sides 
and  largely  fills  up  its  surrounding  valleys.  In 
earlier  times,  at  least  three  of  its  sides  were  protected 
by  deep  valleys,  and  probably  on  quite  two-thirds 
of  its  circumference  its  summit  was  surrounded 
by  natural  rocky  scarps.  According  to  Professor 
Guthe,  this  hill  is  divided  from  the  higher  ground  to 
the  N.  by  a  depression  12  ft.  deep  and  30-50  yds. 
wide,  but  this  has  not  been  confirmed  by  other  ob- 
servers. The  city  covering  so  hilly  a  site  as  this 
must  ever  have  consisted,  as  it  does  today,  of  houses 
terraced  on  steep  slope's  with  stairways  for  streets. 

IV.  General  Topography  of  Jerusalem. — From 
the  foregoing  description  of  the  "natural  site,"  it 
wdl  be  seen  that  we  have  to  deal  with  5  natural 
subdivisions  or  hills,  two  on  the  western  and  three 
on  the  eastern  ridges. 

In  discussing  the  topography  it  is  useful  to  com- 
mence with  the  description  of  Jos,  wherein  he  gives 
to  these  5  areas  the  names  common  in 
his  day  (B.J,  V,  iv,  1,2).  He  says: 
•"The  city  was  built  upon  two  hills 
which  are  opposite  to  one  another  and 
have  a  valley  to  divide  them  asunder, 
the  Valley  of  the  Cheesemongers,  as 
,  and  was  that  which  distinguished  the 
lull  of  the  upper  city  from  that  of  the  lower,  ex- 
tended as  far  as  Siloam"  (ib,  V,  iv,  1).  Here  we 
get  the  first  prominent  physical  feature,  the  bisec- 
tion of  the  city-site  into  two  main  hills.  Farther 
on,  however,  in  the  same  passage — one,  it  must  be 
admitted,  of  some  obscurity— Jc 
distinct    regions: 

(1)    The    Upper    City  or    Upper   Market    Place: 


1.   Descrip- 
tion of 
Josephus 

....   Now 
it  was  callec 


listinguishes 


(The  hill)  "which  sustains  the  upper  city  is  much 
higher  and  in  length  more  direct.  Accordingly,  it 
was  called  the  citadel  (<ppovpcov,  phrourion)  of  King 
David  ....  but  it  is  by  us  called  the  Upper  Market 
Place."  This  is  without  dispute  the  southwestern 
hill. 

(2)  A  km  and  Lower  City:  "The  other  hill, 
which  was  called  Akra,  and  sustains  the  lower  city, 
was  double-curved"  (d/x<pi.KvpTos,  amphikurtos) . 
The  description  can  apply  only  to  the  semicircular 
shape  of  the  southeastern  hill,  as  viewed  from  the 
"upper  city."  These  names,  "Akra"  and  "Lower 
City,"  are,  with  reservations,  therefore,  to  be  ap- 
plied to  the  southeastern  hill. 

(3)  The  Temple  Hill:  Josephus'  description  here 
is  curious,  on  account  of  its  indefiniteness,  but  there 
can  be  no  question  as  to  which  hill  he  intends. 
He  writes:  "Over  against  this  is  a  third  hill,  but 
naturally  lower  than  the  Akra  and  parted  formerly 
from  the  other  by  a  flat  valley.  However,  in  those; 
times  when  the  Hasmoneans  reigned,  they  did  away 
with  this  valley,  wishing  to  connect  the  city  with 
the  temple;  and  cutting  down  the  summit  of  the 
Akra,  they  made  it  lower,  so  that  the  temple  might 
be  visible  over  it."  Comparison  with  other  passages 
shows  that  this  "third  hill"  is  the  central-eastern — 
the  "Temple  Hill." 

(4)  Bezetha:  "It  was  Agrippa  who  encompassed 
the  parts  added  to  the  old  city  with  this  wall  (i.e. 
the  third  wall)  which  had  been  all  naked  before; 
for  as  the  city  grew  more  populous,  it  gradually 
crept  beyond  its  old  limits,  and  those  parts  of  ft 
that  stood  northward  of  the  Temple,  and  joined  that 
hill  to  the  city,  made  it  considerably  larger,  and 
occasioned  that  hill  which  is  in  number  the  fourth, 
and  is  called  'Bezetha,'  to  be  inhabited  also.  It  lies 
over  against  the  tower  Antonia,  but  is  divided  from 
it  by  a  deep  valley,  which  was  dug  on  purpose. 
....  This  new-built  part  of  the  city  was  called 
'Bezetha'  in  our  language,  which,  if  interpreted  in 
the  Gr  language,  may  be  called  the  'New  City.'" 
This  is  clearly  the  northeastern  hill. 

(5)  The  Northern  Quarter  of  the  City:  From  the 
account  of  the  walls  given  by  Jos,  it,  is  evident 
that  the  northern  part  of  his  "first  wall"  ran  along 
the  northern  edge  of  the  southwestern  hill;  the 
second  wall  inclosed  the  inhabited  part  of  the  north- 
western hill.  Thus  Jos  writes:  "The  second  wall 
took  its  beginning  from  the  gate  which  they  called 
Cennath  in  the  first  wall,  and  inclosing  the  northern 
quarter  only  reached  to  the  Antonia."  This  area 
is  not  described  as  a  separate  hill,  as  the  inhabited 
area,  except  on  the  S.,  was  defined  by  no  natural 
valleys,  and  besides  covering  the  northwestern  hill, 
must  have  extended  into  the  Tyropceon  valley. 

Here  then  we  have  Josephus'  names  for  these 
five  districts:  (1)  Southwestern  Hill,  "Upper  City" 

and  "Upper  Market  Place";  also  the 
2.  Summary  Phrourion,  or  "fortress  of  David." 
of  Names  From  the  4th  cent.  AD,  this  hill  has 
of  the  Five  also  been  known  as  "Zion,"  and  on  it 
Hills  today    is    the    so-called     "Tower    of 

David,"  built  on  the  foundations  of 
two  of  Herod's  great  towers. 

(2)  Northwestern  Hill:  "The  northern  quarter 
of  the  city."  This  district  does  not  appear  to  have 
had  any  other  name  in  OT  or  NT,  though  some  of 
the  older  authorities  would  place  the  "Akra"  here 
(see  infra).  Today  it  is  the  "Christian  quarter" 
of  Jerus,  which  centers  round  the  Church  of  the 
Holy  Sepulchre. 

(3)  Northeastern  Hill:  "Bezetha"  or  "New  City," 
even  now  a  somewhat  sparsely  inhabited  area,  has 
no  name  in  Bib.  literature. 

(4)  Central-eastern  Hill:  The  "third  hill"  of  Jos, 
clearly  the  site;  of  the  Temple  which,  as  Jos  says 
(BJ,  V,  v),    "was   built   upon   a  strong   hill."     In 


1601 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jerusalem 


earlier  times  it  was  the  "threshing-floor  of  Araunah 
the  Jebusite."  On  the  question  whether  it  has  any 
claims  to  be  the  Moriah  of  Gen  22  2,  as  it  is  called 
in  2  Ch  3  1,  see  Moriah.  The  temple  hill  is  also 
in  many  of  the  Heb  writings  called  Zion,  on  which 
point  see  Zion. 

(5)  Southeastern  Hill:  This  Jos  calls  "Akra"  and 
"Lower  City,"  but  while  on  the  one  hand  these 
names  require  some  elucidation,  there  are  other 
names  which  have  at  one  period  or  another  come  to 
be  applied  to  this  hill,  viz.  "City  of  David,"  "Zion" 
and  "Ophel."  These  names  for  this  hill  we  shall 
now  deal  with  in  order. 

In  spite  of  the  very  definite  description  of  Jos, 
there  has  been  considerable  difference  of  opinion 
regarding  the  situation  of  the  "Akra." 
3.  The  Various    parts    of    the    northwestern, 

Akra  the    northeastern,     the     southeastern 

hills,  and  even  the  central-eastern  it- 
self, have  been  suggested  by  earlier  authorities,  but 
instead  of  considering  the  various  arguments,  now 
largely  out  of  date,  for  other  proposed  sites,  it  will 
be  better  to  deal  with  the  positive  arguments  for 
the  southeastern  hill.  Jos  states  that  in  his  day 
the  term  "Akra"  was  applied  to  the  southeastern 
hill,  but  in  references  to  the  earlier  history  it  is  clear 
that  the  Akra  was  not  a  whole  hill,  but  a  definite 
fortress  (&Kpa,  dkra  =  "fortress" J. 

(1)  It  was  situated  on  the  site,  or  on  part  of  the 
site,  which  was  considered  in  the  days  of  the  Macca- 
bees to  have  been  the  "City  of  David."  Antiochus 
Epiphanes  (1G8  BC),  after  destroying  Jerus,  "forti- 
fied the  city  of  David  with  a  great  and  strong  wall, 
with  strong  towers  and  it  became  unto  them  an 
Akra"  (1  Mace  1  33-36).  The  formidable  for- 
tress— known  henceforth  as  "the  Akra" — became 
a  constant  menace  to  the  Jews,  until  at  length,  in 
142  BC,  it  was  captured  by  Simon,  who  not  only 
razed  the  whole  fortress,  but,  according  to  Jos  (Ant, 
XIII,  vi,  7;  BJ,  V,  iv,  1),  actually  cut  down  the 
hill  on  which  it  stood.  He  says  that  "they  all, 
labouring  zealously,  demolished  the  hill,  and  ceasing 
not  from  the  work  night  and  day  for  three  whole 
years,  brought  it  to  a  level  and  even  slope,  so 
that  the  Temple  became  the  highest  of  all  after  the 
Akra  and  the  hill  upon  which  it  was  built  had  been 
removed"  {Ant,  XIII,  vi,  7).  The  fact  that  at  the 
time  of  Jos  this  hill  was  evidently  lower  than 
the  temple  hill  is  in  itself  sufficient  argument 
against  any  theory  which  would  place  the  Akra 
on  the  northwestern  or  southwestern  hills.  (2)  The 
Akra  was  close  to  the  temple  (1  Mace  13  52),  and 
from  its  walls  the  garrison  could  actually  overlook 
it  (1  Mace  14  36).  Before  the  hill  was  cut  down 
it  obscured  the  temple  site  (ib).  (3)  It  is  identified 
by  Jos  as  forming  part,  at  least,  of  the  lower  city, 
which  (see  below)  bordered  upon  the  temple  (cf  BJ, 
I,  i,  4;  V,  iv,  1;  vi,  1).  (4)  The  LXX  identifies  the 
Akra  with  Millo  (2  S  5  9;  1  K  9  15-24;  2  Ch  32 
5). 

Allowing  that  the  original  Akra  of  the  Syrians 
was  on  the  southeastern  hill,  it  is  still  a  matter  of 
some  difficulty  to  determine  whereabouts  it  stood, 
esp.  as,  if  the  statements  of  Jos  are  correct,  the  nat- 
ural configuration  of  the  ground  has  been  greatly 
altered.  The  most  prominent  point  upon  the 
southeastern  hill,  in  the  neighborhood  of  Gihon, 
appears  to  have  been  occupied  by  the  Jebusite  for- 
tress of  Zion  (q.v.),  but  the  site  of  the  Akra  can 
hardly  be  identical  with  this,  for  this  became  the 
"City  of  David,"  and  here  were  the  venerated 
tombs  of  David  and  the  Judaean  kings,  which  must 
have  been  destroyed  if  this  hill  was,  as  Jos  states, 
cut  down.  On  this  and  other  grounds  we  must 
look  for  a  site  farther  north.  Sir  Charles  Watson 
(PEFS,  1906,  1907)  has  produced  strong  topo- 
graphical   and    literary    arguments    for    placing    it 


where  the  al  Aksa  mosque  is  today;  other  writers 
are  more  inclined  to  put  it  farther  south,  some- 
where in  the  neighborhood  of  the  massive  tower 
discovered  by  Warren  on  the  "Ophel"  wall  (see 
Millo).  If  the  account  of  Jos,  written  two  cen- 
turies after  the  events,  is  to  be  taken  as  literal,  then 
Watson's  view  is  the  more  probable. 

Jos,  as  we  have  seen,  identified  the  Akra  of  his 

day  with  the   Lower   City.     This  latter  is  not  a 

name  occurring  in  the  Bible  because, 

4.  The  as  will  be  shown,  the  OT  name  for 
Lower  City    this  part  was  "City  of  David."     That 

by  Lower  City  Jos  means  the  south- 
eastern hill  is  shown  by  many  facts.  It  is  actually 
the  lowest  part  of  the  city,  as  compared  witli  the 
"Upper  City,"  Temple  Hill  and  the  Bezetha;  it 
is,  as  Jos  describes,  separated  from  the  Upper  City 
by  a  deep  valley — the  Tyropceon;  this  southeastern 
hill  is  "double-curved,"  as  Jos  describes,  and  lastly 
several  passages  in  his  writings  show  that  the  Lower 
City  was  associated  with  the  Temple  on  the  one  end 
and  the  Pool  of  Siloam  at  the  other  (cf  Ant,  XIV, 
xvi,  2;  BJ,  II,  xvii,  5;  IV,  ix,  12;  VI,  vi,  3;  vii,  2). 

In  the  wider  sense  the  "Lower  City"  must  have 
included,  not  only  the  section  of  the  city  covering 
the  southeastern  hill  up  to  the  temple  precincts, 
where  were  the  palaces  (BJ,  V,  vi,  1;  VI,  vi,  3), 
and  the  homes  of  the  well-to-do,  but  also  that  in  the 
valley  of  the  Tyropceon  from  Siloam  up  to  the 
"Council  House,"  which  was  near  the  northern  "first 
wall"  (cf  BJ,  V,  iv,  2),  a  part  doubtless  inhabited 
by  the  poorest. 

It  is  clear  (2  S  5  7;   1  Ch  11  5)  that  the  citadel 

"Zion"  of  the  Jebusites  became  the  "City  of  David," 

or  as  G.  A.  Smith  calls  it,  "David's 

5.  City  of  Burg,"  after  its  capture  by  the  He- 
David  and  brews.  The  arguments  for  placing 
Zion  "Zion"   on   the  southeastern    hill   are 

given  elsewhere  (see  Zion),  but  a  few 
acts  relevant  esp.  to  the  "City of  David"  maybe 
mentioned  here:  the  capture  of  the  Jebusite  city  by 
means  of  the  gutter  (2  S  6  8),  which  is  most  reason- 
ably explained  as  "Warren's  Shaft"  (see  VII);  the 
references  to  David's  halt  on  his  flight  (2  S  15  23), 
and  his  sending  Solomon  to  Gihon  to  be  crowned  (1 
K  1  33),  and  the  common  expression  "up,"  used  in 
describing  the  transference  of  the  Ark  from  the 
City  of  David  to  the  Temple  Hill  (1  K  8  1;  2  Ch 
5  2;  cf  1  K  9  24),  are  all  consistent  with  this  view. 
More  convincing  are  the  references  to  Hezekiah's 
aqueduct  which  brought  the  waters  of  Gihon  "down 
on  the  west  side  of  the  city  of  David"  (2  Ch  32  30); 
the  mention  of  the  City  of  David  as  adjacent  to  the 
Pool  of  Shelah  (or  Shiloah;  cf  Isa  8  6),  and  the 
"king's  garden"  in  Neh  3  15,  and  the  position 
of  the  Fountain  Gate  in  this  passage  and  Neh  12 
37;  and  the  statement  that  Manasseh  built  "an 
outer  wall  to  the  City  of  David,  on  the  west  side  of 
Gihon"  in  the  nahal,  i.e.  the  Kidron  valley  (2  Ch 
33  14). 

The  name  appears  to  have  had  a  wider  significance 
as  the  city  grew.  Originally  "City  of  David"  was 
only  the  name  of  the  Jebusite  fort,  but  later  it  be- 
came equivalent  to  the  whole  southeastern  hill. 
In  the  same  way,  Akra  was  originally  the  name  of  the 
Syrian  fort,  but  the  name  became  extended  to  the 
whole  southeastern  hill.  Jos  looks  upon  "City  of 
David"  and  "Akra"  as  synonymous,  and  applies 
to  both  the  name  "Lower  City."  For  the  names 
Ophel  and  Ophlas  see  Ophel. 

V.  Excavations  and  Antiquities. — During  the  last 
hundred  years  explorations  and  excavations  of  a  suc- 
cession of  engineers  and  archaeologists  have  furnished 
an  enormous  mass  of  observations  for  the  understanding 
of  the  condition  of  ancient  Jerus.  Some  of  the  more 
important  are  as  follows: 

In  1833  Messrs.  Bonomi,  Catherwood  and  Arundaln 
made  a  first  thorough  survey  of  the  Haram  (temple-area), 


Jerusalem 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1602 


2.  Wilson 
and  the 
Palestine 
Exploration 
Fund, 1865 


a  work  which  was  the  foundation  of  all  subsequent  maps 
torover  a  quarter  of  a  century  American 

traveler  and  d  vine     Kev.    E.    Kobinson,    D  D..   visited 
traveler  ^{  ^  ^  rcpresentatlve  of  ;i„  Aiimti- 

1     Robinson  can  society,  and   made  a  series  of  brilliant 
1.  KODinson  ca,  hlca,    investigations   of    profound 

importance  to  all  students  of  the  Holy  Land,  even  today. 
In    1849  Jerus   was  surveyed  by    Lieuts    Aldrich  and 
Sv     o.idsof  the  Royal  Knginecrs    and  the  data  ac<,u,red 
were  used  for  a  map   constructed  by    Van  de    V  llde   and 

PU£ta1857  an  American   J.  T.  Ban-lay.  published  another 
mapof  Jerus tmUts  environs  -from  actual  and  minute 

Sl,In7s!!o-!!Yl"e  VogUMn  the  course  of  some  elaborate 
researches  in  Syria  explored  the  site  of  the  sanctuary. 

In  1SG4-  »5  a  committee  was  formed  in  London  to  con- 
sider the  sanitary  condition  of  Jerus,  esp.  with  a  view  to 
furnishing  t  he  city  wit  h  a  satisfactory  water- 
supply,  and  Lady  Burdett-Coutts  gave 
£500  "toward  a  proper  survey  of  Jerus  and 
its  environs  as  a  preliminary  step.  Cap- 
tain (later  Lieutenant-General  Sir  (  harles) 
Wilson  U.K.,  was  lent  by  the  Ordnance 
Survey  Department  of  Great  Britain  lor 
the  purpose.  The  results  of  tins  survey, 
and  of  certain  tentative  excavations  and 
observations  made  at  the  same  time,  were  so  ™™??r. 
aging  that  in  18G5  "The  1'alestme  Exploration  -  un 
was  constituted,  "for  the  purpose  of  investigating  the 
archaeology,    geography,    geology,    and    natural   historj 

°fDuringlyi8«7n^0    Captain    (later    Licutenant-General 

Sir  Charles)  Warren,  U.K.,  carried  out  a  series  of  most 
exciting  and  original  excavations  all  over 

Q     W„rrpr       t  he  sit  e  of   Jems.    esp.  around  the  Haram. 

d.    Warren       During    1872   75     Lieutenant    (later    Lieu- 

and  Conder  tenant-C^olonel)  Conder,  K.K.,  in  the 
course  of  the  great  survey  of  Western  Pal, 

made  further  contributions  to  our  knowledge  of  the  Holy 

In  1875  Mr.  Henry  Maudslay,  taking  advantage  of  the 
occasion  of  the  rebuilding  of  "Bishop  Gobat  s  Boys 
School,"  made-  a  careful  examination  of 
A  MonHc  Hi"  remarkable  rock  cuttings  which  are 
4.  mauas-  n()W  num,  ()1.  1(,ss  incorporated  into  the 
lay  school    buildings,    and   made   considerable 

excavations,  the  results  being  described  in 
PEFS  (April,  1875). 

In  1881  Professor  Guthe  made  a  scries  of  important 
excavations  on  the  southeastern  hill,  commonly  called 
"Ophel,"  and  also  near  the  Pool  of  Siloam;  his  reports 
were  published  in  ZDPV,  1882.  .         . 

The  same  year  (1881),  the  famous  Siloam  inscription 
was  discovered  and  was  first  reported  by  Herr  Baurath 
Schick    a  resident  in  Jerus  who  from  1<S<>(> 
c    o  u-  1  until  his  death  in  1901  made  a  long  series 

0.  bcniCK  of  observations  of  the  highest  importance 
on  the  topography  of  Jerus.  He  had 
unique  opportunities  for  scientifically  examining  the 
buildings  in  the  Haram,  and  the  results  of  his  study  of 
the  details  of  that 'locality  are  incorporated  m  his  wonder- 
ful Temple  model.  He  also  made  a  detailed  report  of  the 
ancient  aqueducts  of  tin- city.  Most  important  of  all  were 
the  records  he  so  patiently  and  faithfully  kept  of  the  rock 
levels  in  all  parts  of  the  city's  site  whenever  the  digging 
of  foundations  for  buildings  or  other  excavations  gave 
access  to  the  rock.  His  contributions  to  the  1'EF  and 
ZDPV  rim  into  hundreds  of  articles. 

M.  Clermont-Ganneau,  who  was  resident  in  Jerus  in 
the  French  consular  service,  made  for  many  years,  from 
1880  onward,  a  large  number  of  acute 
R  riprmnnt  observations  on  the  archaeology  of  Jerus 
o.  v^ciinuiii.-  and  j(s  (invirons,  many  of  which  were  pub- 
Ganneau  lished  by  the  PEF.  Another  name 
honored  in  connection  with  the  careful 
study  of  the  topography  of  Jerus  over  somewhat  the  same 
period  is  that  of  Rev.  Selah  Merrill,  D.D.,for  many  years 
U.S.  consul  in  Jerus. 

In  1894-97  the  Palestine  Exploration  Fund  conducted 
an  elaborate  seriesof  excavations  with  a  view  to  determin- 
ing in  particular  the  course  of  the  ancient 
7    Rli<;<:  soul  hern  walls  under  the  direction  of  Mr. 

'•   •d"S!>  T    j    BHss  (son()f  Key.  Daniel  Bliss,  D.D., 

ana  then    president    of    the    Syrian    Protestant 

Dickie  College,    Beirut),    assisted  by   Mr.   A.    C. 

Dickie  as  architect.  After  picking  up 
the  buried  foundations  of  walls  at  the  southeastern 
corner  where  "  Maudslay's  scarp"  was  exposed  in  the 
Protestant  cemetery.  Bliss  and  Dickie  followed  them  all 
the  way  to  the  Pool  of  Siloam.  across  the  Tyropceon  and 
on  to  "Ophel" — and  also  in  other  directions.  Dis- 
coveries of  great  interest  were  also  made  in  the  neigh- 
borhood of  the  Pool  of  Siloam  (see  Siloam). 

Following  upon  these  excavations  a  number  of  private 
investigations  have  been  made  by  the  Augustinians  in  a 
large  estate  they  have  acquired  on  the  E.  side  of  the 
traditional  hill  of  Zion. 

In  1909-11  a  party  of  Englishmen,  under  Captain  the 
Hon.  M.  Parker,  made  a  number  of  explorations  with 
very  elaborate  tunnels  upon   the  hill  of  Ophel,   imme- 


diately above  the  Virgin's  Fount.  In  the  course  of  their 
work  'thev  cleaned  out  the  whole  Siloam  aqueduct,  find - 
inn  some  "new  passages;  they  reconstructed  the  Siloam 
Pool  and  they  completed  Warren's  previous  investiga- 
tion'in  the  neighborhood  of  what  has  been  known  as 
■'Warren's  Shaft."  .  .        , 

There  are  several  societies  constantly  engaged  in  ob- 

serving    new    facts    connected    with   the   topography    of 

ancient  Jerus,  notably  the  School  of  Ar- 

R     Tf>rn<;a-      chaeology  connected  with  the  University 

0.  jeiuaa  <)f  g(.  Stephens,  under  the  Dominicans; 
lem  Ar-  th(,  American  School  of  Archaeology;  the 
chaeological  German  School  of  Bib.  Archaeology  under 
Societies  Professor  Dalman,  and  the  Palestine  Ex- 
ploration Fund. 

VI.    The  City's  Walls  and  Gates. — Although  the 

existing  walls  of  Jerus  go  back  in  their  present  form 
to  but  the  days  of  Suleiman  the  Mag- 

1.  The  nificent,  c  1542  AD,  their  study  is  an 
Existing  essential  preliminary  to  the  under- 
Walls  standing   of    the   ancient   walls.     The 

total  circuit  of  the  modern  walls  is 
4  326  yds.,  or  nearly  2\  miles,  their  average  height 
is  35  ft.,  and  they  have  altogether  35  towers  and  8 
gates— one  of  which  is  walled  up.  They  make  a 
rough  square,  with  the  four  sides  facing  the  cardinal 
points  of  the  compass.  The  masonry  is  of  various 
kinds,  and  on  every  side  there  are  evidences  that  the 
present  walls  are  a  patchwork  of  many  periods. 
The  northern  wall,  from  near  the  northwestern 
angle  to  some  distance  E.  of  the  "Damascus  Gate," 
lies  parallel  with,  though  somewhat  inside  of,  an 
ancienl  fosse,  and  it  and  the  gate  itself  evidently 
follow  ancient  lines.  The  eastern  and  western  walls, 
following  as  they  do  a  general  direction  along  the 
edges  of  deep  valleys,  must  be  more  or  less  along  the 
course  of  earlier  walls.  The  eastern  wall,  from  a 
lit  t le  south  of  St.  Stephen's  Gate  to  the  southeastern 
angle,  contains  many  ancient  courses,  and  the  gen- 
eral line  is  at  least  as  old  as  the  time  of  Herod  the 
Great;  the  stretch  of  western  wall  from  the  so- 
called  "Tower  of  David"  to  the  southwestern 
corner  is  certainly  along  an  ancient  line  and  has 
persisted  through" very  many  centuries.  This  line 
of  wall  was  allowed  to  remain  undestroyed  when 
Titus  leveled  the  remainder.  At  the  northwestern 
angle  are  some  remains  known  as  KaWat  Jalfid 
("Goliath's  castle"),  which,  though  largely  mediae- 
val, contain  a  rocky  core  and  some  masonry  of 
Herodian  times,  which  are  commonly  accepted  as 
the  relies  of  the  lofty  tower  Psephinus. 

The  course  of  the  southern  wall  has  long  been 
a  difficulty;  it  is  certainly  not  the  line  of  wall  before 
Titus;    it  has  none  of  the  natural  ad- 
2.  Wilson's   vantages  of  the  western  and  eastern 
Theory  walls,  and  there  are  no  traces  of  any 

great  rock  fosse,  such  as  is  to  be  found 
on  the  north.  The  eastern  end  is  largely  built  upon 
the  lower  courses  of  Herod's  southern  wall  for  his 
enlarged  temple-platform,  and  in  it  are  still  to  be 
found  walled  up  the  triple,  single  and  double  gates 
which  lead  up  to  the  Temple.  The  irregular  line 
followed  by  the  remainder  of  this  wall  has  not  until 
recent  times  received  any  explanation.  Sir  Charles 
Wilson  {Golgotha  and  the  Holy  Sepulchre)  suggests 
the  probable  explanation  that  the  line  of  wall  from 
the  southwestern  to  the  "Zion  Gate"  was  deter- 
mined by  the  legionary  camp  which  stood  on  the 
part  of  the  city  now  covered  by  the  barracks  and 
the  Armenian  quarter.  Allowing  that  the  remains 
of  the  first  wall  on  the  N.  and  W.  were  utilized  for 
this  fortified  camp  (from  70-132  AD),  and  supposing 
the  camp  to  have  occupied  the  area  of  50  acres,  as 
was  the  case  with  various  European  Rom  camps, 
whose  remains  are  known,  the  southern  camp  wall 
would  have  run  along  the  line  of  the  existing  south- 
ern walls.  This  line  of  fortification  having  been  thus 
selected  appears  to  have  been  followed  through  the 
greater  part  of  the  succeeding  centuries  down  to 
modern  times.     The  line  connecting  the   two   ex- 


1603 


THE  INTER  NATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jerusalem 


tremities  of  the  southern  wall,  thus  determined  by 
the  temple-platform  and  legionary  camp,  respec- 
tively, was  probably  that  first  followed  by  the  south- 
ern wall  of  Hadrian's  city  JElia. 

Of  the  8  existing  city  gates,  on  the  west  side  there 
is  but  one,  Bab  el  Khulil  (the  "Gate  of  Hebron"), 

commonly  known  to  travelers  as  the 
3.  The  Jaffa  Gate.     It  is  probably  the  site  of 

Existing  several  earlier  gates.  On  the  N.  there 
Gates  are  3  gates,  Bab  Abd'ul  Hainld  (named 

after  the  sultan  who  made  it)  or  the 
"New  Gate";  Bab  el  \imud  ("Gate  of  the  Columns"), 
now  commonly  called  the  "Damascus  Gate,"  but 
more  anciently  known  as  "St.  Stephen's  Gate," 
and  clearly,  from  the  existing  remains,  the  site  of 
an  earlier  gateway;  and,  still  farther  east,  the  Bab 
es  Sahirah  ("Gate  of  the  Plain"),  or  "Herod's  Gate." 
On  the  east  side  the  only  open  gate  is  the  Bob  el 
KAsbat  ("'Gate  of  the  Tribes"),  commonly  called 
by  native  Christians,  Bab  Sitti  Miriam  ("Gate  of 
the  Lady  Mary"),  but  in  European  guide-books 
called  "St.  Stephen's  Gate."  A  little  farther  S., 
near  the  northeastern  corner  of  the  Haram  is  the 
great  walled-up  Byzantine  Gate,  known  as  Bab  ed 
Daharlyeh  ("Gate  of  the  Conqueror"),  but  to  Euro- 
peans as  the  "Golden  Gate."  This  structure  has 
been  variously  ascribed  to  Justinian  and  Heraclius, 
but  there  are  massive  blocks  which  belong  to  a 
more  ancient  structure,  and  early  Christian  tra- 
dition places  the  "Beautiful  (late"  of  the  Temple 
here.  In  t lie  southern  wall  are  two  city  gates;  one, 
insignificant  and  mean,  occupies  the  center  of  el 
Wad  and  is  known  as  Bab  el  Mughdribeh  ("Gate  of 
the  Moors"),  and  to  Europeans  as  the  "Dung 
Gate";  the  other,  which  is  on  the  crown  of  the 
western  hill,  traditional  Zion,  is  the  important  Bub 
Nebi  Daoud  ("Gate  of  the  Prophet  David"),  or  the 
"Zion  Gate." 

All  these  gates  assumed  their  present  form  at  the 
time  of  the  reconstruction  of  the  walls  by  Suleiman 
the  Magnificent,  but  the  more  important  ones 
occupy  the  sites  of  earlier  gates.  Their  names  have 
varied  very  much  even  since  the  times  of  the  Cru- 
saders. The  multiplicity  of  names  for  these  va- 
rious gates — they  all  have  two  or  three  today — and 
their  frequent  changes  are  worth  noticing  in  con- 
nection with  the  fact  that  in  the  OT  history  some 
of  the  gates  appear  to  have  had  two  or  more  names. 


US 

JF\2 

!$?'[  ■■■■';.V~.. 

2i 

' 

ki   1 

-.'        "             * 

su*"a**f*!^^ 

■  •»^^qi 

St.  Stephen's  Gato. 

As  has  been  mentioned,  the  course  of  the  present 
southern  wall  is  the  result  of  Rom  reconstruction 
of  the  city  since  the  time  of  Titus.  To  Warren, 
Guthe,  Maudslay  and  Bliss  we  owe  a  great  deal  of 
certain  knowledge  of  its  more  ancient  course. 
These  explorers  have  shown  that  in  all  the  pre-Rom 
period  (and  at  least  one  period  since)  the  contin- 
uation southward  of  the  western  and  eastern  ridges, 
as  well  as  the  wide  valley  between — an  area  now 
but  sparsely  inhabited — was  the  site  of  at  once  the 
most  crowded  life,  and  the  most  stirring  scenes  in 


the  Heb  history  of  the  city.  The  sanctity  of  the 
Holy  Sepulchre  has  caused  the  city  life  to  center 
itself  more  and  more  around  that  sanctuary, 
thereby  greatly  confusing  the  ancient  topography 
for  many  centuries. 

(1)  Warren's  excavations  revealed:  (a)  a  mas- 
sive masonry  wall  40  ft.   E.  of  the  Golden  Gate, 

which  curved  toward  the  W.  at  its 
4.  Buried  northern  end,  following  the  ancient 
Remains  rock  contours  at  this  spot.  It  is 
of  Earlier  probable  that  this  was  the  eastern 
Walls  wall  of  the  city  in  pre-Herodian  times. 

Unfortunately  the  existence  of  a  large 
Moslem  cemetery  outside  the  eastern  wall  of  the 
Haram  precludes  the  possibility  of  any  more  exca- 
vations in  this  neighborhood,  (b)  More  important 
remains  in  the  southeastern  hill,  commonly  known 
as  "Ophel."  Here  commencing  at  the  south- 
eastern angle  of  the  Haram,  Warren  uncovered 
a  wall  14 1-  ft.  thick  running  S.  for  90  ft.  and  then 
S.W.  along  the  edge  of  the  hill  for  700  ft.  This 
wall,  which  shows  at  least,  two  periods  of  construc- 
tion, abuts  on  the  sanctuary  wall  with  a  straight 
joint.  Along  its  course  were  found  4  small  towers 
with  a  projection  of  0  ft.  and  a  face  from  22  to 
28  ft.  broad,  and  a.  great  corner  tower  projecting 
41§  ft.  from  the  wall  and  with  a  face  SO  ft.  broad. 
The;  face  of  this  great  tower  consists  of  stones  one 
to  two  ft.  high  and  2  or  3  ft .  long;  it  is  founded  upon 
rock  and  stands  to  the  height  of  66  ft.  Warren 
considers  that,  this  may  be  ha-mighdal  ha-yuce'  or 
"tower  that  standeth  out"  of  Neh  3  25. 

(2)  In  1881  Professor  Guthe  picked  up  frag- 
mentary traces  of  this  city-wall  farther  south,  and 
in  the  excavations  of  Captain  Parker  (1010-11) 
further  fragments  of  massive  walls  and  a  very  an- 
cient gate  have  been  found. 

(3)  Maudslay's  excavations  were  on  the  south- 
western hill,  on  the  site  occupied  by  "Bishop  Gobat's 
School"  for  boys,  and  in  the  adjoining  Anglo- 
German  cemetery.  The  school  is  built  over  a 
great  mass  of  scarped  rock  45  ft.  sq.,  which  rises 
to  a  height  of  20  ft .  from  a  platform  which  surrounds 
it  and  with  which  it  is  connected  by  a  rock-cut 
stairway;  upon  this  massive  foundation  must  have 
stood  a  great  tower  at  what  was  in  ancient  times 
the  southwestern  corner  of  the  city.  From  this 
point  a  scar])  facing  westward  was  traced  for  100 
ft.  northward  toward  the  modern  southwestern 
angle  of  the  walls,  while  a  rock  scarp,  in  places  40  ft. 
high  on  the  outer  or  southern  side  and  at  least 
11  ft.  on  the  inner  face,  was  followed  for  250  ft. 
eastward  until  it  reached  another  great  rock  pro- 
jection with  a  face  of  43  ft.  Although  no  stones 
were  found  in  situ,  it  is  evident  that  such  great  rock 
cuttings  must  have  supported  a  wall  and  tower  of 
extraordinary  strength,  and  hundreds  of  massive 
squared  stones  belonging  to  this  wall  arc  now  in- 
corporated in  neighboring  buildings. 

(4)  Bliss  and  Dickie's  work  commenced  at  the 
southeastern  extremity  of  Maudslay's  scarp,  where 
was  the  above-mentioned  massive  projection  for  a 
tower,and  here  were  found  several  courses  of  masonry 
still  in  situ.  This  tower  appears  to  have  been  the 
point  of  divergence  of  two  distinct  lines  of  wall,  one 
of  which  ran  in  a  direction  N.E.,  skirting  the  edge 
of  the  southeastern  hill,  and  probably  joined  the 
line  of  the  modern  walls  at  the  ruined  masonry 
tower  known  as  Burj  el  Kebrit,  and  another  run- 
ning S.E.  down  toward  the  Pool  of  Siloam,  along 
the  edge  of  the  Wady  er  Rdbdbi  (Ilinnom).  The 
former  of  these  walls  cannot  be  very  ancient,  be- 
cause of  the  occurrence  of  late  Byzantine  mold- 
ings in  its  foundations.  The  coenaculum  was  in- 
cluded in  the  city  somewhere  about  435-450  AD 
(see  IX,  55),  and  also  in  the  14th  cent.  Bliss  con- 
siders it  probable  that  this  is  the  wall  built  in  1239 


Jerusalem 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1604 


by  Frederick  II,  ainl  it  is  certainly  that  depicted  in 
the  map  of  Marino  Sanuto  (1321  AD).  Although 
these  masonry  remains  are  thus  comparatively  late, 
there  were  soine  reasons  tor  t  hulking  that  at  a  much 
earlier  date  a  wall  took  a  similar  direction  along  the 
edge  of  the  southwestern  hill;  and  it  is  an  attractive 
theory,  though  unsupported  by  any  very  definite 
archaeological  evidence,  that  the  wall  of  Solomon 
took  also  this  general  line.  The  wall  running  S.E. 
from  the  tower,  along  (hi-  edge  of  the  gorge  of 
Hinnom,  is  historically  of  much  greater  importance. 
Bliss's  investigations  showed  that  here  were  remains 
belonging  to  several  periods,  covering  altogether 
considerably  over  a  millennium.  The  upper  line 
of  wall  was  of  line  masonry,  with  stones  1  ft.  by 
3  ft.  in  size,  beautifully  jointed  and  finely  dressed; 
in  some  places  this  wall  was  founded  upon  the 
remains  of  the  lower  wall,  in  others  a  layer  of  debris 
intervened.  If  is  impossible  that  this  upper  wall 
can  be  pre-llom,  and  Bliss  ascribes  it  to  the  Empress 
Eudoxia  (see  IX,  55).  The  lower  wall  rested  upon 
the  rock  and  showed  at  least  3  periods  of  construc- 
tion. In  the  earliest  the  stones  had  broad  margins 
and  were  carefully  jointed,  without  mortar.  This 
may  have  been  the  work  of  Solomon  or  one  of  the 
early  kings  of  .ludah.  The  later  remains  are  evi- 
dently of  the  nature  of  repairs,  and  include  the 
work  of  the  later  Judaean  kings,  and  of  Nehemiah 
and  of  all  the  wall-repairers,  down  to  the  destruction 
in  70  AD.  At  somewhat  irregular  intervals  along 
the  wall  were  towers  of  very  similar  projection  and 
breadth  to  those  found  on  Warren's  wall  on  the 
southeastern  hill.  The  wall  foundations  were 
traced — except  for  an  interval  where  they  passed 
under  a  Jewish  cemetery — all  the  way  to  the  mouth 
of  the  Tyropceon  valley.  The  upper  wall  disap- 
peared (the  stones  having  been  all  removed  for  later 
buildings)  before  the  Jewish  cemetery  was  reached. 
During  most  periods,  if  not  indeed  in  all,  the  wall 
was  carried  across  the  mouth  of  the  Tyropceon 
valley  upon  a  great,  dam  of  which  the 

5.  The  massive  foundations  still  exist  under 
Great  Dam  the  ground,  some  50  ft.  to  the  E.  of 
of  the  the  slighter  dam  which  today  supports 
Tyropoeon      the  BirkctclHnmra  (seeSiLOAM).    This 

ancient  dam  evidently  once  supported 
a  pool  in  the  mouth  of  the  Tyropceon,  and  it  showed 
evidences  of  having  undergone  but  tressing  and  other 
changes  and  repairs.  Although  it  is  clear  that  dur- 
ing the  greater  part  of  Jewish  history,  before  and 
after  the  captivity,  the  southern  wall  of  Jems 
crossed  upon  this  dam,  there  were  remains  of  walls 
found  which  tended  to  show  that  at  one  period,  at 
any  rate,  the  wall  circled  round  the  two  Siloam 
pools,  leaving  them  outside  the  fortifications. 

In  the  stretch  of  wall  from  "Maudslay's  Scar])" 
to   the   Tyropceon   valley   remains  of  2   city   gates 

were  found,   and  doubtful  indications 

6.  Ruins  of  of  2  others.  The  ruins  of  the  first  of 
Ancient  these  gates  are  now  included  in  the 
Gates  new   extension   of   the   Anglo-German 

cemetery.  The  gate  had  door  sills, 
with  sockets,  of  1  periods  superimposed  upon  each 
other;  the  width  of  the  entrance  was  S  ft.  10  in. 
during  the  earliest,  and  S  ft.  at  the;  latest  period. 
The  character  of  the  masonry  tended  to  show  that, 
the  gate  belonged  to  t  he  upper  wall,  which  is  appar- 
ently entirely  of  the  Christian  era.  If  this  is  so, 
this  cannot  be  the  "Gate  of  the  Gai"  of  Neh  3  13, 
although  the  earlier  gate  may  have  occupied  this 
site.  Bliss  suggests  as  a  probable  position  for  this 
gate  an  interval  between  the  two  contiguous  towers 
IV  and  V,  a  little  farther  to  the  E. 

Another  gate  was  a  small  one,  4  ft.  10.  in.  wide, 
marked  only  by  t  he  cut  t  ings  in  the  rock  for  the  door 
sockets.  It  lay  a  little  to  the  W.  of  the  city  gate 
next  to  be  describe!  1,  and  both  from  its  posit  ion  and 


its  insignificance,  it  does  not  appear  to  have  been 
an  entrance  to  the  city;  it,  may,  as  Bliss  suggests, 
have  given  access  to  a  tower,  now  destroyed. 

The  second  great,  city  gateway  was  found  some 
200  ft.  S.  of  the  Birket  elHamra,  close  to  the  south- 
eastern angle  of  the  ancient  wall.  The  existing 
remains  are  bonded  into  walls  of  the  earlier  period, 
but  the  three  superimposed  door  sills,  with  their 
sockets  to  be  seen  uncovered  today  in  situ — 
mark  three  distinct,  periods  of  long  duration.  The 
gate  gave  access  to  the  great  main  street  running 
down  the  Tyropceon,  underneath  which  ran  a  great 
rock-cut  drain,  which  probably  traversed  the  whole 
central  valley  of  the  city.  During  the  last  two 
periods  of  the  gate's  use,  a  tower  was  erected — at,  the 
exact,  southeastern  angle — to  protect  the  entrance. 
The  earliest,  remains  here  probably  belong  to  the 
Jewish  kings,  and  it  is  very  probable  that  we  have 
here  the  gate;  called  by  Neh  (3  13)  the  "Dung 
Gate."  Bliss  considered  that  it  might  be  the 
"Fountain  Gate"  (Neh  3  15),  which,  however, 
was  probably  more  to  the  E.,  although  Bliss  could 
find  no  remains  of  it  surviving.  The  repairs  and 
alterations  here  have  been  so  extensive  that,  its 
disappearance  is  in  no  way  surprising.  The  Foun- 
tain Gate  is  almost  certainly  identical  with  the 
"Gate  between  the  Two  Walls,"  through  which 
Zedekiah  and  his  men  of  war  fled  (2  K  25  4;  Jer 
39  4;  52  7). 

The  most,  definite  account,  of  the  old  walls  is  that 
of  Jos  (/>'./,  V,  iv,  1,  2),  and  though  it  referred  pri- 
marily to  the  existing  walls  of  his  day, 

7.  Josephus'  it  is  a  convenient  one  for  commencing 
Description  the  historical  survey.  He  describes 
of  the  Walls  three    walls.     The   first   wall    "began 

on  the  N.,  at  the  tower  called  Hippi- 
cus,  and  extended  as  far  as  the  Xistus,  and  then 
joining  at  the  Council  House,  ended  at  the  west- 
ern cloister  of  the  temple."  On  the  course  of  this 
section  of  the  wall  there  is  no  dispute.  The  tower 
Hippicus  was  close  to  the  present  Jaffa  Gate,  and 
the  wall  ran  from  here  almost  due  W.  to  the 
temple-area  along  the  southern  edge  of  the  western 
arm  of  the  Tyropceon  (see  III,  2,  above).  It  is 
probable  that  the  Hnret  ed  Dawdyeh,  a  street  run- 
ning  nearly   parallel    with   the   neigh- 

8.  First  boring  "David  Street,"  but  high  up 
Wall  above  it,   lies   above  the  foundations 

of  this  wall.  It  must  have  crossed 
the  main  Tyropceon  near  the  Tank  bah  es  Silsilel, 
and  joined  the  western  cloisters  close  to  where  the 
Mehkcmeh,  the  present  "Council  House,"  is  sit- 
uated. 

Jos  traces  the  southern  course  of  the  first,  wall 
thus:  "It,  began  at  the  same  place  [i.e.  Hippicus], 
and  extended  through  a  place  called  Bethso  to  the 
gate  of  the  Essenes;  and  after  that  it  went  south- 
ward, having  its  bending  above  the  fountain  Siloam, 
when  it,  also  bends  again  toward  the  E.  at  Solomon's 
Pool,  and  reaches  as  far  as  a  certain  place  which 
they  called  'Ophlas,'  where  it  was  joined  to  the 
eastern  cloister  of  the  temple."  Although  the  main 
course  of  this  wall  has  now  been  followed  with  pick 
and  shovel,  several  points  are  still  uncertain. 
Bethso  is  not  known,  but  must  have  been  close  to 
the  southwestern  angle,  which,  as  we  have  seen,  was 
situated  where  "Bishop  Gobat's  School"  is  today. 
It  is  very  probably  identical  with  the  "Tower  of 
the  Furnaces"  of  Neh  3  11,  while  the  "Gate  of  the 
Essenes"  must  have  been  near,  if  not  identical  with, 
the  "Gate  of  the  Gai"  of  ver  13.  The  description 
of  Jos  certainly  seems  to  imply  that  the  mouth  of  the 
Siloam  aqueduct  ("fountain  of  Siloam")  and  the 
pools  were  both  outside  the  fortification.  We  have 
seen  from  these  indications  in  the  underground 
remains  that,  this  was  the  case  at  one  period. 
Solomon's  Pool  is  very  probably  represented  by  the 


1605 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jerusalem 


modern  Birket  el  Hamra.  It  is  clear  that  the  wall 
from  here  to  the  southeastern  angle  of  the  temple- 
platform  followed  the  edge  of  the  southeastern  hill, 
and  coincided  farther  north  with  the  old  wall  ex- 
cavated by  Warren.  As  will  be  shown  below,  this 
first  wall  was  the  main  fortification  of  the  city  from 
the  time  of  the  kings  of  Judah  onward.  In  the 
time  of  Jos,  this  first  wall  had  60  towers. 


Probable  Course  of  the  Three  Walls  Described  by 
Josephus. 


i  "Sec 1  Wall"  was 

(lie  "Thirt   Wall"    \ 
finished  shortly  l>«-fo 


obablv  added  in  the  feys  of  the  Has. 
i  commenced    l>y   Herod   Agrippa   1 


The  Second  Wall  of  Jos  "took  its  beginning  from 
that  gate  which  they  called   'Gennath,'  which  be- 
longed  to  the  first,  wall:    it  only  en- 
9.  Second     compassed  the  northern  quarter  of  the 
Wall  city  and  reached  as  far  as  the  tower 

Antonia"  (ib).  In  no  part  of  Jerus 
topography  has  there  been  more  disagreement  than 
upon  this  wall,  both  as  regards  its  curve  and  as 
regards  its  date  of  origin.  Unfortunately,  we  have 
no  idea  at,  all  where  the  "Gate  ( rennath"  was.  The 
Tower  Antonia  we  know.  The  line  must  have 
passed  in  a  curved  or  zigzag  direction  from  some 
unknown  point  on  the  first  wall,  i.e.  between  the 
Jaffa  Gate  and  the  Haram  to  the  Antonia.  A  con- 
siderable number  of  authorities  in  the  past  and  a 
few  careful  students  today  would  identify  the 
general  course  of  this  wall  with  that  of  the  modern 
northern  wall.  The  greatest  objections  to  thia 
view  are  that  no  really  satisfactory  alternative 
course  has  been  laid  down  for  the  third  wall  (see 
below),  and  that  it  must  have  run  far  N.  of  the 
Antonia,  a  course  which  does  not  seem  to  agree 
with  the  description  of  Jos,  which  states  that  the 
wall  "went  up"  to  the  Antonia.  On  the  other  hand, 
no  certain  remains  of  any  city  wall  within  the 
present  north  wall  have  ever  been  found;  fragments 
have  been  reported  by  various  observers  (e.g.  the 
piece  referred  to  as  forming  the  eastern  wall  of  the 
so-called  "Pool  of  Hezekiah";  see  VII,  ii,  below), 
but  in  an  area  so  frequently  desolated  and  rebuilt 
upon — where  the  demand  for  squared  stones  must 
always  have  been  great, — it  is  probable  that  the 
traces,  if  surviving  at  all,  are  very  scanty.  This 
is  the  case  with  the  south  wall  excavated  by  Bliss 
(see   VI),    and    that   neighborhood    has   for   many 


centuries  been  unbuilt  upon.  It  is  quite  probable 
that  the  area  included  within  the  second  wall  may 
have  been  quite  small,  merely  the  buildings  which 
clustered  along  the  sides  of  the  Tyropceon.  Its 
40  towers  may  have  been  small  and  built  close 
together,  because  the  position  was,  from  the  mili- 
tary aspect,  weak.  It  must  be  remembered  that  it 
was  the  unsatisfactory  state  of  the  second  wall 
which  necessitated  a  third  wall.  There  is  no  abso- 
lute' reason  why  it  may  not  have  excluded  the  greater 
part  of  the  northwestern  hill — and  with  it  the  site 
of  the  Church  of  the  Holy  Sepulchre — but  there  is 
no  proof  that  it  did.  The  date  of  the  second  wall 
is  unknown  (see  below). 

This  third  wall,  which  was  commenced  after  tin; 
time  of  Christ  by  Herod  Agrippa  I,  is  described  in 
more  detail  by  Jos.  It  was  begun 
10.  Third  upon  an  elaborate  plan,  but  was  not 
Wall  finished  in  its  original  design  because 

Agrippa  feared  Claudius  Caesar,  "lest 
he  should  suspect  that  so  strong  a  wall  was  built 
in  order  to  make  some  innovation  in  public  affairs" 
(BJ,  V,  iv,  2).  It,  however,  at  the  time  of  the  siege, 
was  of  a  breadth  of  over  18  ft.,  and  a  height  of  40 
ft.,  and  had  90  massive  towers.  Jos  describes  it  as 
beginning  at  the  tower  Hippicus  (near  the  Jaffa 
(late),  "where  it  reached  as  far  as  the  north  quarter 
of  the  city,  and  the  tower  Psephinus."  This 
mighty  tower,  135  ft.  high,  was  at  the  northwestern 
corner  and  overlooked  the  whole  city.  From  it, 
according  to  Jos  (BJ,  V,  vi,  3),  there  was  a  view 
of  Arabia  (Moab)  at  sunrising,  and  also  of  "the 
utmost  limits  of  the  Heb  possessions  at  the  Sea 
westward."  From  this  corner  the  wall  turned 
eastward  until  it  came  over  against  the  monuments 
of  Helene  of  Adiabene,  a  statement,  however,  which 
must  be  read  in  connection  with  another  passage 
(Ant,  XX,  iv,  3),  where  it  says  that  this  tomb  "was 
distant  no  more  than  3  furlongs  from  the  city  of 
Jerus."  The  wall  then  "extended  to  a  very  great, 
length"  and  passed  by  the  sepulchral  caverns  of  the 
kings — which  may  well  be  the  so-called  "Solomon's 
Quarries,"  and  it  then  bent  at  the  "Tower  of  the 
Corner,"  at  a  monument  which  is  called  the  Monu- 
ment of  the  Fuller  (not  identified),  and  joined  to 
the  old  wall  at  the  Kidron  valley. 

The  commonly  accepted  theory  is  that  a  great 
part  of  this  line  of  wall  is  that  pursued  by  the 
modern  north  wall,  and  KaVat  cUalud,  or  rather  the 
foundation  of  it,  that  marks  the  site  of  Psephinus. 
The  Damascus  Gate  is  certainly  on  the  line  of  some 
earlier  gate.  The  "Tower  of  the  Corner"  was  prob- 
ably about  where  the  modern  Herod's  Gate  is,  or  a 
little  more  to  the  E.,  and  the  course  of  the  wall  was 
from  here  very  probably  along  the  southern  edge  of 
the  "St.  Anne's  Valley,"  joining  on  to  the  N.E.  corner 
of  the  Haram  a  little  S.  of  the  present  St.  Stephen's 
(late.  This  course  of  the  wall  fits  in  well  with  the 
description  of  Jos.  If  the  so-called  "Tombs  of  the 
Kings"  are  really  those  of  Queen  Helena  of  Adiabene 
and  her  family,  then  the  distance  given  as  3  fur- 
longs is  not  as  far  out  as  the  distance  to  the  modern 
wall;  the  distance  is  actually  3^  furlongs. 

Others,  following  the  learned  Dr.  Robinson,  find 
it  impossible  to  believe  that  the  total  circuit  of  the 
walls  was  so  small,  and  would  carry  the  third  wall 
considerably  farther  north,  making  the  general  line 
of  the  modern  north  wall  coincide  with  the  second 
wall  of  Jos.  The  supporters  of  this  view  point  to 
the  description  of  the  extensive  view  from  Psephinus, 
and  contend  that  this  presupposed  a  site  on  still 
higher  ground,  e.g.  where  the  present  Russian 
buildings  now  are.  They  also  claim  that  the  state- 
ment that  the  wall  came  "over  against"  the  monu- 
ment of  Queen  Helena  certainly  should  mean  very 
much  nearer  that  monument  than  tin;  present  walls. 
Dr.   Robinson  and  others  who  have  followed  him 


Jerusalem 


THE  INTER  NATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1606 


have  pointed  to  various  fragments  which  they  claim 
to  have  been  pieces  of  the  missing  wall.  The  present 
writer,  after  very  many  years'  residence  in  Jerus, 
watching  the  buildings  which  in  the  last  25  years 
have  sprung  up  over  the  area  across  which  this  line 
of  wall  is  claimed  to  have  run,  has  never  seen  a 
trace  of  wall  foundations  or  of  fosse  which  was  in 
the  very  least  convincing;  while  on  the  other  hand 
this  area  now  being  rapidly  covered  by  the  modern 
suburb  of  Jerus  presents  almost  everywhere  below 
the  surface  virgin  rock.  There  is  no  evidence  of 
any  more  buildings  than  occasional  scattered  Rom 
villas,  with  mosaic  floors.  The  present  writer  has 
rather  unwillingly  come  to  the  opinion  that  the  city 
walls  were  never  farther  north  than  the  line  they 
follow  today.  With  respect  to  the  objection  raised 
that  there  could  not  possibly  have  been  room  enough 
between  the  two  walls  for  the  "Camp  of  the  As- 
syrians," where  Titus  pitched  his  camp  (BJ,  V,  vii, 
3),  any  probable  line  for  the  second  wall  would  leave 
a  mean  of  1,000  ft.  between  the  two  walls,  and  in 
several  directions  considerably  more.  The  proba- 
ble position  of  the  "Camp  of  the  Assyrians"  would, 
according  to  this  view,  be  in  the  high  ground  (the 
northwestern  hill)  now  occupied  by  the  Christian 
quarter  of  the  modern  city.  The  question  of  what 
the  population  of  Jerus  was  at  this  period  is  dis- 
cussed in  IX,  49,  below.  For  the  other  great  build- 
ings of  the  city  at  this  period,  see  also  IX,  43-44, 
below. 

Taking  then  the  walls  of  Jerus  as  described  by 
Jos,  we  may  work  backward  and  see  how  the  walls 

ran  in  earlier  periods.  The  third  wall 
11.  Date  of  does  not  concern  us  any  more,  as  it 
Second  was  built  after  the  Crucifixion.     With 

Wall  respect  to  the  second  wall,  there  is  a 

great  deal  of  difference  of  opinion  re- 
garding its  origin.  Some  consider,  like  Sir  Charles 
Watson,  that  it  does  not  go  back  earlier  than  the 


Probable  Course  of  AValls  and  Position  of  the  Principal 

Gates  from  Hezekiah  till   Long  after  Nehemiah. 

(The  N.B.  corner  is  necessarily  doubtful.) 

N.B.—  The  fortress  Zion,  renamed  hv  David  "City  of  David,"  became  in  later 
times  "Akra,"  the  fortress  of  the  Syrians. 

Hasmoneans;  whereas  others  (e.g.  G.  A.  Smith),  be- 
cause of  the  expression  in  2  Ch  32  5  that  Hezekiah, 
after  repairing  the  wall,  raised  "another  wall  with- 
out," think  that  this  wall  goes  back  as  far  as  this 


monarch.  The  evidence  is  inconclusive,  but  the 
most  probable  view  seems  to  be  that  the  "first 
wall,"  as  described  by  Jos,  was  the  only  circuit  of 
wall  from  the  kings  of  Judah  down  to  the  2d  cent. 
BC,  and  perhaps  later. 

The    most    complete    Scriptural    description    we 

have  of  the  walls  and  gates  of  Jerus  is  that  given  by 

Nehemiah.     His  account  is  valuable, 

12.  Nehe-  not  only  as  a  record  of  what  he  did, 
miah's  but  of  what  had  been  the  state  of  the 
Account  of  walls  before  the  exile.  It  is  perfectly 
the  Walls       clear   that   considerable   traces  of  the 

old  walls  and  gates  remained,  and 
that  his  one  endeavor  was  to  restore  what  had  been 
before; — even  though  it  produced  a  city  enclosure 
much  larger  than  necessary  at  his  time.  The 
relevant  passages  arc  Neh  2  13-15,  the  account  of 
his  night  ride;  3  1-32,  the  description  of  the  re- 
building; and  12  31-39,  the  routes  of  the  two  pro- 
cessions at  the  dedication. 

In  the;  first  account  we  learn  that  Nehemiah 
went  out  by  night  by  the  Valley  Gate  (q.v.),  or 

Gate  of  the  Gai,  agate  (that  is,  opening) 

13.  Valley  into  the  Gai  Hinnom,  and  probably  at 
Gate  or  near  the  gate  discovered  by  Bliss 

in  what  is  now  part  of  the  Anglo- 
German  cemetery;  he  passed  from  it  to  the  Dung 
Gate,  and  from  here  viewed  the  walls  of  the  city. 

This,  with  considerable  assurance,  may 

14.  Dung  be  located  at  the  ruined  foundations 
Gate  of  a  gate  discovered  by  Bliss  at  the 

southeastern  corner  of  the  city.  The 
line  of  wall  clearly  followed  the  south  edge  of  the 
southwestern  hill  from  the  Anglo-German  cemetery 
to  this  point.     He  then  proceeded  to  the  Fountain 

Gate,  the  site  of  which  has  not  been  re- 

15.  Fountain  covered,  but,  as  there  must  have  been 
Gate  water  running  out  here  (as  today)  from 

the  mouth  of  the  Siloam  tunnel,  is 
very  appropriately  named  here.  Near  by  was  the 
King's  Pool  (q.v.),  probably  the  pool — now  deeply 
buried — which  is  today  represented  by  the  Birket 
el  Hamra.  Here  Nehemiah  apparently  thought  of 
turning  into  the  city,  "but  there  was  no  place  for 
the  beast  that  was  under  me  to  pass"  (2  14),  so  he 
went  up  by  the  Nahal  (Kidron),  viewed  the  walls 
from  there,  and  then  retraced  his  steps  to  the  Valley 
Gate.  There  is  another  possibility,  and  that  is  that 
the  King's  Pool  was  the  pool  (which  certainly  existed) 
at  Gihon,  in  which  case  the  Fountain  Gate  may  also 
have  been  in  that  neighborhood. 

All  the  archaeological  evidence  is  in  favor  of  the 
wall  having  crossed  the  mouth  of  the  Tyropceon  by 
the  great  clam  at  this  time,  and  the  propinquity 
of  this  structure  to  the  Fountain  Gate  is  seen  in 
Neh  3  15,  where  we  read  that  Shallum  built  the 
Fountain  Gate  "and  covered  it,  and  set  up  the  doors 
thereof  ....  and  the  bars  thereof,  and  the  wall 
of  the  pool  of  Shelah  [see  Siloam]  by  the  Kino's 
Garden  [q.v.],  even  unto  the  stairs  that  go  down 
from  the  city  of  David."  All  these  localities  were 
close  together  at  the  mouth  of  el  Wad. 

Passing  from  here  we  can  follow  the  circuit  of 
the  city  from  the  accounts  of  the  rebuilding  of  the 
walls  in  Neh  3  15  f.  The  wall  from  here  was 
carried  "over  against  the  sepulchres  of  David," 
which  we  know  to  have  stood  in  the  original  "City 
of  David"  above  Gihon,  past  "the  pool  that  was 
made,"  and  "the  house  of  the  Gibbonm"  (mighty 
men) — both  unknown  sites.  It  is  clear  that  the 
wall  is  being  carried  along  the  edge  of  the  south- 
eastern hill  toward  the  temple.  We  read  of  two 
angles  in  the  wall — both  needed  by  the  geographical 
conditions — the  high  priest's  house,  of  "the  tower 
that  standeth  out"  (supposed  to  have  been  un- 
earthed by  Warren),  and  the  wall  of  the  Ophel 
(q.v.). 


1G07 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jerusalem 


There  is  also  mention  of  a  Water  Gate  in  this 

position,  which  is  just  where  one  would  expect  a 

road  to  lead  from  the  temple-area  down 

16.  Water  to  Gihon.  From  the  great  number  of 
Gate  companies  engaged  in  building,  it  may 

be  inferred  that  all  along  this  stretch 
of  wall  from  the  Tyropoeon  to  the  temple,  the  de- 
struction of  the  walls  had  been  specially  great. 

Proceeding  N.,  we  come  to  the  Horse  Gate. 
This  was  close  to  the  entry  to  the  king's  house 

(2  K   11  16;     2  Ch  23   15;     Jer  31 

17.  Horse  40).  The  expression  used,  "above" 
Gate  the  Horse  Gate,  may  imply  that  the 

gate  itself  may  have  been  uninjured; 
it  may  have  been  a  kind  of  rock-cut  passage  or 
tunnel.  It  cannot  have  been  far  from  the  present 
southeastern  angle  of  the  city.  Thence  "repaired 
the  priests,  every  one  over  against  his  own  house" 
— the  houses  of  these  people  being  to  the  E.  of  the 
temple.  Then  comes  the  Gate  of  Hammiphkad 
(q.v.),  the  ascent  (or  "upper  chamber,"  m)  of  the 

corner,   and  finally   the  Sheep  Gate 

18.  Sheep  (q.v.),  which  was  repaired  by  the 
Gate  goldsmiths  and  merchants.     This  last 

gate  was  the  point  from  which  the 
circuit  of  the  repairs  was  traced.  The  references, 
Neh  3  1.31;  12  39,  clearly  show  that  it  was  at  the 
eastern  extremity  of  the  north  wall. 

The  details  of  the  gates  and  buildings  in  the  north 
wall  as  described  by  Nehemiah,  are  difficult,  and 
certainty  is  impossible;  this  side  must  always  neces- 
sarily have  been  the  weak  side  for  defence  because 
it  was  protected  by  no,  or  at  best  by  very  little, 
natural  valley.  As  has  been  said,  we  cannot  be 
certain  whether  Nehemiah  is  describing  a  wall 
which  on  its  western  two-thirds  corresponded  with 
the  first  or  the  second  wall  of  Jos.  Taking  the  first 
theory  as  probable,  we  may  plan  it  as  follows:  W. 
of  the  Sheep  Gate  two  towers  are  mentioned  (Neh 
3  1;  12  39).  Of  these  Hananel  (q.v.)  was  more 
easterly  than  Hammeah  (q.v.),  and,  too,  it  would 
appear  from  Zee  14  10  to  have  been  the  most 
northerly  point  of  the  city.  Probably  then  two 
towers  occupied  the  important  hill  where  afterward 
stood  the  fortress  Baris  and,  later,  the  Antonia. 
At  the  Hammeah  tower  the  wall  would  descend 
into  the  Tyropoeon  to  join  the  eastern  extremity  of 
the  first  wall  where  in  the  time  of  Jos  stood  the 
Council  House  (BJ,  V,  iv,  2). 

It  is  generally  considered  that  the  Fish  Gate 

(q.v.)    (Neh  3  3;     12  39;     Zeph  1  10;     2  Ch  33 

14)    stood    across    the    Tyropoeon    in 

19.  Fish         much   the   same  way   as   the   modern 
Gate  Damascus  Gate  docs  now,  only  con- 
siderably farther  S.     It  was  probably 

so  called  because  here  the  men  of  Tyre  sold  their 
fish  (Neh  13  16).  It  is  very  probably  identical 
with  the  "Middle  Gate"  of  Jer  39  3.  With  this 
region  are  associated  the  Mishneh  (q.v.)  or  "sec- 
ond quarter"  (Zeph  1  10  m)  and  the  Maktesh 
(q.v.)  or  "mortar"   (Zeph  1   11). 

The  next  gate  westward,  after  apparently  a  con- 
siderable interval,  is   trd  in   EV  the  "Old  Gate" 
(q.v.),  but  is  more  correctly  the  "Gate 

20.  "Old  of  the  old  ....";  what  the  word  thus 
Gate"  qualified  is,   is  doubtful.      Neh  3  6m 

suggests  "old  city"  or  "old  wall," 
whereas  Mitchell  (Wall  of  Jerus  according  to  the 
Book  of  Neh)  proposes  "old  pool,"  taking  the  pool 
in  question  to  be  the  so-called  "Pool  of  Hezekiah." 
According  to  the  view  here  accepted,  that  the 
account  of  Neh  refers  only  to  the  first  wall,  the  ex- 
pression "old  wall"  would  be  peculiarly  suitable, 
as  here  must  have  been  some  part  of  that  first  wall 
which  went  back  unaltered  to  the  time  of  Solomon. 
The  western  wall  to  the  extent  of  400  cubits  had 
been  rebuilt  after  its  destruction  by  Jehoash,  king 


of  Israel  (see  IX,  12,  below),  and  Manasseh  had 
repaired  all  the  wall  from  Gihon  round  N.  and  then 
W.  to  the  Fish  Gate.  This  gate  has  also  been 
identified  with  the  Sha^ar  ha-Pinndh,  or  "Corner 
Gate,"  of  2  K  14  13;  2  Ch  25  23;  Jer  31  38; 
Zee  14  10,  and  with  the  Sha\ir  ha-Ri'shon,  or  "First 
Gate,"  of  Zee  14  10,  which  is  identified  as  the  same 
as  the  Corner  Gate;  indeed  ri'shon  ("first")  is  prob- 
ably a  textual  error  for  yashan  ("old").  If  this  is 
so,  this  "Gate  of  the  Old"  or  "Corner  Gate"  must, 
have  stood  near  the  northwestern  corner  of  the  city, 
somewhere  near  the  present  Jaffa  Gate. 

The  next  gate  mentioned  is  the  Gate  of  Ephraini 
(Neh  12  39),  which,  according  to  2  K  14  13; 
2  Ch  25  23,  was  400  cubits  or  600  ft. 
21.  Gate  of  from  the  Corner  Gate.  This  must 
Ephraim  have  been  somewhere  on  the  western 
wall;  it  is  scarcely  possible  to  believe, 
as  some  writers  woidd  suggest,  that  there  could 
have  been  no  single  gate  between  the  Corner  Gate 
near  the  northwestern  corner  and  the  Valley  (late 
on  the  southern  wall. 

The  "Broad  Wall"  appears  to  correspond  to  the 
southern  stretch  of  the  western  wall 
as  far  as  the  "Tower  of  the  Furnaces" 
or  ovens,  which  was  probably  the 
extremely  important  corner  tower 
now  incorporated  in  "Bishop  Gobat's 
School."  This  circuit  of  the  walls  satisfies  fairly 
well  all  the  conditions;  the  difficulties  are  chiefly 
on  the  N.  and  W.  It  is  a  problem  how  the  Gate 
of  Ephraim  comes  to  be  omitted  in  the  account  of 
the  repairs,  but  G.  A.  Smith  suggests  that  it  may  be 
indicated  by  the  expression,  "throne  of  the  governor 
beyond  the  river"  (Neh  3  7).  See,  however,  Mitchell 
(loc.  cit.) .  If  the  theory  be  accepted  that  the  second 
wall  already  existed,  the  Corner  Gate  and  the  Fish 
Gate  will  have  to  be  placed  farther  north. 


22.  Tower 
of  the 
Furnaces 


Probable  Course  of  Solomon's  Wall. 

In  OT  as  in  later  times,  some  of  the  gates  appear 
to  have  received  different  names  at  various  times. 

Thus  the  Sheep  Gate,  at  the  north- 
23.  The  eastern  angle,  appears  to  be  identical 

Gate  of  with  the  Gate  of  Benjamin  or  Upper 

Benjamin      Gate  of  Benjamin  (Jer  20  2;    37  13; 

38  7);  the  prophet  was  going,  appar- 
ently, the  nearest  way  to  his  home  in  Anathoth. 


Jerusalem 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1608 


in 


In  Zee  14  10  the 
where  the  prophe 
and  shall  dwell 
unto  the  place  o 
gate." 

The    I 
2  Ch  27 


breadth  (if  the  city  is  indicated, 
writes,  "She  shall  he  lifted  up, 
her  place,  from  Benjamin's  gate 
the   first  gale,  unto    the   corner 


>per  Cate  of  the  Temple  (2  K  15  35; 
i;  cf  2  Ch  23  20;  Ezk  9  2)  is  probably 
another  name  for  the  same  gate,  it 
24.  Upper  must  be  remembered  the  gates  were, 
Gate  of  the  as  excavations  have"  shown  us,  re- 
Temple  duced  to  a  minimum  in  fortified  sites: 
they  were  sources  of  weakness. 
The  general  outline  of  the  walls  and  gates  thus 
followed  is  in  the  main  that  existing  from  Nehemiah 
back  until  the  early  Judaean  monarchy,  and  possi- 
bly to  Solomon. 


centered  round  it.  The  three  sources  of  supply 
have  been  (1)  springs,  (2)  cisterns,  (3)  aqueducts. 

(1)  The  natural  springs  have  been  described  in 
II,  3;  but  connected  with  them,  and  esp.  with  the 
city's  greatest  and  most  venerated  source,  the 
CJilion,  there  are  certain  antiquarian  remains  of 
great  interest. 

(a)  The  "Virgin's  Fount,"  ancient  Gihon,  arises, 
as  has  been  described  (II,  3),  in  a  rocky  cleft  in  the 
Kidron  valley  bottom;  under  natural 
1.  Gihon:  conditions  the  water  would  run  along 
The  Natural  the  valley  bed,  now  deeply  buried 
Spring  under  debris  of  the  ancient  city,  and 

doubtless  when  the  earliest  settlers 
made  their  dwellings  in  the  caves  (which  have  been 
excavated)  on  the  sides  of  the  valley  near  the  spring, 


Semi-Diagrammatic  Plan  of  "Warren's  Shaft"  and  Other  Rock  Passages  (Modified  from  Warren,  PEF). 

ie  rocky  valley  bed  from  which  spring  arises.  3.  Ancient  wall  constructed  to  dam  up  the 
let.  :>.  Coi encement  of  the  Siloam  lllezekiah's)  aqueduct.  I'.,  7.  Other  aqueducts.  S.  Per- 
iling to  shaft.      10.   The  chasm,  now  cleared  to  the  bottom.      11.    Warren's  Arch.      1:2.   Captain 


1.  Steps  leading  to  the  Virgin's 
waters.  4  Cave  at  the  Co 
pellicular  shaft  40  feet  hi 
Parker's  Shaft. 


it  (Gihon).     2.   Fissu 

■ncement  of  the  rock  i 

'J.    Lofty  cave-like  til 


Of    the   various   destructions    and   repairs   which 
occurred  during  tin-  time  of  the  monarchy,  a  suffi- 
cient, account  is  given  in  IX  below,  on 
25.  The  the   history.     Solomon    was    probably 

Earlier  the  first  to   inclose   the   northwestern 

Walls  hill  within  the  walls,  and  to  him  usually 

is  ascribed  all  the  northern  and  western 
stretch  of  the  "First  Wall";  whether  his  wall  ran 
down  to  the  mouth  of  the  Tyropceon,  or  only 
skirted  the  summit  of  the  northwestern  hill  is  un- 
certain, but  the  latter  view  is  probable.  David 
was  protected  by  the  powerful  fortifications  of  the 
Jebusites,  which  probably  inclosed  only  the  south- 
eastern hill;  he  added  to  the  defences  the  fortress 
Millo  (q.v.).  It  is  quite  possible  that  the  original 
Jebusite  city  had  but  one  gate,  on  the  N.  (2  S  15  2), 
but  the  city  must  have  overflowed  its  narrow  limits 
during  David's  reign  and  have  needed  an  extended 
and  powerful  defence,  such  as  Solomon  made,  to 
secure  the  capital.  For  the  varied  history  and 
situation  of  the  walls  in  the  post-Bib.  period,  see 
IX  ("History"),  below. 

VII.  Antiquarian  Remains  Connected  with  the 
Water- Supply.  -In  a  cit  y  like  Jerus,  where  the  prob- 
lem of  a  water-supply  must  always  have  been  one 
of  the  greatest,  it  is  only  natural  that  some  of  the 
most   ancient   and   important   works   should   have 


they  and  their  flocks  lived  on  the  banks  of  a  stream 
of  running  water  in  a  sequestered  valley  among 
waterless  hills.  From,  however,  a  comparatively 
early  period — at  the  least  2000  BC — efforts  were 
made  to  retain  some  of  the  water,  and  a  solid  stone 
dam  was  built  which  converted  the  sources  into  a 
pool  of  considerable  depth.  Either  then,  or  some- 
what later,  excavations  were  made  in  the  cliffs  over- 
hanging the  pool,  whereby  some  at  least  of  these 
waters  were  conducted,  by  means  of  a  tunnel,  into 
the  heart  of  the  southeastern  hill,  "Ophel,"  so  that 
the  source  could  be  reached  from  within  the  city 
walls.  There  are  today  two  systems  of  tunnels 
which  are  usually  classed  as  one  under  the  name  of 
the  "Siloam  aqueduct,"  but  the  two  systems  are 
probably  many  centuries  apart  in  age.  The  older 
tunnel  begins  in  a  cave  near  the  source  and  then 
runs  westward  for  a  distance  of  67  ft.;  at  the  inner 

end  of  the  tunnel  there  is  a  perpendicu- 
2.  The  lar  shaft  which  ascends  for  over  40  ft. 

Aqueduct  and  opens  into  a  lofty  rock-cut  passage 
of  the  which  runs,  with  a  slight  lateral  curva- 

Canaanites    ture,  to  the  N.,  in  the  direction  of  the 

surface.  The  upper  end  has  been 
partially  destroyed,  and  the  roof,  which  had  fallen 
in,  was  long  ago  partially  restored  by  a  masonry 
arch.     At   this   part   of   the   passage   the   floor  is 


1609 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jerusalem 


abruptly  interrupted  across  its  whole  width  by  :t 
deep  chasm  which  Warren  partially  excavated,  but 
which  Parker  has  since  conclusively  shown  to  end 
blindly.  It  is  clear  that  this  great  gallery,  which  is 
8  to  9  ft.  wide,  and  in  places  as  high  or  higher,  was 
constructed  (a  natural  cavern  possibly  utilized  in 
the  process)  to  enable  the  inhabitants  of  the  walled- 
in  city  above  it  to  reach  the  spring.  It  is  in  fact 
a  similar  work  to  the  great  water-passage  at  Gezek 
(q.v.),  which  commenced  in  a  rock-cut  pit  26  ft. 
deep  and  descended  with  steps,  to  a  depth  of  94  ft. 
6  in.  below  the  level  of  the  rock  surface;  the  slop- 
ing passage  was  23  ft.  high  and  13  ft.  broad.  This 
passage  which  could  be  dated  with  certainty  as  before 
1500  BC,  and  almost  certainly  as  early  as  2000  BC, 
was  cut  out  with  flint  knives  and  apparently  was 
made  entirely  to  reach  a  great  underground  source  of 
water.  The  discovery  of  this  ( lexer  well-passage  has 
thrown  a  flood  of  light  upon  the  "Warren's  Shaft" 
in  Jerus,  which  would  appear  to  have 

3.  Warren's  been  made  for  an  exactly  similar  pur- 
Shaft  pose.     The    chasm    mentioned    before 

may  have  been  an  effort  to  reach  the 
source  from  a  higher  point,  or  it  may  have  been 
made,  or  later  adapted,  to  prevent  ingress  by  means 
of  the  system  of  tunnels  into  the  city.  This  passage 
is  in  all  probability  the  ''watercourse"  ("T1322 ,  ciu- 
nor)  of  2  S  5  8  up  which,  apparently,  Joab  and 
his  men  (1  Ch  11  6)  secretly  made  their  way; 
they  must  have  waded  through  the  water  at  t  lie 
source,  ascended  the  perpendicular  shaft  (a  feat 
performed  in  1910  by  some  British  officers  without 
any  assistance  from  ladders),  and  then  made  their 
way  into  the  heart  of  the  city  along  the  great  tunnel. 
Judging  by  the  similar  Gezer  water  tunnel,  this 
great  work  may  not  only  have  existed  in  David's 
time,  but  may  have  been  constructed  as  much  as 
1,000  years  before. 

The  true  Siloam  tunnel  is  a  considerably  later 

work.     It  branches  off  from  the  older  aqueduct    at 

a  point  67  ft.  from  the  entrance,  and 

4.  Heze-  after  running  an  exceedingly  winding 
kiah's  course  of  1,682  ft.,  it  empties  itself 
"Siloam"  into  the  Pool  of  Siloam  (total  length 
Aqueduct       1,749  ft.).    The  whole  canal  is  rock  cut ; 

it  is  2  to  3  ft.  wide,  and  varies  in  height, 
from  16ft.  at  the  south  end  to  4  ft .  6  in.  at  the  lowest, 
point,  near  the  middle.  The  condition  of  this  tunnel 
has  recently  been  greatly  changed  through  Captain 
Parker's  party  having  cleared  out  the  accumulated 
silt  of  centuries;  before  this,  parts  of  the  channel 
could  be  traversed  only  with  the  greatest  difficulty 
and  discomfort.  The  primitive  nature  of  this  con- 
struction is  shown  by  the  many  false  passages  made, 
and  also  by  the  extensive  curves  which  greatly  add 
to  its  length.  This  latter  may  also  be  partly  due 
to  the  workmen  following  lines  of  soft  strata"  M. 
Clermont -Ganneau  and  others  have  thought  that 
one  or  more  of  the  great  curves  may  have  been 
made  deliberately  to  avoid  the  tombs  of  the  kings 
of  Judah.  The  method  of  construction  of  the 
tunnel  is  narrated  in  the  Siloam  Inscription  (see 
Siloam).  It  was  begun  simultaneously  from  each 
end,  and  the  two  parties  met  in  the  middle.  It  is 
a  remarkable  thing  that  there  is  a  difference  of  level 
of  only  one  foot  at  each  end;  but  the  lofty  height, 
of  the  southern  end  is  probably  due  to  a  lowering  of 
the  floor  here  after  the  junction  was  effected.  It  is 
practically  certain  that  this  great  work  is  that 
referred  to  in  2  K  20  20:  "Now  the  rest  of  the 
acts  of  Hezekiah,  and  all  his  might,  and  how  he 
made  the  pool,  and  the  conduit ,  and  brought  water 
into  the  city,  are  they  not  written  in  the  book  of 
t  he  chronicles  of  the  kings  of  Judah?"  And  in  2  Ch 
32  30:  "This  same  Hezekiah  also  stopped  the  upper 
spring  of  the  waters  of  Gihon,  and  brought  them 
straight  down  on  the  west  side  of  the  city  of  David." 


In  addition  to  these  two  conduits,  which  have  a 
direct,  Scriptural   interest,  there  are  remains  of  at 

least  two  other  aqueducts  which  take 
5.  Other        their  origin   at   the   Virgin's   Fount 
Aqueducts     one  a  channel  deeply  cut  in  rock  along 
at  Gihon        the  western  sides  of  the  Kidron  valley, 

found  by  Captain  Parker,  and  the  other 
a  built  channel,  lined  with  very  good  cement,  which 
takes  its  rise  at  a  lower  level  than  any  of  the  other 


The  Watcr-Supply, 


conduits  close  to  the  before-mentioned  rocky  cleft, 
from  which  the  water  rises,  and  runs  in  a  very  wind- 
ing direction  along  the  western  side  of  the  Kidron. 
This  the  present  writer  has  described  in  PEFS, 
1902.  One  of  these,  perhaps  more  probably  the 
former,  may  be  the  conduit  which  is  referred  to  as 
Shiloah  (shiloah),  or  "conducted"  (Isa  8  6),  before 
the  construction  of  Hezekiah's  work  (see  Siloam). 

There  are  other  caves  and  rock-cut  channels 
around  the  ancient  Gihon  which  cannot  fully  be 
described  here,  but  which  abundantly  confirm  the 
sand  ity  of  the  site. 

(b)   Bir  Eyytib  has  a  depth  of  12.")  ft.;   the  water 

collects  at  the  bottom  in  a  large  rock-hewn  chamber, 

and  it   is   clear  that  it  has   been  deep- 

6.  Bir  ened  at  some  period,  because  at,  the 
Eyyub           depth   of    113  ft.  there  is  a  collecting 

chamber  which  is  now  replaced  by  the 
deeper  one.  Various  rock-cut  passages  or  stair- 
cases were  found  by  Warren  in  the  neighborhood  of 
this  well. 

(2)    The  cisterns  and  tanks. — Every  ancient,   site 

in  the  hill  country  of  Pal  is  riddled  with  cisterns 

for    the    storage    of    rain    water.     In 

7.  Varieties  Jerus  for  very  many  centuries  the 
of  Cisterns    private  resident  has  depended  largely 

upon  the  water  collected  from  the  roof 
of  his  house  for  all  domestic  purposes.  Such  cisterns 
lie  either  under  or  alongside  the  dwelling.  Many 
of  t  he  earliest  of  t  hese  excavaf  ions  are  bol  t  le-shaped, 
with  a  comparatively  narrow  mouth  cut  through 
the  hard  Mizze/i  and  a  large  rounded  excavation 
made  in  the  underlying  Melekeh  (see  II,  1  above). 
Other  ancient  cisterns  are  cavities  hewn  in  the  rock, 
of  irregular  shape,  with  a  roof  of  harder  rock  and 
often  several  openings.  The  later  forms  are  vaulted 
over,  and  are  either  cut,  in  the  rock  or  sometimes 
partially  built  in  the  superlying  rubbish. 


Jerusalem 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1010 


8.  Birket 
Israel 


refuse. 

are    partially    rocl 


For  more  public  purposes  largo  cisterns  were  made 
in  the  Haram,  or  temple-area.  Some  3  dozen  are 
known  and  planned;  the  largest  is  calculated  to 
contain  3,01)0,000  gallons.  Such  structures  were 
made  largely  for  the  religious  ritual,  but,  as  we  shall 
see  they  have  been  supplied  by  other  sources  than 
the  rainfall.  In  many  parts  of  the  city  open  tanks 
have  been  constructed,  such  a  tank  being  known  m 
Arab,  as  a  birkeh,  or,  followed  by  a  vowel,  birket. 
With  most  of  these  there  is  considerable  doubt  as 
to  their  date  of  construction,  but  probably  none  of 
them,  in  their  present  form  at  any  rate,  antedates 
the  Horn  period.  .     . 

Within  the  citv  walls  the  largest  reservoir  is  the 
Birket  Israel  which  extends  from  the  northeastern 
angle  of  the  llaram  westward  for  300 
ft.  It  is  12o  ft.  wide  and  was  origi- 
nally 80  ft.  dee]),  but  has  in  recent  years 
been  largely  filled  up  by  the  city's 
■  eastern  and  western  ends  of  this  pool 
-cut  and  partly  masonry,  the 
lasonrv  ol  the  former  being  a  great  dam  45  ft. 
thick,  the  lower  part  of  which  is  continuous  with 
the  ancient  eastern  wall  of  the  temple-area.  The 
sides  of  the  pool  are  entirely  masonry  because  this 
reservoir  is  built  across  the  width  of  the  valley 
referred  to  before  (III,  2)  as  "St.  Anne's  Valley." 
Other  parts  of  this  valley  are  filled  with  debris  to 
the  depth  of  100  ft.  The  original  bottom  of  the 
reservoir  is  covered  with  a  layer  of  about  19  in.  of 
very  hard  concrete  and  cement.  There  was  a  great 
conduit  at  the  eastern  end  of  the  pool  built  of  mas- 
sive stones,  and  connected  with  the  pool  by  a  per- 
forated stone  with  throe  round  holes  5^  in.  in  diame- 
ter. The  position  of  this  outlet  shows  that  all  water 
over  a  depth  of  22  ft.  must  have  flowed  away. 
Some  authorities  consider  this  pool  to  have  been 
preexilie.  By  early  Christian  pilgrims  it  was  identi- 
fied as  the  "Sheep' Pool"  of  Jn  5  2,  and  at,  a  later 
period, 'until  quite  recent  times,  it  was  supposed 
to   have  been   the    Pool  of    Pet  lies.  la. 

9.  Pool  of      The  discovery,  a  few  years  ago,  of  the 
Bethesda        long-lost    Piscina  in  the  neighborhood 

of  the  "Church  of  St.  Anne,"  which 
was  without  doubt  the  Pool  of  Bethesda  of  the  5th 
cent.  AD,  has  caused  this  identification  to  be 
abandoned.     See  Bethesda. 

To  the  W.  of  the  Birket  Israel  are  the  "twin pools  ' 
which  extend  under  the  roadway  in  the  neighbor- 
hood of  the  "Ecce  Homo"  arch.     The 

10.  The  western  one  is  105  ft .  by  20  ft.  and  t  he 
Twin  Pools   eastern  127  ft .  by  20  f t .     M.  Clermont- 

Ganneau  considers  them  to  be  iden- 
tical with  the  Fool  Struthius  of  Jos  (BJ,  V,  xi,  4), 
but  others,  considering  that  they  are  actually  made 
in  the  fosse  of  the  Antonia,  give  them  a  later  date 
of  origin.  In  connection  with  these  pools  a  great 
aqueduct  was  discovered  in  1871,  2}-3  ft.  wide  and 
in  places  12  ft.  high,  running  from  the  neighborhood 
of  the  Damascus  Gate— but  destroyed  farther  north 
— and  from  the  pools  another  aqueduct  runs  in  the 
direction  of  the  Haram. 

On  the  northwestern  hill,  between  the  Jaffa  Gate 
and  the  Church  of  the  Sepulchre  there  is  a  large 

open  reservoir,  known  to  the  modern 

11.  Birket  inhabitants  of  the  city  as  Birket  Ha m- 
Hammam  mam  el  Batrak,  "the  Pool  of  the  Pa- 
el  Batrak       triarch's    Bath."     It   is   240   ft.    long 

(N.  to  S.),  144  ft.  broad  and  10  21 
ft.  deep.  The  cement  lining  of  the  bottom  is 
cracked  and  practically  useless.  The  ("astern  wall 
of  this  pool  is  particularly  massive,  and  forms  the 
base  of  the  remarkably  level  street  Haret  en  Nasara, 
or  "Christian  Street";  it  is  a  not  improbable  theory 
that  this  is  actually  a  fragment  of  the  long-sought 
"second"  wall.  If  so,  the  pool,  which  is  proved  to 
have  once  extended  60  ft.  farther  north,  may  have 


boon  constructed  originally  as  part  of  the  fosse. 
On  the  other  hand,  this  pool  appears  to  have  been 
the  Amygdalon  Pool,  or  "Pool  of  the  Tower" 
("i^l.^n  r2~Q,  b'rekhath,  ha-mighdalin) ,  men- 
tioned by  Jos  (BJ,  V,  xi,  4),  which  was  the  scene 
of  the  activities  of  the  10th  legion,  and  this  seems 
inconsistent  with  the  previous  theory,  as  the  events 
described  seem  to  imply  that,  the  second  wall  ran 
outside  t  lie  pool.  The  popular  travelers'  name,  "Pool 
of  llezekiah,"  given  to  this  reservoir  is  due  to  the 
theory,  now  quite  discredited,  that  this  is  the  pool 
referred  to  in  1  K  20  20,  "He  made  the  pool,  and 
the  conduit,  and  brought  water  into  the  city."' 
Other  earlier  topographists  have  identified  it  as  the 
"upper  pool"  of  Isa  7  3;  36  2. 

The   Birket  Hammdm  el  Batrak  is  supplied  with 
water  from  the' Birket  Mamilla,  about  \  mile  to  the 
W.     This  large  pool,   203  ft.  long  by 
12.  Birket      103    ft.  broad    and    19§   ft.    deep,  lies 
Mamilla         in  the  midst  of  a  large  Moslem  ceme- 
tery at  the  head  of  the  Wady  Mes,  the 
first  beginning  of  the  Wady  er  Rababi   (Hinnoni). 
The  aqueduct  which  connects  the  two  pools  springs 
from  the  eastern  end  of  the   Birket  Mamilla,  runs 
a  somewhat  winding  course  and  enters  the  city  near 
the  Jaffa  Gate.     The  aqueduct  is  in  bad  repair,  and 
the  water  it  carries,  chiefly  during  heavy  rain,  is 
filthy.      In  the   Middle  Ages  it   was  supposed  that 
this' was  the  "Upper  Pool  of  Gihon"   (see  Gihon), 
but  this  and  likewise  the  "highway  of  the  Fuller's 
Field"   (q.v.)  are  now  located  elsewhere.     Wilson 
and  others  have  suggested  that  it  is  the  "Serpent's 
Pool"  of  Jos  (BJ,  V,  iii,  2).     Titus  leveled  "all  the 
places  from  Scopus  to   Herod's  monument   which 
adjoins  the  pool  called  that  of  the  Serpent."     Like 
many  such  identifications,  there  is  not  very  much 
to  be  said  for  or  against  it;    it  is  probable  that  the 
pool  existed  at  the  time  of  the  siege.      It  is  likely 
that  this  is  the  Beth  Memel  of  the  Talm  (Talm  Bab, 
lErubhln  blh;  Sanhedhrin21a;  Bere'shith  Rabbet'  51). 
The    Birket  es  Saltan  is  a  large;  pool— or,  more 
strictly   speaking,  inclosure — 555  ft.  N.  and  S.  by 
220  ft.  E.  and  W.     It  is  bounded  on 
13.  Birket     the  \V.  and  N.  by  a  great  curve  of  the 
es  Sultan      low-level  aqueduct   as  it  passes  along 
and  then  across  the  Wady  er  Rababi. 
The  southern  side  consists  of  a  massive  dam  across 
the  valley  over  which  the  Bethlehem  carriage  road 
runs.     The  name    may  signify  either    the    "great" 
pool  or  be  connected  with  the  fact  that  it  was  re- 
constructed in  the  16th  cent,  by  the  sultan  Suleiman 
ibn  Selim,  as  is  recorded  on  an  inscription  upon  a 
wayside   fountain   upon   the   southern   wall.     This 
pool    is   registered    in   the   cartulary   of    the   Holy 
Sepulchre  as  the  Lacus  German i,  after  the  name  of 
a  knight  of  Germanus,  who  built  or  renovated  the 
pool  in  1170  AD.     Probably  a  great  part  of  the  pool 
is  a  catchment  area,  and  the  true  reservoir  is  the 
rock-cut    birkeh   at   the   southern   end,   which  has 
recently  been  cleaned  out.     It  is  extremely  difficult 
to  believe  that  under  any  conditions  any  large  pro- 
port  ion  of  the  whole  area  could  ever  have  even  been 
filled.     Today  the  reservoir  at  the  lower  end  holds, 
after  the  rainy  season,  some  10  or  12  ft.  of  very  dirty 
water,  chiefly  the  street  drainage  of  the  Jaffa  road, 
while  the  upper  two-thirds  of  the  inclosure  is  used 
as  a  cattle  market  on  Fridays.     The  water  is  now 
used  for  sprinkling  the  dusty  roads  in  dry  seasons. 
The  Pool  of  Siloam  and  the  now  dry  Birket  el 
Hamra  are  described  under  Siloam  (q.v.). 

There  are  other  tanks  of  considerable  size  in  and 
around  the  city,  e.g.  the  Birket  Silti  Miriam,  near 
"St.  Stephen's  Gate,"  an  uncemented  pool  in  the 
Wady  Joz,  connected  with  which  there  is  a  rock- 
out  aqueduct  and  others,  but  they  are  not  of  suffi- 
cient historical  importance  to  merit  description  here. 


1611 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jerusalem 


14.  "Solo 

mon's 

Pools" 


15.  Low- 
Level 
Aqueduct 


(3)  The  conduits  bringing  water  to  the  city  from  a 
distance  are  called  the  "high-level"  and  "low- 
level"  aqueducts  respectively,  because 
they  reached  the  city  at  different  levels 
— the  former  probably  somewhere 
near  the  present  Jaffa  Gate,  the  latter 
at  the  temple-platform. 
The  low-level  aqueduct  which,  though  out  of 
repair,  can  still  be  followed  along  its  whole  course, 
conveyed  water  from  three  great  pools 
in  the  Wddy  K Arias,  7  miles  S.  of 
Jerus.  They  are  usually  called  "Solo- 
mon's pools,"  in  reference  perhaps 
partly  to  Eccl  2  6:  "I  made  me  pools 
of  water,  to  water  therefrom  the  forest,  where  trees 
were  reared,"  but  as  any  mighty  work  in  Pal  is  apt 
to  be  referred  to  the  wise  king  of  Israel,  much  stress 
cannot  be  laid  on  the  name.  These  three  storage 
reservoirs  are  constructed  across  the  breadth  of  the 
valley,  the  lowest  and  largest  being  582  ft .  long  by 
177  ft.  broad  and,  at  the  lowest  end,  ,50  ft.  deep. 
Although  the  overflow  waters  of  Win  es  Sdleh, 
commonly  known  as  the  "sealed  fountain"  (cf  Cant 
4  12),  reach  the  pools,  the  chief  function  was 
probably  to  collect  the  flood  waters  from  the  winter 
rains,  and  the  water  was  passed  from  tank  to  lank 
after   purification.     There   are   in    all   four   springs 


JERUSALEM    k 

■ket  MamillJ 

B,'r  /;>  tub 


mdy  el   Itftrd 


WAVY  EL  Bllil'K 


HERODlUft 


Of     THE 

ENVIRONS  OF  JERUSALEM 


AQUEDUCTS 


'■Ayuedua 
7/,c  '■High  l</itI"AVu,due 
7V.<-  Wudy  liiar" Klnm» 
4qucditcl  to  the  llerodium 
Modern  In  n  Pipe  r,  „d„,l 


(Mod ijitd from  Stiiick) 


in  this  valley  which  supply  the  aqueduct  which  still 
conveys  water  to  Bethlehem,  where  it  passes  through 
the  hill  by  means  of  a  tunnel  and  then,  after  running, 
winding  along  the  sides  of  the  hill,  it  enters  another 
tunnel  now  converted  into  a  storage  tank  for  Jerus; 
from  this  it  runs  along  the  mountain  sides  and  along 


the  southern  slopes  of  the  site  of  Jerus  to  the  Haram. 
The  total  length  of  this  aqueduct  is  nearly  12  miles, 
but  at  a  later  date  the  supply  was  increased  by  the 
construction  of  a  long  extension  of  the  conduit  for 
a  further  28  miles  to  Wddy  KArrtib  on  the  road  to 
Hebron,  another  5  miles  directly  S.  of  the  pools. 
Here,  too,  there  is  a  reservoir,  the  Birket  el  W\rrub, 
for  the  collection  of  the  flood-water,  and  also  several 
small  springs,  which  are  conducted  in  a  number  of 
underground  rock-cut  channels  to  the  aqueduct. 
The  total  length  of  the  low-level  aqueduct  is  about 
40  miles,  and  the  fall  in  level  from  Birket  el  Arr-Qh 
(2,645  ft.  above  sea-level)  at  its  far  end  to  el  Kds, 
the  termination  in  the  Haram  Jerus  (2,410  ft.  above 
sea-level),  is  235  ft. 

The  high-level  aqueduct  commences  in  a  remark- 
able chain  of  wells  connected  with  a  tunnel,  about 
4  miles  long,  in  the  Wddy  Bldr,  "the 

16.  High-  Valley  of  Wells."  Upward  of  50 
Level  wells  along  the  valley  bottom  sup- 
Aqueduct       plied    each    its    quotient;     the   water 

thence  passed  through  a  pool  where  the 
solid  matter  settled,  and  traversed  a  tunnel  1,700 
ft.  long  into  the  'Art as  valley.  Here,  where  its 
level  was  150  ft.  above  that  of  the  low-level  aque- 
duct, the  conduit  received  the  waters  of  the  "sealed 
fountain,"  and  finally  "delivered  them  in  Jerus  at  a 
level  of  about  20  ft.  above  that  of  the  Jaffa  Gate" 
(Wilson).  The  most  remarkable  feature  of  this 
conduit  is  the  inverted  syphon  of  perforated  lime- 
stone blocks,  forming  a  stone  tube  15  in.  in  diameter, 
which  carried  the  water  across  the  valley  near 
Rachel's  Tomb.  On  a  number  of  these  blocks, 
Lat  inscriptions  with  the  names  of  centurions  of  the 

time  of  Severus   (105  AD)  have  been 

17.  Dates  found,  and  this  has  led  many  to  fix 
of  Con-  a  date  to  this  great  work.  So  good 
struction  of  an  authority  as  Wilson,  however,  con- 
These  siders  that  these  inscriptions  may  refer 
Aqueducts     to  repairs,  and  that  the  work  is  more 

probably  Herodian.  Unless  the  ac- 
counts of  Jos  (BJ,  V,  iv,  4;  II,  xvii,  9)  are  exag- 
gerated, Herod  must  have  had  some  means  of 
bringing  abundant  running  water  into  the  city  at 
the  level  obtained  by  this  conduit.  The  late  Dr. 
Schick  even  suggested  a  date  as  early  as  Hyrcanus 
(135-125  BC).  With  regard  to  the  low-level  aque- 
duct, we  have  two  definite  data.  First  Jos  {Ant, 
XVIII,  iii,  2)  states  that  Pontius  Pilate  "undertook 
to  bring  a  current  of  water  to  Jerus,  and  did  it  with 
the  sacred  money,  and  derived  the  origin  of  the 
stream  from  the  distance  of  200  furlongs,"  over  22 
miles;  in  BJ,  II,  ix,  4  he  is  said  to  have  brought  the 
water  "from  400  furlongs" — probably  a  copyist's 
error.  But  these  references  must  either  be  to 
restorations  or  to  the  extension  from  Wddy  Wrrub 
to  Wddy  Wrtas  (28 miles),  for  the  low-level  aqueduct 
from  the  pools  to  Jerus  is  certainly  the  same  con- 
struction as  the  aqueduct  from  these  pools  to  the 
"Frank  Mountain,"  the  llerodium,  and  that, 
according  to  the  definite  statements  of  Jos  (Ant, 
XV,  ix,  4;  BJ,  I,  xxi,  10),  was  made  by  Herod  the 
Great.  On  the  whole  the  usual  view  is  that  the 
high-level  aqueduct  was  the  work  of  Severus,  the 
low-level  that  of  Herod,  with  an  extension  south- 
ward by  Pontius  Pilate. 

Jerus  still  benefits  somewhat  from  the  low-level 
aqueduct  which  is  in  repair  as  far  as  Bethlehem, 
though  all  that  reaches  the  city  comes  only  through 
a  solitary  4-in.  pipe.  The  high-level  aqueduct  is 
hopelessly  destroyed  and  can  be  traced  only  in 
places;  the  wells  of  Wddy  Biur  are  choked  and  use- 
less, and  the  long  winding  aqueduct  to  Wddy  W,rrtlb 
is  (mite  broken. 

VIII.  Tombs,  Antiquarian  Remains,  and  Ec- 
clesiastical Sites. — Needless  to  say  all  the  known 
ancient  tombs  in  the  Jerus  area  have;  been  rifled  of 


Jerusalem 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1612 


their  contents  long  ago.     The  so-called  Tombs  of 
the  Kings  in  the  Wady  it  Jdz  are  actually  the  monu- 
ment of  Queen    Helena   of   Adiabene, 
1.  The  a  convert  to  Judaism  (c  48  AD).     Jos 

"Tombs  of     (Ant,  XX,  iv,  3)  states  that  her  bones, 
the  Kings"    with  those  of  members  of  her  family, 
were  buried  "at   the  pyramids,"  which 
number  and   distant    from  Jems  3  fur- 


a    sarcophagus 

nrobp  ms, 

'     possibly     tin- 


were  3   i 

longs.       A    Heb    inscription    upon 
found    here    by     De    Saulcy    ran: 
(cardh    maltclhah),    "Queen    Sarah,"    ] 
Jewish  name  of  Queen  Helena. 

On   the   western    side   of    the    Wady 

el  Mrs  (the  higher  part  of  Hinnom), 

is    a    very   interesting    Gr 

2.  "Herod's  tomb  containing  beauti- 
Tomb"  fully    carved    sarcophagi. 

These  are  commonly 
known  as  "Herod's  Tombs''  (although 
Herod  the  Great  was  buried  on  the 
llerodium),  and,  according  to  Schick, 
one  of  the  sarcophagi  may  have  be- 
longed to  Mariamne,  Herod's  wife.  A 
more  probable  theory  is  that  this  is 
the  tomb  of  the  high  priest  Ananias 
(111,  V,  xii,  2). 

On  the  eastern  side  of  the  Kidron, 
near    the    southeastern   angle   of    the 

1  J  twain,  are  3  conspicuous 

3.  "Absa-  tombs.  The  most  north- 
ern's erly,  TantxLr  Fer*5n,  gener- 
Tomb"           ally     called      "Absalom's 

Tomb,"  is  a  Gr-Jewish 
tomb  of  the  Hasmonean  period,  and, 
according  to  Conder,  possibly  the  tomb 
of  Alexander  Jannaeus  (HDB,  art. 
"Jerusalem").  S.  of  this  is  the  tra- 
ditional "Grotto  of  St.  James,"  which 
we  know  by  a  square  Heb  inscription 
over  the  pillars  to  be  the  family  tomb 
of  certain  members  of  the  priestly 
family  (1  Ch  24  15),  of  the  Beni  Hazlr.  \^n^ 
It  may  belong  to  the  century  before 
Christ'. 

The  adjoining  traditional  tomb  of 
Zachariah  is  a  monolithic  monument 
cut  out  of  the  living  rock,  lb  ft.  sq. 
and  30  ft.  high.  It  has  square  pilasters 
at  the  corners,  Ionic  pillars  between, 
and  a  pyramidal  top.  Its  origin  is 
unknown;  its  traditional  name  is  due 
to  Our  Lord's  word  in  Mt  23  35;  Lk 
11  51   (see  Zachariah). 

A  little  farther  down  the  valley  of 
the  Kidron,  at   the  commencement  of 

the  village'  of  Siloam,  is 
4.  The  another   rock-cut    tomb,   the  so-called 

"Egyptian      Egyp    Tomb,    or    according   to    some, 
Tomb"  "the  tomb  of    Solomon's  Egyp  wife-." 

It  is  a  monolith  IS  ft.  sq.  and  11  ft. 
high,  and  the  interior  has  at  one  time  been  used  as 
a  chapel.  It  is  now  Russian  property.  It  probably 
belongs  to  much  the  same  period  as  the  three  before- 
ment  ioned  tombs,  and,  like  t  hem,  shows  strong  Egyp 
influence. 

The  so-called  "Tombs  of  the  Judges"  belong  to 
the  Rom  period,  as  do  the  scores  of  similar  excava- 
tions in  the  same  valley.  The  "Tombs  of  the 
Prophets"  on  the  western  slopes  of  the  Mount  of 
(  Hives  are  now  considered  to  belong  to  the  4th or  5th 
Christian  century. 

Near  the  knoll  over  Jeremiah's  Grotto,  to  the 
W.  and  N.W.,  are  a  great,  number  of  tombs, 
mostly  Christian.  The  more  northerly  members 
of  the  group  are  now  included  in  the  property 
of  the  Dominicans  attached  to  the  Church  of  St. 
Stephen,  but  one,  the-  southernmost,  has  attracted 


a  great  deal  of  attention  because  it  was  sup- 
posed by  the  late  General  Gordon  to  be  the  tomb 
of  Christ.  In  its  condition  when 
found  it  was  without  doubt,  like  its 
neighbors,  a  Christian  tomb  of  about 
the  5th  cent.,  and  it  was  full  of 
skeletons.  Whether  it  may  originally 
i  Jewish  tomb  is  unproved;  it  cer- 
tainly could  not  have  been  recognized  as  a  site 
of  any  sanctity  until  General  Gordon  promulgated 
his  theory  (see  PEFS,  1892,  120-24;  see  also  Gol- 
gotha). 


5.  The 

"Garden 

Tomb" 

have   been 


'axvtusstfvti 
Plan  Showing  Results  of  Warren's  Excavations  at  "  Robinson's  Arch." 


The  Jews  greatly  venerate  a  tomb  on  the  eastern 

side  of  the  Wady  el  Jdz,   not  far  S.   of   the  great 

North  Road;   they   consider  it   to   be 

6.  Tomb  of  the  tomb  of  Simon  the  Just,  but  it  is 
"Simon the  in  all  probability  not  a  Jewish  tomb 
Just"  at  all. 

Only  passing   mention  can  here  be 

made  of  certain  remains  of  interest  connected  with 

the  exterior  walls  of  the  Haram.      The  foundation 

walls  of  the  temple-platform  are  built, 

7.  Other  specially  upon  the  E.,  S.  and  W.,  of 
Antiquities     magnificent  blocks  of  smooth,  drafted 

masonry  with  an  average  height  of  3  J  ft . 
One  line,  known  as  the  "master  course,"  runs  for 
GOO  ft.  westward  from  the  southeastern  angle,  with 
blocks  7  ft.  high.  Near  the  southeastern  angle  at  t  he 
foundation  itself,  certain  of  the  blocks  were  found 
by  the  Palestine  Exploration  Fund  engineers  to 
be  marked  with  Phoen  characters,  which  it  was 
supposed  by  many  at  the  time  of  their  discovery 
indicated  their  Solomonic  origin.     It   is  now  gen- 


1013 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jerusalem 


(Tally  held  that  these  ''unisons'  marks"  may  just 
as  well  have  been  used  in  the  time  of  Herod  the 
Great,  and  on  other  grounds  it  is  held  that  all  this 
magnificent  masonry  is  due  to  the  vast  reconstruc- 
tion of  the  Temple  which  this  great  monarch 
initiated  (see  Temple).  In  the  western  wall  of  the 
Haram,  between  the  southwestern  corner  and  the 
"Jewish  wailing  place,"  lies  "Robinson's  Arch." 
It  is  the  spring  of  an  arch  50  ft.  wide,  projecting 
from  the  temple-wall;  the  bridge  arising  from  it 
had  a  span  of  50  ft.,  and  the  pier  on  the  farther 
side  was  discovered  by  Warren.  Under  the  bridge 
ran  a  contemporary  paved  Rom  street,  and  beneath 
the  unbroken  pavement  was  found,  lying  inside  a 
rock  aqueduct,  a  voussoir  of  an  older  bridge.  This 
bridge  connect  ed  t  he  t  emple-inclosure  with  the  upper 
city  in  the  days  of  the  Hasmonean  kings.  It  was 
broken  down  in  G3  BC  by  t  he  Jews  in  ant  icipat  ion  of 
the  attack  of  Pompey  {Ant,  XIV,  iv,  2;  B.J.  I,  vii, 
2),  but  was  rebuilt  by  Herod  in  1!)  BC  {BJ,  VI, 
viii,  1 ;  vi,  2),  and  finally  destroyed  in  70  AD. 

Nearly  (500  ft.  farther  N.,  along  this  western 
temple-wall  is  Wilson's  Arch,  which  lies  under  the 
surface  within  the  causeway  which  crosses  the 
Tyropceon  to  the  Bdb  es  Silseleh  of  the  Haram; 
although  not  itself  very  ancient  there  are  here, 
deeper  down,  arches  belonging  to  the  Herodian 
causeway  which  here  approached  the  temple- 
platform. 

With  regard  to  the  common  ecclesiastical  sites 
visited  by  pious  pilgrims  little  need  be  said  here. 
The  congeries  of  churches  that  is  in- 
8.  Eccle-  eluded  under  that  name  of  Church 
siastical  of  the  Holy  Sepulchre  includes  a  great 

Sites  many  minor  sites  of  the  scenes  of  the 

Passion  which  have  no  serious  claims. 
Besides  the  Holy  Sepulchre  itself — which,  apart 
from  its  situation,  cannot  be  proved  or  disproved, 
as  it  has  actually  been  destroyed — the  only  impor- 
tant site  is  that  of  "Mount" Calvary."  All  that 
can  be  said  is  that  if  the  Sepulchre  is  genuine,  then 
the  site  may  be  also;    it  is  today  the  hollo  wed-out 


Robinson's  Arch. 


shell  of  a  rocky  knoll  incased  in  marble  and  other 
stones  and  riddled  with  chapels.     See  Golgotha. 

The  coenaeulum,  close  to  the  Moslem  "Tomb  of 
David"  (a  site  which  has  no  serious  claims),  has 
been  upheld  by  Professor  Sanday  {Sacred  Sites  of 
the  Gospels)  as  one  which  has  a  very  strong  tradition 


in  its  favor.  The  most  important,  evidence  is  that 
of  Epiphanias,  who  states  that  when  Hadrian  visited 
Jerus  in  130,  one  of  the  few  buildings  left  standing 
was  "the  little  Church  of  God,  on  the  site  where 
the  disciples,  returning  after  the  Ascension  of  the 
Saviour  from  Olivet,  had  gone  up  to  the  I'pper 
room,  for  there  it  had  been  built,  that  is  to  say  in 
the  quarter  of  Zion."  In  connection  with  this  spot 
there  has  been  pointed  out  from  early  Christian 
times  the  site  of  the  House  of  Caiaphas  and  the 
site  of  the  death  of  the  Virgin  Mary — the  Dormilio 
Sanctae  Virginis.  It  is  in  consequence  of  this  latter 
tradition  that  the  German  Roman  Catholics  have 
now  erected  here  their  magnificent  new  church  of 
the  Dormition.  A  rival  line  of  traditions  locates 
the  tomb  of  the  Virgin  in  the  Kidron  valley  near 
Gethsemane,  where  there  is  a  remarkable  under- 
ground chapel  belonging  to  the  Greeks. 

IX.  History. — Pre-Israelite  period. — The  begin- 
nings of  Jerus  are  long  before  recorded  history: 
at  various  points  in  the  neighborhood,  e.g.  at  el 
BukeiKa  to  the  S.W.,  and  at  the  northern  extremity 
of  the  Mount  of  Olives  to  the  N.E.,  were  very  large 
settlements  of  Paleolithic  man,  long  before  the 
dawn  of  history,  as  is  proved  by  the  enormous 
quantit  ies  of  celts  scattered  over  the  surface.  It  is 
certain  that,  the  city's  site  itself  was  occupied  many 
centuries  before  David,  and  it  is  a  traditional  view 
that  the  city  called  Salem  (q.v.)  (Gen  14  18), 
over  which  Melchizedek  was  king,  was  identical 
with  Jerus. 

The  first  certain  reference  to  this  city  is  about 

1450   BC,   when   the   name   Ur-u-salem   occurs   in 

several    letters    belonging   to    1  ho   Am 

1.  Tell  el-  Tab  correspondence.  In  7  of  these 
Amarna  letters  occurs  the  name  Abd  Kit i ha, 
Corre-  and  it  is  clear  that  this  man  was 
spondence      "king,"  or  governor  of  the  city,  as  the 

representative  of  Pharaoh  of  Egypt. 
In  this  correspondence  Abd  Khiba  represents  him- 
self as  hard  pressed  to  uphold  the  rights  of  his 
suzerain  against  the  hostile  forces  which  threaten 
to  overwhelm  him.  Incidentally  we  may  gather 
that  the  place  was  then  a  fortified  city,  guarded 
partly  by  mercenary  Egyp  troops,  and  there  are 
reasons  for  thinking  that  the  then  ruler  of  Egypt, 
Amenhotep  IV,  had  made  it  a  sanctuary  of  his  god 
At  en — the  sun-disc.  Some  territory,  possibly  ex- 
tending as  far  west  as  Ajalon,  seems  to  have  been 
under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  governor.  Professor 
Sayce  has  stated  that  Abd  Khiba  was  probably  a 
Hittite  chief,  but  this  is  doubtful.  The  corre- 
spondence closes  abruptly,  leaving  us  in  uncer- 
tainty with  regard  to  the  fate  of  the  writer,  but  we 
know  that  the  domination  of  Egypt  over  Pal 
suffered  an  eclipse  about  this  time. 

At   the    time   of   Joshua's  invasion   of  Canaan, 

Ado.m-zedek    (q.v.)    is   mentioned    (Josh  10  1-27) 

as  king  of  Jerus;    he  united  with  the 

2.  Joshua's  kings  of  Hebron,  Jarmuth,  Lachish 
Conquest       and  Eglon  to  fight  against  the  Gibe  m- 

ites  who  had  made  peace  with  Joshua; 
the  5  kings  were  defeated  and,  being  captured  in 
hiding  at  the  cave  Makkedah,  were  all  slain.  An- 
other king,  Adoni-bezek  (q.v.)  (whom  some  identify 
with  Adoni-zedek),  was  defeated  by  Judah  after 
the  death  of  Joshua,  and  after  being  mutilated  was 
brought  to  Jerus  and  died  there  (Jgs  1  1-7),  after 
which  it  is  recorded  (ver  8)  that  Judah  "fought 
against  Jerus,  and  took  it  ...  .  and  set  the  city 
on  fire."  But  it  is  clear  that  the  city  remained  in  the 
hands  of  the  "Jebusites"  for  some  years  more  (Jgs 
1  21;  19  11),  although  it  was  theoretically  reck- 
oned on  the  southern  border  of  Benjamin  (Josh  15 
8;  18  16.28).  David,  after  he  had  reigned  7i  years 
at  Hebron,  determined  to  make  the  place  his  capital 
and,  about  1000  BC,  captured  the  city. 


Jerusalem 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1614 


I'j)  to  this  event  it  is  probable  that  Jerus  was 
like  other  contemporary  fortified  sites,  a  compara- 

t  ively  small  place  encircled  wit  h  power- 
3.  Site  of  ful  walls,  with  but  one  or  perhaps  two 
the  Jebu-  gates;  it  is  very  generally  admitted 
site  City        that  this  city  occupied  the  ridge  to  the 

S.  of  the  temple  long  incorrectly  called 
"Ophel,"  ami  that  its  walls  stood  upon  steep  rocky 
scaips  above  the  Kidron  valley  on  the  one  side,  and 
the  Tyropoeon  mi  the  other.  We  have  every 
reason  to  believe  that  the  great  system  of  tunnels, 
known  as  "Warren's  Shaft"  (see  VII,  3,  above) 
existed  all  through  this  period. 


Jerusalem  of  the  Jebusites,  as  Captured  by  David. 

The  account  of  the  capture  of  Jerus  by  David 
is  obscure,  but  it  seems  a  probable  explanation 
of  a  difficult  passage  (2  S  5  6-9)  if 
4.  David  we  conclude  that  the  Jebusites,  relying 
upon  the  extraordinary  strength  of 
their  position,  challenged  David:  "Thou  shalt  not 
come  in  hither,  but  the  blind  and  the  lame  shall 
turn  thee  away"  (ver  6  in),  and  that  David  directed 
his  followers  to  go  up  the  "watercourse"  and  smite 
the  "lame  and  the  blind" — a  term  he  in  his  turn 
applies  mockingly  to  the  Jebusites.  "And  Joab 
the;  son  of  Zeruiah  went  up  first,  and  was  made 
chief"  (1  Ch  11  (5).  It  seems  at  least  probable 
that  David's  men  captured  the  city  through  a  sur- 
prise attack  up  the  great  tunnels  (see VII,  3,  above). 
David  having  captured  the  stronghold  "Zion," 
renamed  it  the  "City  of  David"  and  took  up  his 
residence  there;  he  added  to  the  strength  of  the 
fortifications  "round  about  from  the  Millo  [([.v.] 
and  onward";  with  the  assistance  of  Phoen  work- 
men supplied  by  Hiram,  king  of  Tyre,  he  built  him- 
self "a  house  of  cedar"  (2  S  5  11;  cf  7  2).  The  ark 
of  Jeh  was  brought  from  the  house  of  Obed-edom 
and  lodged  in  a  tent  (2  S  6  17)  in  the  "city  of 
David"  (cf  1  K  8  1).  The  threshing-floor  of 
Araunah  (2  S  24  18),  or  Oman  (1  Ch  21  15),  the 
Jebusite,  was  later  purchased  as  the  future  site  of 
the  temple. 

The  Jerus  which  David  captured  was  small  and 
compact,  but  there  are  indications  that  during  his 
reign  it  must  have  increased  considerably  by  the 
growth  of  suburbs  outside  the  Jebusite  walls.  The 
population  must  have  been  increased  from  several 


sources.     The  influx  of  David's  followers  doubtless 

caused  many  of  the  older  inhabitants  to  be  crowded 

out    of    the   walled    area.     There    ap- 

5.  Expan-  pear  to  have  been  a  large  garrison 
sion  of  (2  S  15  18;  20  7),  many  officials  and 
the  City         priests  and   their   families  (2  S  8  1(>- 

18;  20  23-20;  23  8  if),  and  the  various 
members  of  David's  own  family  and  their  relatives 
(2  S  5  13-16;  14  24.28;  1  K  1  5.53,  etc).  It  is 
impossible  to  suppose  that  all  these  were  crowded 
into  so  narrow  an  area,  while  the  incidental  mention 
that  Absalom  lived  two  whole  years  in  Jerus  without 
seeing  the  king's  face  implies  suburbs  (2  S  14  24. 
28).  The  new  dwellings  could  probably  extend 
northward  toward  the  site  of  the  future  temple  and 
northwestward  into  and  up  the  Tyropoeon  valley 
along  the  great  north  road.  It  is  improbable  that 
they  could  have  occupied  much  of  the  western  hill. 
With  the  accession  of  Solomon,  the  increased 
magnificence  of  the  court,   the  foreign  wives  and 

their  establishments,  the  new  officials 

6.  Solomon   and  the  great  number  of  work  people 

brought  to  the  city  for  Solomon's  great 
buildings  must  necessarily  have  enormously  swelled 
the  resident  population,  while  the  recorded  build- 
ings of  the  city,  the  temple,  the  king's  house,  the 
House  of  the  Daughter  of  Pharaoh,  the  House  of  the 
Forest  of  Lebanon,  the  Throne  Hall  and  the  Pillared 
Hall  (1  K  7  1-8)  must  have  altered  the  whole  aspect 
of  the  site.  In  consequence  of  these  new  buildings, 
t  he  sanctuary  together  wit  h  the  houses  of  t  he  common 
folk,  a  new  wall  for  the  city  was  necessary,  and  we 
have  a  statement  twice  made  that  Solomon  built  "the 
wall  of  Jerus  round  about"  (1  K  3  1;  9  15);  it  is 
also  recorded  that  he  built  Millo  (9  15.24;  11  27), 
and  that  "he  repaired  the  breach  of  the  city  of  David 
his  father"  (11  27).  The  question  of  the  Millo  is 
discussed  elsewhere  (see  Millo);  the  "breach"  re- 
ferred to  may  have  been  the  connecting  wall  needed 
to  include  the  Millo  within  the  complete  circle  of 
fortifications,  or  else  some  part  of  David's  fortifica- 
tion which  his  death  had  left  incomplete. 

As  regards  the  "Wall  of  Jerus"  which  Solomon 

built,  it  is  practically  certain  that  it  was,  on  the  X. 

and  W.,  that   described  by  Jos  as  the 

7.  Solo-  First  Wall  (see  VI,  7  above).  The 
mon's  City  vast  roek-cut  scarps  at  the  south- 
Wall  western  corner  testify  to  the  massive- 

ncss  of  the  building.  Whether  the 
whole  of  the  southwestern  hill  was  included  is  a 
matter  of  doubt.  Inasmuch  as  there  are  indicat  ions 
at  Bliss's  tower  (see  VI,  \d  above)  of  an  ancient  wall 
running  northeasterly,  and  inclosing  the  summit  of 
the  southwestern  hill,  it  would  appear  highly  prob- 
able that  Solomon's  wall  followed  that  line;  in  this 
case  this  wall  must  have  crossed  the  Tyropceon  at 
somewhat  the  line  of  the  existing  southern  wall,  and 
then  have  run  southeasterly  to  join  the  western 
wall  of  the  old  city  of  the  Jebusites.  The  temple 
and  palace  buildings  were  all  inclosed  in  a  wall  of 
finished  masonry  which  made  it  a  fortified  place  by 
itself — as  it  appears  to  have  been  through  Heb  history 
—and  these  walls,  where  external  to  the  rest  of  the 
city,  formed  part  of  the  whole  circle  of  fortification. 

Although  Solomon  built  so  magnificent  a  house 
for  Jeh,  he  erected  in  the  neighborhood  shrines  to 
other  local  gods  (1  K  11  7.8),  a  lapse  ascribed 
largely  to  the  influence  of  his  foreign  wives  and  con- 
sequent foreign  alliances. 

The  disruption  of  the  kingdom  must  have  been 
a  severe  blow  to  Jerus,  which  was  left  the  capital,  no 
longer  of  a  united  state,  but  of  a  petty 
8.  The  tribe.     The   resources   which   were  at 

Disruption  the  command  of  Solomon  for  the 
(933  BC)  building  up  of  the  city  were  suddenly 
cut  off  by  Jeroboam's  avowed  policy, 
while  the  long  state  of  war  which  existed  between 


1615 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jerusalem 


the  two  peoples — a  state  lasting  60  years  (1  K  14 
30;  15  6.16;  22  44) — must  have  been  very  inju- 
rious to  the  growth  of  commerce  and  the  arts  of 
peace. 

In   the  5th   year  of   Rehoboam    (928),   Shishak 

(Sheshonk)   king  of  Egypt  came  up  against  Jerus 

(1  K  14  25  fif)   and  took  "the  fenced 

9.  Invasion  cities  of  Judah"  (2  Ch  12  4AV).  It 
of  Shishak  has  been  commonly  supposed  that  he 
(928  BC)        besieged  and  captured  Jerus  itself,  but 

as  there  is  no  account  of  the  destruction 
of  fortifications  and  as  the  name  of  this  city  has 
not  been  deciphered  upon  the  Egyp  records  of  this 
campaign,  it  is  at  least  as  probable,  and  is  as  con- 
sistent with  the  Scriptural  references,  that  Shishak 
was  bought  off  with  "the  treasures  of  the  house  of 
Jeh,  and  the  treasures  of  the  king's  house"  and 
"all  the  shields  of  gold  which  Solomon  had  made" 
(1   K  14  26). 

It  is  clear  that  by  the  reign  of  Jehoshaphat  the 
city   had   again    largely   recovered    its   importance 

(cf  1  K  22),  but  in  his  son  Jehoram's 

10.  City  reign  (849-842  BC)  Judah  was  in- 
Plundered  vaded  and  the  royal  house  was  pillaged 
by  Arabs       by  Philis  and  Arabs  (2  Ch  21  16-17). 

Ahaziah  (842  BC),  Jehoram's  son,  came 
to  grief  while  visiting  his  maternal  relative  at  Jez- 
reel,  and  after  being  wounded  in  his  chariot  near 
Ibleam,  and  expiring  at  Megiddo,  his  body  was 
carried  to  Jerus  and  there  buried  (2  K  9  27-28). 
Jerus  was  now  the  scene  of  the  dramatic  events 
which  center  round  the  usurpation  and  death  of 
Queen  Athaliah  (2  X  11  16;  2  Ch  23  15)  and 
the  coronation  and  reforms  of  her  grandson  Joash 
(2  K  12  1-16;  2  Ch  24  1-14).  After  the  death 
of  1  he  good  priest  Jehoiada,  it  is  recorded  (2  Ch  24 
15  IT)  that  the  king  was  led  astray  by  the  princes  of 
Judah  and  forsook  the  house  of  Jeh,  as  a  consequence 

of    which   the   Syrians    under    Hazael 

11.  Hazael  came  against  Judah  and  Jerus,  slew 
King  of  the  princes  and  spoiled  the  land,  Joash 
Syria  giving  him  much  treasure  from  both 
Bought  Off  palace  and  temple  (2  K  12  17.18; 
(797  BC)  2  Ch  24  23).  Finally  Joash  was  as- 
sassinated    (2  K  12  20.21;     2  Ch  24 

25)  "at  the  house  of  Millo,  on  the  way  that  goeth 
down  to  Silla." 

During  the  reign  of  Amaziah  (797-729  BC),  the 

murdered  king's  son,  a  victory  over  Edom  appears 

to    have   so  elated  the   king    that    he 

12.  Capture  wantonly  challenged  Jehoash  of  Israel 
of  the  City  to  battle  (2  K  14  Sf).  The  two 
by  Jehoash  armies  met  at  Beth-shemesh,  and  Judah 
of  Israel         was  defeated  and  "fled  every  man  to 

his  tent."  Jerus  was  unable  to  offer 
any  resistance  to  the  victors,  and  Jehoash  "brake 
down  the  wall  of  Jerus  from  the  gate  of  Ephraim 
unto  the  corner  gate,  400  cubits"  and  then  returned 
to  Samaria,  loaded  with  plunder  and  hostages  (ver 
14).  Fifteen  years  later,  Amaziah  was  assassinated 
at  Lachish  whither  he  had  fled  from  a  conspiracy; 
nevertheless  t  hey  brought  his  body  upon  horses,  and 
he  was  buried  in  Jerus. 

Doubtless  it  was  a  remembrance  of  the  humilia- 
tion which  his  father  had  undergone  which  made 

Uzziah  (Azariah)  strengthen  his  posi- 

13.  Uzziah's  tion.  He  subdued  the  Philis  and  the 
Refortifica-  Arabs  in  Gur,  and  put  the  Ammonites 
tion  (779-  to  tribute  (2  Ch  26  7.8).  He  "built 
740  BC)         towers  in    Jerus    at  the    corner  gate, 

and  at  the  valley  gate,  and  at  the 
turnings  [LXX]  of  the  walls,  and  fortified  them" 
(ver  9).  He  is  also  described  as  having  made  in 
Jerus  "engines,  invented  by  skilfvd  men,  to  be  on 
the  towers  and  upon  the  battlements,  wherewith 
to  shoot  arrows  and  great  stones"  (ver  15).  The 
city  during  its  long  peace  with  its  northern  neigh- 


bors appears  to  have  recovered  something  of  her 
prosperity  in  the  days  of  Solomon.  During  his  reign 
t  he  city  was  visited  by  a  great  earthquake  (Zee  14  4 ; 
Am  1  1  ;  cf  Isa  9  10;  29  6  ;  Am  4  11  ;  8  8). 
Jotham,  his  son,  built  "the  upper  gate  of  the  house 
of  Jeh"  (2  K  15  35;  2  Ch  27  3),  probably  the 
same  as  the  "upper  gate  of  Benjamin"  (Jer  20  2). 
He  also  built  much  on  the  wall  of  Ophel — probably 
the  ancient  fortress  of  Zion  on  the  southeastern  hill 
(2  Ch  27  3);   see  Ophel. 

His  son  Ahaz  was  soon  to  have  cause  to  be  thank- 
ful for  his  father's  and  grandfather's  work  in  forti- 
fying the  city,  for  now  its  walls  were 

14.  Ahaz  successful  in  defence  against  the 
Allies  with  kings  of  Syria  and  Israel  (2  K  16 
Assyria  5.6);  but  Ahaz,  feeling  the  weakness 
(736-728  of  his  lit  t  le  kingdom,  bought  with  silver 
BC)                 and  gold  from  the  house  of  Jeh  the 

alliance  of  Tiglath-pileser,  king  of 
Assyria.  He  met  the  king  at  Damascus  and  paid 
him  a  compliment  by  having  an  altar  similar  to  his 
made  for  his  own  ritual  in  the  temple  (vs  10-12). 
His  reign  is  darkened  by  a  record  of  heathen  prac- 
tices, and  specially  by  his  making  "his  son  to  pass 
through  the  fin1" — as  a  human  sacrifice  in,  appar- 
ently, the  Valley  of  Hinnom  (1  K  16  3-4;  cf  2  Ch 
28  3). 

Hezekiah  (727-699  BC),  his  son,  succeeded  to  the 
kingdom  at  a  time  of  surpassing  danger.     Samaria, 

and  with  it  the  last  of  Israel's  kingdom, 

15.  Heze-  had  fallen.  Assyria  had  with  diffi- 
kiah's  Great  culty  been  bought  off,  the  people  were 
Works  largely  apostate,  yet  Jerus  was  never  so 

great  and  so  inviolate  to  prophetic  eves 
(Isa  7  4f;  8  8.10;  10  28  f;  14  25-32,  etc).  Early 
in  his  reign,  the  uprising  of  the  Chaldaean  Merodach- 
baladan  against  Assyria  relieved  Judah  of  her  great  est 
danger,  and  Hezekiah  entered  into  friendly  relations 
with  this  new  king  of  Babylon,  showing  his  messengers 
alibis  treasures  (Isa  39  1.2).  At  this  time  or  soon 
after,  Hezekiah  appears  to  have  undertaken  great 
works  in  fitting  his  capital  for  the  troublous  times 
which  lay  before  him.  He  sealed  1  he  waters  of  Gihon 
and  brought  t  hem  within  the  city  to  prevent  1  he  kings 
of  Assyria  from  getting  access  to  them  (2  K  20  20; 
2  Ch  32  4.30).    See  Siloam. 

It  is  certain,  if  their  tunnel  was  to  be  of  anyuse, 
the  southwestern  hill  must  have  been  entirely  en- 
closed, and  it  is  at  least  highly  probable  that  in  the 
account  (2  Ch  32  5),  he  "built  up  all  the  wall  that 
was  broken  down,  and  built  towers  thereon  [m], 
and  the  other  wall  without,"  the  last  phrase  may 
refer  to  the  stretch  of  wall  along  the  edge  of  the 
southwestern  hill  to  Siloam.  On  the  other  hand, 
if  that  was  the  work  of  Solomon,  "the  other  wall" 
may  have  been  the  great  buttressed  dam,  with  a 
wall  across  it  which  closed  the  mouth  of  the  Tyro- 
pceon,  which  was  an  essential  part  of  his  scheme  of 
preventing  a  besieging  army  from  getting  access  to 
water.  He  also  strengthened  Millo  (q.v.),  on  the 
southeastern  hill.  Secure  in  these  fortifications, 
which  made  Jerus  one  of  the  strongest  walled  cities 
in  Western  Asia,  Hezekiah,  assisted,  as  we  learn 
from  Sennacherib's  descriptions,  by  Arab  merce- 
naries, was  able  to  buy  off  the  great  Assyr  king  and 
to  keep  his  city  inviolate  (2  K  18  13-16).  A 
second  threatened  attack  on  the  city  appears  to  be 
referred  to  in  2  K  19  9-37. 

Hezekiah  undertook  reforms.     "He  removed  the 

high  places,  and  brake  the  pillars,  and  cut  down 

the  Asherah:    and  he  brake  in  pieces 

16.  His  the  brazen  serpent  that  Moses  had 
Religious  made  and  ....  he  called  it  Nehush- 
Reforms         tan,"  i.e.  a  piece  of  brass  (2  K  18  4). 

Manasseh  succeeded  his  father  when 
but  12,  and  reigned  55  years  (69S-643)  in  Jerus 
(2  K  21  1).      He    was    tributary    to    Esarhaddon 


Jerusalem 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1616 


and  Ashurbanipal,  as  we  know  from  their  inscrip- 
tions; in  one  of  the  hitler's  he  is  referred  to  as  king 
"of  the  city  of  Judah."  The  king  of  Assyria  who, 
it  is  said  (2  Ch  33  1 1 ;  cf  Ant,  X,  in,  2),  earned 
Manasseh  in  chains  to  Babylon,  was  probably  Ashur- 
banipal. How  thoroughly  the  country  was  per- 
meated by  Assvr  influence  is  witnessed  by  the  two 
cuneiform  tablets  recently  found  at  Gezer  belonging 
to  this  Assvr  monarch's  reign  {PEFS,  1905,  206, 

etc). 

The  same  influence,   extending  to  the  religious 
sphere,  is  seen  in  the  record  (2  K  21  5)  that  Ma- 
nasseh ''built,  altars  for  all  the  host,  of 

17.  Ma-  heaven  in  the  two  courts  of  the  house 
nasseh's  of  Jeh."  There  are  other  references 
Alliance  to  the  idolatrous  practices  introduced 
with  by  this  king  (cf  Jer  7  IS;  2  K  23  5. 
Assyria  11.12,  etc).     He  also  filled  Jerus  from 

one  (Mid  to  the  other  with  the  innocent 
blood  of  martyrs  faithful  to  Jeh  (2  K  21  16;  cf 
Jer  19  4).  Probably  during  this  long  reign  of 
external  peace  the  population  of  the  city  much  in- 
creased,   particularly    by    the    influx   of    foreigners 

from    less    isolated    regions.     Of  _  this 

18.  His  king's  improvements  to  the  fortifica- 
Repair  of  tions  of  Jerus  we  have  the  statement 
the  Walls       (2  Ch  33  14),  "He  built  an  outer  wall 

to  the  city  of  David,  on  the  west  side 
of  Gihon  in  the  valley,  even  to  the  entrance  at  the 
fish  gate."  This  must  have  been  a  new  or  rebuilt 
wall  for  the  whole  eastern  side  of  the  city.  _  He  also 
compassed  about  the  Ophel  (q.v.)  and  raised  it  to 
a  very  great  height. 

Manasseh  was  the  first  of  the  Judahic  kings  to  be 
buried  away  from  the  royal  tombs.  He  was  buried 
(as  was  his"  son  Anion)  "in  the  garden  of  his  own 
house,  in  the  garden  of  Uzza"  (2  K  21  IS).  These 
maybe  the  tombs  referred  to  (Ezk  43  7-9)  as  too 
near  the  temple  precincts. 

In  the  reign  of  Josiah  was  found  the  "Book  of 
the  Law,"  and  the  king  in  consequence  instituted 

radical  reforms  (2  K  22,  23).     Kidron 

19.  Josiah  smoked  with  the  burnings  of  the 
and  Reli-  Ashcrah  and  of  the  vessels  of  Baal,  and 
gious  Topheth  in  the  Valley  of  Hinnom  was  de- 
Reforms  filed.  At  length  after  a  reign  of  31  years 
(640-609  (2  K  23  29.30),  Josiah,  in  endeavor- 
BC)  ing  to  intercept  Pharaoh-necoh  from 

combining  with  the  king  of  Babylon, 
was  defeated  and  slain  at  Megiddo  and  was  buried 
"in  his  own  sepulchre"  in  Jerus — probably  in  the 
same  locality  whore  his  father  and  grandfather  lay 
buried.  Jehoahaz,  after  a  reign  of  but  3  months, 
was  carried  captive  (2  K  23  34)  by  Necoh  to 
Egypt,  whore  he  died — and  apparently  was  buried 
among  strangers  (Jer  22  10-12).  His  brother 
Eliakim,  renamed  Jehoiakim,  succeeded.  In  the 
4t  h  year  of  his  reign,  Egypt  was  defeated  at  Car- 
chomish  by  the  Babylonians,  and  as  a  consequence 
Jehoiakim  had  to  change  from  subjection  to  Egypt 
to  that  of  Babylon  (1  K  23  35  ff).     During  this  time 

Jeremiah   was   actively   foretelling   in 

20.  Jere-  streets  and  courts  of  Jerus  (5  1,  etc)  the 
miah  approaching  ruin  of  the  city,  messages 
Prophesies  which  were  received  with  contempt 
the  Ap-  and  anger  by  the  king  and  court  (Jer 
proaching  36  2:5).  In  consequence  of  his  revolt 
Doom  against  Babylon,  bands  of  Chaldaeans, 

Syrians,  Moabites  and  Ammonites 
came  against  him  (2  K  24  2),  and  his  death  was 
inglorious  (2  K  24  6;   Jer  22  18.19). 

His  son  Jehoiachin,  who  succeeded  him,  went 
out  with  all  his  household  and  surrendered  to  the 
approaching  Nebuchadnezzar  (597),  and  was  car- 
ried to  Babylon  where  he  passed  more  than  37 
years  (2  K  25  27-30).  Jerus  was  despoiled  of  all 
its  treasures  and  all  its  important  inhabitants.     The 


king    of    Babylon's    nominee,   Zedckiah,   after    11 

years  rebelled  against  him,  and  consequently  Jerus 

was  besieged  for  a  year  and  a  half  until 

21.  Nebu-  "famine  was  sore  in  the  city."  On  the 
chadnezzar  9th  of  Ab  all  the  men  of  war  "fled  by 
Twice  night  by  1  he  way  of  the  gate  between 
Takes  the  two  walls,  which  was  by  the  king's 
Jerusalem  garden,"  i.e.  near  the  mouth  of  the 
(586  BC)        Tyropceon,   and    the   king    "went    by 

the  way  of  the  Arabah,"  but  was  over- 
taken  and  captured  "in  the  plains  of  Jericho."  A 
terrible  punishment  followed  his  faithlessness  to 
Babylon  (2  K  25  1-7).  The  city  and  the  temple 
were  despoiled  and  burnt;  the  walls  of  Jerus 
were  broken  down,  and  none  but  the  poorest  of 
the  land  "to  be  vinedressers  and  husbandmen" 
were  left  behind  (2  K  25  Sf;  2  Ch  36  17  f).  It 
is  probable  that  the  ark  was  removed  also  at  this 
time. 

With  the  destruction  of  their  city,  the  hopes  of 
the  best  elements  in  Judah  turned  with  longing  to 

the  thought  of  her  restoration.     It  is 

22.  Cyrus  possible  that  some  of  the  remnant,  left 
and  the  in  the  land  may  have  kept  up  some 
First  Return  semblance  of  the  worship  of  Jeh  at 
(538  BC)        the  temple-site.     At,  length,  however, 

when  in  538  Cyrus  the  Persian  became 
master  of  the  Bab  empire,  among  many  acts  of  a 
similar  nature  for  the  shrines  of  Assyr  and  Bab  gods, 
he  gave  permission  to  Jews  to  return  to  rebuild  the 
house  of  Jeh  (Ezr  1  If).  Over  40,000  (Ezr  1,2) 
under  Sheshbazzar,  prince  of  Judah  (Ezr  1  8.11), 
governor  of  a  province,  returned,  bringing  with  them 
the  sacred  vessels  of  the  temple.  The  daily  sacri- 
fices were  renewed  and  the  feasts  and  fasts  restored 
(3  3-7),  and  later  the  foundations  of  the  restored 
temple  were  laid  (3  10;  5  16),  but  on  account  of 
the  opposition  of  the  people  of  the  land  and  the 
Samaritans,  the  building  was  not  completed  until 
20  years  later  (6  15). 

The  graphic  description  of  the  rebuilding  of  the 

walls  of  Jerus  in  445  by  Nehemiah  gives  us  the 

fullest  account  we  have  of  these  forti- 

23.  Nehe-  fications  at  any  ancient  period.  It  is 
miah  Re-  clear  that  Nehemiah  set  himself  to 
builds  the  restore  the  walls,  as  far  as  possible, 
Walls  in    their    condition    before    the    exile. 

The  work  was  done  hurriedly  and  under 
conditions  of  danger,  half  the  workers  being  armed 
wit h  swords,  spears  and  bows  to  protect  the  ot  hers, 
and  every  workman  was  a  soldier  (Neh  4  13.16-21) . 
The  rebuilding  took  52  days,  but  could  not  have 
been  done  at  all  had  not  much  of  the  material  lain 
to  hand  in  the  piles  of  ruined  masonry.  Doubtless 
the  haste  and  limited  resources  resulted  in  a  wall 
far  weaker  than  that  Nebuchadnezzar  destroyed 
142  years  previously,  but  it  followed  the  same  out- 
line and  had  the  same  general  structure. 

For  the  next   100  years  we  have  scarcely  any 

historical     knowledge    of    Jerus.      A     glimpse     is 

afforded  by  the  papyri  of  Elephant  ine 

24.  Bagohi  where  we  read  of  a  Jewish  communit  y 
Governor       in  Upper  Egypt  petitioning  Bagohi,  the 

governor  of  Judaea,  for  permission  to 
rebuild  their  own  temple  to  Jeh  in  Egypt;  inci- 
dentally they  mention  that  they  had  already  sent 
an  unsuccessful  petition  to  Johanan  the  high  priest 
and  his  colleagues  in  Jerus.  In  another  document 
we  gather  that  this  petition  to  the  Pers  governor 
was  granted.  These  documents  must  date  about 
411-407  BC.  Later,  probably  about  350,  we  have 
somewhat  ambiguous  references  to  the  destruc- 
tion of  Jerus  and  the  captivity  of  numbers  of 
Jews  in  the  time  of  Artaxerxes  (III)  Ochus  (358- 
337  BC). 

With  the  battle  of  Issus  and  Alexander's  Pales- 
tinian campaign    (c  332  BC),   we  are  upon  surer 


1617 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jerusalem 


historical  ground,  though  the  details  of  the  account 

(Ant,  XI,  viii,  4)  of  Alexander's  visit  to  Jerus  itself 

are  considered  of  doubtful  authenticity. 

25.  Alex-  After  his  death  (323  BC),  Pal  suffered 
ander  the  much  from  its  position,  between  the 
Great  Ptolemies  of  Egypt  and  the  Seleucidae 

of  Antioch.  Each  became  in  turn  its 
suzerain,  and  indeed  at  one  time  the  tribute  ap- 
pears to  have  been  divided  between  them  (Ant, 
XII,  iv,  1). 

In  321  Ptolemy  Soter  invaded  Pal,  and,  it  is  said 
(Ant,  XII,  i,  1),  captured  Jerus  by  a  ruse,  entering 

the  city  on  the  Sabbath  as  if  anxious 

26.  The  to  offer  sacrifice.  He  carried  away 
Ptolemaic  many  of  his  Jewish  prisoners  to  Egypt 
Rule  and     settled     them     there.     In     the 

struggles  between  the  contending 
monarchies,  although  Pal  suffered,  the  capital  itself, 
on  account  of  its  isolated  position,  remained  undis- 
turbed, under  the  suzerainty  of  Egypt.  In  217 
BC,  Ptolemy  (IV)  Philopator,  after  his  victory 
over  Antiochus  III  at  Raphia,  visited  the  temple 
at  Jerus  and  offered  sacrifices;  he  is  reported  (3 
Mace  1)  to  have  entered  the  "Holy  of  Holies." 
The  comparative  prosperity  of  the  city  during  the 
Egyp  domination  is  witnessed  to  by  Hecataeus  of 
Abdera,  who  is  quoted  by  Jos;  he  even  puts  the 
population  of  the  city  at  120,000,  which  is  probably 
an  exaggeration. 

At  length  in    198,  Antiochus  the  Great  having 
conquered  Coele-Syria  in  the  epoch-making  battle 

at  Banias,  the  Jews  of  their  own  accord 

27.  Anti-  went  over  to  him  and  supplied  his 
ochus  the  army  with  plentiful  provisions ;  they 
Great  assisted  him   in   besieging    the    Egyp 

garrison  in  the  Akha  (q.v.)  (Ant,  XII, 
iii,  3).  Jos  produces  letters  in  which  Antiochus 
records  his  gratification  at  the  reception  given  him 
by  the  Jews  and  grants  them  various  privileges 
(ib).  We  have  an  account  of  the  prosperity  of  the 
city  about  this  time  (190-180  BC)  by  Jesus  ben 
Sira  in  the  Book  of  Ecclus;  it  is  a  city  of  crowded 
life  and  manifold  activities.  He  refers  in  glowing 
terms  to  the  great  high  priest,  Simon  ben  Onias 
(226-199  BC),  who  (Ecclus  50  1-4)  had  repaired 
and  fortified  the  temple  and  strengthened  the  walls 
against  a  siege.  The  letter  of  Aristeas,  dated 
probably  at  the  close  of  this  great  man's  life  (c  200 
BC),  gives  a  similar  picture.  It  is  here  stated  that 
the  compass  of  the  city  was  40  stadia.  The  very 
considerable  prosperity  and  religious  liberty  which 
the  Jews  had  enjoyed  under  the  Egyptians  were  soon 
menaced  under  the  new  ruler;  the  taxes  were  in- 
creased,  and   very  soon  fidelity   to   the  tenets  of 

Judaism    came     to     be    regarded    as 

28.  Helleni-  treachery  to  the  Seleucid  rule.  Under 
zation  of  Antiochus  Epiphanes  the  Helleniza- 
the  City  tion  of  the  nation  grew  apace  (2  Mace 
under  An-  4  9-12;  Ant,  XII,  v,  1);  at  the  request 
tiochus  of  the  Hellenizing  party  a  "place  of 
Epiphanes     exercise"  was  erected  in  Jerus  (1  Mace 

1  14;  2  Mace  4  7f).  The  Gymna- 
sium was  built  and  was  soon  thronged  by  young 
priests;  the  Gr  hat — the  petasos — became  the 
fashionable  headdress  in  Jerus.  The  Hellenistic 
party,  which  was  composed  of  the  aristocracy,  was 
so  loud  in  its  professed  devotion  to  the  king's  wishes 
that  it  is  not  to  be  wondered  at  that  Antiochus,  who, 
on  a  visit  to  the  city,  had  been  received  with  rap- 
turous greetings,  came  to  think  that  the  poor  and 
pious  who  resisted  him  from  religious  motives  were 
largely  infected  with  leanings  toward  his  enemies 
in  Egypt.  The  actual  open  rupture  began  when 
tidings  reached  Antiochus,  after  a  victorious  though 
politically  barren  campaign  in  Egypt,  that  Jerus 
had  risen  in  his  rear  on  behalf  of  the  house  of  Ptol- 
emy.     Jason,  the  renegade  high  priest,  who  had 


been  hiding  across  the  Jordan,  had,  on  the  false 
report  of  the  death  of  Antiochus,  suddenly  returned 
and  re-possessed  himself  of  the  city.  Only  the 
Akra  remained  to  Syria,  and  this  was  crowded  with 
Menelaus  and  those  of  his  followers  who  had  escaped 
the  sword  of  Jason.  Antiochus  lost  no  time;  he 
hastened  (170  BC)  against  Jerus  with  a 

29.  Capture  great  army,  captured  the  city,  massa- 
of  the  City  cred  the  people  and  despoiled  the 
(170  BC)        temple  (1  Mace  1  20-24;     Ant,  XII, 

v,  3).  Two  years  later  Antiochus, 
balked  by  Rome  in  Egypt  (Polyb.  xxix.27;  Livy 
xlv.12),  appears  to  have  determined  that  in  Jerus, 
at  any  rate,  he  would  have  no  sympathizers  with 
Egypt.     He  sent  his  chief  collector  of  tribute   (1 

Mace  1  29),    who    attacked    the    city 

30.  Capture  with  strong  force  and,  by  means  of 
of  168  BC      stratagem,  entered  it  (ver  30).     After 

he  had  despoiled  it,  he  set  it  on  fire  and 
pulled  down  bot  h  dwellings  and  walls.  He  massacred 
the  men,  and  many  of  the  women  and  children  he  sold 
as  slaves  (1  Mace  1  31-35;  2  Mace  5  24).  He  sac- 
rificed swine  (or  at  least  a  sow)  upon  the  holy  altar, 

and  caused  the  high  priest  himself — 

31.  At-  a  Greek  in  all  his  sympathies — to  par- 
tempted  take  of  the  impure  sacrificial  feasts; 
Suppression  he  tried  by  barbarous  cruelties  to  sup- 
of  Judaism    press  the  ritual  of  circumcision  (Ant, 

XII,  v,  4).  In  everything  he  endeav- 
ored, in  conjunction  with  the  strong  Hellenizing 
party,  to  organize  Jerus  as  a  Gr  city,  and  to  secure 
his  position  he  built  a  strong  wall,  and  a  great  tower 
for  the  Akra,  and,  having  furnished  it  well  with  armor 
and  victuals,  he  left  a  strong  garrison  (1  Mace  1 
33-35) .  But  the  Syrians  had  overreached  themselves 
this  time,  and  the  reaction  against  persecution  and 
attempted  religious  suppression  produced  the  great 
uprising  of  the  Maccabeans. 

The  defeat  and  retirement  of  the  Syrian  com- 
mander Lysias,  followed  by  the  death  of  Antiochus 

Epiphanes,   led  to   an   entire  reversal 

32.  The  of  policy  on  the  part  of  the  Council  of 
Maccabean  the  boy-king,  Antiochus  V.  A  general 
Rebellion       amnesty  was  granted,  with  leave  to 

restore  the  temple-worship  in  its  an- 
cestral forms.  The  following  year  (165  BC)  Judas 
Maccabaeus  found  "the  sanctuary  desolate,  and 
the  altar  profaned,  the  gates  burned  up,  and  shrubs 
growing  in  the  courts  as  in  a  forest  ....  and  the 
priests'  chambers  pulled  down"  (1  Mace  4  38). 
He  at  once  saw  to  the  reconstruction  of  the  altar 
and  restored  the  temple-services,  an  event  celebrated 

ever  after  as  the   "Feast  of  the  Ded- 

33.  The  ication,"  or  h&nukkah  (1  Mace  4  52- 
Dedication  59;  2  Mace  10  1-11;  Ant,  XII,  vii,  7; 
of  the  cf  Jn  10  22;.  Judas  also  "builded  up 
Temple  Mt.  Zion,"  i.e.  the  temple-hill,  making 
(165  BC)        it  a  fortress  with  "high  walls  and  strong 

towers  round  about,"  and  set  a  garrison 
in  it  (1  Mace  4  41-61). 

The  Hellenizing  party  suffered  in  the  reaction, 
and  the  Syrian  garrison  in  the  Akra,  Syria's  one 

hold  on  Judaea,  was  closely  invested, 

34.  Defeat  but  though  Judas  had  defeated  three 
of  Judas  Syrian  armies  in  the  open,  he  could  not 
and  Capture  expel  this  garrison.  In  163  BC  a  great 
of  the  City     Syrian  army,  with  a  camel  corps  and 

many  elephants,  came  to  the  relief 
of  the  hard-pressed  garrison.  Lysias,  accompanied 
by  the  boy-king  himself  (Antiochus  V),  approached 
the  city  from  the  S.  via  Bkth-zur  (q.v.).  At 
Beth-zachariah  the  Jews  were  defeated,  and  Judas' 
brother  Eleazar  was  slain,  and  Jerus  was  soon 
captured.  The  fort  on  Mt.  Zion  which  surrounded 
the  sanctuary  was  surrendered  by  treaty,  but 
when  the  king  saw  its  strength,  he  broke  his 
oath  and  destroyed   the  fortifications   (1  Mace  6 


Jerusalem 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1618 


02).  But  even  in  this  desperate  state  Judas  and 
his  followers  were  saved.  A  certain  pretender, 
Philip,  raised  a  rebellion  in  a  distant  part  of  the 
empire,  and  Lysias  was  obliged  to  patch  up  a  truce 
with  the  nationalist,  Jews  more  favorable  to  Judas 
than  before  his  defeat;  the  garrison  in  the  Akra 
remained,  however,  to  remind  the  Jews  that  they 
were  not-  independent.  In  101  BC  another  Syrian 
general,  Nieanor,  was  sent  against  Judas,  but  he 
was  at  first  won  over  to  friendship  and  when,  later, 
at  the  instigation  of  the  Hellenistic  party,  he  was 
compelled  to  attack  Judas,  he  did  so  with  hastily 
raised  levies  and  was  defeated  at  Adasa,  a  little  N. 
of  Jerus.  Judas  was,  however,  not  long  suffered 
to  celebrate  his  triumph.  A  month  later  Baeehides 
appeared  before  Jerus,  and  in  April,  161,  Judas  was 
slain  in  battle  with  him  at  Berea. 
35.  His  Both  the  city  and  the  land  were  re- 

Death  garrisoned    by   Syrians;     nevertheless, 

(161  BC)  by  152,  Jonathan,  Judas'  brother,  who 
was  residing  at  Michmash,  was  virtual 
ruler  of  the  land,  and  by  astute  negotiation  between 
Demetrius  and  Alexander,  the  rival  claimants  to 
the  throne  of  Antioch,  Jonathan  gained  more  than 
any  of  his  family  had  ever  done.  He  was  appointed 
high  priest  and  strategds,  or  deputy  for  the  king,  in 
Judaea.  He  repaired  the  city  and  restored  the 
temple-fortress  with  squared  stones  (1  Mace  10 
10-11).  He  made  the  walls  higher  and  built  up  a 
great  part  of  the  eastern  wall  which 
had  been  destroyed  and  "repaired  that 
which  was  called  Caphenatha"  (1 
Mace  12  36-87;  Ant,  XIII,  v,  ii); 
he  also  made  a  great  mound  between 
the  Akra  and  the  city  to  isolate  the 
Syrian  garrison  (ib). 

Simon,  who  succeeded  Jonathan,  finally  captured 
the  Akra  in  139,  and,  according  to  Jos  (Ant,  XIII, 
vi,  7),  not  only  destroyed  it,  but  par- 
tially leveled  the  very  hill  on  which  it 
stood  (see,  however,  1  Mace  14  36.37). 
John  Hyrcanus,  5  years  later  (134  BC), 
was  besieged  in  Jerus  by  Antiochus 
Sidetes  in  the  4th  year  of  his  reign; 
during  the  siege  the  Syrian  king  raised 
100  towers  each  3  stories  high  against 
the  northern  wall — possibly  these  may  subsequently 
have  been  used  for  the  foundations  of  the  second 
wall.  Antiochus  was  finally  bought  off  by  t  he  giving 
of  hostages  and  by  heavy  tribute,  which  Hyrcanus 
is  said  to  have  obtained  by  opening  the  sepulcher 
of  David.  Nevertheless  the  king  "broke  down  the 
fortifications  that  encompassed  the  city"  (Ant,  XIII, 
viii,  2-4). 

During  the  more  prosperous  days  of  the  Has- 

monean   rulers,   several   important   buildings  were 

erected.     There  was  a  great  palace  on 

38.  Has-  the  western  (southwestern)  hill  over- 
monean  looking  the  temple  (Ant,  XX,  viii,  11), 
Buildings       and  connected  with  it  at  one  time  by 

means  of  a  bridge  across  the  Tyro- 
pceon,  and  on  the  northern  side  of  the  temple  a 
citadel — which  may  (see  VIII,  7  above)  have  been 
the  successor  of  one  here  in  prcexilic  times — known 
as  the  Baris;  this,  later  on,  Herod  enlarged  into 
the  Antonia  (Ant,  XV,  xi,  4;   BJ,  V,  v,  8). 

In  consequence  of  the  quarrel  of  the  later  Has- 
monean  princes,  further  troubles  fell  upon  the  city. 

In  65   BC,    Hyrcanus   II,  under    the 

39.  Rome's  instigation  of  Antipas  the  Idumaean, 
Intervention  rebelled  against  his  brother  Aristobulus, 

to  whom  he  had  recently  surrenderee! 
his  claim  to  sovereignty.  With  the  assistance  of 
Aretas,  king  of  the  Nabataeans,  he  besieged  Aristo- 
bulus in  the  temple.  The  Rom  general  Scaurus, 
however,  by  order  of  Pompey,  compelled  Aretas 
to  retire,  and  then  lent  his  assistance  to  Aristo- 


36.  Jona 
than's 
Restora- 
tions 


37.  Sur- 
render of 
City  to 
Antiochus 
Sidetes 
(134  BC) 


bulus,  who  overcame  his  brother  (Ant,  XIV,  ii, 
1-3).  Two  years  later  (63  BC)  Pompey,  having 
been  met  by  the  ambassadors  of  both  parties,  bear- 
ing presents,  as  well  as  of  the  Pharisees,  came  him- 
self to  compose  the  quarrel  of  the  rival  factions,  and, 
being  shut  out  of  the  city,  took  it  by 

40.  Pompey  storm.  He  entered  the  "Holy  of 
Takes  the  Holies,"  but  left  the  temple  treasures 
City  by  unharmed.  The  walls  of  the  city  were 
Storm             demolished ;  Hyrcanus  II  was  reinstated 

high  priest,  but  Aristobulus  was  car- 
ried a  prisoner  to  Rome,  and  the  city  became 
tributary  to  the  Rom  Empire  (Ant,  XIV,  iv,  1-4; 
BJ,  I,  vii,  1-7).  The  Syrian  proconsul,  M.  Lucin- 
ius  Crassus,  going  upon  his  expedition  against  the 
Parthians  in  55  BC,  carried  off  from  the  temple  the 
money  which  Pompey  had  left  (Ant,  XIV,  vii,  1). 

In  47  BC  Antipater,  who  for  10  years  had  been 
gaining  power  as  a  self-appointed  adviser  to  the  weak 

Hyrcanus,   was  made   a  Rom   citizen 

41.  Julius  and  appointed  procurator  in  return 
Caesar  for  very  material  services  which  he  had 
Appoints  been  able  to  render  to  Julius  Caesar 
Antipater  in  Egypt  (Ant,  XIV,  viii,  1,  3,  5);  at 
Procurator  the  same  time  Caesar  granted  to 
(47  BC)  Hyrcanus   permission   to   rebuild   the 

walls  of  Jerus  besides  other  privileges 
(Ant,  XIV,  x,  5).  Antipater  made  his  eldest  son, 
Phasaelus,  governor  of  Jerus,  and  committed  Galilee 
to  the  care  of  his  able  younger  son,  Herod. 

In  40  BC  Herod  succeeded  his  father  as  procu- 
rator of  Judaea  by  order  of  the  Rom  Senate,  but  the 

same  year  the  Parthians  under  Pacorus 

42.  Parthian  and  Barzapharnes  captured  and  plun- 
Invasion         dered  Jerus  (Ant,  XIV,  xiii,  3.4)  and 

reestablished  Antigonus  (BJ,  I,  xiii, 
13).  Herod  removed  his  family  and  treasures  to 
Massada  and,  having  been  appointed  king  of  Judaea 
by  Antony,  returned,  after  various  adventures,  in 
37  BC.  Assisted  by  Sosius,  the  Rom  proconsul,  he 
took  Jerus  by  storm  after  a  5  months'  siege;  by  the 
promise  of  liberal  reward  he  restrained  the  soldiers 
from  sacking  the  city  (Ant,  XIV,  xvi,  2-3). 

During  the  reign  of  this  great  monarch  Jerus  as- 
sumed a  magnificence  surpassing  that  of  all  other  ages. 

In  24  BC  the  king  built  his  vast  palace 

43.  Reign  in  the  upper  city  on  the  southwestern 
of  Herod  hill,  near  where  today  arethe  Turkish 
the  Great  barracks  and  the  Armenian  Quarter. 
(37-4  BC)      He  rebuilt  the  fortress  to  the  N.  of  the 

temple — the  ancient  Baris — on  a  great 
scale  with  4  lofty  corner  towers,  and  renamed  it  the 
Antonia  in  honor  of  his  patron.  He  celebrated  games 
in  a  new  theater,  and  constructed  a  hippodrome 
(BJ,  II,  iii,  1)  or  amphitheater  (Ant,  XV,  viii,  1). 
He  must  necessarily  have  strengthened  and  repaired 
the  walls,  but  such  work  was  outshone  by  the  4 
great  towers  which  he  erected,  Hippicus,  Pharsael 

and  Mariamne,  near  the  present  Jaffa 

44.  Herod's  Gate — the  foundations  of  the  first  two 
Great  are  supposed  to  be  incorporated  in  the 
Buildings       present  so-called  "Tower  of  David" — 

and  the  lofty  octagonal  tower,  Psephi- 
nus,  farther  to  the  N.W.  The  development  of 
Herod's  plans  for  the  reconstruction  of  the  temple 
was  commenced  in  19  BC,  but  they  were  not  com- 
pleted till  64  AD  (Jn  2  20;  Mt  24  1.2;  Lk  21 
5.6).  The  sanctuary  itself  was  built  by  1,000 
specially  trained  priests  within  a  space  of  18  months 
(11-10  BC).  The  conception  was  magnificent,  and 
resulted  in  a  mass  of  buildings  of  size  and  beauty 
far  surpassing  anything  that  had  stood  there  before. 
Practically  all  the  remains  of  the  foundations  of  t  he 
temple-enclosure  now  surviving  in  connection  with 
the  Haram  belong  to  this  period.  In  4  BC — the 
year  of  the  Nativity — occurred  the  disturbances  fol- 
lowing upon  the  destruction  of  the  Golden  Eagle 


1619 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jerusalem 


which  Herod  had  erected  over  the  great  gate  of  the 
temple,  and  shortly  afterward  Herod  died,  having 
previously  shut  up  many  of  the  leading  Jews  in  the 
hippodrome  with  orders  that  they  should  he  slain 
when  he  passed  away  (BJ,  I,  xxxiii,  6).  The  ac- 
cession of  Archelaus  was  signalized  by  Passover 
riots  which  ended  in  the  death  of  3,000,  an  after- 
result  of  the  affair  of  the  Golden  Eagle. 


. 


Tomb  of  David. 

Thinking  that  order  had  been  restored,  Archelaus 

set  out  for  Rome  to  have  his  title  confirmed.    During 

his  absence   Sabinus,   the   Rom   proc- 

45.  Herod  urator,  by  mismanagement  and  greed, 
Archelaus  raised  the  city  about  his  ears,  and  the 
(4BC-6  AD)  next    Passover   was    celebrated    by    a 

massacre,  street  fight  ing  and  open 
robbery.  Varus,  the  governor  of  Syria,  who  had 
hastened  to  the  help  of  his  subordinate,  suppressed 
the  rebellion  with  ruthless  severity  and  crucified 
2,000  Jews.  Archelaus  returned  shortly  afterward  as 
ethnarch,  an  office  which  he  retained  until  his  exile 
in  0  AD.  During  the  procuratorship  of  Coponius 
(6-10  AD)  another  Passover  riot  occurred  in  conse- 
quence of  the  aggravating  conduct  of  some  Sa- 
maritans. 

During    the    procuratorship    of     Pontius    Pilate 
(26-37  AD)   there  were  several  disturbances,   cul- 
minating  in   a   riot   consequent   upon 

46.  Pontius  his  taking  some  of  the  "corban"  or 
Pilate  sacred  offerings  of  the  temple  for  the 

construction  of  an  aqueduct  (Ant, 
XVIII,  iii,  2) — probably  part  at  least  of  the  "low- 
level  aqueduct"  (see  VII,  15,  above).  Herod 
Agrippa  1  inclosed  the  suburbs,  which  had  grown 
up  N.  of  the  second  wall  and  of  the  temple,  by  what 
Jos  calls  the  ''Third  Wall"  (see  V,  above). 

His  soil,  King  Agrippa,  built — about  56  AD — a 
large  addition  to  the  old  Hasmonean  palace,  from 

which  he  could  overlook  the  temple- 

47.  King  area.  This  act  was  a  cause  of  offence 
Agrippa  to  the  Jews  who  built    a  wall  on  the 

western  boundary  of  the  Inner  Court 
to  shut  off  his  view.  In  the  quarrel  which  ensued 
the  Jews  were  successful  in  gaining  the  support  of 
Nero  (Ant,  XX,  viii,  11).  In  64  AD  the  long 
rebuilding  of  the  temple-courts,  which  had  been 
begun  in  19  BC,  was  concluded.  The  18,000  work- 
men thrown  out  of  employment  appear  to  have 
been  given  "unemployed  work"  in  ''paving  the  city 
with  white  stone"  (Ant,  XX,  ix,  6-7). 

Finally  the  long-smouldering  discontent   of  the 
Jews   against   the   Romans  burst  forth  into   open 

rebellion    under    the    criminal    incom- 

48.  Rising  petence  of  Gessius  Florus,  66  AD 
against  (Ant,  XX,  xi,  1).  Palaces  and  pub- 
Florus  and  lie  buildings  were  fired  by  the  angered 
Defeat  of  multitude,  and  after  but  two  days' 
Gallus            siege,  the  Antonia  itself  was  captured, 

set  on  fire  and  its  garrison  slain  (BJ, 
II,  xvii,  6-7).     Cestius  Gallus,  hastening  from  Syria, 


was  soon  engaged  in  a  siege  of  the  city.  The  third 
wall  was  captured  ami  the  suburb  Bezetha  (q.v.) 
burnt,  but,  when  about  to  renew  the  attack  upon 
the  second  wall,  Gallus  appears  to  have  been  seized 
with  panic,  and  his  partial  withdrawal  developed 
into  an  inglorious  retreat  in  which  he  was  pursued 
by  the  Jews  down  the  pass  to  the  Beth-horons  as 
far  as  Antipatris  (BJ,  II,  xix). 

This  victory  cost  the  Jews  dearly  in  the  long  run, 

as  it  led  to  the  campaign  of  Vespasian  and  the 

eventual  crushing  of  all  their  national 

49.  The  hopes.  Vespasian  commenced  the  con- 
City  Be-  quest  in  the  north,  and  advanced  by 
sieged  by  slow  and  certain  steps.  Being  recalled 
Titus  to  Rome  as  emperor  in  the  midst  of 
(70  AD)  the    war.    the   work   of   besieging    and 

capturing  the  city  itself  fell  to  his  son 
Titus.  None  of  the  many  calamities  which  had 
happened  to  the  city  are  to  be  compared  with  this 
terrible  siege.  In  none  had  the  city  been  so  mag- 
nificent, its  fortifications  so  powerful,  its  population 
so  crowded.  It  was  Passover  tune,  but,  in  addition 
to  the  crowds  assembled  for  this  event,  vast  num- 
bers had  hurried  there,  flying  from  the  advancing 
Rom  army.  The  loss  of  life  was  enormous;  ref- 
ugees to  Titus  gave  600,000  as  the  number  dead 
(BJ,  V,  xiii,  7),  but  this  scents  incredible.  The 
total  population  today  within  the  walls  cannot  be 
more  than  20,000,  and  the  total  population  of 
modern  Jerus,  which  covers  a  far  greater  area-  than 
that  of  those  days,  cannot  at  the  most  liberal  esti- 
mate exceed  80,000.  Three  times  this,  or,  say,  a 
quarter  of  a  million,  seems  to  be  the  utmost  that 
is  credible,  and  many  would  place  the  numbers  at 
far  less. 

The  siege  commenced  on  the  14th  of  Nisan,  70 

AD,  and  ended  on  the  8th  of  Elul,  a  total  of  134 

days.     The    city    was    distracted    by 

50.  Party  internal  feuds.  Simon  held  the  upper 
Divisions  and  lower  cities;  John  of  Gischala,  the 
within  the  temple  and  "Ophel";  the  Idumaeans, 
Besieged  introduced  by  the  Zealots,  fought  only 
Walls  for  themselves,  until  they  relieved  the 

city  of  their  terrors.  Yet  another 
party,  too  weak  to  make  its  counsels  felt,  was  for 
peace  with  Rome,  a  policy  which,  if  taken  in  time, 
would  have  found  in  Titus  a  spirit  of  reason  and 
mercy.  The  miseries  of  the  siege  and  the  destruc- 
tion of  life  and  property  were  at  least  as  much  the 
work  of  the  Jews  themselves  as  of  their  conquerors. 
On  the  15th  day  of  the  siege  the  third  wall  (Agrip- 
pa's),  which  had  been  but  hastily  finished  upon  the 
approach  of  the  Romans,  was  captured;  the  second 
wall  was  finally  taken  on  the  24th  day;  on  the  72d 
day  the  Antonia  fell,  and  12  days  later  the  daily 
sacrifice  ceased.     On  the  105th  day  -the  ominous 

9th  of  Ab — the  temple  and  the  lower 

51.  Capture  city  were  burnt,  and  the  last  day 
and  Utter  found  the  whole  city  in  flames.  Only 
Destruction  the  three  great  towers  of  Herod,  Hip- 
of  the  City     picus,    Pharsael   and   Mariamne,   with 

the  western  walls,  were  spared  to  pro- 
tect the  camp  of  the  Nth  Legion  which  was  left  to 
guard  the  site,  and  ''in  order  to  demonstrate  to 
posterity  what  kind  of  city  it  was  and  how  well 
fortified";  the  rest  of  the  city  was  dug  up  to  its 
foundations  (BJ,  VII,  i,  1). 

For  60  years  after  its  capture  silence  reigns  over  Jerus. 

We  know  that  the  site  continued  to  be  garrisoned,  but 

it  was  not  to  any  extent  rebuilt.     In   130 

_„     P    ,     ,        AD  it  was  visited  by  Hadrian,  who  found 

O.J.   Keoei-      |nl(,    fow    buildings   standing.      Two    years 

lion  of  Bar-    later  (132-35  AD)  occurred  the  last  great 

Cochba  rebellion  of  Uie  Jews  In    the  uprising    of 

Bar-Oochba    ("son  of    a  star"),  who  was 

encouraged    by    the    rabbi    Akiba.     With 

the  suppression  of  this  last  effort  for  freedom  by  Julius 

Neverus,  the  remaining  traces  of  Judaism  were  stamped 

out,  and  it  is  even  said  (Talm  Jerus,  Ta'dnith  4)  that  the 

very  site  of  the  temple  was  ploughed  up  by  T.  Annius 


IF   INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jerusalem 
Jerusalem,  New 

Rufus.  An  altar  of  Jupiter  was  placed  upon  the  temple- 
site  and  Jews  were  excluded  from  Jerus  on  pain  of  death. 
In      SS    Hadrian    relmill    l  he   city,  giving  it  the   name 


1620 


/Elia  Capiiolina 
tt  a 

53.  Hadrian 
Builds 
JEYia 
Capitolina 


Tin 

pr< 
fortilici 
camp   i 


Mm 
ial)ly 


lim 
rati 

ill. 
of 


»f  the 


ill.' 
proh 


4th  cent, 
on  the  siti 


54.  Constan-  J 
tine  Builds 
the  Church 
of  the 
Anastasis 


,f  thc'Soiit  hern  wall  of  /Elia 
determined  l>\  Hie  southern 
,f  the  grcal  Horn  legionary 
western  southwestern)  hill, 
,1,1,-  i  luil  ii  was  the  general 
■xisl  inur  soul  hern  wall.  At  anj 
„,K»\v  thai  tilt;  area  occupied  by 
<".<„. naculum  and  the  traditional  "Tomb 
David"  was  outside  the  walls  in  the 
\n  equestrian  statue  of  Hadrian  was  placed 
of  the  '■  IIolv  of  Holies"  (Jerome,  Comm.  on 
2  S-  Ml  2i  15).  An  inscription  now  existing  in 
the  southern  wall  of  the  temple-area  in  which  occurs  the 
„ame  of  Hadrian,  may  have  belonged  to  this  monument, 
while  a  stone  head,  discovered  in  the  »>^>>  »>^<>dt  , 
terns  some  10  years  ago.  may  have  belonged  to  the 
statue  Either  Hadrian  himself,  or  one  of  the  Antonino 
emperors,  erected  a  temple  of  Venus  on  the  north weMern 
HilV  where  subsequently  was  built  the  Church  of  the 
FTolv  Seoulchre  (Euseb.,  Life  ".'  <  nn.ilantme,  111.  30). 
The  hab  t  of  pilgrimage  to  t  lie  holy  sites,  which  appears 
to  have  had  its  roots  far  back  in  the  -d  cent,  (see  Turner, 
Journal  <f  Theological  Sliulie,,  I.  551,  quoted  by  Sunday, 
S  '■!/  V,7,  so}  the  GosihI*  75  70),  seems  to  have  increas- 
ingly flourished  in  the  next  two  centuries;  beyond  tins 
we  know  little  of  the  city. 

In  333   \I>.  by  order  of  Constantine,  the  new  church 
Of  the  Anastasis;  marking  the  supposed  site  of  the  Holy 
Sepulchre      was     begun.     The     traditions 
arding    this    site    and    the    TToly    Cross 
'alleged   to  have  been  found  there,  are  re- 
corded some  time  after  the  events  and  an; 
of  doubtful    veracity.      The    building  must 
have    been    magnificent,     and    covered    a 
considerably  larger  area   than  that  of  the 
existing  church.      In  302   Julian  is  said  to 
have  attempted  to  rebuild  the  temple,  but 
the  work  was  interrupted  by  an  explosion.     The  story  is 

d°\t  sonic  uncertain  date  before  450  the  coenaculum  and 
"Church  of  the  Holy  /ion"  were  incorporated  within  the 
walls  This  is  the  condition  depicted  m  the  Matleba 
Mosaic  and  also  that  described  by  Eiichcnuswho  jnbiM 
hetween  345  50  AD.  states  that-  the  circuit  of  the  walls 
"now  receives  within  itself  Ml.  Zion,  which  was  once 
outside  and  which,  lying  on  the  southern  side,  overhangs 
the  citv  like  a  citadel."  It  is  possible  this  was  the  work 
of  the 'emperor  Valent  inian  who  is  known  to  have  done 
some  reconstruction  of  the  walls. 

In  450  the  empress  Eudoxia,  the  widow  of  Theodosius 

II    took  up  her  residence  in  Jerus  and  rebuilt  the  walls 

upon     their     ancient    lines,     bringing     the 

whole  <>r  the  southwestern  hill,  as  well  as 

the     I'ool    of    Siloam.     within    the    circuit 

Empress         (Evagarius,  Hist.  Eccles.,  1,  22).     At  any 

rate    this  inclusion  of   the  pool  existed  in 

the  walls  described   by  Antoninus  Martyr 

in  500    \1>.  and    it   is  confirmed  by  Jiliss  s 

work  .see   above    VI.    4).     She   also   built 

the  church  of  St.  Stephen,  that  at  the  Pool 

of  Siloam  and  others. 

The  emperor  Justinian,  who  was  perhaps  the  greatest 
of  the   Christian   builders,   erected   the   great    Church  of 
si     Mary,  the  remains  of  which  are  now 
considered  by   some  authorities  to   be  in- 
corporated in' the  el  Aksa  Mosque;  he  built 
also    a    'Church   of     St,    Sophia"    in   the 
"  I'ra'torium."  i.e.  on  the  site  of  the  Antonia 
■    pR  ktoiui-m),  and  a  hospital  to  the  \\  .  of 
•The  she  of  the  temple  ii  self  appears  to  have 
remained  in  ruins  down  to  the  7th  cent. 

In  (ill  Pal  was  conquered  by  the  Pers 
Chosroes  1 1 ,  and  t  he  Jerus  churches,  includ- 
ing that  of   the   Holy  Sepulchre,  were  de- 
st  roved  an  event  which  did  much  to  prepare 
ntiirp*  the'wav  for  the  Moslem  architects  of  half 

a  century  later,  who  freely  used  the  columns 
of  these  ruined  churches  in  the  building  of 
the  "  Dome  of  the  Rock." 
In  020  Heracleus,  having  meanwhile  made  peace  with 
the  successor  of  Chosroes  II,  reached  Jerus  in  triumph, 
bearing  back  the  captured  fragment  of  the 
co    „  cross,      fie   entered   the   city   through   the 

00.  ilerac-  ■■ ,  ;,,i<1cti  Gate,"  which  indeed  is  believed 
leus  Enters  bv  many  to  have  reached  its  present  form 
tt  ;n  through    his    restorations.     The    triumph 

i;  .  ,  of    Christendom    was    but    short.      Seven 

iriumpn  yoars    t,ari}or    \xll(\    occurred    the    historic 

('light  of  Mohammed  from  Mecca  (the 
Hcgira)  and  in  037  the  victorious  followers  of  the 
Prophet  appeared  in  i  he  Holy  City.  After  a  short  siege. 
it  capitulated,  but  the  khalif  Omar  treated  the  Christians 
with  generous  mercy.  The  Christian  sites 
were  spared,  but  upon  the  temple-site, 
which  up  to  this  had  apparently  been  oc- 
cupied bv  no  important  Christian  building 
but  was 'of  peculiar  sanctity  to  the  Mos- 
lems through  Mohammed's  alleged  visions 
there,  a  wooden  mosque  was  erected,  capable  of  accom- 


55.  The 

press 
Eudoxia 
Rebuilds 
the  Walls 


56.  Justin- 
ian 

(see,  howove 
the  tempi 


57.  Chos- 
roes II 

tures 
the  City 


59.  Clem- 
ency of 
Omar 


60.  The 
Seljuk 
Turks  and 
Their 
Cruelties 


62.  The 

Khari- 

zimians 


modating  3,000  worshippers.  This  was  replaced  in  091 
•X  I)  bv  the  magnificent  Kubbet  en  $ahrah,  or  "Dome of  the 
Rock'"  built  bv  'Abd'ul  Malek,  Che  lOthkhalif.  For  some 
centuries  Hie  relations  of  the  Christians  and  Moslems  ap- 
pear to  have  been  friendly:  the  historian  el  Mukaddasi, 
writ  in"  in  OS."),  describes'  the  Christians  and  Jews  as 
having  the  upper  hand  in  Jerus.  In  969  Pal  passed  into 
the  power  of  the  Kgvp  dynasty,  and  in  1010  her  ruler, 
i  lie  mad  Hakim,  burnt  many  of  the  churches,  which,  how- 
ever   were  restored  in  a  poor  way. 

In  1077  lsar  el  Atsis,  a  leader  of  the  Seljuk  Turks  con- 
quered Pal  from  the  X.,  drove  out  the  Egyptians  and 
massacred  3,000  of  the  inhabitants  of 
Jerus.  The  cruelty  of  the  Turks — in 
contrast,  be  it  noted,  with  the  conduct  of 
the  Arab  Moslems — was  the  immediate 
cause  of  the  Crusades.  In  109S  the  city 
was  retaken  by  the  Egyp  Arabs,  and  the 
following  year  was  again  captured  after 
a  40  davs'  "soige  by  the  soldiers  of  the  First 
Crusade,  and  Godfrey  de  Bouillon  became 
the  first  king.  Great  building  activity  marked  the  next 
SO  peaceful  years  of  Fat  rule:  numbers  of  churches 
were  built,  but,  until  toward  the  end  of 
_.,      „  this  period,  the  walls  were  neglected.     In 

bl.   Cru-  1177    t|1(,y    wero    repaired,    but    10    years 

saders  Cap-  later  failed  to  resist  the  arms  of  the  vic- 
tnrp  trip  torious  Saladin.    The  city  surrendered,  but 

n\  '  moo  the  inhabitants  were  spared.  In  1102 
City  in  1099  saladin  repaired  the  walls,  but  in  1210 
they  were  dismantled  by  orders  of  the  sul- 
tan of  Damascus.  In  1220  the  emperor  Frederick  II  of 
Germany  obtained  the  Holy  City  by  treaty,  on  condition 
that  he  did  not  restore  the  fortifications,  a  stipulation 
which  being  broken  by  the  inhabitants  10  years  later 
brought  down  upon  them  the  vengeance  of  the  emir  of 
Kerak.  Xe vert  heless,  in  1243  the  city  was  again  restored 
to  the  Christians  unconditionally. 

The  following  year,  however,  the  Kharizimian  Tartars 
—a  wild  savage  horde  from  Central  Asia— burst  into 
Pal,  carrying  destruction  before  them; 
they  seized  Jerus,  massacred  the  people, 
and'  rifled  the  tombs  of  the  Fat  kings. 
Three  years  later  they  were  ejected  from 
Pal  by"  the  Egyptians  who  in  their  turn 
retained  it  until,  in  1517,  they  were  con- 
quered by  the  Ottoman  Turks,  who  still 
bold  it.  The  greatest'  of  their  sultans,  Suleiman  the 
Magnificent,  built  the  present  walls  in  1542.  In  1832 
Mohammed  Ali  with  his  Egyp  forces  came 
co  r>++„™„„  and  captured  the  city,  but  2  years  later 
bJ.  Uttoman  th(,  feuahin  rose  against  his  rule  and  for 
Turks  Ob-  a  time  actually  gained  possession  of  the 
tain  the  city,    except    the    citadel,     making    their 

id.m  i"c  entrance    through   the    main    dram.      I  he 

City  in  101/   besieged  citadel  was  relieved  by  the  arrival 
of   Ibrahim   Pasha  from  Egypt  with  rein- 
forcements.     The  city  and  land  were  restored  to  the 
Gt toman  Turks  bv  the  Great  Powers  in  1S40. 

X.  Modern  Jerusalem.^ The  modern  city  of  Jerus  has 
about  75,000  inhabitants,  of  whom  over  two-thirds  are 
Jews.  Until  about  50  years  ago  the  city 
1  Tpwcanrl  was  confined  within  its  lOth-eent,  walls, 
1.  jews  ana  th(i  d()()rs  ()f  i(s  gates  lorked  every  night, 
"Zionism"  and  even  here  there  were  considerable 
areas  unoccupied.  Since  then,  and  par- 
ticularly during  the  last  25  years,  there  has  been  a 
rapid  growth  of  suburbs  to  the  N.,  N.W.,  and  W.  of 
the  old  citv.  This  has  been  largely  due  to  the  steady 
stream  of  '  immigrant  Jews  from  every  part  of  the 
world,  particularly  from  Russia,  Roumania,  Yemin, 
Persia  Bokhara,  the  Caucasus,  and  from  all  parts  of  the 
Turkish  empire.  This  influx  of  Jews,  a  large  proportion 
of  whom  an;  extremely  poor,  has  led  to  settlements  or 
"colonies"  of  various  classes  of  Jews  being  erected  all 
over  the  plateau  to  the  N  —  an  area  never  built  upon 
before  but  also  on  other  sides  of  the  city.  With  the 
exception  of  the  Bokhara  Colony,  which  has  some  fine 
buildings  and  occupies  a  lofty  and  salubrious  situation, 
most  of  the  settlements  are  mean  cottages  or  ugly  alms- 
houses With  the  exception  of  a  couple  of  hospitals 
there  is  no  Jewish  public  building  of  any  architectural 
pretensions.  The  "Zionist"  movement,  which  has 
drawn  so  manv  Jews  to  Jerus,  cannot  be  called  a  suc- 
cess as  far  as  this  citv  is  concerned,  as  the  settlers  and 
their  children  as  a  rule  either  steadily  deteriorate  physi- 
cally and  morally — from  constant  attacks  of  malaria, 
combined  with  pauperism  and  want  of  work — or,  in  the 
case  of  the  energetic  and  enlightened,  they  emigrate- 
to  \merica  esp.;  this  emigration  has  been  much  stimu- 
lated of  late  by  the  new  law  whereby  Jews  and  (  hns- 
tians  must  now,  like  Moslems,  do  military  service. 

The  foreign  Christian  population  represents  all  na- 
tions and  all  sects;  the  Roman  church  is  rapidly  sur- 
passing all  other  sects  or  religions  in  the  importance  of 
their  buildings.  The  Russians  are  well  represented  by 
their  extensive  enclosure,  which  includes  a  large  cathe- 
dral, a  hospital,  extensive  hospice  in  several  blocks,  and 
a  handsome  residence  for  the  consul-general,  and  i>> 
the  churches  and  other  buildings  on  the  Mount  of  Olives. 
The  Germans  have  a  successful  colony  belonging  to  tne 
"Temple"  sect  to  the  \V.  of  Jerus  near  the  railway  sta- 


1621 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Jerusalem,  New 


tion,  and  are  worthily  represented  by  several  handsome 
buildings,  e.g.  the  Protestant  "  Church  of  the  Redeemer," 
built  on  the  site  and  on  the  ground  plan  of  a  fine  church 
belonging  to  the  Knights  of  St.  John,  the  new  (Roman 
Catholic)  Church  of  the  Dormition  on  "Mount  Zion," 
with  an  adjoining  Benedictine  convent,  a  very  handsome 
Roman  Catholic  hospice  outside  the  Damascus  Gate, 
the  Kaiserin  Augusta  Victoria  Sanatorium  on  the  Mount 
of  Olives,  and  a  Protestant  Johan niter  Hospice  in  the  city, 
a  large  general  hospital  and  a  leper  hospital,  a  consulate 
and  two  large  schools.  In  influence,  both  secular  and 
religious,  the  Germans  have  rapidly  gained  ground  in  the 
last  2  decades.  British  influence  has  much  diminished, 
relatively.  The  British  Ophthalmic  Hospital,  belonging 
to  the  "Order  of  the  Knights  of  St.  John,"  the  Eng. 
Mission  Hospital,  belonging  to  the  London 
Jews  Society,  the  Bishop  Gobat's  School 
and  Eng.  'College  connected  with  the 
Church  Missionary  Society,  3  Anglican 
churches,  of  which  the  handsome  St. 
George's  Collegiate  Church  adjoins  the  re- 
sidence of  the  Anglican  bishop,  and  a  few 
small  schools  comprise  the  extent  of  public 
buildings  connected  with  British  societies.  France  and 
the  Roman  Catholic  church  are  worthily  represented  by 


2.  Christian 
Buildings 
and 
Institutions 


talked-of  improvements.  There  are  numerous  hotels, 
besides  extensive  accommodations  in  the  religious  hos- 
pices, and  no  less  than  15  hospitals  and  asylums. 

Literature. — This  is  enormous,  but  of  very  unequal 
value  and  much  of  it  out  of  date.  For  all  purposes  the 
best  book  of  reference  is  Jerus  from  the  Earliest  Times 
to  AD  70,  2  vols,  by  Principal  G.  A.  Smith.  It  contains 
references  to  all  the  lit.  To  this  book  ami  to  its  author 
it  is  impossible  for  the  present  writer  adequately  to  ex- 
press his  indebtedness,  and  no  attempt  at  acknowledg- 
ment in  detail  has  been  made  in  this  art.  In  supple- 
ment of  the  above,  Jerus,  by  Dr.  Selah  Merrill,  and 
Jerus  in  Bible  Times,  by  Professor  Lewis  B.  Paton,  will 
be  found  useful.  The  latter  is  a  condensed  account,  esp. 
valuable  for  its  illustrations  and  its  copious  references. 
Of  the  arts,  in  the  recent  Bible  Dictionaries  on  Jerus, 
that  by  Conder  in  HDB  is  perhaps  the  most  valuable. 
Of  guide-books,  Baedeker's  Guide  to  Pol  ami  Syria  (191  1), 
by  Socin  and  Benzinger,  and  Barnabe  Meistermann's 
(R.C.)  A'nv  Guide  to  the  Holy  Land  (,U>09),  will  be  found 
useful;  also  Hanauer's  Walks  about  Jerus. 

On  Geology,  Climate  and  Water-Supply:  Hull's 
"Memoir  on  Physical  Geography  and  Geology  of  Ara- 
bian Petraea,  Pal,  and  Adjoining  Districts,"   I'EF;    and 


Modern  Jerusalem  (with   Pool  of   Hezekiah   in   Foreground). 


the  Dominican  monastery  and  seminary  connected  with 
the  handsome  church  of  St.  Stephen — rebuilt  on  the  plan 
of  an  old  Christian  church — by  the  Ratisbon  (Jesuit) 
Schools,  the  Hospital  of  St.  Louis,  the  hospice  and  Church 
of  St.  Augustine,  and  1  lie  monastery  and  seminary  of  the 
"white  fathers"  or  Freres  de  la  mission  algerienne, 
whose  headquarters  center  round  the  beautifully  re- 
stored Church  of  St.  Anne.  Not  far  from  here  are  the 
convent  and  school  of  the  Swurs  de  Sion,  at  the  Ecco 
Homo  Church.  Also  inside  the  walls  near  the  New 
Gate  is  the  residence  of  the  Lat  Patriarch — a  cardinal 
of  the  Church  of  Rome — with  a  church,  the  school  of 
the  Freres  de  la  doctrine  chretienne,  and  the  schools,  hospi- 
tal and  convent  of  the  Franciscans,  who  are  recognized 
among  their  coreligionists  as  the  " parish  priests"  in  the 
city,  having  been  established  there  longer  than  the 
numerous  other  orders. 

All  the  various  nationalities  are  under  their  respective 
consuls  and  enjoy  extra-territorial  rights.  Besides  the 
Turkish  post-office,  which  is  very  inefficiently  managed, 
the  Austrians,  Germans,  French,  Russians  and  Italians 
all  have  post-offices  open  to  all,  with  special  "Levant 
stamps.  The  American  mail  is  delivered  at  the  French 
post-office.  There  are  four  chief  banks,  French,  Ger- 
man, Ottoman  and  Anglo-Pal  (Jewish).  As  may  be 
supposed,  on  account  of  the  demand  for  land  for  Jewish 
settlements  or  for  Christian  schools  or  convents,  .the 
price  of  such  property  has  risen  enormously.  Unfortu- 
nately in  recent  years  all  owners  of  land — and  Moslems 
have  not  been  slow  to  copy  the  foreigners — have  taken 
to  inclosing  their  property  with  high  and  unsightly  walls, 
greatly  spoiling  both  the  walks  around  the  city  and  the 
prospects  from  many  points  of  view.  The  increased 
development  of  carriage  traffic  has  led  to  considerable 
dust  in  the  dry  season,  and  mud  in  winter,  as  the  roads 
are  metaled  with  very  soft  limestone.  The-  Jerus-Jafla 
Railway  (a  Fr.  company) ,  54 miles  long,  which  was  opened 
in  1892*,  has  steadily  increased  its  traffic  year  by  year, 
and  is  now  a  very  paying  concern.  There  is  no  real 
municipal  water-supply,  and  no  public  sewers  for  the 
new  suburbs — though  the  old  city  is  drained  by  a  leaking, 
ill-constructed  mediaeval  sewer,  which  opens  just  below 
the  Jewish  settlement  in  the  Kidron  and  runs  down  the 
W&dy  en  Nar.  A  water-supply,  new  sewers,  electric 
trams  and  electric  lights  for  the  streets,  are  all  much- 


Blankenhorn,"  Geology  of  the  Nearer  Environs  of  Jerus," 
Zbl'Y,  1905;  Chaplin,  "Climate  of  Jerus."  PEFS, 
1883;  Glaisher,  "  Meteorol.  Observations  in  Pal,"  special 
pamphlet  of  the  Palestine  Exploration  Fund;  Hilder- 
scheid,  "Die  Nicdersehlagsverhaltnisse  Pal  in  alter 
u.  neuer  Zeit,"  ZDPV  (1902);  Huntington,  Pal  and  Its 
Transformation  (1911);  Andrew  Watt,  "Climate  in 
Hebron,"  etc,  Journal  of  the  Scottish  Meteorological  So- 
ciety (1900-11);  Schick,  "Die;  Wasservcrsorgung  der 
Stadt  Jerus,"  ZDPV,  1878;  Wilson  "Water  Supply  of 
Jerus,"  Proceedings  of  tlie  Victoria  Institute,  1900;  Alas- 
terman,  in  B  W,  1905. 

On  Archaeology  and  Topography:  PEF,  vol  on 
Jerus,  with  accompanying  maps  and  plans;  Clermont- 
Ganneau,  Archaeological  Researches,  I,  1S99  (I'EF); 
William,  Hob,  City  (1849);  Robinson,  Bib.  Researches 
(1850);  Wilson,  Recovery  of  Jems  (1871);  Warren 
Underground  Jerus  (1876);  Vincent.  Underground  Je- 
rusalem (1911) ;  Guthe,  "Ausgrabungen  in  Jerus,"  ZDPV, 
V;  Bliss  and  Dickie,  Excavations  in  Jerus  (1894-97); 
Sanday.  Sacred  Sites  of  the  Gospels  (1903);  Mitchell, 
"The  Wall  of  Jerus  according  to  the  Book  of  Neh," 
JBL  (1903);  Wilson,  Golgotha  and  the  Holy  Sepulchre 
(1906);  Kuemmel,  Materialmen  z.  Topogra phie  des  alien 
Jerus;  also  numerous  reports  in  the  PEFS;  Zeitschrift 
des    deutsrhen    Pal    Vereins;   and  the  Revue  biblique. 

On  History:  besides  Bible.  Apoc,  works  of  Jos.  and 
History  of  Tacitus:  Besant  and  Palmer,  History  of  Jerus; 
Conder,  Judas  Maccnbaeus  and  Latin  Kingdom  of 
Jerus;  Le  Strange,  Pal  under  the  Moslems  (1890);  C.  F. 
Kent,  Biblical  Geography  and.  History  (1911).  Bevan, 
Jerus  under  the  High-Priests;  Watson,  The  Story  of  Jerus. 

E.  W.  G.  Masterman 
JERUSALEM,  NEW  (Tepouo-aXiux  kcuvt|,  Hie- 
rousalcm  kaini):  This  name  occurs  in  Rev  21  2 
(ver  10,  "holy  city").  The  conception  is  based  on 
prophecies  which  predict  a  glorious  future  to  Jerus 
a'ter  the  judgment  (Isa  52  1).  In  Rev,  however, 
it  is  not  descriptive  of  any  actual  locality  on  earth, 
but  allegorically  depicts  the  final  state  of  the 
church  ("the  bride,"  "the  wife  of  the  Lamb,"  21 
2.9),  when  the  new  heaven  and  the  new  earth  shall 


Jerusha 
Jesse 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1622 


have  conic  into  being.  The  picture  is  drawn  from 
a  twofold  point  of  view:  the  new  Jerus  is  a  restora- 
tion of  Paradise  (21  6;  22  1.2.14);  it  is  also  the 
ideal  of  the  theocracy  realized  (21  3.12.14.22).  The 
latter  viewpoint  explains  the  peculiar  representa- 
tion that  the  city  descends  "out  of  heaven  from 
Cod"  (21  2.10),  "which  characterizes  it  as,  on  the 
one  hand,  a  product  of  Cod's  supernatural  work- 
manship, and  as,  on  the  other  hand,  the  culmination 
of  the  historic  process  of  redemption.  In  other  NT 
passages,  where  the  theocratic  point  of  view  is  less 
prominent,  the  antitypieal  Jerus  appears  as  having 
its  seat  in  heaven  instead  of,  as  here,  coming  down 
from  heaven  to  earth  (of  Gal  4  26;  He  11  10;  12 
22).     See  also  Revelation  or  John. 

.  Geerhardus  Vos 
JERUSHA,  je-roo'sha  (SttJIT) ,  ifrusfuV,  •'taken 
possession  of,"  i.e.  "married"):  In  2  K  15  33  = 
"Jerushah"  (nt,''ri~P ,  ifrushdh,  same  meaning)  of 
2  Ch  27  1,  the  mother  of  King  Jot  ham  of  Judah. 
Zadok  was  her  father's  name;  he  may  be  the  priest 
of  1  Ch  6  12  (Heb  5  38). 

JESHAIAH,  js-sha'ya,  je-slu'a  ([a]  IST?^ ,  y-sha'- 
ydhil;  [frjrP^TlJ'?,  y\shaxydh,  "deliverance  of  Jeh"; 
[2]  [3]  below  have  form  [a],  the  others  form  [b]) : 

(1)  Son  of  Hananiah,  and  grandson  of  Zerub- 
babel,  according  tc  1  Ch  3  21,  AV  "Jesaiah." 

But  commentators  follow  Heb  (and  RVm)  in  the  first 
part  of  the  verse,  and  LXX,  Vulg,  Syr  in  the  second  part, 
thus  reading,  "And  the  son  of  Hananiah  [was]  Pelatiah, 
and  Jeshaiah  [was]  his  son,  and  Arnan  his  son,"  etc,  thus 
making  .1   a  grandson  of  Hananiah. 

(2)  A  "son"  of  Jeduthun,  and  like  him  a  temple 
musician;  head  of  the  family  of  that  name  (1  Ch 
25  3.1,-)). 

(3)  A  Levite,  ancestor  of  Shelemoth,  one  of 
David's  treasurers  (1  Ch  26  25). 

(4)  A  descendant  of  Elam;  he  went  with  Ezra 
from  Babylon  to  Jerus  (Ezr  8  7)  =  "Jesias"  (RV), 
"Josias"   (AV),   1  Esd  8  33. 

(5)  A  descendant  of  Merari  and  a  contemporary 
of  Ezra  (Ezr  8  19)  =  "Osaias"  of  1  Esd  8  48. 

(6)  A  Benjamite  (Neh  11  7),  AV  "Jesaiah." 

David  Francis  Roberts 
JESHANAH,  jesh'a-na,  je-sha'na  (nSW'J ,  ifsha- 
ndh):  A  town  named  with  Bethel  and  Ephron 
among  the  places  taken  by  Abijah  from  Jeroboam 
(2  Ch  13  19).  Most  scholars  are  agreed  that 
the  same  name  should  be  read  instead  of  "I^H , 
ha-shen,  in  1  S  7  12.  It  is  probably  identical  with 
the  I<rdras,  Isdnas,  of  Jos  {Ant,  XIV,  xv,  12).  It  is 
represented  by  the  modern  Win  Sinia,  3|  miles  N. 
of  Bethel,  with  a  spring  and  interesting  ancient 
remains. 

JESHARELAH,  jesh-a-re'la  (nbg-jto'; ,  fsar'eldh, 
meaning  doubtful) :  One  of  the  (or  probably  a 
family  of)  Lcvitical  musicians  (1  Ch  25  14),  called 
"Asharelah"  in  ver  2.  The  names  should  be 
written  "Asarelah"  and  "Jesarelah." 

JESHEBEAB,  jp-sheb'e-ab  (1»3$  ,  yeshebh'dbh, 
meaning  uncertain):  A  Levite  of  the  14th  course  (1 
Ch  24  13).  Kittel  and  Gray  (HPN,  24)  read  with 
LXX,  A,  "Ishbaal";  the  name  is  omitted  in  LXX, 
B,  and  the  change  in  MT  as  well  as  the  omission  in 
LXX  may  be  due  to  the  word  ba^al  forming  part 
of  the  name.     Cf  Jerubbesheth. 

JESHER,  je'sher  OTIP,  yesher,  or  ItT ,  yesher, 
"uprightness"):    A  son  of  Caleb  (1  Ch  2  18). 

JESHIMON,  jo-she'mon,  jesh'i-mon  (f^lp"!?! , 
ha-fsh'imdn,  "the  desert."  and  in  RV  so  trd;  but 
in  AV,   Nu  21  20;    23  28;    1  S  23  19.24;    26  1.3, 


"Jeshimon"  as  a  place-name.  In  Nu  LXX  reads 
r\  epn(j.os,  he  eremos,  "the  desert";  in  1  S  LXX  reads 
'Ieo-a-avjxov,  Iessaimon):  In  these  passages  probably 
two  districts  are  referred  to:  (1)  The  "desert"  N. 
of  the  Dead  Sea,  which  was  overlooked  from  Pisgah 
(Nu  21  20;  23  28).  This  is  the  bare  and  sterile 
land,  saturated  with  salt,  lying  on  each  side  of  the 
Jordan  N.  of  the  Dead  Sea,  where  for  miles  practi- 
cally no  vegetable  life  can  exist.  (2)  The  sterile 
plateau  W.  of  the  steep  cliffs  bordering  the  western 
shores  of  the  Dead  Sea.  Here  between  the  lower 
slopes  of  the  Judaean  hills,  where  thousands  of  Bed- 
ouin live  and  herd  their  flocks,  and  the  more  fertile 
borders  of  the  sea  with  their  oases  (Win  Fcshkhah, 
Win  Jidy,  etc),  is  a  broad  strip  of  utterly  waterless 
land,  the  soft  chalky  hills  of  which  are,  for  all  but  a 
few  short  weeks,  destitute  of  practically  any  vegeta- 
tion. The  Hill  of  Hachilah  was  on  the  edge  of  this 
desert  (1  S  23  19;  26  1.3),  and  the  Arabah  was  to 
its  south  (1  S  23  24).  It  is  possible  that  the  refer- 
ences in  Nu  may  also  apply  to  this  region. 

The  word  "Jeshimon"  (ifshimon)  is  often  used  as 
a  common  noun  in  referring  to  the  desert  of  Sinai 
(Dt  32  10;  Ps  78  40;  106  14;  Isa  43  19,  etc), 
and  except  in  the  first  two  of  those  references,  when 
we  have  "wilderness,"  it  is  always  trd  "desert." 
Although  used  in  7  passages  in  poetical  parallelism 
to  midhbdr,  trd  "wilderness,"  it  really  means  a 
much  more  hopeless  place;  in  a  midhbdr  animals 
can  be  pastured,  but  a  ifshimon  is  a  desolate  waste. 
E.  W.  G.  Masterman 

JESHISHAI,  je-shish'a-I  (T^ ,  fshishay, 
"aged"):  A  Gadite  chief  (and  family?) '(1  Ch  5  14). 

JESHOHAIAH,  jesh-o-ha'ya,  jesh-6-hi'a  (PPrnn}'?, 
yeshohaydh,  meaning  unknown) :  A  prince  in  Simeon 
(1  Ch  4  36). 

JESHUA,  jesh'u-a,  JESHUAH,  je-shu'a  (Jl©?  , 
yeshu"\  "Jeh  is  deliverance"  or  "opulence";  cf 
Joshua): 

(1)  AV  "Jeshuah,"  head  of  the  9th  course  of 
priests,  and  possiblv  of  "the  house  of  Jeshua" 
(1  Ch  24  11;  Ezr  2  36;   Neh  7  39). 

(2)  A  Levite  of  Hezekiah's  time  (2  Ch  31  15). 

(3)  Son  of  Jozadak  =  Joshua  the  high  priest  (Ezr 

2  2;  3  2.8;  4  3;  5  2;  10  18;  Neh  7  7;  12  1.7.10. 
26);  see  Joshua  (4)  =  "Jesus"  (1  Esd  5  48  and  Sir 
49  12). 

(4)  A  man  of  Pahath-moab,  some  of  whose  de- 
scendants returned  from  Babvlon  to  Jerus  with 
Zerubbabel  (Ezr  2  6;  Neh  7  11)  =  "Jesus"  (1  Esd 
5  8). 

(5)  Head  of  a  Levitical  house  which  had  over- 
sight of  the  workmen    in    the  temple   (Ezr  2  40; 

3  9;  Neh  7  43).  He  is  mentioned  again  in  Neh 
8  7  as  taking  part  in  explaining  the  Torah  to  the 
people,  in  9  4  f  (cf  12  8)  as  leading  in  the  wor- 
ship, and  in  10  9  (Heb  10)  as  sealing  the  covenant ; 
this  J.  is  called  son  of  Azaniah  (Neh  10  9).  To 
these  references  should  be  added  probably  Neh  12 
24,  where  commentators  read,  "Jeshua,  Binnui,  Kad- 
miel"  for  "Jeshua  the  son  of  Kadmiel."  Perhaps 
Jozabad  (Ezr  8  33)  is  a  "son"  of  this  same  Jeshua; 
cf  Ezr  8  33=1  Esd  8  63,  where  AV  is  "Jesu,"  RV 
"Jesus."  He  is  the  same  as  Jessue  (AV),  Jesus  (RV) 
(1  Esd  5  26). 

(6)  Father  of  Ezer,  a  repairer  of  the  wall  (Neh 
3  19). 

(7)  Joshua,  son  of  Nun  (Neh  8  17)  (q.v.). 

David  Francis  Roberts 
JESHUA,  jesh'u-a,  je-shu'a  (r^ ,  yeshuaK):  A 
place  occupied  by  the  children  of  Judah  after  their 
return  from  captivity  (Neh  11  26),  evidently,  from 
the  places  named  with  it,  in  the  extreme  S.  of  Judah. 
It  may  correspond  with  the  Shema  of  Josh  15  26, 


1623 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jerusha 
Jesse 


and  possibly  to  the  Sheba  of  19  2.  The  site  may 
be  Khirbet  SfTweh,  a  rain  upon  a  prominent  hill, 
Tell  es  Scfweh,  12  miles  E.N.E.  of  Beersheba.  The 
hill  is  surrounded  by  a  wall  of  large  blocks  of  stone. 
PEF,  III,  409-10,  Sh  XXV. 

JESHURUN,  jc-shu'run,  jesh'u-run  0P~l3P, 
ifshuruit,  "upright  one,"  Dt  32  15;  33  5.26;  Lsa 
44  2):  LXX  trs  it  "the  beloved  one"  (vycnrrt^vos, 
egapemtnos,  the  pert',  part,  passive  of  agapdo),  and 
in  lsa  44  2  adds  "Israel";  Vulg  has  dilectus  in  Dt 
32  15,  elsewhere  rectissimus;  Aq.,  Spun.,  Theod. 
have  "upright."  For  the  form,  Duhm  compares 
T'37,  z'bhulun,  Zebulun.  (1)  The  name  used  to 
be  explained  as  a  diminutive  form,  a  pet  name, 
and  some,  e.g.  Cornill,  Schultz  (OT  Theol,  ET,  II, 
29,  n.12)  still  explain  it  so,  "the  righteous  little 
people."  But  there  is  no  evidence  that  the  ending 
-;</;  had  a  diminutive  force.  (2)  Most  moderns  take 
it  as  a  poetical  or  ideal  title  of  Israel,  derived  from 
"YEP  ,  yashdr,  "upright";  it  is  held  to  contain  a  tacit 
reference  to  the  word  Israel  (5SjH1P^ ,  yisra'el),  of 
which  the  first  three  consonants  are  almost  the  same 
as  those  of  " Jeshurun"  ;  in  Nu  23  10  the  term  "the 
righteous  ones"  (□"'"It;"1 ,  yeshdrlm)  is  supposed  to 
contain  a  similar  reference.  Most  commentators 
compare!  also  "the  Book  of  Jashar,"  and  it  has  been 
held  that  "Jashar"  is  similarly  a  name  by  which 
Israel  is  called.     See  Jashar. 

Following  Bacher  (ZATW,  1885,  161  ff),  com- 
mentators hold  that  in  Lsa  this  new  name,  a  coinage 
due  to  the  author  of  Second  Isaiah  and  adopted  in 
Dt,  stands  in  contrast  to  Jacob,  "the  supplanter," 
as  his  name  was  explained  by  the  Hebrews  (cf  Hos 
12  2-4).  Israel  is  here  given  a  new  name,  "the 
upright,  pious  one,"  and  witli  the  new  name  goes  a 
new  chance  in  life,  to  live  up  to  its  meaning.  Driver 
(Dt,  361)  says  that  in  Dt  32  15  "where  the  context 
is  of  declension  from  its  ideal  [it  is]  applied  reproach- 
fully. 'Nomen  Recti  pro  Israele  ponens,  ironice 
eos  perstringit  qui  a  rectitudine  defecerant'  (Calv.). 
Elsewhere  it  is  used  as  a  title  of  honor."  AV  has 
"Jesurun"  in  lsa  44  2. 

David  Francis  Roberts 

JESIAH,  je-si'a  (1  Ch  23  20  AV).     See  Isshiah. 

JESIAS,    je-sl'as    ('Iscrias,    Iesias;     AV    Josias 

[1  Esd  8  33]):    Corresponding    to  Jeshaiah,  son  of 
Athaliah  (Ezr  8  7). 

JESIMIEL,  je-sim'i-el  (btftt'ME'i ,  yslmi'el,  "God 
establishes"):    A  prince  of  Simeon  (1   Ch  4  36). 

JESSE,  jes'e  CV. ,  yishay,  meaning  doubtful; 
according  to  Gesenius  it  =  "wealthy";  Olshausen, 
Gram.,  §§  277  f,  conjectures  !"P  TD"! ,  ycxh  yah,  "Jeh 
exists";  Wellhausen  [1  S  14  49]  explains  it  as 
"'©"OX ,  'dbhishay  [see  Abishai];  'Ieo-o-ai,  Iessai; 
Ruth '4  17.22;  1  S  16;  17;  20;  22;  25  10;  2  S 
20  1;  23  1;  1  K  12  16;  1  Ch  10  14;  12  IS; 
Ps  72  20;  lsa  11  1.10  [  =  Rom  15  12]);  Mt  1  5.6; 
Acts  13  22):  Son  of  Obed,  grandson  of  Boaz,  and 
father  of  King  David.  The  grouping  of  the;  refer- 
ences to  J.  in  1  S  is  bound  up  with  that  of  the 
grouping  of  the  whole  narrative  of  David  and  Saul. 
See  Samuel,  Books  of.  There  seem  to  be  three 
main  veins  in  the  narrative,  so  far  as  J.  is  concerned. 

(1)  In  1^  S  16  1-13,  where  J.  is  called  the  Bethle- 
hemite.  Samuel  is  sent  to  seek  among  J.'s  sons  a 
successor  to  Saul. 

Both  Samuel  and  J.  fail  to  discern  at  first  Jeh's  choice, 
Samuel  thinking  that  it  would  be  the  eldest  son  (ver  (i), 
while  J.  had  not  thought  it  worth  while  to  call  the  young- 
est to  the  feast  (ver  11). 


(2)  (a)  In  1  S  16  14-23,  Saul  is  mentally  dis- 
turbed, and  is  advised  to  get  a  harpist.  David 
"the  son  of  J.  the  Bethlehemite"  is  recommended 
by  a  courtier,  and  Saul  sends  to  J.  for  David. 

"And  J.  took  ten  loaves  [so  emend  and  translate,  and 
not  as  RV,  "an  ass  laden  with  bread"],  and  a  [skin) 
bottle  of  wine,  and  a  kid,  and  sent  them"  to  Saul  as  a 
present  with  David,  who  becomes  a  courtier  of  Saul's 
witli  his  father's  consent. 

(b)  The  next  mention  of  J  is  in  three  contemp- 
tuous references  by  Saul  to  David  as  "the  son  of  J." 
in  20  27.30.31,  part  of  the  quarrel-scene  between 
Saul  and  Jonathan.  (But  it  is  not  quite  certain 
if  ch  20  belongs  to  the  same  source  as  16  14-23.) 
In  answer  to  the  first  reference,  Jonathan  calls  his 
friend  "David,"  and  Saul  repeats  the  phrase  "the 
son  of  J.,"  abusing  Jonathan  personally  (ver  30, 
where  the  meaning  is  uncertain).  The  reference  to 
David  as  "the  son  of  J."  here  and  in  the  following 
verse  is  contemptuous,  not  because  of  any  reproach 
that  might  attach  itself  to  J.,  but,  as  Budde  remarks, 
because  "an  upstart  is  always  contemptuously 
referred  to  under  his  father's  name"  in  courts  and 
society.     History  repeats  itself! 

(r)  Further  references  of  a  like  kind  are  in  the  passage, 
22  6-2:5,  viz.  in  vs  7.8.13  by  Saul,  and  repeated  by  Doeg 
in  ver  9. 

(<l)  The  final  one  of  this  group  is  in  25  10,  where  Nabal 
sarcastically  asks  "Who  is  David?  and  who  is  the  son 
of  J.?" 

(3)  The  parts  of  17 — 18  5  which  are  omitted  by 
LXX  B,  i.e.  17  12-31.41.486.50.55—18  6a.  Here 
J.  is  mentioned  as  "an  Ephrathite  of  Beth-lehem- 
judah"  (ver  12,  not  "that"  Ephrathite,  which  is  a 
grammatically  impossible  tr  of  the  MT),  Ephrath 
or  Ephrathah  being  another  name  for  Bethlehem,  or 
rather  for  the  district.  He  is  further  said  to  have 
eight  sons  (ver  12),  of  whom  the  three  eldest  had 
followed  Saul  to  the  war  (ver  13). 

J.  sends  David,  the  shepherd,  to  his  brothers  with  pro- 
visions (ver  17).  Afterward  David,  on  being  brought  to 
Saul  and  asked  who  lie  is,  answers,  "  I  am  the  son  of  thy 
servant  .).  the  Bethlehemite"  (ver  58).  J.  is  also  de- 
scribed (ver  12)  as  being  "in  the  days  of  Saul  an  old 
man,  advanced  in  years"  (so  emend  and  translate,  not 
as  RV,  "stricken  in  years  among  men").  The  mention 
of  his  having  8  sons  in  ver  12  is  not  in  agreement  with 
1  Ch  2  13-15,  which  gives  only  7  sons  with  two  sisters, 
but  where  Syr  gives  8,  adding,  from  27  18,  Elihu  which 
MT  has  there  probably  by  corruption  (Curtis,  Ch,  88). 
1  S  16  10  should  be  trd  "and  J.  made  his  7  sons  to  pass 
before  Samuel"  (not  as  RV,  AV,  "seven  of  his  sons"). 
Budde  (Kurz.  Hand-Komm.,  "Samuel,"  114)  holds  16 
1-13  to  be  a  late  Midr,  and  (ib,  123  f)  omits  («)  "that" 
in  17  12;  (6)  also  "  and  he  had  8  sons"  as  due  to  a  wrong 
inference  from  16  10;  (c)  the  names  of  the  3  eldest  in 
17  13;  (d)  ver  146;  he  then  changes  15a,  and  reads  thus: 
(12)  "  Xow  D.  was  the  son  of  an  Ephrathite  of  Bethlehem- 
Judah,  whose  name  was  J.,  who  was  ....  [years]  old 
at  the  time  of  Saul.  (13)  And  the  3  eldest  sons  of  J. 
had  marched  with  Saul  to  the  war,  (14)  and  David  was 
the  youngest,  (15)  and  David  had  remained  to  feed  his 
father's  sheep  at  Bethlehem.  (10)  Xow  the  Philis  came," 
etc. 

According  to  all  these  narratives  in  1  S,  whether 
all  3  be  entirely  independent  of  one  another  or  not, 
J.  had  land  in  Bethlehem,  probably  outside  the 
town  wall,  like  Boaz  (see  Boaz)  his  grandfather 
(Ruth  4  17).  In  22  3.4  David  intrusts  his  father 
and  mother  to  the  care  of  the  king  of  Moab,  but 
from  20  29  some  have  inferred  that  J.  was  dead 
(although  most  critics  assign  22  3  at  any  rate  to  the 
same   stratum   as   ch   20). 

Jonathan  tells  Saul  that  David  wanted  to  attend  a 
family  sacrificial  feast  at  Bethlehem  (20  29).  MT  reads, 
"And  he,  my  brother,  has  commanded  me,"  whereas  we 
should  probably  read  witli  LXX,  "and  my  brethren  have 
commanded  me,"  i.e.  the  members  of  the  clan,  as  we  have 
farther  on  in  the  verse,  "Let  me  get  away,  1  pray  thee,  and 
see  my  brethren."      As  to  J.'s  daughters,  see  Abigail; 

N AH ASH. 

(4)  Of  the  other  references  to  J.,  the  most  note- 
worthy is  that  in  lsa  11  1 :  "There  shall  come  forth 
a  shoot  out  of  the  stock  of  Jesse,  and  a  branch  out  of 


Jesting  T111.;   IXTKUNATIONAL  STAND 

Jesus  Christ 

his  roots  shall  hear  fruit,"  i.e.  out  of  Jesse's  roots 
U-'f  Ucv  6  ")).  "Wiiy  J.  and  not  David?"  asks 
Duhm;  and  he  answers,  "Because  the  Messiah  will 
be  a  second  David,  rather  than  a  descendant  of 
David."  Marti  explains  it  to  mean  that  he  will 
be,  not  from  David,  but  from  a  collateral  line  of 
descent.  Duhm's  explanation  suggests  a  paral- 
lelism between  David  and  Christ,  of  whom  the 
former  may  he  treated  as  a  type  similar  to  Aaron 
and  Melchizedek  in  He.  Saul  might  pour  contempt 
upon  "the  son  of  J.,"  bill  Isaiah  has  given  J.  here  a 
name  above  all  Hob  names,  and  thus  does  Provi- 
dence mock  "society.''  See  also  Root  of  Jesse. 
David  Francis  Roberts 
JESTING,  jost'ing:  Used  from  Tindale  down  as 
the  tr  of  evrpaireXia,  eutrapelia  (Eph  5  4).  Aris- 
totle uses  the  original  in  his  Ethics  iv.lt  as  an 
equivalent  of  "quick-witted,"  from  its  root  mean- 
ing "something  easily  turned,"  adding  that,  since 
the  majority  of  people  love  excessive  jesting,  the 
word  is' apt 'to  be  degraded.  This  is  the  case  here, 
where  it  clearly  has  a  flavor  of  the  coarse  or  licen- 
tious. 

JESUI,  jes'fi-I.     See  Isiivi. 

JESUITES,  jes'n-its.     See  Isiivi. 

JESURUN,  jf'-su'run,  jes'u-run.     See  Jeshurun. 

JESUS,    je'zus     ('Ir^o-otis,    It-sous,    for     ""iL'Ti*1 , 
yehushuat) : 

(1)  Joshua,  son  of  Nun  (AV  Acts  7  45;   He  4  8; 
cf  1  Mace  2  55;  2  Esd  7  37). 

(2)  (3)  High  priest  and  Levite.     See  Jeshua,  2,  5. 

(4)  Son  of  Sirach.     See  Sirach. 

(5)  An  ancestor  of  Jesus  (Lk  3  29,  AV  "Jose"). 

(6)  (7)   See  the  next    three  article's. 

JESUS  CHRIST,   je'zus  krlst  ('Ir|crovs  Xpio-T6s, 

1 1  sous  Christos) : 

I.     The  Names 
II.     Order  of  Treatment 

Part  I.      Inthouuctoby 

I.  The  Sources 
l.    In  ( rcncral 

_'.    Denial  of  Existence  of  Jesus 
;s.    Extra-Christian  Notices 
V.  The  ( iospels 

1  <    The  Synoptics 

(2)  The  Fourth  t  lospcl 

II.  The  Preparation 

1.  lioth  Gentile  and  Jewish 

2.  OT  Preparation 

:?.   Post-exilian  Preparation 
111.     The  Outward  Situation 

1.  The  Land 

Its  Divisions 

2.  Political  Sit  nation 
Changes  in  'territory 

3.  The  Religious  Sects 

(1)  The  Scribes 

(2)  The  Pharisees 

(3)  The  Sadducees 

(4)  The  Essenes 
IV.     The  (  'h  honology 

1.  Date  of  the  Birth  of  Jesus 

2.  Date  of  Baptism 

3.  Length  of  Ministry 

1.    Date  of  Christ's  Death 

Part    11.      The    Problems   of   tiik    Life    of   Jests 
I.      The  Miracles 

1.  The  ••Modern"  Attitude 

2.  Supernatural  in  the  Gospels 

II.  The  Messi ahsiiif 

1.  Reserve  of  Jesus  and  Modern  Criticism 

2.  A  Growing  Revelation 

III.  Kingdom  and  Apocalypse 

1.  The  Kingdom      Present  or  Future ? 

2.  Apocalypt  ic  Beliefs 

IV.  The  Character   and  Claims 

1.  Denial  of  Christ's  Moral  Perfection 

2.  Sinlessness  and  the  Messianic  Claim 

Part  III.      Course  of  the  Earthly  Life  of  Jesus 

1.  Divisions  of  the  History 

2.  Not  a  ( 'omplete  "  Life" 


AH  I)  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1624 


A.  FROM     THE     NATIVITY    TO    THE     BAPTISM     AND 

TEM  PTATION 

I.  Til  E    \  ATIVITY 

1 .  Hidden  Piety  in  Judaism 

2.  Birth  of  the  Baptist 

:i.   The  Annunciation  and  Its  Results 

4.  The  Birth  at  Bethlehem 

(1)  The  Census  of  Quirinius 
(2i    Jesus  Born 

5.  The  Incidents  of  the  Infancy 

(  1  )    The  Visit  of  the  Shepherds 

(2)  The  Circumcision  and   Presentation   in   the 
Temple 

(3)  Visit  of  the  Magi 

6.  Flight  to  Egypt  and  Return  to  Nazareth 

7.  Questions  and  Objections 

(1)  The  Virgin  Birth 

(2)  The  Genealogies 

II.  The  Years  of  Silence — The  Twelfth  Year 

1.  The  Human  Development 

2.  Jesus  in  the  Temple 

III      The  Forerunner  and  the  Baptism 

1.  The  Preaching  of  John 
The  <  !oming  Christ 

2.  Jesus  Is  Baptized 
IV.      Th  e  Tempt  \tion 

1.  Temptation  Follows  Baptism 

2.  Nature  of  the  Temptation 
;<.   Stages  of  the  Temptation 

Its  Typical  Character 

I).        THE     EARLY    JUDAEAN     MINISTRY 

I.      The   Testimonies   of   the   Baptist 

1.  The  Synoptics  and  John 

2.  Threefold  Witness  of  the  Baptist 

II.  The    First    Disciples 

1 .  Spiritual  Accretion 

2.  "Son  of  Man"  and  "Son  of  God" 

III.  The  First  Events 

1.  The  first   Miracle 

2.  The  First  Passover,  and  Cleansing  of  the  Temple 

3.  The  Visit  of  Nicodemus 

4.  Jesus  and  John 

IV.  Journey  to  Galilee — The  Woman  of  Samaria 

1.  Withdrawal  to  Galilee 

2.  The  Living  Water 

3.  The  True  Worship 

4.  Work  and  Its  Reward 

C        THE    GALILEAN    MINISTRY    AND    VISITS    TO    THE    FEASTS 

1.  The  Scene 

2.  The  Time 

First  Period — From  the   Beginninij  of  the   Ministry  in 
Galilee  till  the  Mission  of  the   Twelce 

I.      Opening   Incidents 

1.  Healing  of  Nobleman's  Son 

2.  The  Visit  to  Nazareth 

3.  (-all  of  the  Four  Disciples 

4.  At  Capernaum 

(i)   Christ's  Teaching 

b)   The  Demoniac  in  the  Synagogue 

Demon- Possession:   Its  Reality 
r)     Peter's  Wife's  Mother 
d)   The  Eventful  Evening 

II.  From    the    First    Galilean    Circuit    tile    the 
Choice  of  the  Apostles 

1.  The  First  Circuit 

2.  Capernaum  Incidents 

a)  Cure  of  the  Paralytic 

b)  Call  and  Feast  of  Matthew 

3.  The  Unnamed  Jerusalem  Feast 

a)  The  Healing  at  Bethesda 
6)    Son  and  Father 

c)  The  Threefold  Witness 

4.  Sabbath  Controversies 

(0    Plucking  of  the  Lars  of  Grain 

b)  The  Man  with  the  Withered  Hand 

c)  Withdrawal  to  the  Sea 

5.  The  Choosing  of  the  Twelve 

a)  The  Apostolic  Function 
6)    The  Lists 

c)    The  Men 

III.  From  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount  till  the  I  ar- 
ahi.es   of  the  Kingdom — A  Second  Circuit 

1.  The  Sermon  on  the  Mount 
(,)    The  Blessings 

b)  True  Righteousness — the  Old  and  the  New- 
Law  _  . 

c)  Religion    and    Hypocrisy — True    and     I  also 
Motive 

d)  The  True  Good  and  Cure  for  (are 

e)  Relation  to  the   World's  Evil — the  Conclu- 
sion 

2.  Intervening  Incidents 

a)  Healing  of  the  Centurion's  Servant 

b)  The  Widow  of  Nain's  Son  Raised 

c)  Embassy  of  John's  Disciples— Christ  and  His 
Generation 

d)  The  First  Anointing— the  Woman  W  ho  W  as 
a  Sinner 


162; 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jesting 
Jesus  Christ 


3.  Second  Galilean  Circuit — Events  at  Capernaum 

a)  Galilee  Revisited 

b)  Cure  of  Demoniac — Discourse  on  Blasphemy 
The  Sign  of  Jonah 

r)    Christ's  Mother  and  Brethren 

4.  Teaching  in  Parables 
Parables  of  the  Kingdom 

IV.      From   the  Crossing  to  Gadara  to  the  .Mission 
of   the  Twelve — A  Third  Circuit 

1.  Crossing  of  the  Lake —Stilling  of  the  Storm 
a)  Aspirants  for  Discipleship 

6)    The  Storm  ("aimed 

2.  The  Gadarene  (Gerasene)  Demoniac 

3.  Jairus'  Daughter  Raised — Woman  with  Issue  of 
Blood 

a)  Jairus'  Appeal  and  Its  Result 

b)  The  Afflicted  Woman  Cured 

4.  Incidents  of  Third  Circuit 

5.  The  Twelve  Sent  Forth — Discourse  of  Jesus 

a)  The  Commission 

b)  Counsels  and  Warnings 

Second    Period — After   the    Mission    of  the    Twelve   till   the 
Departure  from  Galilee 

I.      From  the   Death  ok  the  Baptist  tile  the   Dis- 
course  on  the  Bread  of   Life 

1.  The  Murder  of  the  Baptist  and  Herod's  Alarms 

2.  The  Feeding  of  the  Five  Thousand 

3.  Walking  on  the  Sea 

4.  (iennesaret — Discourse  on  the  Bread  of  Life 
Peter's  First  Confession 

II.      From    Disputes    with    the    Pharisees    till    the 
Transfiguration 

1.  Jesus    and     Tradition — Outward     and    Inward 
Purity 

2.  Retirement  to  Tyre  and  Sidon — the  Syrophoeni- 
cian  Woman 

3.  At  Deeapolis — Xew  Miracles 
o)    The  Deaf  Man 

b)    Feeding  of  the  Four  Thousand 

4.  Leaven   of   the    Pharisees,    etc  -Cure   of  Blind 
Man 

5.  At  Caesarea  Philippi — the  Great  Confession — 
First  Announcement  of  Passion 

G.   The  Transfiguration — the  Epileptic  Boy 
III.      From    Private   Journey   through   Galilee   till 
Return  from  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles 

1.  Galilee  and  Capernaum 

a)  Second  Announcement  of  the  Passion 

b)  The  Temple  Tax 

c)  Discourse  on  Greatness  and  Forgiveness 

(1)  Greatness  in  Humility 

(2)  Tolerance 

(3)  The  Erring  Brother 

(4)  Parable  of  Unmerciful  Servant 

2.  The  Feast  of  Tabernacles-  -Discourses,  etc 
o)   The  Private  Journey — Divided  Opinions 

b)  Christ's  Self-Witness 

c)  The  Woman  Taken  in  Adultery 

d)  The  Cure  of  the  Blind  Man 

e)  The  (iood  Shepherd 
Chronological  Note 

D.    LAST  JOURNEY  TO  JERUSALEM JESUS  I.N  PERAEA 

I.      From  Leaving  Galilee   till  the   Feast  of  the 
Dedication 

1.  Rejected  by  Samaria 

2.  Mission  of  the  Seventy 

3.  The     Lawyer's     Question — Parable     of     Good 
Samaritan 

4.  Discourses,  Parables,  and  Miracles 
a)   Original  to  Luke 

6)   The  Infirm  Woman — the  Dropsied  Man 

c)  Parable  of  the  Great  Supper 

d)  Counting  the  Cost 

5.  Martha  and  Mary 

G.    Feast  of  the  Dedication 
II.      From   the  Abode  at  Bethabara  till  the  Rais- 
ing of  Lazarus 

1.  Parables  of  Lost  Sheep,    Lost   Piece  of    Silver 
and  Prodigal  Son 

2.  Parables  of  the   Unjust  Steward  and  the  Rich 
Man  and  Lazarus 

3.  The  Summons  to  Bethany — Raising  of  Lazarus 
III.      From    the     Retirement    to    Ephraim    till    the 

Arrival  at  Bethany 

1.  Retreat  to  Ephraim 

2.  The  Journey  Resumed 

3.  Cure  of  the  Lepers 

4.  Pharisaic  Questionings 

a)  Divorce 

b)  Coming  of  the  Kingdom 

c)  Parable  of  the  Unjust  Judge 

5.  The  Spirit  of  the  Kingdom 

a)   Parable  of  Pharisee  and  Publican 

6)   Blessing  of  the  Babes 

c)  The  Rich  Young  Ruler 
G.  Third  Announcement  of  the  Passion 
7.  The  Rewards  of  the  Kingdom 

o)   Parable  of  the  Laborers  in  the  Vineyard 

6)  The  Sons  of  Zebedee 


S.  Jesus  at  Jericho 

a)   The  Cure  of  Bartimaeus 
/<)   Zaechaeus  the  Publican 
c;    Parable  of  the  Pounds 
Arrival  at  Bethany 

the  passion  week betrayal,   trial,   and 

crucifixion 
The    Events   Preceding   the   Last  Supper 

1.  The  Chronology 

2.  The  Anointing  at  Bethany 

3.  The  Entry  into  Jerusalem 

Jesus  Weeping  over  Jerusalem — Return  to  Beth- 
any 

1.  Cursing  of  the  Fig  Tree — Second   Cleansing  of 
t  he  Temple 
Were  There  Two  Cleansings  ? 

5.  The  Eventful  Tuesday 

a)   The  Demand  for  Authority — Parables 

(1)  The; Two  Sons — the  Wicked  Husbandmen 

(2)  The  Marriage  of  tin;  King's  Son 
Ensnaring  Questions,  etc 

(1)  Tribute   to   Caesar — the    Resurrection — 
the  Great  Commandment 

(2)  David's  Son  and  Lord 
The  Great  Denunciation 

</)    The  Widow's  Offering 

e)   The  Visit  of  the  Greeks 

/)    Discourse  on  the  Last.  Tilings 

y)    Parables  of  Ten   Virgins,   Talents   and   Last 
Judgment 
G.  A  Day  of  Retirement 
i.  An    Atmosphere    of    Plotting    -Judas    and    the 

Priests 
From  the  Last  Supper  till  the 


b) 


r) 


1.  T 


Cr< 


The  Chronolog 

2.  The  Last  Supper 

a)  The  Preparation 

b)  Dispute  about    Precedence    -Washing  of   the 
Disciples'  Feet — Departure  of  Judas 

c)  The  Lord's  Supper 

'/)    The  Last  Discourses — Intercessory  Prayer 
e)   The  Departure  and  Warning 

3.  Gethsemane    -the  Betrayal  and  Arrest 
o)    Agony  in  t  he  ( larden 

b)    Betrayal  by  Judas — Jesus  Arrested 

4.  Trial  before  the  Sanhedriu 
Legal  and  Historical  Aspects 

a)  Before    Annas    and    Caiaphas — the     Unjust 
Judgment 

b)  The  Threefold  Denial 

c)  Remorse  and  Suicide  of  Judas 

5.  Trial  before  Pilate 

o)   The  Attitude  of  the  Accusers 
b)    The  Attitude  of  Pilate 

(1)  Jesus  Scut   to  Herod 

(2)  "Not  This  Man,  but  Barabbas" 

(3)  "  Ecce  Homo  " 

(4)  A  Last  Appeal — Pilate  Yields 
<•)   The  Attitude  of  Jesus 

III.      The    Crucifixion    and   Burial 

1.  The  Crucifixion 

a)  On  the  Way 

b)  Between  the  Thieves — the  Superscription — 
the  Seamless  Robe 

c)  The  Mocking — the  Penitent  Thief — Jesus  and 
His  Mother 

d)  The  Great  Darkness — the  Cry  of  Desertion 

e)  Last  Words  and   Death  of  Jesus 

/)   The  Spear-Thrust — Earthquake  and  Rending 
of  the  Veil 

2.  The  Burial 

(i)   The  New  Tomb 

b)   The  Guard  of  Soldiers 

f.      the   resurrection    and    ascension 
The  Resurrection  a  Fundamental  Fact 

1 .  The  Resurrection 

a)  The  Easter  Morning — the  Open  Tomb 

(1)  The  Angel  and  the  Keepers 

(2)  Visit  of  the  Women 

(3)  The;  Angelic  Message 

b)  Visit  of  Peter  and  John  —Appearance  to  Mary 
Report  to  the  Disciples  -Incredulity 

c)  Other    Easter-Day    Appearances    (Emmaus, 
Jerusalem) 

d)  The  Second  Appearance  to  the  Eleven — the 
Doubt  of  Thomas 

c)   The  Galilean  Appearances 

(1;   At  the  Sea  of  Tiberias — the;  Draught  of 

Fishes  — Peter's   Restoration 
(2)   On  the  Mountain — tin;  Great  Commis- 
sion—Baptism 
/)   Appearance  to  James 
II)    The  Last  Meeting 

2.  The  Ascension 


Part   IV.      Epilogue:     The   Apostolh 

1.  After  the  Ascension 

2.  Revelation  through  the-  Spirit 

3.  Gospels  and  Epistles 

4.  Fact  of  Christ's  Lordship 


Teaching 


Jesus  Christ         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1620 


5.  Significance  of  Christ's  Person 
(I    Significance  of  the  Cross  and   Resurrection 
7.    Hope  of  the  Advent 
Literati  ke 

Jesus  Christ:   The  Founder  of  the  Christian  re- 
ligion;   the  promised   Messiah  and  Saviour  of  the 
world;  the  Lord  and  Head  of  the  Christian  church. 
/.    The  Names.     (1)   "Jesus"   {Iesous)  is  the  Gr 
equivalent  of  the  Ileb  "Joshua"  (STDTV),  yehdshua%), 
meaning    "Jehovah    is   salvation."     It 

1.  Jesus         stands     therefore     in    the    LXX    and 

Apoc  for  "Joshua,"  and  in  Acts  7  45 
and  He  4  8  likewise  represents  the  OT  Joshua; 
hence  in  RV  is  in  these  passages  rendered  "Joshua." 
In  Mt  1  21  the  name  is  commanded  by  the  angel 
to  be  given  to  the  son  of  Mary,  "for  it  is  he  that 
shall  save  his  people  from  their  sins"  (see  below  on 
"Nativity").  It  is  the  personal  name  of  the  Lord 
in  the  Gospels  and  the  Acts,  but  generally  in  the 
Epistles  appears  in  combination  with  "Christ"  or 
other  appellative  (alone  in  Rom  3  26;  4  24;  1  Cor 
12  3;  2  Cor  11  4;  Phil  2  10;  1  Thess  4  14;  He 
7  22;    10   19,  etc). 

(2)  "Christ"  {Christos)  .is  the  Gr  equivalent  of 
the  Ileb   "Messiah"   (rPTP'E ,  mashiah;    cf   in  the 

NT,     Jn  i  41;      4  25,     "Messiah", 

2.  Christ        meaning    "anointed"    (set;    Messiah). 

It  designates  Jesus  as  the  fulfiller  of 
the  Messianic  hopes  of  the  OT  and  of  the  Jewish 
people,  it  will  be  seen  below  that  Jesus  Himself 
made  this  claim.  After  the  resurrection  it  became 
the  current  title  for  Jesus  in  the  apostolic  church. 
Most  frequently  in  the  Epistles  He  is  called  ".Testis 
Christ,"  sometimes  "Christ  Jesus"  (Rom  8  1.2.39; 
1  Cor  1  2.30;  4  15;  Eph  1  1;  Phil  1  1;  Col  1 
4.28  AY;  1  Thess  2  14,  etc),  often  "Christ"  alone 
(Rom  1  16  AV;  5  6.8;  6  4.8.9;  8  10,  etc).  In 
this  case  "Christ"  has  acquired  the  force  of  a  proper 
name.  Very  frequently  the  term  is  associated  with 
"Lord"  (kiirios) — "the  [or  "our")  Lord  Jesus  Christ" 
(Acts  11  17;  15  11  AV;  16  31  AV;  20  21;  28 
31;   Rom  1  7;   5  1.11;    13  14;    1  Cor  16  23,  etc). 

//.  Order  of  Treatment. — In  studying,  as  it  is 
proposed  to  do  in  this  art.,  the  earthly  history  of 
Jesus  and  His  place  in  the  faith  of  the  apostolic; 
church,  it  will  be  convenient  to  pursue  the  following 
order: 

First,  as  introductory  to  the  whole  study,  certain 
questions  relating  to  the  sources  of  our  knowledge 
of  .Jesus,  and  to  the  preparation  for,  and  circum- 
stances of,  His  historical  appearance,  invite  care- 
ful attention  (.Part   I). 

Next,  still  as  preliminary  to  the  proper  narra- 
tive of  the  life  of  Jesus,  it  is  desirable  to  consider 
certain  problems  arising  out  of  the  presentation 
of  that  life  in  the  Gospels  with  wdiich  modern 
thought  is  more  specially  concerned,  as  determining 
the  attitude  in  which  the  narratives  are  approached. 
Such  tire  the  problems  of  the  miracles,  the  Messiah- 
ship,  the  sinless  character  and  supernatural  claims 
Of  Jesus  (Part  II). 

The  way  is  t  hen  open  for  treatment  in  order  of  the 
actual  events  of  Christ's  life  and  ministry,  so  far 
as  recorded.  These  fall  into  many  stages,  from 
His  nativity  and  baptism  till  His  death,  resurrection 
and  ascension  (  Part  I II ). 

A  final  division  will  deal  with  Jesus  as  the  exalted 
Lord  in  the  aspects  in  which  He  is  presented  in  the 
teaching  of  the  Epistles 'and  remaining  writings  of 
the  NT  (Part  IV). 

Part  I.     Introductory 

/.    The  Sources.    -The  principal,  and  practically 

the  only  sources  for  our  knowledge  of  Jesus  Christ 
are  the  four  Canonical  Gospels — distinction  being 
made  in  these  between  the  first  three  (Synop- 
tic)  Gospels,  and  the  Gospel  of   John.     Nothing, 


3.  Extra- 
Christian 
Notices 


either  in  the  few  notices  of  Christ  in  non-Christian 

aut  hors,  or  in  t  he  references  in  the  other  books  of  the 

XT,  or  in  later  Christian  lit.,  adds  to 

1.  In  Gen-  the  information  which  the  Gospels 
eral  already  supply.  The  so-called  apocry- 
phal Gospels  are  worthless  as  authori- 
ties (see  s.v.);  the  few  additional  sayings  of  Christ 
(ci  Acts  20  35)  found  in  outside  writings  are  of 
doubtful  genuineness  (cf  a  collection  of  these  in 
West  cot  t's  Intro  to  the  Study  of  the  Gospels,  Appendix 
C;    see  also  Logia). 

It  marks  the  excess  to  which  skepticism  has  gone 

that  writers  are  found  in  recent  years  who  deny  the 

very  existence  of  Jesus  Christ  (Kalt- 

2.  Denial  holt,  Das  Ctirj.it as- Problem,  and  Die 
of  Existence  Entstehung  des  Chrislenthums;  Jensen, 
of  Jesus         Das  Gilgamesch-Epos,  I;    Drews,  Die 

Christusmythe;  cf  on  Kalthoff,  Schweit- 
zer, The  Quest  of  the  Historical  Jesus,  FT,  313  ff; 
Jensen  is  reviewed  in  the  writer's  The  Resurrection 
of  Jesus,  eh  ix).  The  extravagance  of  such  skep- 
ticism is  its  sufficient  refutation. 

Of  notices  outside  the  Christian  circles  the  fol- 
lowing may  be  referred  to. 

(1)  Joseph  us. — There  is  the  famous 
passage  in  Jos,  Ant,  XVIII,  hi,  3, 
commencing,  "Now  there  was  about 
this  time,  Jesus,  a  wise  man,  if  it  be 
lawful  to  call  him  a  man,"  etc.  ll 
is  not  unlikely  that  Jos  had  some  reference  to  Jesus, 
but  most  agree  that  the  passage  in  question,  if 
not  entirely  spurious,  has  been  the  subject  of  Chris- 
tian interpolation  (on  the  lit.  and  different  views, 
see  Schiirer,  Jewish  People  in  the  Time  of  Christ, 
Div  II,  vol  II,  143  ff;  in  support  of  interpolation, 
Edersheim  on  "Josephus,"  in  Diet,  of  Christ.  Biog.). 

(2)  Tacitus. — The  Rom  historian,  Tacitus,  in  a 
well-known  passage  relating  to  the  persecution  of 
Nero  (Ann.  xv. 44),  tells  how  the  Christians,  already 
"a  great  multitude"  (ingens  multitudo) ,  derived  their 
name  "from  one  Christ  us,  who  was  executed  in  the 
reign  of  Tiberius  by  the  procurator  of  Judaea, 
Pontius  Pilate." 

(3)  Suetonius  also,  in  his  account  of  Claudius, 
speaks  of  the  Jews  as  expelled  from  Rome  for  the 
raising  of  tumults  at  the  instigation  of  one  "Chres- 
tus"  (impulsore  Chresto),  plainly  a  mistake  for 
"Chrisl  us."  The  incident  is  doubtless  that  referred 
to  in  Ads  18  2. 

The  four  Gospels,  then,  with  their  rich  contents, 
remain  as  our  primary  sources  for  the  knowledge 

of  the  earthly  life  of  Jesus. 
4.  The  (1)   The  Synoptics. — It  may  be  taken 

Gospels  for  granted  as  the  result  of  the  best 

criticism  that  the  first  three  Gospels 
(Mt,  Mk,  Lk)  all  fall  well  within  the  apostolic 
age  (cf  Harnack,  Altchr.  Lit.,  Pref;  see  Gospels). 
The  favorite  theory  at  present  of  the  relations  of 
these  Gospels  is,  that  Mk  is  an  independent  Gospel, 
resting  on  the  teaching  of  Peter;  that  Mt  and  Lk 
have  as  sources  the  Gospel  of  Mk  and  a  collection 
of  discourses,  probably  attributable  to  the  apostle 
Matthew  (now  commonly  called  Q);  and  that  Lk 
has  a  third,  well-authenticated  source  (Lk  1  1-4) 
peculiar  to  himself.  The  present  writer  is  disposed 
to  allow  more  independence  to  the  evangelists  in 
the  embodying  of  a  tradition  common  to  all;  in 
any  case,  the  sources  named  are  of  unexceptionable 
authority,  and  furnish  a  strong  guaranty  for  the 
reliability  of  the  narratives.  The  supreme  guaranty 
of  their  trustworthiness,  however,  is  found  in  the 
narratives  themselves;  for  who  in  that  (or  any)  age 
could  imagine  a  figure  so  unique  and  perfect  as  that 
of  Jesus,  or  invent  the  incomparable  sayings  and 
parables  that  proceeded  from  His  lips?  Much  of 
Christ 's  teaching  is  high  as  heaven  above  the  minds 
of  men  still. 


1027 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA         Jesus  Christ 


(2)  The  Fourth  Gospel. — The  Fourth  Gospel  stands 
apart  from  the  Synoptics  in  dealing  mainly  with 
another  set  of  incidents  (the  Jerusalem  ministry), 
and  discourses  of  a  more  private  and  intimate  kind 
than  those  belonging  to  the  Galilean  teaching.  Its 
aim,  too,  is  doctrinal — to  show  that  Jesus  is  "the 
Son  of  God,"  and  its  style  and  mode  of  conception 
are  very  different  from  those  of  the  Synoptic 
Gospels.  Its  contents  touch  their  narratives  in 
only  a  few  points  (as  in  Jn  6  4-21).  Where  they 
do,  the  resemblance  is  manifest.  It  is  obvious 
that  the  reminiscences  which  the  Gospel  contains 
have  been  long  brooded  over  by  the  apostle,  and 
that  a  certain  interpretative  element  blends  with 
his  narration  of  incidents  and  discourses.  This, 
however,  does  not  warrant  us  in  throwing  doubt, 
with  so  many,  on  the  genuineness  of  the  Gospel,  for 
which  the  external  evidence  is  exceptionally  strong 
(cf  Sanday,  The  Criticism  of  the  Fourth  Gospel; 
Drummond,  Character  and  Authorship  of  tin-  Fourth 
Gospel;  and  see  John,  Gospel  of).  The  Gospel  is 
accepted  here  as  a  genuine  record  of  the  sayings  and 
doings  of  Jesus  which  it  narrates. 

//.   The    Preparation. — In     the     Gospels     and 

throughout  the  NT  Jesus  appears  as  the  goal  of 

OT  revelation,  and  the  point  to  which 

1.  Both  all  providential  developments  tended. 
Gentile  and  He  came,  Paul  says,  in  "the  fulness 
Jewish  of  the  time"  (Gal  4  4).     It  has  often 

been  shown  how,  politically,  intellec- 
tually, morally,  everything  in  the  Graeco-Roman 
world  was  ready  for  such  a  universal  religion  as 
Jesus  brought  into  it  (cf  Baur's  Hist  of  the  Church 
in  the  First  Three  Cents.,  ET,  ch  i).  The  prepa- 
ration in  Israel  is  seen  alike  in  God's  revelations 
to,  and  dealings  with,  the  chosen  people  in  the 
patriarchal,  Mosaic,  monarchical  and  prophetic 
periods,  and  in  the  developments  of  the  Jewish 
mind  in  the  centuries  immediately  before  Christ. 

As  special  lines  in  the  OT  preparation  may  be 
noted  the  ideas  of  the  Messianic  king,  a  ruler  of 

David's  house,  whose  reign  would  be 

2.  OTPrep-  righteous,  perpetual,  universal  (cf  Isa 
aration  7  13—9  7;  32  1.2;   Jer  33  1546;  Ps 

2  1-10,  etc);  of  a  Righteous  Sufferer 
(Ps  22,  etc),  whose  sufferings  are  in  Isa  53  declared 
to  have  an  expiatory  and  redeeming  character;  and 
of  a  Messianic  kingdom,  which,  breaking  the  bounds 
of  nationalism,  would  extend  through  the  whole 
earth  and  embrace  all  peoples  (cf  Isa  60;  Ps  87; 
Dnl  2  44;  7  27,  etc).  The  kingdom,  at  the  same 
time,  is  now  conceived  of  under  a  more  spiritual 
aspect.  Its  chief  blessings  are  forgiveness  and 
righteousness. 

The  age  succeeding  the  return  from  exile  wit- 
nessed a  manifold  preparation  for  the  advent  of 

Christ.     Here   may   be   observed   the 

3.  Post-  decentralization  of  the  Jewish  religious 
exilian  ideals  through  the  rise  of  synagogue 
Preparation  worship  and  the  widespread  dispersion 

of  the  race;  the  contact  with  Hellenic 
culture  (as  in  Philo);  but  esp.  the  marked  sharpen- 
ing of  Messianic  expectations.  Some  of  these  were 
of  a  crude  apocalyptic  character  (see  Apocalyptic 
Literature;  Eschatolouy  of  the  04');  many 
were  political  and  revolutionary;  but  some  were  of 
a  purer  and  more  spiritual  kind  (cf  Lk  2  25.38). 
To  these  purer  elements  Jesus  attached  Himself  in 
His  preaching  of  the  kingdom  and  of  Himself  as 
its  Lord.  Even  in  the  gentile  world,  it  is  told,  there 
was  an  expectation  of  a  great  One  who  about  this 
time  would  come  from  Judaea  (Tac.  Hist.  v.  13; 
Suet.  Vespas.  4). 

///.  77ie  Outward  Situation.— Of  all  lands  Pal 
was  the  most  fitted  to  be  the  scene  of  the  culminat- 
ing revelation  of  God's  grace  in  the  person  and 
work  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  before  it  was  fitted  to  be 


the  abode  of  the  people  chosen  to  receive  and  pre- 
serve  the   revelations  that  prepared   the  way  for 
that  final  manifestation.     At  once  cen- 

1.  The  tral  and  secluded — at  the  junction  of 
Land  the  three  great  continents  of  the  Old 

World,  Asia,  Africa  and  Europe — the 
highway  of  nations  in  war  and  commerce — touching 
mighty  powers  on  every  hand,  Egypt,  Syria, 
Assyria,  kingdoms  of  Asia  Minor,  as  formerly  more 
ancient  empires,  Hittite  and  Babylonian,  now  in 
contact  with  Greece  and  Rome,  yet  singularly 
inclosed  by  mountain,  desert,  Jordan  gorge,  and 
Great  Sea,  from  ready  entrance  of  foreign  influ- 
ences, Pal  has  a  place  of  its  own  in  the  history  of 
revelation,  which  only  a  Divine  wisdom  can  have 
given  it  (cf  Stanley,  Sinai  and  Palestine,  Part  II, 
ch  ii;  G.  A.  Smith,  Hist.  Geog.  of  the  Holy  Land, 
Book  I,  chs  i,  ii;   Lange,  Life  of  Christ,  1,  246  ff). 

Its  divisions. — Pal,  in  the  Rom  period,  was  di- 
vided into  four  well-defined  provinces  or  districts — 
Judaea,  with  Jerus  as  its  center,  in  the  S.,  the  strong- 
hold of  Jewish  conservatism;  Samaria,  in  the  middle, 
peopled  from  Assyrian  times  by  mixed  settlers  (2  K 
17  24-34),  preponderatingly  heathen  in  origin,  yet 
now  professing  the  Jewish  religion,  claiming  Jewish 
descent  (cf  Jn  4  12),  possessing  a  copy  of  the  law 
(Sam  Pent),  and  a  temple  of  their  own  at  Gerizim 
(the  original  temple,  built  by  Manasseh,  c  409  BC, 
was  destroyed  by  John  Hvrcanus,  109  BC);  Galilee 
—"Galilee  of  the  Gentiles"  (Mt  4  15;  cf  Isa  9  1) 
—in  the  N.,  the  chief  scene  of  Christ's  ministry, 
freer  and  more  cosmopolitan  in  spirit,  through  a 
large  infusion  of  gentile  population,  and  contact 
with  traders,  etc,  of  varied  nationalities:  these  in 
Western  Pal,  while  on  the  E.,  "beyond  Jordan,"  was 
Peraea,  divided  up  into  Peraea  proper,  Batanaea, 
Gaulonitis,  Ituraea,  Trachonitis,  Decapolis,  etc  (cf 
Mt  4  25;  19  1;  Lk  3  1).  The  feeling  of  bitterness 
between  Jews  and  Samaritans  was  intense  (Jn  4  9). 
The  language  of  the  people  throughout  was  Aramaic 
(q.v.),  but  a  knowledge  of  the  Gr  tongue  was  widely 
diffused,  especially  in  the  N.,  where  intercourse  with 
Gr-speaking  peoples  was  habitual  (the  NT  writings 
are  in  Gr).  Jesus  doubtless  used  the  native  dialect 
in  His  ordinary  teaching,  but  it  is  highly  probable 
that  He  also  knew  Gr,  and  was  acquainted  with  OT 
Scriptures  in  that  language  (the  LNX).  In  this 
case  He  may  have  sometimes  used  it  in  His  preach- 
ing (cf  Roberts,  Discussions  on  the  Gospels). 

The  miserable  story  of  the  vicissitudes  of  the 

Jewish  people  in   the   cent,   succeeding   the  great 

persecution   of    Antiochus   Epiphanes 

2.  Political    and  the   Maccabean   revolt — a  story 
Situation        made   up   of   faction,    intrigue,   Wars, 

murders,  massacres,  of  growing  degen- 
eracy of  rulers  and  nation,  of  repeated  sackings  of 
Jerus  and  terrible  slaughters — till  Herod,  the 
Idumaean,  misnamed  "the  Great,"  ascended  the 
throne  by  favor  of  the  Romans  (37  BC),  must  be 
read  in  the  books  relating  to  the  period  (Ewald, 
Hist  of  Israel,  V;  Milman,  Hist  of  Jews;  Schiirer, 
Hist  of  the  Jewish  People  in  Time  of  Christ,  Div  I, 
Vol  I;  Stanley,  Jewish  Church,  HI,  etc).  Rome's 
power,  first  invited  by  Judas  Maccabaeus  (161  BC), 
was  finally  established  by  Pompey's  capture  of  Jerus 
(63  BC).  Herod's  way  to  the  throne  was  tracked 
by  crime  and  bloodshed,  and  murder  of  those  most 
nearly  related  to  him  marked  every  step  in  his 
advance.  His  taste  for  splendid  buildings — palace, 
temple  (Mt  24  1;  Jn  2  20),  fortresses,  cities  (Se- 
baste,  Caesarea,  etc) — and  lavish  magnificence  of 
his  royal  estate  and  administration,  could  not  con- 
ceal the  hideousness  of  his  crafty,  unscrupulous 
selfishness,  his  cold-blooded  cruelty,  his  tyrannous 
oppression  of  his  subjects.  "Better  be  Herod's  hog 
than  his  son,"  was  the  comment  of  Augustus,  when 
he  heard  of  the  dying  king's  unnatural  doings. 


Jesus  Christ         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1G28 


Changes  in  territory. — At,  the  time  of  Christ's 
birth,  the  whole  of  Pal  was  united  under  Herod's 
rule,  hut  on  Herod's  death,  after  a  long  reign  of  37 
(or,  counting  from  his  actual  accession,  34)  years, 
his  dominions  were,  in  accordance  with  his  will, 
confirmed  by  Home,  divided.  Judaea  and  Samaria 
(a  few  towns  excepted)  fell  to  his  son  Archelaus 
(Mt  2  22),  with  the  title  of  "ethnarch";  Galilee  and 
Peraea  were  given  to  Herod  Antipas,  another  son, 
with  the  title  of  "tetrarch"  (Mt  14  1;  Lk  3  1.19; 
23  7;  Acts  13  1);  Herod  Philip,  a  third  son,  re- 
ceived Ituraea,  Trachonitis,  and  other  parts  of  the 
northern  trans-.Iordanic  territory,  likewise  as  "te- 
trarch" (Lk  3  1;  cf  Mt  14  3;  Nik  6  17).  A  feu- 
years  later,  the  tyranny  of  Archelaus  provoked  an 
appeal  of  his  subjects  to  Augustus,  and  Archelaus, 
summoned  to  Rome,  was  banished  to  Caul  (7  AD). 
Thereafter  Judaea,  with  Samaria,  was  governed  by 
a  Roman  procurator,  under  the  oversight  of  the 
prefect  of  Syria. 

In  the  religious  situation  the  chief  fact  of  interest 
is  the  place  occupied  and  prominent  part,  played 
by  the  religious  sects — the  Pharisees, 
3.  The  Re-  the  Sadducees,  and  (though  unmen- 
ligious  tioned   in   the  Gospels,   these  had  an 

Sects  important     influence     on     the^    early 

history  of  the  church)  the  Essenes. 
The  rise  and  characteristics  of  these  sects  can  here 
only  be  alluded  to  (see  special  arts.). 

(1)  The  scribes. — From  the  days  of  Ezra  zealous 
attention  had  been  given  to  the  study  of  the  law, 
and  an  order  of  men  had  arisen — the  "scribes" — 
whose  special  business  it,  was  to  guard,  develop  and 
expound  the  law.  Through  their  labors,  scrupulous 
observance  of  the  law,  and,  with  it,  of  the  innumer- 
able regulations  intended  to  preserve  the  law,  and 
apply  it  in  detail  to  conduct,  (the  so-called  "tradi- 
tion of  the  elders,"  Ml  15  2ff),  became  the  ideal 
of  righteousness.  The  sects  first  appear  in  the  Mac- 
cabean  age.  The  Maccabean  conflict  reveals  the 
existence  of  a  party  known  as  the  "Assidaeans" 
(Heb  h&sldhlm),  or'  "pious"  ones,  opposed  to  the 
lax  Hellenizing  tendencies  of  the  times,  and  staunch 
observers  of  the  law.  These  in  the  beginning  gave 
brave  support  to  Judas  Maccabaeus,  and  doubtless 
then  embraced  the  best  elements  of  the  nation. 

CD  The  Pharisees . — From  them,  by  a  process  of 
deterioration  too  natural  in  such  cases,  developed 
the  party  of  legalists  known  in  the  Gospels  as  the 
"Pharisees"  ("separated"),  on  which  Christ's  stern- 
est rebukes  fell  for  their  self-righteousness,  ostenta- 
tion, pride  and  lack  of  sympathy  and  charity 
(Mt  6  2  IT;  23;  Lk  18  9-14).  They  gloried  in  an 
excessive  scrupulosity  in  the  observance  of  the  ex- 
ternals of  the  law,  even  in  trivialities.  To  them  the 
multitude;  that  knew  not  the  law  were  "accursed" 
(Jn  7  49).  To  this  party  the  great  body  of  the 
scribes  and  rabbis  belonged,  and  its  powerful  influ- 
ence was  eagerly  sought  by  contending  factions  in 
the  state. 

(3)  The  Sadducees. — Alongside  of  the  Pharisees 
were  the  "Sadducees"  (probably  from  "Zadok") — 
rather  a  political  and  aristocratic  clique  than  a 
religious  sect,  into  whose  possession  the  honors  of 
the  high-priesthood  and  other  influential  offices 
hereditarily  passed.  They  are  first  met  with  by 
name  under  John  Hyrcanus  (135-106  BC).  _  The 
Sadducees  received  only  the  law  of  Moses,  inter- 
preted it,  in  a  literal,  secularistic  spirit,  rejected  the 
Pharisaic  traditions  and  believed  in  neither  resur- 
rection, angel  nor  spirit  (Acts  23  8).  I'sually  in 
rivalry  with  the  Pharisees,  they  are  found  combin- 
ing with  these  to  destroy  Jesus  (Mt  26  3-5.57). 

(4)  The  Essenes. — The  t  hird  party,  the  "Essenes," 
differed  from  both  (some  derive  also  from  the  As- 
sidaeans) in  living  in  fraternities  apart  from  the 
general  community,  chiefly  in  the  desert  of  Engedi, 


on  the  N.W.  shore  of  the  Dead  Sea,  though  some 
were  found  also  in  villages  and  towns;  in  rejecting 
animal  sacrifices,  etc,  sending  only  gifts  of  incense  to 
tin;  temple;  in  practising  celibacy  and  community  of 
goods;  in  the  wearing  of  white  garments;  in  certain 
customs  (as  greeting  the  sunrise  with  prayers)  sug- 
gest ive  of  oriental  influence.  They  forbade  slavery, 
war,  oaths,  were  given  to  occult  studies,  had  secret 
doctrines  and  books,  etc.  As  remarked,  they  do 
not  appear  in  the  Gospel,  but  on  account  of  cer- 
tain resemblances,  some  have  sought  to  establish  a 
connection  between  them  and  John  the  Baptist  and 
Jesus.  In  reality,  however,  nothing  could  be  more 
opposed  than  Essenism  to  the  essential  ideas  and 
spirit  of  Christ's  teaching  (cf  Sehurer,  as  above, 
Div  II,  Vol  II,  188  ff;  Kucnen,  Hibbert  Lects  on 
National  Religions  and  Universal  Religions,  199- 
208;    bight  foot,   Colossians,  114-79). 

IV.  The  Chronology. — The  leading  chronological 
questions  connected  with  the  life  of  Jesus  are  dis- 
cussed in  detail  elsewhere  (Chron  op  the  NT; 
Quirinius,  etc);  here  it  is  sufficient  to  indicate  the 
general  scheme  of  dating  adopted  in  thepresent  art., 
and  some  of  the  grounds  on  which  it  is  preferred. 
The  chief  questions  relate  to  the  dates  of  the  birth 
and  baptism  of  Jesus,  the  duration  of  the  ministry 
and  the  date  of  the  crucifixion. 

Though  challenged  by  some  (Caspari,  Bosanquet, 

Conder,  etc,  put  it  as  late  as  1  BC)  the  usual  date 

for   the   death   of    Herod   the    Great, 

1.  Date  of  March,  4  BC  (year  of  Rome  750),  may 
the  Birth  be  assumed  as  correct  (for  grounds  of 
of  Jesus         this  dating,  see  Sehurer,  op.  cit .,  Div 

I,  Vol  I,  464-67).  The  birth  of  Jesus 
was  before,  and  apparently  not  very  long  before, 
this  (went  (Mt  2).  It  may  therefore  be  placed  with 
probability  in  the  latter  part  of  the  previous  year 
(5  BC),  the  ordinary  dating  of  the  commencement  of 
the  Christian  era  being  thus,  as  is  generally  recog- 
nized, four  years  too  late.  There  is  no  certainty  as 
to  the  month  or  day  of  the  birth.  The  Christmas 
date,  December  25,  is  first,  met  with  in  the  W.  in  the 
4th  cent,  (the  eastern  date  was  January  6),  and 
was  then  possibly  borrowed  from  a  pagan  festival. 
December,  in  the  winter  season,  seems  unlikely,  as 
unsuitable  for  the  pasturing  of  flocks  (Lk  2  8), 
though  this  objection  is  perhaps  not  decisive 
(Andrews,  Conder).  A  more  probable  date  is  a 
couple  of  months  earlier.  The  synchronism  with 
Quirinius  (Lk  2  2)  is  considered  in  connection  with 
the  nativity.  The  earlier  datings  of  6,  7,  or  even 
8  BC,  suggest ed  by  Ramsay,  Mackinlay  and  others, 
on  grounds  of  the  assumed  Rom  census,  astronomi- 
cal phenomena,  etc,  appear  to  leave  too  long  an 
interval  before  the  death  of  Herod,  and  conflict 
with  other  data,  as  Lk  3  1  (see  below). 

John  is  said  by  Luke  to  have  begun  to  preach  and 

baptize  "in  the  fifteenth  year  of  Tiberius"   (Lk  3 

1),  and  Jesus  "was  about  thirty  years 

2.  Date  of  of  age"  (ver  23)  when  He  was  bap- 
Baptism         tized   by  John,   and  entered  on   His 

ministry.  If  the  15th  year  of  Tiberius 
is  dated,  as  seems  most  likely,  from  his  association 
with  Augustus  as  colleague  in  the  government, 
765  AUC,  or  12  AD  (Tac.  Ann.  i.3;  Suet,  on 
Augustus,  97),  and  if  Jesus  may  be  supposed  to 
have  been  baptized  about  6  months  after  John 
commenced  his  work,  these  data  combine  in  bring- 
ing us  to  the  year  780  AUC,  or  27  AD,  as  the  year 
of  Our  Lord's  baptism,  in  agreement,  with  our 
former  conclusion  as  to  the  date  of  His  birth  in 
5  BC.  To  place  the  birth  earlier  is  to  make  Jesus 
32  or  33  years  of  age  at  His  baptism — an  unwar- 
rantable extension  of  the  "about."  In  accord  with 
this  is  the  statement  in  Jn  2  20  that  the  temple  had 
been  46  years  in  building  (it  began  in  20-19  BC) 
at  the  time  of  Christ's  first  Passover;   therefore  in 


1629 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jesus  Christ 


780  AUC,  or  27  AD  (cf  Schiirer,  op.  cit,,  Div  I, 
Vol  I,  410). 

The  determination  of  the  precise  duration  of  Our 

Lord's  ministry  involves  more  doubtful  elements. 

Setting  aside,  as  too  arbitrary,  schemes 

3.  Length  which  would,  with  some  of  the  early 
of  Ministry    Fathers,  compress  the  whole  ministry 

into  little  over  a  single  year  (Browne, 
Hort,  etc) — a  view  which  involves  without  authority 
the  rejection  of  the  mention  of  the  Passover  in 
Jn  6  4 — there  remains  the  choice  between  a  two 
years'  and  a  three  years'  ministry.  Both  have 
able  advocates  (Turner  in  art.  "Chronology," 
and  Sanday  in  art.  "Jesus  Christ,"  in  HOB, 
advocate  the  two  years'  scheme;  Farrar,  Ramsay, 
D.  Smith,  etc,  adhere  to  the  three  years' scheme). 
An  important  point  is  the  view  taken  of  the  un- 
named "feast"  in  Jn  5  1.  John  has  already  named 
a  Passover — Christ's  first — in  2  13.23;  another, 
which  Jesus  did  not  attend,  is  named  in  6  4;  the 
final  Passover,  at  which  He  was  crucified,  appears 
in  all  the  evangelists.  If  the  "feast"  of  Jn  5  1 
(the  art.  is  probably  to  be  omitted)  is  also,  as  some 
think,  a  Passover,  then  John  has  four  Passovers, 
and  a  three  years'  ministry  becomes  necessary. 
It  is  claimed,  however,  that  in  this  case  the  "feast" 
would  almost  certainly  have  been  named.  It  still 
does  not  follow,  even  if  a  minor  feast  —say  Purim — 
is  intended,  that  we  are  shut  up  to  a  two  years' 
ministry.  Mr.  Turner  certainly  goes  beyond  his 
evidence  in  affirming  that  "while  two  years  must, 
not  more  than  two  years  can,  be  allowed  for  the 
interval  from  Jn  2  13.23  to  Jn  11  55."  The 
two  years'  scheme  involves,  as  will  be  seen  on  con- 
sideration of  details,  a  serious  overcrowding  and 
arbitrary  transposition  of  incidents,  which  speak  to 
the  need  of  longer  time.  We  shall  assume  that  the 
ministry  lasted  for  three  years,  reserving  reasons  till 
the  narrative  is  examined. 

On  the  hypothesis  now  accepted,  the  crucifixion 

of  Jesus  took  place  at  the  Passover  of  30  AD.     On 

the  two  years'  scheme  it   would  fall  a 

4.  Date  of  year  earlier.  On  both  sides  it  is 
Christ's  agreed  that  it  occurred  on  the  Friday 
Death             of   the   week   of   the   Passover,   but    it 

is  disputed  whether  this  Friday  was 
the  14th  or  the  loth  day  of  the  month.  The  Gospel 
of  John  is  pleaded  for  the  former  date,  the  Synoptics 
for  the  latter.  The  question  will  be  considered  in 
connection  with  the  time  of  the  Last  Supper. 
Meanwhile  it  is  to  be  observed  that,  if  the  loth  is 
the  correct  date,  there  seems  reason  to  believe  that 
the  loth  of  Nisan  fell  on  a  Friday  in  the  year  just 
named,  783  AFC,  or  30  AD.  We  accept  this  pro- 
visionally as  the  date  of  the  crucifixion. 

Part  II.    The  Problems  of  the  Life  of  Jesus 

/.  The  Miracles. — Everyone   is   aware  that   the 
presence  of  miracle  in  the  Gospels  is  a  chief  ground 
of  the  rejection  of  its  history  by  the 
1.  The  representatives  of  the  "modern"  school. 

"Modern"  It  is  not  questioned  that  it  is  a  super- 
Attitude  natural  person  whose  picture  is  pre- 
sented in  the  Gospels.  There  is  no 
real  difference  between  the  Synoptics  and  John  in 
this  respect.  "Even  the  oldest  Gospel,"  writes 
Bousset,  "is  written  from  the  standpoint  of  faith; 
already  for  Mark,  Jesus  is  not  only  the  Messiah 
of  the  Jewish  people,  but  the  miraculous  eternal 
Son  of  God,  whose  glory  shone  in  the  world"  (Was 
wissen  wir  von  Jesus  f  54,  57).  But  the  same  writer, 
interpreting  the  "modern"  spirit,  declares  that  no 
account  embracing  supernatural  events  can  be 
accepted  as  historical.  "The  main  characteristic 
of  this  modern  mode  of  thinking,"  he  says,  "rests 
upon  the  determination  to  try  to  explain  every- 
thing  that   takes   place;   in   the  world   by   natural 


causes,  or — to  express  it  in  another  form — it  rests 
on  the  determined  assertion  of  universal  laws  to 
which  all  phenomena,  natural  and  spiritual,  are 
subject"  (What  Is  Religion?  ET,  283). 

With  such  an  assumption  it  is  clear  that  the 
Gospels  are  condemned  before  they  are  read.  Not 
only  is  Jesus  there  a  supernatural 
2.  Super-  person,  but  He  is  presented  as  super- 
natural in  natural  in  character,  in  works,  in 
the  Gospels  claims  (see  below);  He  performs 
miracles;  He  has  a  supernatural  birth, 
and  a  supernatural  resurrection.  All  this  is  swept 
away.  It  may  be  allowed  that  He  had  remarkable 
gifts  of  healing,  but  these  are  in  the  class  of  "faith- 
cures"  (thus  Harnack),  and  not  truly  supernatural. 
When  one  seeks  the  justification  for  this  self- 
confident  dogmatism,  it  is  difficult  to  discover  it, 
except  on  the  ground  of  a  pantheistic  or  monistic 
theory  of  the  universe  which  excludes  the  personal 
God  of  Christianity.  If  God  is  the  Author  and  Sus- 
tainer  of  the  natural  system,  which  He  rules  for 
moral  ends,  it  is  impossible  to  see  why,  for  high  ends 
of  revelation  and  redemption,  a  supernatural  econ- 
omy should  not  be  engrafted  on  the  natural,  achiev- 
ing ends  which  could  not  otherwise  be  attained. 
This  does  not  of  course  touch  the  question  of  evi- 
dence for  any  particular  miracle,  which  must  be 
judged  of  from  its  connection  with  the  person  of  the 
worker,  and  the  character  of  the  apostolic  witnesses. 
The  well-meant  effort  to  explain  all  miracles  through 
the  action  of  unknown  natural  laws — which  is 
what  Dr.  Sanday  calls  "making  both  ends  meet" 
( Life  of  Christ  in  Recent  Research,  302) — breaks  down 
in  the  presence  of  such  miracles  as  the  instanta- 
neous cleansing  of  the  leper,  restoration  of  sight  to 
the  blind,  the  raising  of  the  dead,  acts  which  plainly 
imply  an  exercise  of  creative  power.  In  such  a  life 
as  Christ's,  transcendence  of  the  ordinary  powers 
of  Nature  is  surely  to  be  looked  for. 

//.   The  Messiahship.     A  difficulty  has  been  found 
in  the  fact  that  in  all  the  Gospels  Jesus  knew  Him- 
self to   be  the  Messiah  at   least   from 

1.  Reserve  the  time  of  His  baptism,  yet  did  not, 
of  Jesus  even  to  His  disciples,  unreservedly 
and  Modern  announce  Himself  as  such  till  after 
Criticism        Peter's   great   confession   at   Caesarea 

Philippi  (Mt  16  13  ff).  On  this  seem- 
ing secrecy  the  bold  hypothesis  has  been  built 
that  Jesus  in  reality  never  made  the  claim  to  Mes- 
siahship, and  that  the  passages  which  imply  the 
contrary  in  Mk  (the  original  Gospel)  are  unhis- 
torical  (Wrede;  cf  on  this  and  other  theories, 
Schweitzer,  The  Quest  of  the  Historical  Jesus,  ET; 
Sanday,  The  Life  of  Christ  in  Recent  Research). 
So  extreme  an  opinion  is  rejected  by  most ;  but 
modern  critics  vie  with  each  other  in  the  freedom 
with  which  they  treat  the  test  imony  of  the  evangel- 
ists on  this  subject.  Baldensperger,  e.g.,  supposes 
that  Jesus  did  not  attain  full  certainty  on  His 
Messiahship  till  near  the  time  of  Peter's  confession, 
and  arbitrarily  transposes  the  earlier  sections  in 
which  the  title  "Son  of  Man"  occurs  till  after  that 
event  (Das  Selbstbewusstsein  Jesu,  2d  ed,  246). 
Bousset  thinks  that  Jesus  adopted  the  Messianic 
role  as  the  only  one  open  to  Him,  but  bore  it  as  a 
"burden"  (cf  his  Jesus).  Schweitzer  connects  it 
with  apocalyptic  ideas  of  a  wildly  fantastic  char- 
acter (op.  cit.,  ch  xix). 

There  is,  however,  no   need  for  supposing  that 

Peter's   confession   marks   the   first   dawn   of    this 

knowledge  in  the  minds  of  the  apostles. 

2.  A  Rather  was  it  the  exalted  expression 
Growing  of  a  faith  already  present ,  which  had 
Revelation     long    been    maturing.      The    baptism 

and  temptation,  with  the  use  of  the 
title  "Son  of  Man,"  the  tone  of  authority  in  His 
teaching,  His  miracles,  and  many  special  incidents. 


Jesus  Christ         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1630 


show,  as  clearly  as  do  the  discourses  in  John, 
that  Jesus  was  from  the  beginning  fully  conscious 
of  His  vocation,  and  His  reserve  in  the  use  of  the 
title  sprang,  not  from  any  doubt  in  His  own  mind 
as  lo  His  right  toil,  bul  from  His  desire  to  avoid 
false  associal  ions  t  ill  the  true  nature  of  His  Messiah- 
ship  should  be  revealed.  due  Mossiahship  was 
in  process  of  self-revelat  ion  t  hroilghout  tot  hose  who 
had  eyes  to  see  it  (cf  .In  6  (Hi  71).  What  it  in- 
volved will  be  seen  later. 

///.   Kingdom  and  Apocalypse. — Connected  with 

the    Messiahship    is   the   idea    of   the    "Kingdom   of 

God"   or   "of  heaven,"   which   some  in 

1.  The  modern  times  wotdd  interpret  in  a 
Kingdom  purely  esehatological  sense,  in  the 
Present  or  light  of  Jewish  apocalyptic  conceptions 
Future?  (Johannes     Weiss,      Schweitzer,      etc). 

The  kingdom  is  not  a  thing  of  the 
present,  but  wholly  a  thing  of  the  future,  to  be 
introduced  by  convulsions  of  Nature  and  the 
Parousia  of  the  Son  of  Man.  The  language  of 
the  Lord's  Prayer,  "Thy  kingdom  come,"  is  quoted 
in  support  of  this  contention,  but  the  next  petition 
should  guard  against  so  violent  an  inference. 
"Thy  will  be  done,"  Jesus  teaches  His  disciples  to 
pray,  "as  in  heaven,  so  on  earth"  (Mt  6  10).  The 
kingdom  is  the  reign  of  God  in  human  hearts  and 
lives  in  this  world  as  well  as  in  the  next.  It  would 
not  be  wrong  to  define  it  as  consisting  essentially  in 
the  supremacy  of  God's  will  in  human  hearts  and 
human  affairs,  and  in  every  department,  of  these 
affairs.  As  Jesus  describes  the  kingdom,  it  has, 
in  the  plain  meaning  of  His  words,  a  present  being 
on  earth,  though  its  perfection  is  in  eternity.  The 
parables  in  Mt  13  and  elsewhere  exhibit  it  as 
founded  by  the  sowing  of  the  word  of  truth  (Sower), 
as  a  mingling  of  good  and  evil  elements  (Tares), 
as  growing  from  small  beginnings  to  large  propor- 
tions (Mustard  Seed),  as  gradually  leavening  hu- 
manity (Leaven),  as  of  priceless  value  (Treasure; 
Pearl;  cf  Mt  6  33);  as  terminating  in  a  judgment, 
(Tares.  Dragnet);  as  perfected  in  the  world  to 
come  (Mt  13  43).  It  was  a  kingdom  spiritual  in 
nature  (Lk  17  20.21),  universal  in  range  (Mt  8  11; 
21  43,  etc),  developing  from  a  principle  of  life 
within  (Mk  4  20-29),  and  issuing  in  victory  over 
all  opposition  (Mt    21  44). 

It  is  difficult  to  pronounce  on  the  extent  to  which 
Jesus    was    acquainted    with    current    apocalyptic 

beliefs,  or  allowed  these  to  color  the 

2.  Apoca-  imagery  of  parts  of  His  teachings, 
lyptic  These  beliefs  certainly  did  not  furnish 
Beliefs  the  substance  of  His  teaching,  and  it 

may  be  doubted  whether  they  more 
than  superficially  affected  even  its  form.  Jewish 
apocalyptic  knew  nothing  of  a  death  and  resurrec- 
tion of  the  Messiah  and  of  His  return  in  glory  to 
bring  in  an  everlasting  kingdom.  What  Jesus 
taught  on  these  subjects  sprang  from  His  own 
Messianic  consciousness,  with  the  certainty  He 
had  of  His  triumph  over  death  and  His  exaltation 
to  the  right  hand  of  God.  It  was  in  OT  prophecy, 
not  in  late  Jewish  apocalypse,  that  His  thoughts  of 
the  future  triumph  of  His  kingdom  were  grounded, 
and  from  the  vivid  imagery  of  the  prophets  He 
borrowed  most  of  the  clothing  of  these  thoughts. 
Isa  53,  e.g.,  predicts  not  only  the  rejection  and 
death  of  the  Servant  of  Jehovah  (vs  3.7-9.12), 
but  the  prolongation  of  His  days  and  His  victorious 
reign  (vs  10-12).  Did,  not  the  Book  of  En,  is 
the  source  of  the  title,  "Son  of  Man,"  and  of  the 
imagery  of  coming  on  the  clouds  of  heaven  (Did  7 
13).  The  ideas  of  resurrection,  etc,  have  their 
ground  in  the  OT  (see  Eschatology  of  the  OT). 
With  the  extravagant,  unspiritual  forms  into  which 
these  conceptions  were  thrown  in  the  Jewish  apoca- 
lyptic books  His  teaching  had  nothing  in  common. 


The  new  apocalyptic  school  represented  by  Schweit- 
zer reduces  the  history  of  Jesus  to  folly,  fanaticism 
and  hopeless  disillusionment . 

IV.  The  Character  and  Claims. — Where  the 
Gospels  present    us   in   Jesus  with   the  image  of  a 

flawless  character — in  the  words  of  the 
1.  Denial  writer  to  the  Hebrews,  "holy,  guileless, 
of  Christ's  undefiled,  separated  from  sinners"  (He 
Moral  Per-  7  20) — modern  criticism  is  driven  In- 
fection an  inexorable  necessity  t  o  deprive  Jesus 

of  His  sinless  perfection,  and  to  impute 
to  Him  the  error,  frailty,  and  moral  infirmity  that 
belong  to  ordinary  mortals.  In  Schweitzer's  por- 
traiture (cf  op.  cit.),  He  is  an  apocalyptic;  enthusias- 
tic, ruled  by  illusory  ideals,  deceiving  Himself  and 
others  as  to  who  He  was,  and  as  to  the  impending 
end  of  the  world.  Those  who  show  a  more  ad- 
equate appreciation  of  Christ's  spiritual  greatness 
are  still  prevented  by  their  humanitarian  estimate 
of  His  person  and  their  denial  of  the  supernatural 
in  history  from  recognizing  the  possibility  of  His 
sinlessness.  It  may  confidently  be  said  that  there 
is  hardly  a  single  writer  of  the  modern  school  who 
grants  Christ's  moral  perfection.  To  do  so  would 
be  to  admit  a  miracle  in  humanity,  and  we  have 
heard  that  miracle  is  by  the  highest  rational  neces- 
sity excluded.  This,  however,  is  precisely  the  point 
on  which  the  modern  so-called  "historical-critical" 
mode  of  presentation  most  obviously  breaks  down. 
The  ideal  of  perfect  holiness  in  the  Gospels  which 
has  fascinated  the  conscience  of  Christendom  for 
18  cents.,  and  attests  itself  anew  to  every  candid 
reader,  is  not  thus  lightly  to  be  got  rid  of,  or  ex- 
plained away  as  the  invention  of  a  church  gathered 
out  (without  the  help  of  the  ideal)  promiscuously 
from  Jews  and  Gentiles.  It  was  not  the  church — 
least  of  all  such  a  church — that  created  Christ,  but 
Christ  that  created  the  church. 

(1)  The  sinlessness  a,s.v?iraZ.— The  sinlessness  of 
Jesus  is  a  da  I  inn  in  the  Gospels.  Over  against  a 
sinful  world  He  stands  as  a  Saviour  who  is  Himself 
without  sin.  His  is  the  one  life  in  humanity  in 
which  is  presented  a  perfect  knowledge  and  unbroken 
fellowship  with  the  Eat  her,  undeviating  obedience 
to  His  will,  unswerving  devotion  under  the  severest 
strain  of  temptation  and  suffering  to  the  highest 
ideal  of  goodness.  The  ethical  ideal  was  never 
raised  to  so  absolute  a  height  as  it  is  in  the  teaching 
of  Jesus,  and  the  miracle  is  that,  high  as  it  is  in  its 
unsullied  purity,  the  character  of  Jesus  corresponds 
with  it,  and  realizes  it.  Word  and  life  for  once  in 
history  perfectly  agree.  Jesus,  with  the  keenest 
sensitiveness  to  sin  in  thought  and  feeling  as  in  deed, 
is  conscious  of  no  sin  in  Himself,  confesses  no  sin, 
disclaims  the  presence  of  it,  speaks  and  acts  con- 
tinually on  the  assumption  that  He  is  without  it. 
Those  who  knew  Him  best  declared  Him  to  be 
without  sin  (1  Pet  2  22;  1  Jn  3  .5;  cf  2  Cor  5 
21).  The  Gospels  must  be  rent  in  pieces  before 
this  image  of  a  perfect  holiness  can  be  effaced  from 
them. 

(2)  What  this  implies. — How  is  this  phenomenon 
of  a  sinless  personality  in  Jesus  to  be  explained? 
It  is  itself  a  miracle,  and  can  only  be  made  credible 
by  a  creative  miracle  in  Christ's  origin.  It  may  be 
argued  that  a  Virgin  Birth  does  not  of  itself  secure 
sinlessness,  but  it  will  hardly  be  disputed  that  at 
least  a  sinless  personality  implies  miracle  in  its 
production.  It  is  precisely  because  of  this  that 
the  modern  spirit  feels  bound  to  reject  it.  In  the 
Gospels  it  is  not  the  Virgin  Birth  by  itself  which  is 
invoked  to  explain  Christ's  sinlessness,  but  the 
supernatural  conception  by  the  Holy  Spirit  (Lk 
1  35).  It  is  because  of  this  conception  that  the 
birth  is  a  virgin  one.  No  explanation  of  the  super- 
natural element  in  Christ's  Person  is  more  rational 
or  credible  (see  below  on  "Nativity"). 


1631 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA         Jesus  Christ 


If  Jesus  from  the  first  was  conscious  of  Himself 
as  without  sin,  and  if,  as  the  converse  of  this,  He 

knew  Himself  as  standing  in  an  un- 
2.  Sinless-  broken  filial  fellowship  with  the  Father, 
ness  and  He  must  early  have  become  conscious 
the  Mes-  of  His  special  vocation,  and  learnt  to 
sianic  Claim  distinguish    Himself    from    others    as 

one  called  to  bless  and  save  them. 
Here  is  the  true  germ  of  His  Messianic  consciousness, 
from  which  everything  subsequently  is  unfolded. 
He  stood  in  a  rapport  with  the  Father  which  opened 
His  spirit  to  a  full,  clear  revelation  of  the  Father's 
will  regarding  Himself,  His  mission,  the  kingdom 
He  came  to  found,  His  sufferings  as  the  means  of 
salvation  to  the  world,  the  glory  that  awaited  Him 
when  His  earthly  work  was  done.  In  the  light  of 
this  revelation  He  read  the  OT  Scriptures  and  saw 
His  course  there  made  plain.  When  the  hour  had 
come  He  went  to  John  for  baptism,  and  His  brief, 
eventful  ministry,  which  should  end  in  the  cross, 
began.  This  is  the  reading  of  events  which  intro- 
duces consistency  and  purpose  into  the  life  of  Jesus, 
and  it  is  this  we  mean  to  follow  in  the  sketch  now 
to  be  given. 

Part  III.     Course  of  the  Earthly  Life  of 
Jesus 

The   wonderful  story  of  the   life   of  the   world's 
Redeemer  which  we  are  now  to  endeavor  to  trace 
falls  naturally  into  several  divisions: 

1.  Divisions  A.  From  the  Nativity  to  the  Bap- 
of  the  His-    tism  and  Temptation. 

tory  B.  The  Early  Judaean  Ministry. 

C.  The  Galilean  Ministry  and  Visits 
to  the  Feasts. 

1).  The  Last  Journey  to  Jerusalem. 

E.  The  Passion  Week — Betrayal,  Trial,  and  Cru- 
cifixion. 

F.  The  Resurrection  and  Ascension. 

To    avoid    misconception,    it    is    important    to 

remember,  that,  rich  as  are  the  narratives  of  the 

Gospels,    materials    do    not    exist    for 

2.  Not  a  a  complete  biography  or  "Life"  of 
Complete  Jesus.  There  is  a  gap,  broken  only 
"Life"  by  a  single  incident,  from  His  infancy 

till  His  30th  year;  there  are  cycles  of 
events  out  of  myriads  left  unrecorded  (Jn  21  25); 
there  are  sayings,  parables,  longer  discourses,  con- 
nected with  particular  occasions;  there  are  general 
summaries  of  periods  of  activity  comprised  in  a 
few  verses.  The  evangelists,  too,  present  their 
materials  each  from  his  own  standpoint — Matthew 
from  the  theocratic,  Mark  from  that  of  Christ's 
practical  activity,  Luke  from  the  universalistie  and 
human-sympathetic,  John  from  the  Divine.  In  re- 
producing the  history  respect  must  be  had  to  this 
focusing  from  distinct  points  of  view. 

A.       FROM    THE    NATIVITY. TO   THE    BAPTISiM    AND 
TEMPTATION' 

/.  The  Nativity. — OT  prophecy  expired  with  the 
promise  on  its  lips,  "Behold,  I  send  my  messenger, 

and  he  shall  prepare  the  way  before 
1.  Hidden  me:  and  the  Lord,  whom  ye  seek,  will 
Piety  in  suddenly  come  to  his  temple;   and  the 

Judaism         messenger  of  the  covenant,  whom  ye 

desire,  behold,  he  cometh,  saith  Je- 
hovah of  hosts"  (Mai  3  1).  In  the  years  immedi- 
ately before  Christ's  birth  the  air  was  tremulous 
with  the  sense  of  impending  great  events.  The 
fortunes  of  the  Jewish  people  were  at  their  lowest 
ebb.  Pharisaic  formalism,  Sadducean  unbelief, 
fanatical  Zealotry,  Herodian  sycophantism,  Roman 
oppression,  seemed  to  have  crushed  out  the  last 
sparks  of  spiritual  religion.  Yet  in  numerous  quiet 
circles  in  Judaea,  and  even  in  remote  Galilee,  little 
godly  bands  still  nourished  their  souls  on  the  prom- 


2.  Birth  of 
the  Baptist 

(Lk  1) 


ises,  looking  for  "the  consolation  of  Israel"  and 
"redemption  of  Jerusalem"  (Lk  2  25.38).  Glimpses 
of  these  are  vouchsafed  in  Zacharias  and  Elisabeth, 
in  Simeon,  in  Anna,  in  Joseph  and  Mary  (Lk  1,  2; 
Mt  1  18  ff).  It  was  in  hearts  in  these  circles  that 
the  stirrings  of  the  prophetic  spirit  began  to  make 
themselves  felt  anew,  preparing  for  the  Advent  (cf 
Lk  2  27.36). 

In  the  last  days  of  Herod — perhaps  in  the  year 
748  of  Rome,  or  6  BC— the  aged  priest  Zacharias, 
of  the  course  of  Abijah  (1  Ch  24  10; 
cf  Sehurer,  Div  II,  Vol  I,  219  ff),  was 
ministering  in  the  temple  at  the  altar 
of  incense  at  the  hour  of  evening 
prayer.  Scholars  have  reckoned,  if 
on  somewhat  precarious  grounds,  that  the  ministry 
of  the  order  to  which  Zacharias  belonged  fell  in 
this  year  in  the  month  of  April  or  in  early  October 
(cf  Andrews,  Life  of  Our  Lord).  Now  a  wonderful 
thing  happened.  Zacharias  and  his  wife  Elisabeth, 
noted  for  their  blameless  piety,  were  up  to  this 
time  childless.  On  this  evening  an  angel,  appear- 
ing at  the  side  of  the  altar  of  incense,  announced 
to  Zacharias  that  a  son  should  be  born  to  them,  in 
whom  should  be  realized  the  prediction  of  Malachi 
of  one  coming  in  the  spirit  and  power  of  Elijah  to 
prepare  the  way  of  the  Lord  (cf  Mai  4  5.6).  His 
name  was  to  be  called  John.  Zacharias  hesitated 
to  believe,  and  was  stricken  with  dumbness  till  the 
promise  should  be  fulfilled.  It  happened  as  the  angel 
had  foretold,  and  at  the  circumcision  and  naming  of 
his  son  his  tongue  was  again  loosed.  Zacharias,  filled 
with  the  Spirit,  poured  forth  his  soul  in  a  hymn  of 
praise — the  Bcncdictus  (Lk  1  5-25.57-80;  cf  John 
the  Baptist). 

Meanwhile  yet  stranger  things  were  happening  in 
the  little  village  of  Nazareth,  in  Galilee  (now  en- 
Nasirah).  There  resided  a  young 
maiden  of  purest  character,  named 
Mary,  betrothed  to  a  carpenter  of  the 
village  (cf  Mt  13  '^),  called  Joseph, 
who,  although  in  so  humble  a  station, 
was  of  the  lineage  of  David  (cf  Isa  11 
1).  Mary,  most  probably,  was  like- 
wise of  Davidic  descent  (Lk  1  32; 
on  the  genealogies,  see  below).  The  fables  relating 
to  the  parentage  and  youth  of  Mary  in  the  Apoc- 
ryphal Gospels  may  safely  be  discarded.  To 
this  maiden,  three  months  before  the  birth  of  the 
Baptist,  the  same  angelic  visitant  (Gabriel) 
appeared,  hailing  her  as  "highly  favored"  of  God, 
and  announcing  to  her  that,  through  the  power  of 
the  Holy  Spirit,  she  should  become  the  mother  of 
the  Saviour.  The  words  "Blessed  art  thou  among 
women,"  in  AV  of  ver  28  are  omitted  by  RV,  though 
found  below  (ver  42)  in  Elisabeth's  salutation. 
They  give,  in  any  case,  no  support  to  Mariolatry, 
stating  simply  the  fact  that  Maty  was  more  honored 
than  any  other  woman  of  the  race  in  being  chosen 
to  be  the  mother  of  the  Lord. 

(1)  The  amazing  message. — The  announcement 
itself  was  of  the  most  amazing  import.  Mary  herself 
was  staggered  at  the  thought  that,  as  a  virgin,  she 
should  become  a  mother  (ver  34).  Still  more  sur- 
prising were  the  statements  made  as  to  the  Son  she 
was  to  bear.  Conceived  of  the  Holy  Spirit  (Lk  1 
35;  Mt  1  18),  He  would  be  great,  and  would  be 
called  "the  Son  of  the  Most  High"  (Lk  1  32)  — 
"the  Son  of  God"  (ver  35);  there  would  be  given 
to  Him  the  throne  of  His  father  David,  and  His 
reign  would  be  eternal  (vs  32.33;  cf  Isa  9  6.7); 
He  would  be  "holy"  from  the  womb  (ver  35). 
His  name  was  to  be  called  Jesus  (ver  31;  cf  Mt  1 
21),  denoting  Him  as  Saviour.  The  holiness  of 
Jesus  is  here  put  in  connection  with  His  miraculous 
conception,  and  surely  rightly.  In  no  case  in  the 
history  of  mankind   has  natural  generation   issued 


3.  The  An- 
nunciation 
and  Its  Re- 
sults (Lk  1 : 
26-56;  Mt 
1:18-25) 


Jesus  Christ         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1632 


in  a  being  who  is  sinless,  not  to  say  superhuman. 
The  fact  that  Jesus,  even  in  His  human  nature,  was 
supernaturally  begotten— was  "Son  of  Cod"— does 
not  exclude  the  higher  and  eternal  Sonship  according 
to  the  Divine  nature  (Jn  1  IS).  The  incarnation  of 
such  a  Divine  Being  as  Paul  and  John  depict,  itseli 
implies  miracle  in  human  origin.  On  the  whole 
message  being  declared  to  her,  Mary  accepted  what 
was  told  her  in  meek  humility  (Lk  1  38). 

(2)  The  visit  to  Elisabeth. — With  the  announce- 
ment to  herself  there  was  given  to  Mary  an  indica- 
tion of  what  had  befallen  her  kinswoman  Elisabeth, 
and  Mary's  first  act ,  on  recovering  from  her  astonish- 
ment, was  to  go  in  haste  to  the  home  of  Elisabeth 
in  the  hill  country  of  Judaea  (vs39ff).  Very 
naturally  she  did  not  rashly  forestall  Cod's  action 
in  speaking  to  Joseph  of  what  had  occurred,  but 
waited  in  quietness  and  faith  till  Cod  should  reveal 
in  His  own  way  what  He  had  done.  The  meeting 
of  the  two  holy  women  was  the  occasion  of  a  new 
outburst,  of  prophetic  inspiration.  Elisabeth, 
moved  by  the  Spirit,  greeted  Mary  in  exalted  lan- 
guage as  the  mother  of  the  Lord  (vs  42-45) — a 
confirmation  to  Mary  of  the  message  she  had 
received;  Mary,  on  her  part,  broke  forth  in  rhyth- 
mical utterance,  "My  soul  doth  magnify  the  Lord," 
etc(vs46  ")()).  Her'hymn  the  sublime  Magnificat 
— is  to  be  compared  with  Hannah's  (1  S  2  1-11), 
which  furnishes  the  model  of  it.  Mary  abode  with 
Elisabeth  about  three  months,  then  returned  to  her 
own  house. 

(3)  Joseph's  perplexity. — Here  a  new  trial  awaited 
her.  Mary's  condit  ion  of  mot  herhood  could  not  long 
be  concealed,  and  when  Joseph  first  became  aware  of 
it,  the  shock  to  a  man  so  just  (Mt  1  19)  would  be 
terrible  in  its  severity.  The  disappearance  of  Joseph 
from  the  later  gospel  history  suggests  that  he  was  a 
good  deal  older  than  his  betrothed,  and  it  is  possible 
that,  while  strict,  upright  and  conscientious,  his  dis- 
position was  not  as  strong  on  the  side  of  sympathy 
as  so  delicate  a  case  required.  It  is  going  too  far 
to  say  with  Lange,  'die  encountered  the  modest, 
but  unshakably  firm  Virgin  with  decided  doubt; 
the  first  Ebionite";  but  so  long  as  he  had  no  support 
beyond  Mary's  word,  his  mind  was  in  a  state  of 
agonized  perplexity.  His  first  thought  was  to  give 
Mary  a  private  "bill  of  divorcement"  to  avoid 
scandal  (ver  LI).  Happily,  his  doubts  were  soon 
set  at  rest  by  a  Divine  intimation,  and  he  hesitated 
no  longer  to  take  Mary  to  be  his  wife  (ver  24). 
Luke's  Gospel,  which  confines  itself  to  the  story  of 
Mary,  says  nothing  of  this  episode;  Matthew's 
narrative,  which  bears  evidence  of  having  come 
from  Joseph  himself,  supplies  the  lack  by  showing 
how  Joseph  came  to  have  the  confidence  in  Mary 
which  enabled  him  to  take  her  to  wife,  and  become 
sponsor  for  her  child.  The  trial,  doubtless,  while 
it  lasted,  was  not  less  severe  for  Mary  than  for 
Joseph — a  prelude  of  that  sword  which  was  to 
"pierce  through  [her]  own  soul"  (Lk  2  35).  There 
is  no  reason  to  believe  that  Joseph  and  Mary 
did  not  subsequently  live  in  the  usual  relations  of 
wedlock,  and  that  children  were  not  born  to  them 
(cf   Mt    13  55.56,  etc). 

Matthew  gives  no  indication  of  where  the  events 
narrated  in  his  first  chapter  took  place,  first  men- 
tioning Nazareth  on  the  occasion  of 
4.  The  the    return    of    the    holy  family  from 

Birth  at  Egypt   (2  23).     In  2  1  he  transports 

Bethlehem  us  to  Bethlehem  as  tin;  city  of  Christ's 
(Mt2:l;  birth.  It  is  left  to  Luke  to  give  an 
Lk  2:1-7)  account  of  the;  circumstances  which 
brought,  Joseph  and  Mary  to  Bethle- 
hem— thus  fulfilling  prophecy  (Mic  5  2;  Mt  2  5.6) 
— at  this  critical  hour,  and  to  record  the  lowly  manner 
of  Christ's  birth  there. 

(1)    The    census    of     Quirinius. — The     emperor 


Augustus  had  given  orders  for  a  general  enrolment 
throughout  the  empire  (the  fact  of  periodical  enrol- 
ments in  the  empire  is  well  established  by  Professor 
W .  M .  Ramsay  in  his  Was  Christ  Bom  at  Bethlehem/), 
and  this  is  stated  to  have  been  given  effect  to  in 
Judaea  when  Quirinius  was  governor  of  Syria  (Lk  2 
1.2).  The  difficulties  connected  with  the  enrolment 
or  census  here  mentioned  are  discussed  in  the  art. 
Quikinius.  It  is  known  that  Quirinius  did  con- 
duct a  census  in  Judaea  in  6  AD  (cf  Acts  5  37), 
but  the  census  at  Christ 's  birth  is  distinguished  from 
this  by  Luke  as  "the  first  enrolment."  The  diffi- 
culty was  largely  removed  when  it  was  ascertained, 
as  it  has  been  to  the  satisfaction  of  most  scholars, 
that  Quirinius  was  twice  governor  of  Syria — first, 
after  Herod's  death,  4-1  BC,  and  again  in  6-11  AD. 
The  probability  is  that  the  census  was  begun  under 
Varus,  the  immediate  predecessor  of  Quirinius— 
or  even  earlier  under  Saturninus — but  was  delayed 
in  its  application  to  Judaea,  then  under  Herod's 
jurisdiction,  and  was  completed  by  Quirinius,  with 
whose  name  it  is  officially  connected.  That  the 
enrolment  was  made  by  each  one  going  to  his  own 
city  (ver  3)  is  explained  by  the  fact  that  the  census 
was  not  made  according  to  the  Rom  method,  but, 
as  befitted  a  dependent  kingdom,  in  accordance 
with  Jewish  usages  (cf  Ramsay). 

(2)  J<  xus  bom. — It  must  be  left  undecided  whether 
the  journey  of  Mary  to  Bethlehem  with  Joseph  was 
required  for  any  purpose  of  registration,  or  sprang 
simply  from  her  unwillingness  to  be  separated  from 
Joseph  in  so  Irving  a  situation.  To  Bethlehem,  in 
any  case,  possibly  by  Divine  monition,  she  came,  and 
there,  in  the  ancestral  city  of  David,  in  circum- 
stances the  lowliest  conceivable,  brought  forth  her 
marvelous  child.  In  unadorned  language— very 
different  from  the  embellishments  of  apocryphal 
story— Luke  narrates  how,  when  the  travelers 
arrived,  no  room  was  found  for  them  in  the  "inn"-  - 
the  ordinary  eastern  khan  or  caravanserai,  a  square 
enclosure,  with  an  open  court  for  cattle,  and  a 
raised  recess  round  the  walls  for  shelter  of  visitors— 
and  how,  when  her  babe  was  born,  Mary  wrapped 
Him  in  swaddling  clothes,  and  laid  Him  in  a  manger. 
The  wearied  pair  having,  according  to  Luke,  been 
crowded  out  of,  and  not  merely  within,  the  inn, 
there  is  every  probability  that  the  birth  took  place, 
not,  as  some'  suppose,  in  the  courtyard  of  the  inn, 
but,  as  the  oldest  tradition  asserts  (Justin  Martyr, 
Dial,  with  Trypho,  78),  in  a  cave  in  the  neighbor- 
hood, used  for  similar  purposes  of  lodgment  and 
housing  of  cattle.  High  authorities  look  favorably 
on  the  "cave  of  the  nativity"  still  shown,  with  its 
inscription,  Hie  de  virgine  Maria  Jesus  Christ  us 
natus  est,  as  marking  the  sacred  spot.  In  such 
incredibly  mean  surroundings  was  "the  only  begot- 
ten of  the  Lather"  ushered  into  the  world  He  came 
to  redeem.  How  true  the  apostle's  word  that  He 
"emptied"  Himself  (Phil  2  7)!  A  problem  lies  in 
the  verv  circumstances  of  the  entrance  into  time  of 
such  a  One,  which  only  the  thought  of  a  voluntary 
humiliation  for  saving  ends  can  solve. 

Born,  however,  though  Jesus  was,  in  a  low  con- 
dition, the  Lather  did  not  leave  Him  totally  with- 
out witness  to  His  Sonship.  There 
5.  The  In-  were  rifts  in  the  clouds  through  which 
cidents  of  the  hidden  glory  streamed.  The  scenes 
the  Infancy  in  the  narratives  of  the  Infancy  exhibit 
(Lk  2:8-39;  a  strange  commingling  of  the  glorious 
Mt  2:1-12)   and  the  lowly. 

(1)  The  visit  of  the  shepherds— To 
shepherds  watching  their  flocks  by  night  in  t  he  fields 
near  Bethlehem  the  first  disclosure  was  made.  _  The 
season,  one  would  infer,  could  hardly  have  been  winter, 
t  hough  it  is  stated  that  there  is  frequently  an  interval 
of  dry  weather  in  Judaea  between  the  middle  of 
December  and  the  middle  of  February,  when  such 


1633 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA         Jesus  Christ 


a  keeping  of  flocks  would  be  possible  (Andrews). 
The  angel  world  is  not  far  removed  from  us,  and  as 
angels  preannounced  the  birth  of  Christ,  so,  when 
He  actually  came  into  the  world  (cf  He  1  6), 
angels  of  God  made  the  night  vocal  with  their  songs. 
First,  an  angel  appearing  in  the  midst  of  the  Divine 
glory — the  "Shekinah" — announced  to  the  sorely 
alarmed  shepherds  the  birth  of  a  "Saviour  who  was 
Christ  the  Lord"  at  Bethlehem;  then  a  whole  chorus 
of  the  heavenly  host  broke  in  with  the  refrain, 
"Glory  to  God  in  the  highest,  and  on  earth  peace 
among  men  in  whom  He  is  well  pleased"  (lit.  "men 
of  good  pleasure") — since,  the  Christmas  hymn  of 
the  generations  (Lk  2  1-14).  The  shepherds,  guided 
as  to  how  to  recognize  the  babe  (ver  12),  went  at 
once,  and  found  it  to  be  even  as  they  had  been  told. 
Thence  they  hastened  to  spread  abroad  the  tidings — 
the  first  believers,  the  first  worshippers,  the  first 
preachers  (vs  15-20).  Mary  cherished  the  sayings 
in  the  stillness  of  her  heart. 

(2)  The  circumcision  and  presentation  in  the  tern  pie. 
- — Jewish  law  required  that  on  the  8th  day  the  male 
child  should  be  circumcised,  and  on  the  same  day 
He  received  His  name  (cf  Lk  1  59-63).  Jesus, 
though  entirely  pure,  underwent  the  rite  which  de- 
noted the  putting  off  of  fleshly  sin  (Col  2  11),  and 
became  bound,  as  a  true  Israelite,  to  render  obedience 
to  every  Divine  commandment.  The  name  "Jesus" 
was  then  given  Him  (Lk  2  21).  _  On  the  40th  day 
came  the  ceremony  of  presentation  in  the  temple 
at  Jerus,  when  Alary  had  to  offer  for  her  purifying 
(Lev  12;  Mary's  was  the  humbler  offering  of  the 
poor,  "a  pair  of  turtle-doves,  or  two  young  pigeons" 
[Lev  12  8;  Lk  2  24]),  and  when  the  first-born  son 
had  to  be  redeemed  with  5  shekels  of  the  sanctuary 
(Nu  18  15.16;  about  $3.60).  The  observance  was 
an  additional  token  that  Christ — personally  sin- 
less— did  not  shrink  from  full  identification  with  our 
race  in  the  responsibilities  of  its  sinful  condition. 
Ere  it  was  completed,  however,  the  ceremony  was 
lifted  to  a  Diviner  level,  and  a  new  attestation  was 
given  of  the  dignity  of  the  child  of  Mary,  by  the 
action  and  inspired  utterances  of  the  holy  Simeon 
and  the  aged  prophetess  Anna.  To  Simeon,  a 
righteous  and  devout  man,  "looking  for  the  con- 
solation of  Israel,"  it  had  been  revealed  that  he 
should  not  die  till  he  had  seen  the  Lord's  Christ, 
and,  led  by  the  Spirit  into  the  temple  at  the  very 
time  when  Jesus  was  being  presented,  he  recognized 
in  Him  the  One  for  whom  he  had  waited,  and, 
taking  Him  in  his  arms,  gave  utterance  to  the  beau- 
tiful words  of  the  Nunc  Dimittis — "Now  lettest  thou 
thy  servant  depart,  Lord,"  etc  (Lk  2  25-32).  He 
told  also  how  this  child  was  set  for  the  falling  and 
rising  of  many  in  Israel,  and  how,  through  Him,  a 
sword  should  pierce  through  Mary's  own  soul 
(vs  34.35).  Entering  at  the  same  hour,  the  proph- 
etess Anna — now  in  extreme  old  age  (over  100;  a 
constant  frequenter  of  the  temple,  ver  37) — con- 
firmed his  words,  and  spoke  of  Him  to  all  who,  like 
herself,  looked  "for  the  redemption  of  Jerus." 

(3)  Visit  of  the  Magi. — It  seems  to  have  been 
after  the  presentation  in  the  temple  that  the 
incident  took  place  recorded  by  Matthew  of  the 
visit  of  the  Magi.  The  Magi,  a  learned  class 
belonging  originally  to  Chaldaea  or  Persia  (see 
Magi),  had,  in  course  of  time,  greatly  degenerate!  1 
(cf  Simon  Magus,  Acts  8  9),  but  those  who  now 
came  to  seek  Christ  from  the  distant  East  were 
of  a  nobler  order.  They  appeared  in  Jerus  in- 
quiring, "Where  is  He  that  is  born  King  of  the 
Jews?"  and  declaring  that  they  had  seen  His  star 
in  the  East,  and  had  come  to  worship  Him  (Mt  2 
2).  Observers  of  the  nightly  sky,  any  significant 
appearance  in  the  heavens  would  at  once  attract 
their  attention.  Many  (Kepler,  Ideler,  etc;  cf 
Ramsay,  op.  cit.,  215  ff)   are  disposed  to  connect 


this  "star"  with  a  remarkable  conjunction — or  series 
of  conjunctions — of  planets  in  7-6  BC,  in  which 
case  it  is  possible  that  two  years  may  have  elapsed 
(cf  the  inquiry  of  Herod  and  his  subsequent  action, 
vs  7.16)  from  their  observation  of  the  sign.  On  the 
other  hand,  the  fact  of  the  star  reappearing  and 
seeming  to  stand  over  a  house  in  Bethlehem  (ver  9) 
rather  points  to  a  distinct  phenomenon  (cf  Bethle- 
hem, Star  of).  The  inquiry  of  the  Magi  at  once 
awakened  Herod's  alarm;  accordingly,  having  ascer- 
tained from  the  scribes  that  the  Christ  should  be 
born  at  Bethlehem  (Mic  5  2),  he  summoned  the 
Magi,  questioned  them  as  to  when  exactly  the  star 
appeared,  then  sent  them  to  Bethlehem  to  search 
out  the  young  child,  hypocritically  pretending  that 
he  also  wished  to  worship  Him  (Alt  2  7.S).  Herod 
had  faith  enough  to  believe  the  Scriptures,  yet  was 
foolish  enough  to  think  that  he  could  thwart  God's 
purpose.  Guided  by  the  star,  which  anew  appeared, 
the  wise  men  came  to  Bethlehem,  offered  their  gifts, 
and  afterward,  warned  by  God,  returned  by  another 
road,  without  reporting  to  Herod.  It  is  a  striking 
picture — Herod  the  king,  and  Christ  the  King; 
Christ  a  power  even  in  His  cradle,  inspiring  terror, 
attracting  homage!  The  faith  of  these  sages,  unre- 
pelled  by  the  lowly  surroundings  of  the  child  they 
had  discovered,  worshipping,  and  laying  at  His  feet 
their  gold,  frankincense  and  myrrh,  is  a  splendid 
anticipation  of  the  victories  Christ  was  yet  to  win 
among  the  wisest  as  well  as  the  humblest  of  our  race. 
Herod,  finding  himself,  as  he  thought,  befooled  by 
the  Magi,  avenged  himself  by  ordering  a  massacre 
of  all  the  male  children  of  two  years  old,  and  under, 
in  Bethlehem  and  its  neighborhood  (vs  16-19).  This 
slaughter,  if  not  recorded  elsewhere  (cf,  however, 
Macrobius,  quoted  by  Ramsay,  op.  cit.,  219),  is 
entirely  in  keeping  with  the  cruelty  of  Herod's  dis- 
position. Meanwhile,  Joseph  and  Mary  had  been 
withdrawn  from  the  scene  of  danger  (ver  17  con- 
nects the  mourning  of  the  Bethlehem  mothers  with 
Rachel's  weeping,  Jer  31  15). 

The  safety  of  Alary  and  her  threatened  child  was 

provided  for  by  a  Divine  warning  to  retire  for  a  time 

to  Egypt  (mark  the  recurring  expres- 

6.  Flight  to  sion,  "the  young  child  and  his  mother" 
Egypt  and  — the  young  child  taking  the  lead,  vs 
Return  to  11.13.14.20.21),  whither,  accordingly, 
Nazareth  they  were  conducted  by  Joseph  (ver 
(Mt2:13-  14).  The  sojourn  was  not  a  long  one. 
15.19-23)       Herod's  death  brought  permission  to 

return,  but  as  Archelaus,  Herod's  son 
(the  worst  of  them),  reigned  in  Judaea  in  his  father's 
stead  (not  king,  but  "ethnarch"),  Joseph  was 
directed  to  withdraw  to  Galilee;  hence  it  came 
about  that  he  and  Mary,  with  the  babe,  fount! 
themselves  again  in  Nazareth,  where  Luke  anew 
takes  up  the  story  (2  39),  the  thread  of  which  had 
been  broken  by  the  incidents  in  Mt.  Matthew  sees 
in  the  return  from  Egypt  a  refulfilling  of  the  ex- 
periences of  Israel  (Hos  11  1),  and  in  the  settling  in 
Nazareth  a  connection  with  the  OT  prophecies  of 
Christ's  lowly  estate  (Isa  11  1,  ?ceger,  "branch"; 
Zee  3  8;    6  12,  etc). 

The   objections   to   the  credibility  of  the   narratives 

of  the  Virgin  Birth  have  already  partly  been  adverted 

to.      (See    further    the    arts,    on    Mary; 

7.  Questions  The  Virgin  Birth;  and  the  writer's 
„nj  r»V.;o/»         volume,  The  Virgin  Birth  of  Christ.) 

anu  UDjec-  (1)  The  virgin  Birth— -The  narrativesin 

10ns  Mt  and  Lk  are  attested  by  all  MSS  and 

VSS  genuine  parts  of  their  respective  Gos- 
pels, and  as  coming  to  us  in  their  integrity.  The  narrative 
of  Lk  is  generally  recognized  as  resting  on  an  Aram,  basis, 
which,  from  its  diction  and  the  primitive  character  of  its 
conceptions,  belongs  to  tin;  earliest  age.  While  in  Luke's 
narrative  everything  is  presented  from  the  standpoint  of 
Alary,  in  Mt  it  is  Joseph  who  is  in  the  forefront,  sug- 
gesting that  the  virgin  mother  is  the  source  of  information 
in  the  one  case,  and  Joseph  himself  in  the  other.  The 
narratives  are  complementary,  not  contradictory.  That 
Mk  and  Jn  do  not  contain  narratives  of  the  Virgin  Birth 


Jesus  Christ         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1634 


cannot  be  wondered  at.  when  it  is  remembered  that 
Mark's  Gospel  begins  of  purpose  with  the  Baptism  of 
John,  and  that  the  Fourth  Gospel  aims  at  setting  forth 
the  Divine  descent,  not  the  circumstances  of  the  earthly 
nativity.  "The  Word  became  flesh"  (Jn  1  14)-  every- 
thing  is  already  implied  in  that.  Neither  can  it  be 
objected  to  that  Paul  does  not  in  his  letters  or  public 
preaching  base  upon  so  essentially  private  a  fact:  as  the 
miraculous  conception — at  a  time,  too,  when  Mary 
probably  still  lived.  With  the  exception  of  the  narrow- 
est sect 'of  the  Jewish  Kbionites  and  some  of  the  gnostic 
sects,  the  Virgin  Birth  was  universally  accepted  in  the 
earls   church. 

(2)  Tin  genealogies  {Mt  1  1-17;  Lk  3  23-28).— Diffi- 
culty is  felt  with  the  genealogies  in  Mt  and  Lk  (one  de- 
scending, the  other  ascending),  which,  while  both  profess- 
ing to  t  race  t  lie  descent  of  Jesus  from  I  )avid  and  Abraham 
(Lk  from  Adam  i.  vet  go  entirely  apart  in  the  pedigree 
after  David.  See  on  this  the  art.  G  enealogieh  of  Jksus 
Christ.  A  favorite  view  is  that  Mt  exhibits  the  legal,  Lk 
the  natural  descent  of  Jesus.  There  is  plausibility  in  the 
supposition  that  though,  in  form,  a  genealogy  of  Joseph, 
Lk's  is  really  the  genealogy  of  Alary.  It  was  not  custom- 
ary, it  is  true,  to  make  out  pedigrees  of  females,  but  the 
case  here  was  clearly  exceptional,  and  the  passing  of  Jo- 
seph into  the  family  of  his  father-in-law  Hell  would  enable 
the  list  to  be  made  out  in  his  name.  Celsus,  in  the 
2d  cent.,  appears  thus  to  have  understood  it  when  he 
derides  the  notion  that  through  so  lowly  a  woman  as  the 
carpenter's  wife.  Jesus  should  trace  Lis  lineage  up  to 
the  first  man  (Origen,  Con.  C,I..\\M2;  Origen's  reply  pro- 
ceeds on  t  he  same  assumption.  Cf  art.  on  "  Genealogies 
in  Kitto,  II). 

//.   The    Years  of  Silence—the   Twelfth   Year  — 

With  the  exception  of  one  fragment  of  incident— 
that    of   the    visit    to    Jerns   and   the 
1.  The  Temple  in  His  12th  year— the  Canoni- 

Human  De-  cal  Gospels  are  silent  as  to  the^  history 
velopment  of  Jesus  from  the  return  to  Nazareth 
(Lk  2:40.  till  His  baptism  by  John.  This  long 
52)  period,  which  the  Apocryphal  Gospels 

crowd  with  silly  fables  (see  Apocryphal 
Gospels),  the  inspired  records  leave  to  be  regarded 
as  being  what  it  was— a  period  of  quiet  development 
of  mind  and  body,  of  outward  uneventfulness,  of 
silent  garnering  of  experience  in  the  midst  of  the 
Nazareth  surroundings.  Jesus  "grew,  and  waxed 
strong,  filled  with  wisdom;  and  the  grace  of  God 
was  upon  him  ....  advanced  in  wisdom  and 
stature,  and  in  favor  with  God  and  men"  (Lk  2 
40.52).  The  incarnation  was  a  true  acceptance 
of  humanity,  with  all  its  sinless  limitations  of  growth 
and  development.  Not  a  hint  is  offered  of  that 
omniscience  or  omnipotence  which  theology  has  not 
infrequently  imputed  to  Jesus  even  as  child  and 
boy.  His  schooling  was  probably  that  of  the  ordi- 
nary village  child  (He  could  read,  Lk  4  17  ff,  and 
write,  Jn  8  G-S);  He  wrought  at  the  carpenter's 
bench  (cf  Mk  6  3;_Justin  Martyr,  following  tra- 
speaks  (  " 
Dial,  $ 
character  endeared  Him  to  all  who  knew  Him  (Lk  2 
52).  No  stain  of  sin  clouded  His  vision  of  Divine 
things.  Ilis  after-history  shows  that  His  mind  was 
nourished  on  the  Scriptures;  nor,  as  He  pondered 
psalms  and  prophets,  could  His  soul  remain  un- 
visited  by  presentiments,  growing  to  convictions, 
that  He  was  the  One  in  whom  their  predictions  were 
destined  to  be  realized. 

Every  year,  as  was  the  custom  of  the  Jews, 
Joseph  and  Mary  went,  with  their  friends  and 
neighbors,  in  companies,  to  Jerus  to 
the  Passover.  When  Jesus  was  12 
years  old,  it,  would  seem  that,  for 
the  first  time,  He  was  permitted  to 
accompany  them.  It  would  be  to 
Him  a  strange  and  thrilling  experience. 
Everything  He  saw — the  hallowed  sites,  the  motley 
crowd,  the  service  of  the  temple,  the  very  shocks 
His  moral  consciousness  would  receive  from  contact 
with  abounding  scandals — would  intensify  His  feel- 
ing of  1  lis  own  unique  relation  to  the  Father.  Every 
relationship  was  for  the  time  suspended  and  merged 
to  His  thought  in  this  higher  one.  It  was  His 
Father's  city  whose  streets  He  trod;    Ilis  Father's 


dit  ion,    speaks    of   Him   as   making   ''ploughs   and 
yokes,"    Dial.,   88).     His   gentleness   and   grace   of 


2.  Jesus  in 
the  Temple 
(Lk  2:41- 
50) 


house  He  visited  for  prayer;  His  Father's  ordi- 
nance the  crowds  were  assembled  to  observe; 
His  Father's  name,  too,  they  were  dishonoring 
by  their  formalism  and  hypocrisy.  It  is  this 
exalted  mood  of  the  boy  Jesus  which  explains  the 
scene  that  follows — the  only  one  rescued  from 
oblivion  in  this  interval  of  growth  and  preparation. 
When  the  time  came  for  the  busy  caravan  to  return 
to  Nazareth,  Jesus,  acting,  doubtless,  from  highest 
impulse,  "tarried  behind"  (ver  43).  In  the  large 
company  His  absence  was  not  at  first  missed,  but 
when,  at  the  evening  halting-place,  it  became  known 
that  He  was  not  with  them,  His  mother  and  Joseph 
returned  in  deep  distress  to  Jerus.  Three  days 
elapsed  before  they  found  Him  in  the  place  where 
naturally  they  should  have  looked  first — His 
Father's  house.  There,  in  one  of  the  halls  or  cham- 
bers where  the  rabbis  were  wont  to  teach,  they 
discovered  Him  seated  "in  the  midst,"  at  the  feet 
of  the  men  of  learning,  hearing  them  discourse, 
asking  questions,  as  pupils  were  permitted  to  do, 
and  giving  answers  which  awakened  astonishment 
by  their  penetration  and  wisdom  (vs  46.47).  Those 
who  heard  Him  may  well  have  thought  that  before 
them  was  one  of  the  great  rabbis  of  the  future! 
Mary,  much  surprised,  asked  in  remonstrance, 
"Son,  why  hast  thou  thus  dealt  with  us?"  evoking 
from  Jesus  the  memorable  reply,  "How  is  it  that 
ye  sought  me?  knew  ye  not  that  I  must  be  in  my 
Father's  house?"  or  "about  my  Father's  business?" 
AV  (vs  48.49).  Here  was  the  revelation  of  a  self- 
consciousness  that  Mary  might  have  been  prepared 
for  in  Jesus,  but  perhaps,  in  the  common  inter- 
course of  life,  was  tending  to  lose  sight  of.  The 
lesson  was  not  unneeded.  Yet,  once  it  had  been 
given,  Jesus  went  back  with  Joseph  and  Mary  to 
Nazareth,  and  "was  subject  unto  them";  _  and 
Mary  did  not  forget  the  teaching  of  the  incident 
(ver  51). 

///.  The  Forerunner  and  the  Baptism. — Time 
passed,  and  when  Jesus  was  nearing  His  30th  year, 

Judaea  was  agitated  by  the  message 
1.  The  of   a  stern  preacher  of  righteousness 

Preaching  who  had  appeared  in  the  wilderness 
of  John  by  the  Jordan,  proclaiming  the  immi- 

(Mt3:l-  nent  approach  of  the  kingdom  of 
12;  Mk  1:  heaven,  summoning  to  repentance, 
1-8;  Lk  3:  and  baptizing  those  who  confessed 
1-18)  their    silts.     Tiberius    had    succeeded 

Augustus  on  the  imperial  throne; 
Judaea,  with  Samaria,  was  now  a  Rom  province, 
under  the  procurator  Pontius  Pilate;  the  rest  of 
Pal  was  divided  between  the  tetrarchs  Herod 
(Galilee)  and  Philip  (the  eastern  parts).  The 
Baptist  thus  appeared  at  the  time  when  the  land 
had  lost  the  last  vestige  of  self-government,  was 
politically  divided,  and  was  in  great  ecclesiastical 
confusion.  Nurtured  in  the  deserts  (Lk  1  80), 
John's  very  appearance  was  a  protest  against  the 
luxury  and  self-seeking  of  the  age.  He  had  been  a 
Nazarite  from  his  birth;  he  fed  on  the  simplest 
products  of  nature — locusts  and  wild  honey;  his 
coarse  garb  of  camel's  hair  and  leathern  girdle  was 
a  return  to  the  dress  of  Elijah  (2  K  1  8),  in  whose 
spirit  and  power  he  appeared  (Lk  1  17)  (see  John 
the  Baptist). 

The  coming  Christ. — John's  preaching  of  the  king- 
dom was  unlike  that  of  any  of  the  revolutionaries  of 
his  age.  It  was  a  kingdom  which  could  be  entered 
only  through  moral  preparation.  It  availed  nothing 
for  the  Jew  simply  that  he  was  a  son  of  Abraham. 
The  Messiah  was  at  hand.  He  (John)  was  but  a 
voice  in  the  wilderness  sent  to  prepare  the  way  for 
that  Greater  than  himself.  The  work  of  the  Christ 
would  be  one  of  judgment  and  of  mercy.  He  would 
lay  the  axe  at  the  root  of  the  tree— would  winnow 
the  chaff  from  the  wheat — yet  would  baptize  with 


1635 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA         Jesus  Christ 


the  Holy  Spirit  (Mt  3  10-12;  Lk  3  15-17).  Those 
who  professed  acceptance  of  his  message,  with  its 
condition  of  repentance,  John  baptized  with  water 
at  the  Jordan  or  in  its  neighborhood  (cf  Mt  3  6; 
Jn  1  28;  3  23). 

John's  startling  words  made  a  profound  impres- 
sion.    All    classes   from    every   part    of   the   land, 

including  Pharisees  and  Saddueees 
2.  Jesus  Is  (Mt  3  7),  came  to  his  baptism.  John 
Baptized  was  not  deceived.  He  saw  how  little 
(Mt  3:13-  change  of  heart  underlay  it  all.  The 
17;  Mk  1:  Regenerator  had  not  yet  come.  But 
9-11;  Lk  one  day  there  appeared  before  him 
3:21.22)         One   whom   he  intuitively  recognized 

as  different  from  all  the  rest — as, 
indeed,  the  Christ  whose  coming  it  was  his  to 
herald.  John,  up  to  this  time,  does  not  seem 
to  have  personally  known  Jesus  (cf  Jn  1  31).  He 
must,  however,  have  heard  of  Him;  he  had,  besides, 
received  a  sign  by  which  the  Messiah  should  be 
recognized  (Jn  1  33);  and  now,  when  Jesus  pre- 
sented Himself,  Divinely  pure  in  aspect,  asking 
baptism  at  his  hands,  the  conviction  was  instantane- 
ously flashed  on  his  mind,  that  this  was  He.  But 
how  should  he,  a  sinful  man,  baptize  this  Holy 
One?  "I  have  need  to  be  baptized  of  thee,  and 
comest  thou  to  me?"  (Mt  3  14).  The  question 
is  one  which  forces  itself  upon  ourselves — How 
should  Jesus  seek  or  receive  a  "baptism  of  re- 
pentance"? Jesus  Himself  puts  it  on  the  ground 
of  meetness.  ''Suffer  it  now:  for  thus  it  becometh 
us  to  fulfil  all  righteousness"  (ver  15).  The  Head 
was  content  to  enter  by  the  same  gateway  as  the 
members  to  His  specific  vocation  in  the  service  of 
the  kingdom.  In  submitting  to  the  baptism,  He 
formally  identified  Himself  with  the  expectation  of 
the  kingdom  and  with  its  ethical  demands;  sepa- 
rated Himself  from  the  evil  of  His  nation,  doubtless 
with  confession  of  its  sins;  and  devoted  Himself 
to  His  life-task  in  bringing  in  the  Messianic  salva- 
tion. The  significance  of  the  rite  as  marking  His 
consecration  to,  and  entrance  upon,  His  Messianic 
career,  is  seen  in  what  follows.  As  He  ascended 
from  the  water,  while  still  "praying"  (Lk  3  21),  the 
heavens  were  opened,  the  Spirit  of  God  descended 
like  a  dove  upon  Him,  and  a  voice  from  heaven 
declared:  "This  is  my  beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am 
well  _  pleased"  (Mt  3  10.17).  It  is  needless  to 
inquire  whether  anyone  besides  John  (cf  Jn  1  33) 
and  Jesus  (Mt  3  10;  Mk  1  10)  received  this 
vision  or  heard  these  wTords;  it  was  for  them,  not 
for  others,  the  vision  was  primarily  intended.  To 
Christ's  consecration  of  Himself  to  His  calling,  there 
was  now  added  the  spiritual  equipment  necessary 
for  the  doing  of  His  work.  He  went  forward  with 
the  seal  of  the.  Father's  acknowledgment  upon  Him. 
IV.  The  Temptation. — On  the  narrative  of  the 
baptism  in  the  first  three  Gospels  there  follows  at 

once  the  account  of  the  temptation  of 
1.  Tempta-  Jesus  in  the  wilderness.  The  psy- 
tion  Follows  etiological  naturalness  of  the  incident 
Baptism  is  generally  acknowledged.  The  bap- 
(Mt  4:1-  tism  of  Jesus  was  a  crisis  in  His  experi- 
11;  Mk  1:  ence.  He  had  been  plenished  by  the 
13.14;  Lk  Spirit  for  His  work;  the  heavens  had 
4:1-13)  been  opened  to  Him,  and  His  mind 

was  agitated  by  new  thoughts  and 
emotions;  He  was  conscious  of  the  possession  of 
new  powers.  There  was  need  for  a  period  of  retire- 
ment, of  still  reflection,  of  coming  to  a  complete 
understanding  with  Himself  as  to  the  meaning  of 
the  task  to  which  He  stood  committed,  the  methods 
He  should  employ,  the  attitude  He  should  take  up 
toward  popular  hopes  and  expectations.  He  would 
wish  to  be  alone.  The  Spirit  of  God  led  Him  (Mt 
4  1;  Mk  1  12;  Lk  4  1)  whither  His  own  spirit 
also  impelled.     It  is  with  a  touch  of  similar  motive 


that  Buddhist  legend  makes  Buddha  to  be  tempted 
by  the  evil  spirit  Mara  after  he  has  attained  en- 
lightenment. 

The  scene  of  the  temptation  was  the  wilderness 

of  Judaea.     Jesus  was  there  40  days,  during  which, 

it   is   told,   He   neither  ate  nor  drank 

2.  Nature  (cf  the  fasts  of  Moses  and  Elijah, 
of  the  Ex  24  18;  34  28;  Dt  9  18;  1  K  19 
Temptation  8).     Mk  adds,  "He  was  with  the  wild 

beasts"  (ver  13).  The  period  was 
probably  one  of  intense  self-concentration.  During 
the  whole  of  it  He  endured  temptations  of  Satan 
(Mk  1  13);  but  the  special  assaults  came  at  the 
end  (Mt  4  2ff;  Lk  4  2  if).  We  assume  here  a 
real  tempter  and  real  temptations — the  question  of 
diabolic  agency  .  being  considered  after.  This, 
however,  does  not  set  t  le  the  form  of  the  temptations. 
The  struggle  was  probably  an  inward  one.  It  can 
hardly  be  supposed  that  Jesus  was  literally  trans- 
ported by  the  devil  to  a  pinnacle  of  the  temple,  then 
to  a  high  mountain,  then,  presumably,  back  again 
to  the  wilderness.  The  narrative  must  have  come 
from  Jesus  Himself,  and  embodies  an  ideal  or  para- 
bolic element.  "The  history  of  the  temptation," 
Lange  says,  "Jesus  afterwards  communicated  to 
His  disciples  in  the  form  of  a  real  narrative,  clothed 
in  symbolical  language"  (Comm.  on,  Mt,  83,  ET). 

The  stages  of  the  temptation  were  three — each 
in  its  own  way  a  trial  of  the  spirit  of  obedience. 

(1)  The  first  temptation  was  to  distrust.  Jesus, 
after   His  long  fast,   was  an  hungered.     He  had 

become     conscious     also     of     super- 

3.  Stages       natural  powers.     The  point  on  which 
of  the  the    temptation    laid    hold    was    His 
Temptation   sense     of     hunger — the     most     over- 
mastering of  appetites.     "If  thou  art 

the  Son  of  God,  command  that  these  stones  become 
bread."  The  design  was  to  excite  distrustful  and 
rebellious  thoughts,  and  lead  Jesus  to  use  the 
powers  entrusted  to  Him  in  an  unlawful  way,  for 
private  and  selfish  ends.  The  temptation  was 
promptly  met  by  a  quotation  from  Scripture: 
"Man  shall  .not  live  by  bread  alone,"  etc  (Mt  4  4; 
Lk  4  4;  cf  Dt  8  3).  If  Jesus  was  in  this  position, 
it  was  His  Father  who  had  brought  Him  there  for 
purposes  of  trial.  Man  has  a  higher  life  than  can 
be  sustained  on  bread;  a  life,  found  in  depending 
on  God's  word,  and  obeying  it  at  whatever  cost. 

(2)  The  second  temptation  (in  Lk  the  third)  was 
to  presumption.  Jesus  is  borne  in  spirit  (cf  Ezk 
40  1.2)  to  a  pinnacle  of  the  temple.  From  this 
dizzy  elevation  He  is  invited  to  cast  Himself  down, 
relying  on  the  Divine  promise:  "He  shall  give  His 
angels  charge  over  thee,"  etc  (cf  Ps  91  11.12). 
In  this  way  an  easy  demonstration  of  His  Messiah- 
ship  would  be  given  to  the  crowds  below.  The 
temptation  was  to  overstep  those  bounds  of  humility 
and  dependence  which  were  imposed  on  Him  as 
Son;  to  play  with  signs  and  wonders  in  His  work  as 
Messiah.  But  again  the  tempter  is  foiled  by  the 
word:  "Thou  shalt  not  make  trial  of  [try  experi- 
ments with,  propose  tests,  put  to  the  proof]  the 
Lord  thy  God"  (Mt  4  7;  Lk  4  12;  cf  Dt  6  10). 

(3)  The  third  temptation  (Lk's  second)  was  to 
worldly  sovereignly,  gained  by  some  small  concession 
to  Satan.  From  some  lofty  elevation — no  place  on 
a  geographical  map — the  kingdoms  of  the  world  and 
the  glory  of  them  are  flashed  before  Christ's  mind, 
and  all  are  offered  to  Him  on  condition  of  one  little 
act  of  homage  to  the  tempter.  It  was  the  tempta- 
tion to  choose  the  easier  path  by  some  slight  pander- 
ing to  falsehood,  and  Jesus  definitely  repelled  it  by 
the  saying:  "Thou  shalt  worship  the  Lord  thy  God, 
and  him  only  shalt  thou  serve"  (Mt  4  10;  Lk  4 
8).  Jesus  had  chosen  His  path.  The  Father's  way 
of  the  cross  would  be  adhered  to. 

Typical  character. — The   stages   of    the   tempta- 


Jesus  Christ         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1636 


lion  typify  the  whole  round  of  Satanic  assault  on 
man  through  body,  mind,  and  spirit  (Lk  4  13;  cf 
1  Jn  2  16),  and  the  whole  round  of  Messianic 
temptation.  Jesus  was  constantly  being  tempted 
(a)  to  spare  Himself;  (b)  to  gratify  the  Jewish  sign- 
seekers;  (c)  to  gain  power  by  sacrifice  of  the  right. 
In  principle  the  victory  was  gained  over  all  at  the 
commencement.     His  way  was  henceforth  clear. 

B.      THE   EARLY   JUDAEAN   MINISTRY 
/.    The    Testimonies  of  the  Baptist. — While    the 
Synoptics  pass  immediately  from  the  temptation  of 


1.  The 
Synoptics 
and  John 

of  Je: 
hbe 


Jesus  to  the  ministry  in  Galilee  after 
the  imprisonment,  of  the  Baptist  (Mt 
4  12;  Mk  1  14.15;  Lk  4  14),  the 
Fourth  Gospel  furnishes  the  account, 
full  of  interest,  of  the  earlier  ministry 
in  Judaea  while  the  Baptist  was  still  at 


The  Baptist  had  announced  Christ's  coming;  had 

baptized  Him  when  He  appeared;    it  was  now  his 

privilege  to  testify  to  Him  as  having 

2.  Threefold  come,  and  to  introduce  to  Jesus  His 

Witness  of    first  disciples. 

the  Baptist  John's  work  had  assumed  propor- 
(Jn  1:19-  tions  which  made  it  impossible  for  the 
37)  ecclesiastical  authorities  any  longer  to 

ignore  it  (cf  Lk  3  15).  A  deputation 
insisting  of  priests  and  Levites  was  accordingly 
scat  to  John,  where  he  was  baptizing  at  Bethany 
beyond  Jordan,  to  put  to  him  categori- 
es)  First  cal  questions  about  his  mission.  Who 
Testimony  was  he?  And  by  what  authority  did 
-Jesus  and  he  baptize?  Was  he  the  Christ?  or 
Popular  Elijah?  or  the  expected  prophet?  (cf  6 
Messianic  14;  7  4;  Mt  16  14).  To  these  ques- 
Expectation  tions  John  gave  distinct  and  straight- 
(vs  19-28)  forward  replies.  He  was  not  the  Christ, 
not  Elijah,  not  the  prophet.  His  an- 
swers grow  briefer  every  time,  "I  am  not  the  Christ" ; 
"I  am  not";  "No."  Who  was  he  then?  The 
answer  was  emphatic.  He  was  but  a  "voice"  (cf 
Isa  40  3) — a  preparer  of  the  way  of  the  Lord.  In 
their  midst  already  stood  One — not  necessarily  in 
the  crowd  at  that  moment — with  whose  greatness 
his  was  not  to  be  compared  (vs  26.27).  John  utter- 
ly effaces  himself  before  Christ. 

The  day  after  the  interview  with  the  Jerus  depu- 
ties, John  saw  Jesus  coming  to  him — probably 
fresh  from  the  temptation — and  bore  a 
b)  Second  second  and  wonderful  testimony  to  His 
Testimony  Messiahship.  Identifying  Jesus  with 
— Christ  the  subject  of  his  former  testimonies, 
and  the  Sin  and  stating  the  ground  of  his  knowl- 
of  the  edge  in  the  sign  God  had  given  him 

World  (vs  (vs  30-34),  he  said,  "Behold,  the  Lamb 
29-34)  of  God,  that  taketh  away  the  sin  of 

the  world"  (ver  29).  The  words  are 
rich  in  suggestion  regarding  the  character  of  Jesus, 
and  the  nature,  universality  and  efficacy  of  His 
work  (cf  1  Jn  3  5).  The  "Lamb"  may  point 
specifically  to  the  description  of  the  vicariously 
Suffering  Servant  of  Jeh  in  Isa  53  11. 

The  third  testimony  was  borne  "again  on  the 
morrow,"  when  John  was  standing  with  two  of 
his  disciples  (one  Andrew,  ver  40,  the 
r)  Third  other  doubtless  the  evangelist  himself). 
Testimony  Pointing  to  Jesus,  the  Baptist  repeated 
— Christ  his  former  words,  "Behold,  the  Lamb 
and  the  of   God."     While   the   words   are   the 

Duty  of  the  same,  the  design  was  different.  In  the 
Disciple  first  "behold"  the  idea  is  the  recogni- 
(vs  35-37)  tion  of  Christ;  in  the  second  there  is  a 
call  to  duty — a  hint  to  follow  Jesus. 
On  this  hint  the  disciples  immediately  acted  (ver 
37).  It  is  next  to  be  seen  how  this  earliest  "follow- 
ing" of  Jesus  grew. 


//.   The  First  Disciples. — John's  narrative  shows 
that  Jesus  gathered  His  disciples,  less  by  a  series  of 

distinct  calls,  than  by  a  process  of 
1.  Spiritual  spiritual  accretion.  Men  were  led  to 
Accretion  Him,  then  accepted  by  Him.  This 
(Jn  1:  process  of  selection  left  Jesus  at  the 

37-51)  close  of  the  second  day  with  five  real 

and  true  followers.  The  history  con- 
futes the  idea  that  it  was  first  toward  the  close  of 
His  ministry  that  Jesus  became  known  to  His  dis- 
ciples as  the  Messiah.  In  all  the  Gospels  it  was  as 
the  Christ  that  the  Baptist  introduced  Jesus;  it  was 
as  the  Christ  that  the  first  disciples  accepted  and 
confessed  Him  (vs  41.45.49). 

The  first  of  the  group  were  Andrew  and  John — 
the  unnamed  disciple  of  ver  40.     These  followed 

Jesus  in  consequence  of  their  Master's 

a)  Andrew  testimony.  It  was,  however,  the  few 
and  John —  hours'  converse  they  had  with  Jesus 
Discipleship  in  His  own  abode  that  actually  decided 
as  the  Fruit  them.  To  Christ's  question,  "What 
of  Spiritual  seek  ye?"  their  answer  was  practically 
Converse  "Thyself."  "The  mention  of  the  time 
(vs  37-40)      —the    10th   hour,  i.e.  10  AM— is  one 

of  the  small  traits  that  mark  St.  John. 
He  is  here  looking  back  on  the  date  of  his  own  spirit- 
ual birth"  (Westcott). 

John  and  Andrew  had  no  sooner  found  Christ  for 
themselves  ("We  have  found  the  Messiah,"  ver  41) 

than  they  hastened  to  tell  others  of 

b)  Simon  their  discovery.  Andrew  at  once 
Peter —  sought  out  Simon,  his  brother,  and 
Discipleship  brought  him  to  Jesus;  so,  later,  Philip 
a  Result  of  sought  Nathanael  (ver  45).  Christ's 
Personal  unerring  eye  read  at  once  the  quality 
Testimony  of  the  man  whom  Andrew  introduced 
(vs  41.42)       to  Him.     "Thou  art  Simon  the  son  of 

John:  thou  shalt  be  called  Cephas"- 
"Rock"  or  "Stone"  (ver  42).  Mt  16  IS,  therefore, 
is  not  the  original  bestowal  of  this  name,  but  the  con- 
firmation of  it.  The  name  is  the  equivalent  of 
"Peter"  (Pelros),  and  was  given  to  Simon,  not  with 
any  official  connotation,  but  because  of  the  strength 
and  clearness  of  his  convictions.  His  general  stead- 
fastness is  not  disproved  by  His  one  unhappy  failure. 
(Was  it  thus  the  apostle  acquired  the  name  "Peter"?) 
The  fourth  disciple,  Philip,  was  called  by  Jesus 
Himself,  when  about  to  depart  for  Galilee  (ver  43). 

Friendship  may  have  had  its  influence 

c)  Philip —  on  Philip  (like  the  foregoing,  he  also 
the  Result  was  from  Bethsaida  of  Galilee,  ver  44), 
of  Scriptural  but  that  which  chiefly  decided  him  was 
Evidence  the  correspondence  of  what  he  found 
(vs  43.44)      in  Jesus  with  the  prophetic  testimonies 

(ver  45). 
Philip  sought  Nathanael  (of  Cana  of  Galilee,  21 
2) — the  same  probably  as  Bartholomew  the  Apostle 
— and  told  him  he  had  found  Him  of 

d)  Nathan-  whom  Moses  in  the  law  and  the  proph- 
ael— Disci-  ets  had  written  (ver  45).  Nathanael 
pleship  an  doubted,  on  the  ground  that  the  Mes- 
Effect  of  siah  was  not  likely  to  have  His  origin 
Heart-  in  an  obscure  place  like  Nazareth  (ver 
Searching  46;  cf  7  52).  Philip's  wise  answer 
Power  was,  "Come  and  see";  and  when  Na- 
(vs  45-51)     thanael  came,  the  Lord  met  him  with  a 

word  which  speedily  rid  him  of  his 
hesitations.  First,  Jesus  attested  His  seeker's  sin- 
cerity ("Behold,  an  Israelite  indeed,"  etc,  ver  47); 
then,  on  Nathanael  expressing  surprise,  revealed  to 
him  His  knowledge  of  a  recent  secret  act  of  medita- 
tion or  devotion  ("when  thou  wast  under  the  fig 
tree,"  etc,  ver  48).  The  sign  was  sufficient  to  con- 
vince Nathanael  that  he  was  in  the  presence  of  a 
superhuman,  nay  a  Divine,  Being,  therefore,  the 
Christ— "Son  of  God  ....  King  of  Israel"  (ver  49). 
Jesus  met  his  faith  with  further  self-disclosure.    Na- 


1637 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA         Jesus  Christ 


thanael  had  believed  on  comparatively  slight  evi- 
dence ;  he  would  .see  greater  things :  heavens  opened , 
and  the  angels  of  God  ascending  and  descending 
upon  the  Son  of  Man  (ver  51).  The  allusion  is  to 
Jacob's  vision  (Gen  28  10-22) — a  Scripture  which 
had  possibly  been  the  theme  of  Philip's  meditation 
in  his  privacy.  Jesus  puts  Himself  in  place  of  that 
mystic  ladder  as  the  medium  of  reopened  communi- 
cation between  heaven  and  earth. 

The  name  "Son  of  Man" — a  favorite  designation  of 
Jesus  for  Himself — appears  here  for  the  first  time  in  the 

Gospels.  It  is  disputed  whether  it  was  a 
9  "<Z.r,ri  nf  current  Messianic  title  (see  Son  of  Man), 
*'  ,,  "J  but  at  least  it  had  this  force  on  the  lips  of 
Man  and  Jesus  Himself,  denoting  Him  as  the  pos- 
"Son  of  sessor  of  a  true  humanity,  and  as  standing 

p    j>>  in  a  representative  relation  to  mankind  uni- 

°"u  versally.      It    is     probably  borrowed  from 

Dnl  7  13  and  appears  in  the  Book  of  En  (see 
Apocalyptic  Literature).  The  higher  title,  "Son  of 
God,"  given  to  Jesus  by  Nathanael,  could  not,  of  course, 
as  yet  carry  with  it  the  transcendental  associations  of 
John's  Prologue  (1  1.14.18),  but  it  evidently  conveyed  an 
idea  of  superhuman  dignity  and  unique  relation  to  God, 
such  as  the  better  class  of  minds  would  seem  to  havo 
attributed  to  the  Messiah  (cf  Jn  5  1<S;  10  33  H;  Mt 
26  03). 

///.  The  First  Events. — An  interval  of  a  few 
weeks  is  occupied  by  a  visit  of  Jesus  to  Cana  of  Gali- 
lee (Jn  2  1  ff )  and  a  brief  sojourn  in  Capernaum 
(ver  12);  after  which  Jesus  returned  to  Jerus  to  the 
Passover  as  the  most  appropriate  place  for  His  public 
manifestation  of  Himself  as  Messiah  (vs  13  if). 
The  notes  of  time  in  Jn  suggest  that  the  Passover 
(beginning  of  April,  27  AD)  took  place  about  three 
months  after  the  baptism  by  John  (cf  1  43;  2  1.12). 

Prior  to  His  public  manifestation,  a  more  private 
unfolding  of  Christ's  glory  was  granted  to  the  disci- 
ples at  the  marriage  feast  of  Cana  of 
1.  The  First  Galilee  (cf  ver  11).  The  marriage  was 
Miracle  doubtless  that  of  some  relative  of  the 

(Jn  2:1-11)  family,  and  the  presence  of  Jesus  at  the 
feast,  with  His  mother,  brethren  and 
disciples  (as  Joseph  no  more  appears,  it  may  be  con- 
cluded that  he  was  dead),  is  significant  as  showing 
that  His  religion  is  not  one  of  antagonism  to  natural 
relations.  The  marriage  festivities  lasted  seven 
days,  and  toward  the  close  the  wine  provided  for  the 
guests  gave  out.  Mary  interposed  with  an  indirect 
suggestion  that  Jesus  might  supply  the  want. 
Christ's  reply,  lit.  ''Woman,  what  is  that  to  thee 
and  to  me?"  (ver  4),  is  not  intended  to  convey  the 
least  tinge  of  reproof  (cf  Westcott,  in  loc),  but  inti- 
mates to  Mary  that  His  actions  were  henceforth  to 
be  guided  by  a  rule  other  than  hers  (cf  Lk  2  51). 
This,  however,  as  Mary  saw  (ver  5),  did  not  pre- 
clude an  answer  to  her  desire.  Six  waterpots  of 
stone  stood  near,  and  Jesus  ordered  these  to  be  filled 
with  water  (the  quantity  was  large;  about  50  gal- 
lons); then  when  the  water  was  drawn  off  it  was 
found  changed  into  a  nobler  element — a  wine  purer 
and  better  than  could  have  been  obtained  from  any 
natural  vintage.  The  ruler  of  the  feast,  in  ignorance 
of  its  origin,  expressed  surprise  at  its  quality  (ver  10). 
The  miracle  was  symbolical — a  "sign"  (ver  11) — and 
may  be  contrasted  with  the  first  miracle  of  Moses — 
turning  the  water  into  blood  (Ex  7  20).  It  points 
to  the  contrast  between  the  old  dispensation  and  the 
new,  and  to  the  work  of  Christ  as  a  transforming, 
enriching  and  glorifying  of  the  natural,  through 
Divine  grace  and  power. 

After  a  brief  stay  at  Capernaum  (ver  12),  Jesus 
went  up  to  Jerus  to  keep  the  Passover.  There  it 
was  His  design  formally  to  manifest  Himself.  Other 
"signs"  He  wrought  at  the  feast,  leading  many  to 
believe  on  Him — not,  however,  with  a  deep  or 
enduring  faith  (vs  23-25) — but  the  special  act 
by  which  He  signalized  His  appearance  was  His 
public  cleansing  of  the  temple  from  the  irreligious 
trafficking  with  which  it  had  come  to  be  associated. 


A    like   incident   is    related   by   the   Synoptics  at 
the  close  of  Christ's  ministry  (Mt  21  12.13;    Mk 
11  15-18;    Lk  19  45.40),  and  it  is  a 
2.  The  question  whether  the  act  was  actually 

First  repeated,  or  whether  the  other  evaii- 

Passover,  gelists,  who  do  not  narrate  the  events 
and  Cleans-  of  the  early  ministry,  simply  record  it 
ing  of  the  out  of  its  chronological  order.  In  any 
Temple  case,  the  act  was  a  fitting  inaugura- 

ls 13-25)     tion  of  the   Lord's  work.     A  regular 

market  was  held  in  the  outer  court  of 
the  temple.  Here  the  animals  needed  for  sacrifice 
could  be  purchased,  foreign  money  exchanged,  and 
the  doves,  which  were  the  offerings  of  the  poor,  be 
obtained.  It  was  a  busy,  tumultuous,  noisy  and 
unholy  scene,  and  the  "zeal"  of  Jesus  burned  within 
Him — had  doubtless  often  done  so  before — as  He 
witnessed  it.  Arming  Himself  with  a  scourge  of 
cords,  less  as  a  weapon  of  offence,  than  as  a  symbol 
of  authority,  He  descended  with  resistless  energy 
upon  the  wrangling  throng,  drove  out  the  dealers 
and  the  cattle,  overthrew  the  tables  of  the  money- 
changers, and  commanded  the  doves  to  be  taken 
away.  Let  them  not  profane  His  Father's  house 
(Jn  2  14-16).  No  one  seems  to  have  opposed.  All 
felt  that  a  prophet  was  among  them,  and  could  not 
resist  the  overpowering  authority  with  which  He 
spake  and  acted.  By  and  by,  when  their  courage 
revived,  they  asked  Him  for  a  "sign"  in  evidence 
of  His  right  to  do  such  things.  Jesus  gave  them  no 
sign  such  as  they  demanded,  but  uttered  an  enig- 
matic word,  and  left  them  to  reflect  on  it,  "Destroy 
this  temple,  and  in  three  days  I  will  raise  it  up"  (ver 
19).  The  authenticity  of  the  saying  is  sufficiently 
vouched  for  by  the  perverted  use  made  of  it  at 
Christ's  trial  (Mt  26  01  ).  It  is  a  word  based  on 
the  foresight  which  Christ  had  that  the  conflict  now 
commencing  was  to  end  in  His  rejection  and  death. 
"The  true  way  to  destroy  the  Temple,  in  the  eyes  of 

Jesus,  was  to  slay   the   Messiah If  it  is  in 

the  person  of  the  Messiah  that  the  Temple  is  laid  in 
ruins,  it  is  in  His  person  it  shall  be  raised  again" 
(( rodet).  The  disciples,  after  the  resurrection,  saw 
the  meaning  of  the  word  (Jn  2  22). 

As  a  sequel  to  these  stirring  events  Jesus  had  a 
nocturnal   visitor  in  the  person  of  Nicodemus — a 

Pharisee,  a  ruler  of  the  Jews,  a  "teach- 
3.  The  Visit  er  of  Israel"  (ver  10),  apparently  no 
of  Nicode-  longer  young  (ver  4).  His  coming  by 
mus  (Jn  3:  night  argues,  besides  some  fear  of  man, 
1-12)  a  constitutional  timidity  of  disposition 

(cf  19  39);  but  the  hit  crest  ing  thing 
is  that  he  did  come,  showing  that  he  had  been  really 
impressed  by  Christ's  words  and  works.  One  rec- 
ognizes in  him  a  man  of  candor  and  uprightness  of 
spirit,  yet  without  adequate  apprehensions  of  Christ 
Himself,  and  of  the  nature  of  Christ's  kingdom. 
Jesus  he  was  prepared  to  acknowledge  as  a  Divinely 
commissioned  teacher — one  whose  mission  was  ac- 
credited by  miracle  (ver  2).  He  was  interested  in 
the  kingdom,  but,  as  a  morally  living  man,  had  no 
doubt  of  his  fitness  to  enter  into  it.  Jesus  had  but 
to  teach  and  he  would  understand. 

(1)  The  new  birth. — Jesus  in  His  reply  laid  His 
finger  at  onceon  the  defective  point  in  His  visitor's 
relation  to  Himself  and  to  His  kingdom:  "Except 
one  be  born  anew,  he  cannot  see  the  kingdom  of 
God"  (ver  3);  "Except  one  be  born  of  water  and 
the  Spirit,  he  cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God" 
(ver  5).  Nicodemus  was  staggered  at  this  demand 
for  a  spiritual  new  birth.  There  is  reason  to  believe 
that  proselytes  were  baptized  on  being  received  into 
the  Jewish  church,  and  their  baptism  was  called 
a  "new  birth."  Nicodemus  would  therefore  be 
familiar  with  the  expression,  but  could  not  see  that 
it  had  any  applicability  to  him.  Jesus  teaches  him, 
on  the  other  hand,  that  he  also  needs  a  new  birth, 


Jesus  Christ         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1638 


and  this,  not  through  water  only,  but  through  the 
Spirit.  The  change  was  mysterious,  yet  plainly 
manifest  in  its  effects  (vs  7.8).  If  Nicodemus  did 
not  understand  these  "earthly  thinga" — the  evidence 
of  which  lay  all  around  him — how  should  he  under- 
stand "heavenly  things,"  the  things  pertaining  to 
salvation? 

(2)  "Heavenly  things." — These  ''heavenly  things" 
Jesus  now  proceeds  to  unfold  to  Nicodemus:  "As 
Moses  lifted  up  the  serpent,"  etc  (ver  14).  The 
"lifting  up"  is  a  prophecy  of  the  cross  (cf  12  32-34). 
The  brazen  serpent  is  the  symbol  of  sin  conquered 
and  destroyed  by  t  he  death  of  Christ.  What  follows 
in  3  It)  -21  is  probably  the  evangelist's  expansion  of 
this  theme— Clod's  love  the  source  of  salvation 
(ver  16),  Cod's  purpose  not  the  world's  condemna- 
tion, but  its  salvation  (vs  17.18)  the  self-judgment 
of  sin  (vs  19  ff). 

Retiring  from  Jcrus,  Jesus  commenced  a  ministry 
in  Judaea  (ver  22).  It  lasted  apparently  about  6 
mont  lis.  The  earlier  Gospels  pass  over 
4.  Jesus  it.  This  is  accounted  for  by  the  fact 
and  John  that  the  ministry  in  Judaea  was  still 
(Jn3:22-  preparatory.  Jesus  had  publicly  as- 
36)  serted  His  Messianic  authority.   Alittle 

space  is  now  allowed  to  test  the  result. 
Meanwhile  Jesus  descends  again  to  the  work  of  pro- 
phetic preparation.  His  ministry  at  this  stage  is 
hardly  distinguishable  from  John's.  He  summons 
to  the  baptism  of  repentance.  His  disciples,  not 
Himself,  administer  the  rite  (3  23;  4  2);  hence  the 
sort  of  rivalry  that  sprang  up  between  His  baptism 
and  that  of  the  forerunner  (3  22-26).  John  was 
baptizing  at  the  time  at  Aenon,  on  the  western  side 
of  the  Jordan;  Jesus  somewhere  in  the  neighbor- 
hood. Soon  the  greater  teacher  began  to  eclipse 
the  less.  "All  men  came  to  Him"  (ver  26).  John's 
reply  showed  how  pure  his  mind  was  from  the  nar- 
row, grudging  spirit  which  characterized  his  follow- 
ers. To  him  it  was  no  grievance,  but  the  fulfilment 
of  his  joy,  that  men  should  be  flocking  to  Jesus.  He 
was  not  the  Bridegroom,  but  the  friend  of  the  Bride- 
groom. They  themselves  had  heard  him  testify, 
"I  am  not  the  Christ."  It  lay  in  the  nature  of 
things  that  Jesus  must  increase;  he  must  decrease 
(vs  27-30).     Explanatory  words  follow  (vs  31-36). 

IV.  Journey  to  Galilee — the  Woman  of  Samaria. 

— Toward  the  close  of  this  Judaean  ministry  the 

Baptist  appears  to  have  been  cast  into 

1.  With-  prison  for  his  faithfulness  in  reproving 
drawal  to  Herod  Antipas  for  taking  his  brother 
Galilee  Philip's  wife  (cf  Jn  3  24;    Mt  14  3- 

5  ).  It  seems  most  natural  to  connect 
the  departure  to  Galilee  in  Jn  4  3  with  that  narrated 
in  Mt  3  13  ,  though  some  think  the  imprisonment 
of  the  Baptist  did  not  lake  place  till  later.  The 
motive  which  Jn  gives  was  the  hostility  of  the 
Pharisees,  but  it  was  the  imprisonment  of  the 
Baptist  which  led  Jesus  to  commence,  at  the  time 
He  did,  an  independent  ministry.  The  direct  road 
to  Galilee  lay  through  Samaria;  hence  the  mem- 
orable encounter  with  the  woman  at  that  place. 

Jesus,  being  wearied,  paused  to  rest  Himself  at 
Jacob's  well,  near  a  town  called  Sychar,  now  'Askar. 

It    was    about    the    sixth    hour — or    6 

2.  The  o'clock  in  the  evening.  The  time  of 
Living  year  is  determined  by  ver  35  to  be 
Water  "four    months"    before    harvest,    i.e. 

December  0  here  is  no  reason  for  not  f  ak- 
ing  this  literally).  It  suits  the  evening  hour  that  the 
woman  of  Samaria  came  out  to  draw  water.  (Some, 
on  a  different  reckoning,  take  the  hour  to  be  noon.) 
Jesus  opened  the  conversation  by  asking  from  the 
woman  a  draught  from  her  pitcher.  The  prover- 
bial hatred  between  Jews  and  Samaritans  filled  the 
woman  with  surprise  that  Jesus  should  thus  address 
Himself  to  her.     Still  greater  was  her  surprise  when, 


as  the  conversation  proceeded,  Jesus  announced 
Himself  as  the  giver  of  a  water  of  which,  if  a  man 
drank,  he  should  never  t  hirst  again  (vs  13.14).  Only 
gradually  did  His  meaning  penetrate  her  mind,  "Sir, 
give  me  this  water,"  etc  (ver  15).  The,  request  of 
Jesus  that  she  would  call  her  husband  led  to  the 
discovery  that  Jesus  knew  all  the  secrets  of  her  life. 
She  was  before  a  prophet  (ver  19).  As  in  the  case 
of  Nathanael,  the  heart-searching  power  of  Christ's 
word  convinced  her  of  His  Divine  claim. 

The  conversation  next  turned  upon  the  right  place 

of  worship.     The  Samaritans  had  a  temple  of  their 

own  on  Mount  Gerizim;    the  Jews,  on 

3.  The  the  other  hand,  held  to  the  exclusive 
True  validity  of  the  temple  at  Jerus.  Which 
Worship         was  right?     Jesus  in   His  reply,  while 

pronouncing  for  the  Jews  as  the  cus- 
todians of  God's  salvation  (ver  22),  makes  it  plain 
that  distinction  of  places  is  no  longer  a  matter  of 
any  practical  importance.  A  change  was  immi- 
nent which  would  substitute  a  universal  religion 
for  one  of  special  times  and  places  (ver  20).  He 
enunciates  the  great  principle  of  the  new  dispensa- 
tion that  Cod  is  a  Spirit,  and  they  who  worship  Him 
must  do  so  in  spirit  and  in  truth.  Finally,  when 
she  spoke  of  the  Messiah,  Jesus  made  Himself  defi- 
nitely known  to  her  as  the  Christ.  To  this  poor 
Samaritan  woman,  with  her  receptive  heart,  He 
unveils  Himself  more  plainly  than  He  had  done  to 
priests  and  rulers  (ver  2(5). 

The  woman  went  home  and  became  an  evangelist 
to  her  people,  with  notable  results  (vs  28.39).    Jesus 

abode  with  them  two  days  and  con- 

4.  Work  firmed  the  impression  made  by  her  tes- 
and  Its  timony  (vs  40-42).  Meanwhile,  He 
Reward          impressed  on  His  disciples  the  need  of 

earnest  sowing  and  reaping  in  the  serv- 
ice of  the  Kingdom,  assuring  them  of  unfailing  re- 
ward for  both  sower  and  reaper  (vs  35-38).  He 
Himself  was  their  Great  Example  (ver  34). 

C.      THE  GALILEAN  MINISTRY  AND  VISITS  TO  THE 
FEASTS 

Galilee  wras  divided  into  upper  Galilee  and  lower 
Galilee.     It  has  already  been  remarked  that  upper 

Galilee  was  inhabited  by  a  mixed  pop- 
1.  The  ulation — hence  called   "Galilee  of  the 

Scene  Gentiles"   (Mt  4  15).     The  highroads 

of  commerce  ran  through  it.  It  was 
"the  way  of  the  sea"  (AY) — a  scene  of  constant 
traffic.  The  people  were  rude,  ignorant,  and  super- 
stitious, and  were  densely  crowded  together  in 
towns  and  villages.  About  160  BC  there  were  only 
a  few  Jews  in  the  midst  of  a  large  heathen  popula- 
tion; but  by  the  time  of  Christ  the  Jewish  element 
had  greatly  increased.  The  busiest  portion  of  this 
busy  district  was  round  the  Sea  of  Galilee,  at  the 
N.E.  corner  of  which  stood  Capernaum — wealthy 
and  cosmopolitan.  In  Nazareth,  indeed,  Jesus  met 
with  a  disappointing  reception  (Lk  4  16-30;  Mt 
13  54-57;  cf  Jn  4  43-45);  yet  in  Galilee  generally 
He  found  a  freer  spirit  and  greater  receptivencss 
than  among  the  stricter  traditionalists  of  Judaea. 

It  is  assumed  here  that  Jesus  returned  to  Galilee  in 

December,  27  AD,  and  that  His  ministry  there  lasted  till 

late  in  29  AD  (see  "Chronology"  above). 

2  The  *-*n  e  *wo  years'  scheme  of  the  public 
„'.  ministry,  the  Passover  of  Jn  6  4  has  to  be 
lime  taken  as  the  second  in  Christ's  ministry — 

therefore  as  occurring  at  an  interval  of  only 

3  or  4  months  after  the  return.  This  seems  impossible;  in 
view  of  the  crowding  of  events  it  involves  in  so  short  a 
time — opening  incidents,  stay  in  Capernaum  (Mt  4  13), 
three  circuits  in  "all  Galilee"  (Mt  4  23-25  ||;  Lk  8  1-4; 
Mt  9  35-38;  Mk  6  <>),  lesser  journeys  and  excursions 
(Sermon  on  Mount:  Gadara);  and  the  dislocations  it 
necessitates,  e.g.  the  plucking  of  ears  of  corn  (about  Pass- 
over time)  must  be  placed  after  the  feeding  of  the  5,000, 
etc.     It  is  simpler  to  adhere  to  the  three  years'  scheme. 

A  division   of  the   Galilean   ministry   may   then   fitly 
be  made  into  two  periods — one  preceding,  the  other  sue- 


1639 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA         Jesus  Christ 


eecding  the  Mission  of  the  Twelve  in  Mt  10  II-  One 
reason  for  this  division  is  that  after  the  Mission  of  the 
Twelve  the  order  of  events  is  the  same  in  the  first  three 
evangelists  till  the  final  departure  from  Galilee. 

First   Period — From  the  Beginning  of  the  Ministry 
in  Galilee  till  the  Mission  of  the  Twelve 

I.  Opening  Incidents. — From    sympathetic    Sa- 
maria (Jn  4  39),  Jesus  had  journeyed  to  unsym- 
pathetic   Galilee,    and   first   to   Cana, 

1.  Healing  where  His  first  miracle  had  been 
of  Noble-  wrought.  The  reports  of  His  miracles 
man's  Son  in  Judaea  had  come  before  Him  (ver 
(Jn4: 43-54)  45),  and  it  was  mainly  His  reputation 

as  a  miracle-worker  which  led  a  noble- 
man— a  courtier  or  officer  at  Herod's  court — to  seek 
Him  at  Cana  on  behalf  of  his  son,  who  was  near  to 
death.  Jesus  rebuked  the  sign-seeking  spirit  (ver 
48),  but,  on  the  fervent  appeal  being  repeated,  He 
bade  the  nobleman  go  his  way:  his  son  lived.  The 
man's  prayer  had  been,  "Come  down";  but  he  had 
faith  to  receive  the  word  of  Jesus  (ver  5()J,  and  on 
his  way  home  received  tidings  of  his  son's  recovery. 
The  nobleman,  with  his  whole  household,  was  won 
for  Jesus  (ver  53).  This  is  noted  as  the  second  of 
Christ's  Galilean  miracles  (ver  54). 

A  very  different  reception  awaited  Him  at  Naza- 
reth, "His  own  country,"  to  which  He  next  came.    We 

can  scarcely  take  the  incident  recorded 

2.  The  in  Lk  4  16-30  to  be  the  same  as  that 
Visit  to  in  Alt  13  54-58,  though  Matthew's 
Nazareth  habit  of  grouping  makes  this  not  im- 
(Mt  4:13;  possible.  The  Sabbath  had  come,  and 
Lk  4:16-30)  on  His  entering  the  synagogue,  as  was 

His  wont,  the  repute  He  had  won  led 
to  His  being  asked  to  read.  The  Scripture  He  se- 
lected (or  which  came  in  the  order  of  the  day)  was 
Isa  61  1  ff  (the  fact  that  Jesus  was  able  to  read 
from  the  synagogue-roll  is  interesting  as  bearing  on 
Ilis  knowledge  of  Heb),  and  from  this  He  proceeded 
to  amaze  i  lis  hearers  by  declaring  that  this  Scripture 
was  now  fulfilled  in  t  heir  ears  (ver  21).  The  "words 
of  grace"  he  uttered  are  not  given,  but  it  can  be 
understood  that,  following  the  prophet's  guidance, 
He  would  hold  Himself  forth  as  the  predicted  "Serv- 
ant, of  Jehovah,"  sent  to  bring  salvation  to  the 
poor,  the  bound,  the  broken-hearted,  and  for  this 
purpose  endowed  with  the  fulness  of  the  Spirit. 
The  idea  of  the  passage  in  Isa  is  that  of  the  year  of 
jubilee,  when  debts  were  canceled,  inheritances  re- 
stored, and  slaves  set  free,  and  Jesus  told  them  He 
had  come  to  inaugurate  that  "acceptable  year  of 
the  Lord."  At  first  He  was  listened  to  with  ad- 
miration, then,  as  the  magnitude  of  the  claims  He 
was  making  became  apparent  to  His  audience,  a  very 
different  spirit  took  possession  of  them.  'Who  was 
this  that  spoke  thus?'  'Was  it  not  Joseph's  son?' 
(ver  22).  They  were  disappointed,  too,  that  Jesus 
showed  no  disposition  to  gratify  them  by  working 
before  them  any  of  the  miracles  of  which  they  had 
heard  so  much  (ver  23).  Jesus  saw  the  gathering 
storm,  but,  met  it  resolutely.  He  told  His  hearers 
He  had  not  expected  any  better  reception,  and  in 
reply  to  their  reproach  that  He  had  wrought  mira- 
cles elsewhere,  but  had  wrought  none  among  them, 
quoted  examples  of  prophets  who  had  done  the 
same  thing  (Elijah,  Elisha,  vs  24-28).  This  com- 
pleted the  exasperation  of  the  Nazarenes,  who, 
springing  forward,  dragged  Him  to  the  brow  of  the 
hill  on  which  their  city  was  built,  and  would  have 
thrown  Him  down,  had  something  in  the  aspect 
of  Jesus  not  restrained  them.  With  one  of  those 
looks  we  read  of  occasionally  in  the  Gospels,  He 
seems  to  have  overawed  His  townsmen,  and, 
passing  in  safety  through  their  midst,  left  the 
place  (vs  28-30). 

After  leaving  Nazareth  Jesus  made  His  way  to 
Capernaum  (probably  Tell  Hum),  which  thereafter 


seems  to  have  been  His  headquarters.     lb;  "dwelt" 

there    (Mt,  4   13).      It    is   called    in    Mt  9   1,    "his 

own  city."     Before  teaching  in  Caper- 

3.  Call  of  nauin  itself,  however,  lb;  appears  to 
the  Four  have  opened  His  ministry  by  evangeliz- 
Disciples  ing  along  the  shores  of  the  Sea  of  Gali- 
(Mt  4:17-  lee  (Mt  4  IS;  Mk  1  16;  Lk  5  1),  and 
22;  Mk  1:  there,  at  Bethsaida  (on  topographical 
16-22;  Lk  questions,  see  special  arts.),  He  took 
5:1-11)  His  first  step  in  gathering  His  chosen 

disciples  more  closely  around  Him. 
Hitherto,  though  attached  to  His  person  and  cause, 
the  pairs  of  fisher  brothers,  Simon  and  Andrew, 
James  and  John — these  last  the  "sons  of  Zebedee" 
— had  not  been  in  constant  attendance  upon  Him. 
Since  the  return  from  Jerus,  they  had  gone  back  to 
their  ordinary  avocations.  The  four  were  "part- 
ners" (Lk  5  10).  They  had  "hired  servants"  (Mk 
1  20);  therefore  were  moderately  well  off.  The 
time  had  now  come  when  they  were  to  leave  "all," 
and  follow  Jesus  entirely. 

Luke  alone  records  the  striking  miracle  which  led 
to  the  call.     Jesus  had  been  teaching  the  multitude 

from  a  boat  borrowed  from  Simon,  and 
a)  The  now  at  the  close  He  bade  Simon  put 

Draught  of  out  into  the  deep,  and  let  down  his 
Fishes  (Lk  nets.  Peter  told  Jesus  they  had  toiled 
5:1-9)  all  night  in  vain,  but  he  would  obey 

His  word.  The  result  was  an  immense 
draught  of  fishes,  so  that  the  nets  were  breaking, 
and  the  other  company  had  to  be  called  upon  for 
help.  Both  boats  were  filled  and  in  danger  of  sink- 
ing. Peter's  cry  in  so  wonderful  a  presence  was, 
"Depart  from  me;  for  I  am  a  sinful  man,  O  Lord." 
The  miracle  gave  Jesus  opportunity  for  the  word 
He  wished  to  speak.     It  is  here  that  Mt  and  Mk 

take  up  the  story.  The  boats  had 
6)  "Fishers  been  brought  to  shore  when,  first,  to 
of  Men"        Simon    and    Andrew,     afterward    to 

James  and  John  (engaged  in  "mending 
their  nets,"  Mt  4  21;  Mk  1  19),  the  call  was  given: 
"Come  ye  after  me,  and  I  will  make  you  fishers  of 
men."  At  once  all  was  left— boats,  nets,  friends 
—and  they  followed  Him.  Their  experience  taught 
them  to  have  large  expectations  from  Christ. 

Jesus  is  now  found  in  Capernaum.     An  early 
Sabbath— perhaps  the  first  of  His  stated  residence  in 

the    city— was    marked     by     notable 

4.  At  Ca-       events. 

pernaum  _  The  Sabbath  found  Jesus  as  usual 
(Mt  4:13;  in  the  synagogue— now  as  teacher. 
Lk  4:31)  The  manner  of  His  teaching  is  spe- 
cially noticed:  "He  taught  them  as 
having  authority,  and  not  as  the  scribes"  (Mk  1 
22).  The  scribes  gave  forth  nothing  of  their  own. 
They  but  repeated  the  dicta  of  the  great 

a)  Christ's  authorities  of  the  past.  It  was  a  sur- 
Teaching  prise  to  the  people  to  find  in  Jesus  One 
(Mk  1:22.  whose  wisdom,  like  waters  from  a  clear 
27;  Lk  4:  fountain,  came  fresh  and  sparkling 
32)  from  His  own  lips.     The  authority  also 

with  which  Jesus  spoke  commanded 
attention.  He  sought  support  in  the  opinion  of  no 
others,  but  gave  forth  His  statements  with  firmness, 
decision,  dignity  and  emphasis. 

While  Jesus  was  teaching  an  extraordinary  inci- 
dent occurred.     A  man  in  the  assembly,  described 
as  possessed  by   "an  unclean  spirit" 

b)  The  (Mk  1  23;  Lk  4  33),  broke  forth  in 
Demoniac  cries,  addressing  Jesus  by  name  ("Jesus, 
in  the  thou  Nazarene"),  speaking  of  Him  as 
Synagogue  "the  Holy  One  of  God,"  and  asking 
(Mk  1:23-  "What  have  we  to  do  with  thee?  Art 
27;  Lk  4:  thou  come  to  destroy  us?"  The  dis- 
33-37)             eased  consciousness  of  the  sufferer  bore 

a  truer  testimony  to  Christ's  dignity, 
holiness  and  power  than  most  of  those  present  could 


Jesus  Christ         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1640 


have  given,  and  instinctively,  but  truly,  construed 
His  coming  as  meaning  destruction  to  the  empire  of 
the  demons.  At  Christ's  word,  after  a  terrible 
paroxysm,  from  which,  however,  the  man  escaped 
unhurt.  (Lk  4  35),  the  demon  was  cast  out.  More 
than  ever  the  people  were  "amazed"  at  the  word 
which  had  such  power  (Mk  1  27). 

Demon-possession — its  reality. — This  is  the  place  to 
say  a  wont  on  this  terrible  form  of  malady — demon- 
possession  —met  with  so  often  in  the  Gospels.  Was  it 
a  reality?  or  a  hallucination?  Did  Jesus  believe  in 
it  ?  It  is  difficult  to  read  the  Gospels,  and  not  answer 
the  last  question  in  the  affirmative.  Was  Jesus,  then, 
mistaken?  This  also  it-  is  hard  to  believe.  If  there  is 
one  subject  on  which  Jesus  might  be  expected  to  have 
clear  vision-  on  which  we  might  trust  His  insight  it 
was  His  relation  to  the  spiritual  world  with  which  He 
stood  in  so  close  rapport.  Was  He  likely  then  to  be  mis- 
taken when  He  spoke  so  earnestly,  so  profoundly,  so  fre- 
quently, of  its  hidden  forces  of  evil?  There  is  in  itself 
no  improbability — rather  analogy  suggests  the  highest 
probability — of  realms  of  spiritual  existence  outside  our 
sensible  ken.  That  evil  should  enter  this  spiritual  world, 
and  t  hat  human  life  should  be  deeply  implicated  with  t  hat 
evil-  that  its  forces  should  have  a  mind  and  will  organiz- 
ing and  directing  them — are  not  beliefs  to  be  dismissed 
with  scorn.  The  presence  of  such  beliefs  in  the  time  of 
Christ  is  commonly  attributed  to  Bab,  Pers  or  other 
foreign  influences.  It  may  be  questioned,  however, 
whetherthe  main  cause  was  not  something  far  more  real — ■ 
an  actual  and  permitted  "hour  and  the  power  of  darkness" 
(Lk  22  53)  in  the  kingdom  of  evil,  discovering  itself  in 
manifestations  in  the  bodies  and  souls  of  men,  that  could 
be  traced  only  to  a  supernatural  cause  (see  Demoniac 
Possession).  (The  present  writer  discusses  the  subject 
in  an  art.  in  the  Sunday  School  Times  for  June  4,  1910. 
It  would  be  presumptuous  even  to  say  that  the  instance 
in  the  Gospels  have  no  modern  parallels.  See  a  striking 
paper  in  Good  Words,  edited  by  Dr.  Norman  MacLeod, 
for  1S(>7,  on  "The  English  Demoniac")  It  should  bo 
noted  that  all  diseases  are  not,  as  is  sometimes  affirmed, 
traced  to  demonic  influence.  The  distinction  between 
other  diseases  and  demonic  possession  is  clearly  main- 
tained (ef  .Mt  4  24;  10  1;  11  .r>,etc).  Insanity,  epilepsy, 
blindness,  dumbness,  etc.  were  frequent  accompaniments 
of  possession,  but  they  are  not  identified  with  it. 

Jesus,   on   leaving   the   synagogue,    entered   the 

house  of  Peter.     In  Mk  it  is  called  "the  house  of 

Simon    and    Andrew"    (1  29).     Peter 

c)  Peter's  was  married  (cf  1  Cor  9  5),  and  ap- 
Wife's  parently  his  mother-in-law  and  brother 
Mother  lived  with  him  in  Capernaum.  It  was 
(Mt  8:14.  an  anxious  time  in  the  household,  for 
16;  Mk  1:  the  mother-in-law  lay  "sick  of  a  fever" 
29-31;  Lk  — "a  great  fever,"  as  Luke  the  physi- 
4:38.39)         cian  calls  it.     Taking  her  by  the  hand, 

Jesus  rebuked  the  fever,  which  in- 
stantaneously left  her.  The  miracle,  indeed,  was  a 
double  one,  for  not  only  was  the  fever  stayed,  but 
strength  was  at  once  restored.  "She  rose  up  and 
ministered  unto  them"  (Lk  4  39). 

The  day's  labors  were  not  yet  done;  were,  in- 
deed, scarce  begun.     The  news  of  what  had  taken 

place   quickly   spread,    and   soon   the 

d)  The  extraordinary  spectacle  was  presented 
Eventful  of  'the  whole  city'  gathered  at  the  door 
Evening  of  the  dwelling,  bringing  their  sick  of 
(Mt  8:16;  every  kind  to  be  healed.  Demoniacs 
Mk  1:32-  were  there,  crying  and  being  rebuked, 
34 ;  Lk  4 :  but  multitudes  of  others  as  well.  The 
40.41)  Lord's    compassion    was    unbounded. 

He  rejected  none.  He  labored  un- 
weariedly  till  every  one  was  healed.  His  sympat  hv 
was  individual:  "He  laid  his  hands  on  every  one  of 
them"  (Lk  4  40). 

//.  From  First  Galilean  Circuit  till  Choice  of 
the  Apostles. — The  chronological  order  in  this  sec- 
tion is  to  be  sought  in  Mk  and  Lk; 
1.  The  First  Mt  groups  for  didactic  purposes. 
Circuit.  (Mk  The  morning  after  that  eventful 
1:35-45;  Sabbath  evening  in  Capernaum,  Jesus 
Lk  4:42-  took  steps  for  a  systematic  visitation 
44;  cf  Mt  of  the  towns  and  villages  of  Galilee. 
4:23-25)  The  task  He  set  before  Himself  was 

prepared  for  by  early,  prolonged,  soli- 
tary prayer  (Mk  1  35;  many  instances  show  that 


Christ's  life  was  steeped  in  prayer).  His  disciples 
followed  Him,  and  reported  that  the  multitudes 
sought  Him.  Jesus  intimated  to  them  His  intention 
of  passing  to  the  next  towns,  and  forthwith  com- 
menced a  tour  of  preaching  and  heal- 
a)  Its  Scope  ing  "throughout  all  Galilee."  Even  if 
the  expression  "all  Galilee"  is  used  with 
some  latitude,  it  indicates  a  work  of  very  extensive 
compass.  It  was  a  work  likewise  methodically  con- 
ducted (cf  Mk  6  6:  "went  round  about  the  vil- 
lages," lit.  "in  a  circle").  Galilee  at  this  time  was 
extraordinarily  populous  (cf  Jos,  BJ ,  III,  iii,  2),  and 
the  time  occupied  by  the  circuit  must  have  been 
considerable.  Mt's  condensed  picture  (4  23-25) 
shows  that  Christ's  activity  during  this  period  was 
incredibly  great.  He  stirred  the  province  to  its 
depths.  His  preaching  and  miracles  drew  enor- 
mous crowds  after  Him.  This  tide  of  popularity 
afterward  turned,  but  much  of  the  seed  sown  may 
have  produced  fruit  at  a  later  day. 

The  one  incident  recorded  which  seems  to  have 
belonged  to  this  tour  was  a  sufficiently  typical 
one.  While  Jesus  was  in  a  certain  city 
6)  Cure  of  a  man  "full  of  leprosy"  (Lk  6  12) 
the  Leper  came  and  threw  himself  down  before 
(Mt  8:2-4;  Ilim,  seeking  to  be  healed.  The  man 
Mk  1:40-  did  not  even  ask  Jesus  to  heal  him, 
45;  Lk  5:  but  expressed  his  faith,  "If  thou  wilt, 
12-16)  thou    canst    make    me    clean."     The 

man's  apparent  want  of  importunity 
was  the  very  essence  of  his  importunity.  Jesus, 
moved  by  his  earnestness,  touched  him,  and  the 
man  was  made  whole  on  the  spot.  The  leper  was 
enjoined  to  keep  silence— Jesus  did  not  wish  to  pass 
for  a  mere  miracle-worker — and  bade  the  man  show 
himself  to  the  priests  and  offer  the  appointed  sacri- 
fices (note  Christ's  respect  for  the  legal  institu- 
tions). The  leper  failed  to  keep  Christ's  charge, 
and  published  his  cure  abroad,  no  doubt  much  to 
his  own  spiritual  detriment,  and  also  to  the  hin- 
drance of  Christ's  work  (Mk  1  45). 

His  circuit  ended,  Jesus  returned  to  Capernaum 
(Mk  2  1;     lit.    "after    days").     Here    again    His 
fame  at  once  drew  multitudes  to  see 
2.  Caper-       and   hear    Him.     Among   them   were 
naum  now  persons  of  more  unfriendly  spirit. 

Incidents  Pharisees  and  doctors,  learning  of  the 
new  rabbi,  had  come  out  of  "every 
village  of  Galilee  and  Judaea  and  Jerusalem"  (Lk 
5  17),  to  hear  and  judge  of  Him  for  themselves. 
The  chief  incidents  of  this  visit  are  the  two  now 
to  be  noted. 

In  a  chamber  crowded  till  there  was  no  standing 
room,  even  round  the  door,  Jesus  wrought  the  cure 
upon  the  paralytic  man.  The  scene 
a)  Cure  of  was  a  dramatic  one.  Erom  Christ's 
the  Para-  words  "son,"  lit.  "child"  (Mk  2  5), 
lytic  (Mt  9:  we  infer  that  the  paralytic  was  young, 
2-8 ;  Mk  but  his  disablement  seems  to  have  been 
2:1-12;  Lk  complete.  It  was  no  easy  matter, 
5: 17-26)  with  the  doorways  blocked,  to  get  the 
man  brought  to  Jesus,  but  his  four 
bearers  (ver  3)  were  not  easily  daunted.  They 
climbed  the  flat  roof,  and,  removing  part  of  the 
covering  above  where  Jesus  was,  let  down  the  man 
into  the  midst.  Jesus,  pleased  with  the  inventive- 
ness and  perseverance  of  their  faith,  responded  to 
their  wish.  But,  first,  that  the  spiritual  and  tem- 
poral might  be  set  in  their  right  relations,  and  the 
attitude  of  His  hearers  be  tested,  He  spoke  the 
higher  words:  "Son,  thy  sins  are  forgiven"  (ver  5). 
At  once  the  temper  of  the  scribes  was  revealed. 
Here  was  manifest  evasion.  Anyone  could  say, 
"Thy  sins  are  forgiven."  Worse,  it  was  blas- 
phemy, for  "who  can  forgive  sins  but  one,  even 
God  ?"  (ver  7).  Unconsciously  they  were  conceding 
to  Christ  the  Divine  dignity  He  claimed.     Jesus  per- 


1641 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA         Jesus  Christ 


ceives  at  once  the  thoughts  of  the  cavilers,  and 
proceeds  to  expose  their  malice.  Accepting  their 
own  test,  He  proves  His  right  to  say,  "Thy  sins 
are  forgiven,"  by  now  saying  to  the  palsied  man, 
"Take  up  thy  bed  and  walk"  (vs  9.11).  At  once 
the  man  arose,  took  his  bed,  and  went  forth  whole. 
The  multitude  were  "amazed"  and  "glorified  God" 
(ver  12). 

The  call  of  Matthew  apparently  took  place 
shortly  after  the  cure  of  the  paralytic  man.     The 

feast  was  possibly  later  (cf  the  con- 
b)  Call  and  nection  with  the  appeal  of  Jairus, 
Feast  of  Mt  9  18),  but  the  call  and  the  feast 
Matthew  are  best  taken  together,  as  they  are 
(Mt  9:9-  in  all  the  three  narratives. 
13;  Mk2:  (1)  The  call— Matthew  is  called 
13-17;  Lk  "Levi"  by  Luke,  and  "Levi,  the  son  of 
5:27-32)        Alphaeus"  by  Mark.     By  occupation 

he  was  a  "publican"  (Lk  5  27), 
collector  of  custom-dues  in  Capernaum,  an  impor- 
tant center  of  traffic.  There  is  no  reason  to  suppose 
that  Matthew  was  not  a  man  of  thorough  upright- 
ness, though  nat  urally  the  class  to  which  he  belonged 
was  held  in  great  odium  by  the  Jews.  Passing  the 
place  of  toll  on  His  way  to  or  from  the  lake-side, 
Jesus  called  Matthew  to  follow  Him.  The  publican 
must  by  this  time  haveseen  and  heard  much  of  Jesus, 
and  could  not  but  keenly  feel  His  grace  in  calling  one 
whom  men  despised.  Without  an  instant's  delay, 
he  left  all,  and  followed  Jesus.  From  publican, 
Matthew  became  apostle,  then  evangelist. 

(2)  The  feast. — Then,  or  after,  in  the  joy  of  his 
heart,  Matthew  made  a  feast  for  Jesus.  To  this 
feast  he  invited  many  of  his  own  class — "publicans 
and  sinners"  (Mt  9  10).  Scribes  and  Pharisees 
were  loud  in  their  remonstrances  to  the  disciples  at 
what  seemed  to  them  an  outrage  on  all  propriety. 
Narrow  hearts  cannot  understand  the  breadth  of 
grace.  Christ's  reply  was  conclusive:  "They  that 
are  whole  have  no  need  of  a  physician,  but  they 
that  are  sick,"  etc  (Mk  2  17,  etc)~._ 

(3)  Fasting  and  joy. — Another  line  of  objection 
was  encountered  from  disciples  of  the  Baptist. 
They,  like  the  Pharisees,  "fasted  oft"  (Mt  9  14), 
and  they  took  exception  to  the  unconstrained  way 
in  which  Jesus  and  His  disciples  entered  into  social 
life.  Jesus  defends  His  disciples  by  adopting  a 
metaphor  of  John's  own  (Jn  3  29),  and  speaking 
of  Himself  as  the  heavenly  bridegroom  (Mk  2  19). 
Joy  was  natural  while  the  bridegroom  was  with 
them;  then,  with  a  sad  forecast  of  the  end,  He 
alludes  to  days  of  mourning  when  the  bridegroom 
should  be  taken  away  (ver  20).  A  deeper  answer 
follows.  The  spirit  of  His  gospel  is  a  free,  spon- 
taneous, joyful  spirit,  and  cannot  be  confined 
within  the  old  forms.  To  attempt  to  confine  His 
religion  within  the  outworn  forms  of  Judaism  would 
be  like  putting  a  patch  of  undressed  cloth  on  an 
old  garment,  or  pouring  new  wine  into  old  wine- 
skins. The  garment  would  be  rent;  the  wine- 
skins would  burst  (vs  21.22  ||).  The  new  spirit 
must  make  forms  of  its  own. 

At  this  point  is  probably  to  be  introduced  the 
visit  to  Jerus  to  attend  "a  feast,"  or,  according  to 

another  reading,  "the  feast"  of  the 
3.  The  Un-  Jews,  recorded  in  Jn  5.  The  feast 
named  may,  if  the  article  is  admitted,  have 

Jerusalem  been  the  Passover  (April),  though  in 
Feast  that  case  one  would  expect  it  to  be 

(Jn  5)  named;     it    may    have    been    Purim 

(March),  only  this  is  not  a  feast  Jesus 
might  be  thought  eager  to  attend;  it  may  even  have 
been  Pentecost  (June).  In  this  last  case  it  would 
succeed  the  Sabbath  controversies  to  be  mentioned 
later.  Fortunately,  the  determination  of  the  actual 
feast  has  little  bearing  on  the  teaching  of  the 
chapter. 


Bethesda  ("house  of  mercy")  was  the  name  given 

to  a  pool,  fed  by  an  intermittent  spring,  possessing 

healing  properties,  which  was  situated 

a)  The  by  the  sheep-gate  (not  "market,"  AY), 
Healing  at  i.e.  near  the  temple,  on  the  E.  Porches 
Bethesda  were  erected  to  accommodate  the 
(vs  1-16)       invalids  who  desired  to  make  trial  of 

the  waters  (the  mention  of  the  angel, 
ver  4,  with  part  of  ver  3,  is  a  later  gloss,  and  is 
justly  omitted  in  RV).  On  one  of  these  porches 
lay  an  impotent  man.  His  infirmity  was  of  long 
standing — 38  years.  Hope  deferred  was  making  his 
heart  sick,  for  he  had  no  friend,  when  the  waters 
were  troubled,  to  put  him  into  the  pool.  Others 
invariably  got  down  before  him.  Jesus  took  pity 
on  this  man.  He  asked  him  if  he  would  be  made 
whole;  then  by  a  word  of  power  healed  him.  The 
cure  was  instantaneous  (vs  8.9).  It  was  the  Sab- 
bath day,  and  as  the  man,  at  Christ's  command, 
took  up  his  bed  to  go,  he  was  challenged  as  doing 
that  which  was  unlawful.  The  healed  man,  how- 
ever, rightly  perceived  that  He  who  was  able  to 
work  so  great  a  cure  had  authority  to  say  what 
should  and  should  not  be  done  on  the  Sabbath. 
Meeting  the  man  after  in  the  temple,  Jesus  bade  him 
"sin  no  more" — a  hint,  perhaps,  that  his  previous 
infirmity  was  a  result  of  sinful  conduct  (ver  14). 

Jesus  Himself  was  now  challenged  by  the  authori- 
ties for  breaking  the  Sabbath.     Their  strait,  arti- 
ficial rules  would  not  permit  even  of 

b)  Son  and  acts  of  mercy  on  the  Sabbath.  This 
Father  (vs  led,  on  the  part  of  Jesus,  to  a  momen- 
17-29)  tons  assertion  of  His  Divine  dignity. 

He  first  justified  Himself  by  the 
example  of  His  Father,  who  works  continually  in 
the  upholding  and  government  of  the  universe 
(ver  17) — the  Sabbath  is  a  rest  from  earthly  labors, 
for  Divine,  heavenly  labor  (Westcott) — then,  when 
this  increased  the  offence  by  its  suggestion  of 
"equality"  with  the  Father,  so  that  His  life  was 
threatened  (ver  18),  He  spoke  yet  more  explicitly 
of  His  unique  relationship  to  the  Father,  and  of 
the  Divine  prerogatives  it  conferred  upon  Him. 
The  Jews  were  right:  if  Jesus  were  not  a  Divine 
Person,  the  claims  He  made  would  be  blasphemous. 
Not  only  was  He  admitted  to  intimacy  with  the 
Divine  counsel  (vs  20.21;  cf  Mt  11  27),  but  to 
Him,  He  averred,  was  committed  the  Divine  power 
of  giving  life  (vs  21.26),  of  judgment  (vs  22.27),  of 
resurrection — spiritual  resurrection  now  (vs  24.25), 
resurrection  at  the  last  day  (vs  28.29).  It  was  the 
Father's  will  that  the  Son  should  be  honored  even 
as  Himself  (ver  23). 

These  stupendous  claims  are  not  made  without 

adequate     attestation.     Jesus     cites     a     threefold 

witness:    (1)  the  witness  of  the  Bap- 

c)  The  tist,  whose  testimony  they  had  been 
Threefold  willing  for  a  time  to  receive  (vs  33.35) ; 
Witness  (2)  the  witness  of  the  Father,  who  by 
(vs  30-47)     Christ's  works  supported  His  witness 

to  Himself  (vs  36-38);  (3)  the  witness 
of  the  Scriptures,  for  these,  if  read  with  spiritual 
discernment,  would  have  led  to  Him  (vs  39.45-47). 
Moses,  whom  they  trusted,  would  condemn  them. 
Their  rejection  of  Jesus  was  due,  not  to  want  of 
light,  but  to  the  state  of  the  heart:  "I  know  you, 
that  ye  have  not  the  love  of  God  in  yourselves" 
(ver  42) ;  "How  can  ye  believe,"  etc  (ver  44). 

Shortly  after  His  return  to  Galilee,  if  the  order 
of   events    has   been   rightly    apprehended,    Jesus 

became  involved  in  new  disputes  with 
4.  Sabbath  the  Pharisees  about  Sabbath-keeping, 
Contro-  Possibly  we  hear  in  these  the  echoes 

versies  of  the  charges  brought  against  Him  at 

the  feast  in  Judaea.  Christ's  conduct, 
and  the  principles  involved  in  His  replies,  throw 
valuable  light  on  the  Sabbath  institution. 


Jesus  Christ         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1642 


The  first,  dispute  was  occasioned  by  the  action 

of  the  disciples  in  plucking  ears  of  grain  and  rubbing 

them   in   their   hands   as   they   passed 

a)  Plucking  through  the  grainfields  on  a  Sabbath 
of  the  Ears  (the  note  of  time  "second-first,"  in 
of  Grain  Lk  6  1  AV,  is  omitted  in  II V.  In 
(Mt  12:1-  any  case  the  ripened  grain  points  to 
8;  Mk  2:  a  'time  shortly  after  the  Passover). 
23-28;  Lk  The  law  permitted  this  liberty  (Dt 
6:1-5)  23  25),  but  Pharisaic  rigor  construed 

it,  into  an  offence  to  do  the  act  on  the 
Sabbath  (for  specimens  of  the  minute,  trivial  and 
vexatious  rules  by  which  the  Pharisees  converted 
the  Sabbath  into  a  day  of  wretched  constraint,  see 
Farrar's  Life  of  Chris!,  Edersheim's  Jeans  the  Mes- 
siah, and  similar  works).  Jesus,  in  defending  His 
disciples,  first  quotes  OT  precedents  (David  and 
the  showbread,  an  act  done  apparently  on  the 
Sabbath,  1  S  21  6;  the  priests'  service  on  the 
Sabbath — "One  greater  than  the  temple"  was 
there,  Mt  12  6),  in  illustration  of  the  truth  that 
necessity  overrides  positive  enactment;  next,  falls 
back  on  the  broad  principle  of  the  design  of  the 
Sabbath  as  made  for  man— for  his  highest  physical, 
mental,  moral  and  spiritual  well-being:  "The 
sabbath  was  made  for  man,"  etc  (Mk  2  27).  The 
claims  of  mercy  are  paramount.  The  end  is  not  to 
be  sacrificed  to  the  means.  The  Son  of  Man, 
therefore,  asserts  lordship  over  the  Sabbath  (ver 
28    ). 

The   second    collision    took   place    on    "another 
sabbath"   (Lk  6  6)  in  the  synagogue.     There  was 

present  a  man  with  a  withered  hand. 

b)  The  Man  The  Pharisees  themselves,  on  this 
with  the  occasion,  eager  to  entrap  Jesus,  seem 
Withered  to  have  provoked  the  conflict  by  a 
Hand  (Mt  question,  "Is  it  lawful  to  heal  on  the 
12:10-14;  sabbath  day?"  (Mt  12  10).  Jesus  met 
Mk  3:1-6;  them  by  an  appeal  to  their  own  prac- 
Lk  6:6-11)   tice   in   permitting   the   rescue   of    a 

sheep  that  had  fallen  into  a  pit  on  the 
Sabbath  day  (vs  1 1.12),  then,  bidding  the  man  stand 
forth,  retorted  the  question  on  themselves,  "Is  it 
lawful  on  the  sabbath  day  to  do  good,  or  to  do 
harm?  to  save  a  life,  or  to  kill?"  (Mk  3  4) — an 
allusion  to  their  murderous  intents.  On  no  reply 
being  made,  looking  on  them  with  holy  indignation, 
Jesus  ordered  the  man  to  stretch  forth  his  hand,  and 
it  was  at  once  perfectly  restored.  The  effect  was 
only  to  inflame  to  "madness"  (Lk  6  11)  the  minds 
of  His  adversaries,  and  Pharisees  and  Herodians 
(the  court-party  of  Herod)  took  counsel  to  destroy 
Him  (Mk  3  6  ||). 

Jesus,  leaving  this  scene  of  unprofitable  conflict, 

quietly  withdrew  with  His  disciples  to  the  shore, 

and  there  cont  inued  His  work  of  teach- 

c)  With-  ing  and  healing.  People  from  all  the 
drawal  to  neighboring  districts  flocked  to  His 
the  Sea  ministry.  He  taught  them  from  a 
(Mt  12:15-  little  boat  (Mk  3  9),  and  healed  their 
21;  Mk  3:  sick.  Mt  sees  in  this  a  fulfilment  of 
7-9)  the  oracle  which  is  to  be  found  in  Isa 

42  1-4. 
The  work  of  Jesus  was  growing  on  His  hands,  and 
friends  and  enemies  were  rapidly  taking  sides.     The 

time  accordingly  had  come  for  select- 
5.  The  ing  and  attaching  to  His  person  a  defi- 

Choosing  nite  number  of  followers — not  simply 
of  the  disciples — who  might  be  prepared  to 

Twelve  carry  on  His  work  after  His  departure. 

(Mt  10:  This  He  did  in  the  choice  of  twelve 
1-4;  Mk  3 :  apostles.  The  choice  was  made  in 
13-19 ;  Lk  early  morning,  on  the  Mount  of  Beati- 
6:12-16;  tudes,  after  a  night  spent  wholly  in 
Acts  1:13)     prayer  (Lk  6  12). 

"Apostle"   means   "one   sent."     On 
the  special  function  of  the  apostle  it  is  sufficient  to 


say  here  that  those  thus  set  apart  were  chosen  for 

the   special   end   of   being   Christ's   witnesses   and 

accredited  ambassadors  to  the  world, 

a)  The  able  from  personal  knowledge  to  bear 
Apostolic  testimony  to  what  Christ  had  been, 
Function        said  and  done — to  the  facts  of  His  life, 

death  and  resurrection  (cf  Acts  1  22. 
23;  2  22-32;  3  15;  10  39;  1  Cor  15  3-15,  etc); 
but,  further,  as  instructed  by  Him,  and  endowed 
with  His  Spirit  (cf  Lk  24  49;  Jn  14  16.17.26,  etc), 
of  being  the  depositaries  of  His  truth,  sharers  of  His 
authority  (cf  Mt  10  1;  Mk  3  15),  messengers  of 
His  gospel  (cf  2  Cor  5  18-21),  and  His  instruments 
in  laying  broad  and  strong  the  foundations  of  His 
church  (cf  Eph  2  20;  3  5).  So  responsible  a  calling 
was  never,  before  or  after,  given  to  mortal  men. 

Four  lists  of  the  apostles  are  given — in  Mt,  Mk, 
Lk,  and  Acts  (1  13,  omitting  Judas).     The  names 

are    given    alike    in    all,    except   that 

b)  The  "Judas,  the  son  [or  brother]  of  James" 
Lists  (Lk  6  16;  Acts  1  13)  is  called  by  Mt 

"Lebbaeus,"  and  by  Mk  "Thaddaeus." 
The  latter  names  are  cognate  in  meaning,  and  all 
denote  the  same  person.  "Bartholomew'  (son  of 
Tolmai)  is  probably  the  Nathanael  of  Jn  1  47  (cf 
21  2).  The  epithet  "Cananaean"  (Mt  10  4;  Mk 
3  18)  marks  "Simon"  as  then  or  previously  a  mem- 
ber of  the  party  of  the  Zealots  (Lk  6  15).  In  all 
the  lists  Peter,  through  his  gifts  of  leadership,  stands 
first;  Judas  Iscariot,  the  betrayer,  stands  last. 
There  is  a  tendency  to  arrangement  in  pairs :  Peter 
and  Andrew;  James  and  John;  Philip  and  Bartholo- 
mew; Thomas  and  Matthew;  lastly,  James,  the  son 
of  Alphaeus,  Judas,  son  or  brother  of  James,  Simon 
the  Zealot  and  Judas  Iscariot.  The  list  contains  two 
pairs  of  brothers  (three,  if  "brother"  be  read  with 
Judas),  and  at  least  one  pair  of  friends  (Philip  and 
Nathanael). 

All  the  apostles  were  men  from  the  humbler  ranks, 
yet  not  illiterate,  and  mostly  comfortably  circum- 
stanced.    All  were   Galileans,   except 

c)  The  Men  the  betrayer,  whose  name  "Iscariot" 

i.e.  "man  of  Kerioth,"  marks  him  as  a 
Judaean.  Of  some  of  the  apostles  we  know  a  good 
deal;  of  others  very  little;  yet  we  are  warranted 
in  speaking  of  them  all,  Judas  excepted,  as  men  of 
honest  minds,  and  sincere  piety.  The  band  held 
within  it  a  number  of  men  of  strongly  contrasted 
types  of  character.  Allusion  need  only  be  made  to 
the  impetuous  Peter,  the  contemplative  John, 
the  matter-of-fact  Philip,  the  cautious  Thomas,  the 
zealous  Simon,  the  conservative  Matthew,  the  ad- 
ministrative Judas.  The  last-named — Iscariot— 
is  the  dark  problem  of  the  apostolate.  We  have 
express  testimony  that  Jesus  knew  him  from  the 
beginning  (Jn  6  64).  Yet  He  chose  him.  The  char- 
acter of  Judas,  when  Jesus  received  him,  was  doubt- 
less undeveloped.  He  could  not  himself  suspect  the 
dark  possibilities  that  slept  in  it.  His  association 
with  the  apostles,  in  itself  considered,  was  for  his 
good.  His  peculiar  gift  was,  for  the  time,  of  service. 
In  choosing  him,  Jesus  must  be  viewed  as  acting 
for,  and  under  the  direction  of,  the  Father  (Jn  5  19; 
17  12).     See  special  arts,  on  the  several  apostles. 

///.  From  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount  till  the  Par- 
ables  of  the    Kingdom — a   Second    Circuit. — The 

choice  of  the  apostles  inaugurates  a 
1.  The  new  period  of  Christ's  activity .    Its  first 

Sermon  on  most  precious  fruit  was  the  delivery  to 
the  Mount     the  apostles  and  the  multitudes  who 

thronged  Him  as  He  came  down  from 
the  mountain  (Lk  6  17)  of  that  great  manifesto  of 
His  kingdom  popularly  known  as  the  Sermon  on  the 
Mount.  The  hill  is  identified  by  Stanley  (Sinai 
and  Pal,  368)  and  others  with  that  known  as  "the 
Horns  of  Hattin,"  where  "the  level  place"  at  the 
top,  from  which  Christ  would  come  down  from  one 


1643 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA         Jesus  Christ 


of  the  higher  horns,  exactly  suits  the  conditions  of 
the  narrative.  The  sick  being  healed,  Jesus  seated 
Himself  a  little  higher  up,  His  disciples  near  Him, 
and  addressed  the  assembly  (cf  Mt  7  2S.29).  The 
season  of  the  year  is  shown  by  the  mention  of  the 
"lilies"  to  be  the  summer. 

Its  scope. — His  words  were  weighty.  His  aim 
was  at  the  outset  to  set  forth  in  terms  that  were  un- 
mistakable the  principles,  aims  and  dispositions  of 
His  kingdom;  to  expound  its  laws;  to  exhibit  its 
righteousness,  both  positively,  and  in  contrast  with 
Pharisaic  formalism  and  hypocrisy.  Only  the  lead- 
ing ideas  can  be  indicated  here  (see  Beatitudes; 
Sermon  on  Mount;  Ethics  op  Jesus).  Matthew, 
as  is  his  wont,  groups  material  part  of  which  is  found 
in  other  connections  in  Lk,  but  it  is  well  to  study 
the  whole  in  the  well-ordered  form  in  which  it  ap- 
pears in  the  First  Gospel. 

In  marked  contrast  with  the  lawgiving  of  Sinai, 
Christ's  first  words  are  those  of  blessing.     Passing 

at  once  to  the  dispositions  of  the  heart, 
a)  The  He  shows  on  what  inner  conditions  the 

Blessings  blessings  of  the  kingdom  depend.  His 
(Mt  5:1-  beatitudes  (poverty  of  spirit,  mourning, 
6;  Lk  6:  meekness,  hunger  and  thirst  after 
20-26)  righteousness,     etc)     reverse    all     the 

world's  standards  of  judgment  on  such 
matters.  In  the  possession  of  these  graces  consists 
true  godliness  of  character;  through  them  the  heirs 
of  the  kingdom  become  the  salt  of  the  earth,  the  light 
of  the  world.  The  obligation  rests  on  them  to  let 
their  light  shine  (cf  Mk  4  21-23;  Lk  8  16;  11  33). 
Jesus  defines  His  relation  to  the  old  law — not  a 
Destroyer,  but  a  Fulfiller — and  proceeds  to  exhibit 

the  nature  of  the  true  righteousness 
6)  True  in  contrast  to  Pharisaic  literality  and 
Righteous-  formalism.  Through  adherence  to  the 
ness — the  latter  they  killed  the  spirit  of  the  law. 
Old  and  the  With  an  absolute  authority— "But  I 
New  Law  say  unto  you" — Jesus  leads  every- 
(Mt  5 :  17-  thing  back  from  the  outward  letter  to 
48;  Lk  6:  the  state  of  the  heart.  Illustrations 
27-36)  are    taken    from    murder,    adultery, 

swearing,  retaliation,  hatred  of  ene- 
mies, and  a  spiritual  expansion  is  given  to  every 
precept.  The  sinful  thought  or  desire  holds  in  it 
the  essence  of  transgression.  The  world's  stand- 
ards are  again  reversed  in  the  demands  for  non- 
resistance  to  injuries,  love  of  enemies  and  requital 
of  good  for  evil. 

Pursuing  the  contrast  between  the  true  right- 
eousness and  that  of  the  scribes  and   Pharisees, 

Jesus  next  draws  attention  to  motive 

c)  Religion  in  religion.  The  Pharisees  erred  not 
and  Hy-  simply  in  having  regard  only  to  the 
pocrisy—  letter  of  the  Law,  but  in  acting  in 
True  and  morals  and  religion  from  a  false  motive. 
False  Mo-  He  had  furnished  the  antidote  to  their 
tive  (Mt  6:  literalism;  He  now  assails  their  osten- 
1-18;  cf  Lk  tation  and  hypocrisy.  Illustrations 
11: 1-8)  are  taken  from  almsgiving,  prayer  and 

fasting,  and  in  connection  with  prayer 
the  Lord's  Prayer  is  given  as  a  model  (Lk  intro- 
duces this  in  another  context,  11  1-4). 

The  true  motive  in  religious  acts  is  to  please  God; 
the  same  motive  should  guide  us  in  the  choice  of 

what    is    to    be    our    supreme    good. 

d)  The  True  Earthly  treasure  is  not  to  be  put  above 
Good  and  heavenly.  The  kingdom  of  God  and 
Cure  for  His  righteousness  are  to  be  first  in  our 
Care  (Mt  6:  desires.  The  eye  is  to  be  single.  The 
19-34;  cf  true  cure  for  worldly  anxiety  is  then 
Lk  11:  found  in  trust  of  the  heavenly  Father. 
34-36;  12:  His  children  are  more  to  God  than 
22-34)  fowls  and  flowers,  for  whom  His  care 

in  Nature  is  so  conspicuously  manifest. 
Seeking  first  the  kingdom  they  have  a  pledge — no 


higher  conceivable — that  all  else  they  need  will  be 
granted  along  with  it  (this  section  on  trust,  again, 
Lk  places  differently,  12  22-34). 

Jesus  finally  proceeds  to  speak  of  the  relation  of 
the  disciple  to  the  evil  of  the  world.     That  evil  has 

been  considered  in  its  Jiostile  attitude 
e)  Relation  to  the  disciple  (Mt  5  38  ff);  the  ques- 
to  the  tion  is  now  as  to  the  disciple's  free  rela- 

World's  tions  toward  it.     Jesus  inculcates  the 

Evil — the  duties  of  the  disciple's  bearing  himself 
Conclusion  wisely  toward  evil — with  charity,  with 
(Mt  7:1-  caution,  with  prayer,  in  the  spirit  of 
29;  Lk  6:  ever  doing  as  one  would  be  done  by — 
37-49;  cf  and  of  being  on  his  guard  against  it. 
11:9-13)        The  temptation  is  great  to  follow  the 

worldly  crowd,  to  be  misled  by  false 
teachers,  to  put  profession  for  practice.  Against 
these  perils  the  disciple  is  energetically  warned. 
True  religion  will  ever  be  known  by  its  fruits.  The 
discourse  closes  with  the  powerful  similitude  of  the 
wise  and  foolish  builders.  Again,  as  on  an  earlier 
occasion,  Christ's  auditors  were  astonished  at  His 
teaching,  and  at  the  authority  with  which  He  spoke 
(Mt  7  2S.29). 

A  series  of  remarkable  incidents  are  next  to  be 
noticed. 

(1)  The  healing  of  the  centurion's  servant  ap- 
parently took  place  on  the  same  day  as  the  delivery 

of  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount  (Lk  7 
2.  Inter-  1.2).  It  had  been  a  day  of  manifold 
vening  and  exhausting   labors   for   Jesus.     A 

Incidents       walk  of  perhaps  7  miles  brought  Him 

back  to  Capernaum,  the  crowds  ac- 
companying. Yet  no  sooner,  on  His  return,  does 
He  hear  a  new  appeal  for  help  than  His  love  replies, 

"I   will    come   and   heal   him."     The 

a)  Healing  suppliant  was  a  Rom  centurion — one 
of  the  Cen-  who  had  endeared  himself  to  the  Jews 
turion's  (Lk  7  5)— and  the  request  was  for  the 
Servant  healing  of  a  favorite  servant,  paralyzed 
(Mt  8:1.5-  and  tortured  with  pain.  First,  adepu- 
13;  Lk  7:  tation  sought  Christ's  good  offices, 
1-10)              then,  when  Jesus  was  on  the  way,  a 

second  message  came,  awakening  even 
Christ's  astonishment  by  the  magnitude  of  its  faith. 
The  centurion  felt  he  was  not  worthy  that  Jesus 
should  come  under  his  roof,  but  let  Jesus  speak  the 
word  only,  and  his  servant  would  be  healed.  "I 
have  not  found  so  great  faith,"  Jesus  said,  "no, 
not  in  Israel."  The  word  was  spoken,  and,  on  the 
return  of  the  messengers,  the  servant  was  found 
healed. 

The  exciting  events  of  this  day  gathered  so  great 
a  crowd  round  the  house  where  Jesus  was  as  left 

Him  no  leisure  even  to  eat,  and  His 

b)  The  friends,  made  anxious  for  His  health, 
Widow  of  sought  to  restrain  Him  (Mk  3  20.21). 
Nain's  Son  It  was  probably  to  escape  from  this 
Raised  (Lk  local  excitement  that  Jesus,  "soon 
7: 11-17)        afterwards,"  is  found  at  the  little  town 

of  Nain,  a  few  miles  S.E.  of  Nazareth. 
A  great  multitude  still  followed  Him.  Here,  as  He 
entered  the  city,  occurred  the  most  wonderful  of 
the  works  He  had  yet  wrought.  A  young  man — the 
only  son  of  a  widowed  mother — was  being  carried 
out  for  burial.  Jesus,  in  compassion,  stopped  the 
mournful  procession,  and,  in  the  calm  certainty  of 
His  word  being  obeyed,  bade  the  young  man  arise. 
On  the  instant  life  returned,  and  Jesus  gave  the  son 
back  to  his  mother.  The  amazement  of  the  people 
was  tenfold  intensified.  They  felt  that  the  old  days 
had  come  back:  that  God  had  visited  His  people. 

It  was  apparently  during  the  journey  or  circuit 
which  embraced  this  visit  to  Nain,  and  as  the  result 
of  the  fame  it  brought  to  Jesus  (Lk  7  17.18;  note 
the  allusion  to  the  dead  being  raised  in  Christ's 
reply  to  John),  that  the  embassy  was  sent  from  the 


Jesus  Christ 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1044 


Baptist  in  prison  to  ask  of  Jesus  whether  He 
was  indeed  He  who  should  come,  or  would  they  look 

for  another.  It  was  a  strange  question 
c)  Embassy  on  the  lips  of  the  forerunner,  but  is 
of  John's  probably  to  be  interpreted  as  the  ex- 
Disciples—  pression  of  perplexity  rather  than  of 
Christ  and  actual  doubt.  There  seems  no  question 
His  Gen-  but  that  John's  mind  had  been  thrown 
eration  (Mt  into  serious  difficulty  by  the  reports 
11:2-30;  which  had  reached  him  of  the  work 
Lk  7 :  18-35)  of  Jesus.     Things  were  not  turning  out 

as  he  expected.  It  was  the  peaceful, 
merciful  character  of  Christ's  work  which  stumbled 
John.  The  gloom  of  his  prison  wrought  with  his 
disappointment,  and  led  him  to  send  this  message 
for  the  satisfaction  of  himself  and  his  disciples. 

(1)  Christ's  answer  to  John.—U  doubt  there  was, 
Jesus  treated  it  tenderly.  He  did  not  answer  di- 
rectly, but  bade  the  two  disciples  who  had  been  sent 
go  back  and  tell  John  the  things  they  had  seen  and 
heard— the  blind  receiving  their  sight,  the  lame 
walking,  the  deaf  cured,  the  dead  raised,  the  Gospel 
preached.  Little  doubt  the  Messiah  had  come  when 
works  like  these — the  very  works  predicted  by  the 
prophets  (Isa  35  5.6)— were  being  done.  Blessed 
were  those  who  did  not  find  occasion  of  stumbling 
in  Him.  Jesus,  however,  did  more.  By  his  em- 
bassy John  had  put  himself  in  a  somewhat  false  po- 
sition before  the  multitude.  But  Jesus  would  not 
have  His  faithful  follower  misjudged.  His  was  no 
fickle  spirit.  Jesus  nobly  vindicated  him  as  a 
prophet  and  more  than  a  prophet;  yea,  a  man  than 
whom  a  greater  had  not  lived.  Yet,  even  as  the 
new  dispensation  was  higher  than  the  old,  one  "but 
little"  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven— one  sharing 
Christ's  humble,  loving,  self-denying  disposition- 
was  greater  even  than  John  (Mt  11  11). 

(2)  A  perverse  -people — Christ's  grace. — The  im- 
plied contrast  between  Himself  and  John  led  Jesus 
further  to  denounce  the  perverse  spirit  of  His  own 
generation.  The  Pharisees  and  lawyers  (Lk  7  30) 
had  rejected  John;  they  were  as  little  pleased  with 
Him.  Their  behavior  was  like  children  objecting 
to  one  game  because  it  was  merry,  and  to  another 
because  it  was  sad.  The  flood  of  outward  popu- 
larity did  not  deceive  Jesus.  The  cities  in  which 
His  greatest  works  were  wrought — Chorazin,  Beth- 
saida,  Capernaum — remained  impenitent  at  heart. 
The  heavier  would  be  their  judgment;  worse  even 
than  that  on  Tyre  and  Sidon,  or  on  Sodom  itself. 
Over  against  their  unbelief  Jesus  reasserts  His  dig- 
nity and  declares  His  grace  (Mt  11  25-30).  All 
authority  was  His ;  He  alone  knew  and  could  reveal 
the  Father  (no  claims  in  Jn  are  higher).  _  Let  the 
heavy  laden  come  to  Him,  and  He  would  give  them 
rest  (parts  of  these  passages  appear  in  another  con- 
nection in  Lk  10  12-21). 

Yet  another  beautiful  incident  connected  with 
this  journey  is  preserved  by  Lk — the  anointing  of 

Jesus  in  Simon's  house  by  a  woman 
d)  The  who  was  a  sinner.     In  Nain  or  some 

First  other  city  visited  by  Him,  Jesus  was 

Anointing — ■  invited  to  dine  with  a  Pharisee  named 
the  Woman  Simon.  His  reception  was  a  cold  one 
Who  Was  a  (vs  44-4G) .  During  the  meal,  a 
Sinner  (Lk  woman  of  the  city,  an  outcast  from 
7:36-50)        respectable  society — -one,  however,  as 

the  story  implies,  whose  heart  Jesus 
had  reached,  and  who,  filled  with  sorrow,  love, 
shame,  penitence,  had  turned  from  her  life  of  sin, 
entered  the  chamber.  There,  bathing  Christ's 
feet  with  her  tears,  wiping  them  with  her  tresses,  and 
imprinting  on  them  fervent  kisses,  she  anointed 
them  with  a  precious  ointment  she  had  brought  with 
her.  Simon  was  scandalized.  Jesus  could  not  be 
a  right-thinking  man,  much  less  a  prophet,  or  He 
would  have  rebuked  this  misbehavior  from  such 


a  person.  Jesus  met  the  thought  of  Simon's  heart 
by  speaking  to  him  the  parable  of  the  Two  Debtors 
(vs  41.42).  Of  two  men  who  had  been  freely  for- 
given, one  500,  the  other  50  shillings,  which  would 
love  his  creditor  most?  Simon  gave  the  obvious 
answer,  and  the  contrast  between  his  own  reception 
of  Jesus  and  the  woman's  passionate  love  was 
immediately  pointed  out.  Her  greater  love  was 
due  to  the  greater  forgiveness;   though,  had  Simon 

only  seen  it,  he  perhaps  needed  for- 
3.  Second  giveness  even  more  than  she.  Her 
Galilean  faith  saved  her  and  she  was  dismissed 
Circuit —  in  peace.  But  again  the  question  arose, 
Events  at  '"Who  is  this  that  even  forgiveth  sins?" 
Capernaum  Luke  introduces  here  (Lk  8  1-4)  a 
(Lk  8:1-4.  second  Galilean  circuit  of  Jesus,  after 
19-21;  Mt  the  return  from  which  a  new  series 
12:22-50;  of  exciting  incidents  took  place  at  Ca- 
Mk  3:22-     pernaum. 

35;    cf  Lk  The  circuit  was  an  extensive  one — 

11 :  14-36)      "went  about  through  cities  and  villages 

[lit.  "according  to  city  and  village"], 
preaching."  During  this  journey  Jesus  was  attended 
by   the   Twelve,    and    by    devoted    women    (Mary 

Magdalene,    Joanna,   wife   of   Herod's 

a)  Galilee  steward,  Susanna,  and  others),  who 
Revisited  ministered  to  Him  of  their  substance 
(Lk  8:1-4)    (vs  2.3).     At  the  close  of  this  circuit 

Jesus  returned  to  Capernaum. 
Jesus,  no  doubt,  wrought  numerous  miracles  on 
demoniacs  (cf  Lk  8  1.2;    out  of  Mary  Magdalene 
He  is  said  to  have  cast  7  demons — per- 

b)  Cure  of  haps  a  form  of  speech  to  indicate  the 
Demoniac—  severity  of  the  possession) .  The  demo- 
Discourse  niac  now  brought  to  Jesus  was  blind 
on  Bias-  and  dumb.  Jesus  cured  him,  with  the 
phemy  double   result   that    the   people  were 

filled  with  amazement:  "Can  this 
be  the  son  of  David?"  (Mt  12  23),  while  the  Phari- 
sees blasphemed,  alleging  that  Jesus  cast  out 
demons  by  the  help  of  Beelzebub  (Gr  Beelzeboul), 
the  prince  of  the  demons  (see  s.v.).  A  quite 
similar  incident  is  narrated  in  Mt  9  32-34;  and 
Lk  gives  the  discourse  that  follows  in  a  later  con- 
nection (11  14  ff).  The  accusation  may  well  have 
been  repeated  more  than  once.  Jesus,  in  reply, 
points  out,  first,  the  absurdity  of  supposing  Satan 
to  be  engaged  in  warring  against  his  own  kingdom 
(Mt  18  25  ff  |j;  here  was  plainly  a  stronger  than 
Satan) ;  then  utters  the  momentous  word  about 
blasphemy  against  the  Holy  Spirit.  All  other 
blasphemies — even  that  against  the  Son  of  Man  (Mt 
12  32) — may  be  forgiven,  for  they  may  proceed 
from  ignorance  and  misconception;  but  deliberate, 
perverse  rejection  of  the  light,  and  attributing  to 
Satan  what  was  manifestly  of  God,  was  a  sin  which, 
when  matured — and  the  Pharisees  came  perilously 
near  committing  it — admitted  of  no  forgiveness, 
either  in  this  world  or  the  next,  for  the  very 
capacity  for  truth  in  the  soul  was  by  such  sin 
destroyed.  Mk  has  the  strong  phrase,  "is  guilty 
of  an  eternal  sin"  (3  29).  Pertinent  words  follow 
as  to  the  root  of  good  and  evil  in  character  (Mt 
12  33-37).     See  Blasphemy. 

The  sign  of  Jonah. — Out  of  this  discourse  arose 
the  usual  Jewish  demand  for  a  "sign"  (Mt  12  38; 
cf  Lk  11  29-32),  which  Jesus  met  by  declaring 
that  no  sign  would  be  given  but  the  sign  of  the 
prophet  Jonah — an  allusion  toHis  future  resurrec- 
tion. He  reiterates  His  warning  to  the  people  of 
His  generation  for  their  rejection  of  greater  light 
than  had  been  enjoyed  by  the  Ninevites  and  the 
Queen  of  Sheba. 

Two  incidents,  not  dissimilar  in  character, 
interrupted  this  discourse — one  the  cry  of  a  woman 
in  the  audience  (if  the  time  be  the  same,  Lk  11  27. 
28),    "Blessed  is  the  womb  that  bare  thee,"  etc, 


1645 


THE  INTER  NATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jesus  Christ 


to  which  Jesus  replied,  "Yea  rather,  blessed  arc  they 
that  hear  the  word  of  God,  and  keep  it";  the  other, 
a  message  that  His  mother  and  brethren 
c)  Christ's  (doubtless  anxious  for  His  safety)  de- 
Mother  and  sired  to  speak  with  Him.  To  this, 
Brethren  stretching  out  His  hand  toward  His 
disciples,  Jesus  answered,  "Behold, 
my  mother  and  my  brethren"  (Mk  3  34),  etc. 
Kinship  in  the  spiritual  kingdom  consists  in  fidelity 
to  the  will  of  God,  not  in  ties  of  earthly  relationship. 
On  the  same  da}'  on  which  the  preceding  dis- 
courses were  delivered,  Jesus,  seeing  the  multitudes, 
passed  to  the  shore,  and  entering  a 
4.  Teaching  boat,  inaugurated  a  new  method  in 
in  Parables  His  public  teaching.  This  was  the 
(Mt  13:1-  speaking  in  parables.  Similitude, 
52;  Mk  4:  metaphor,  always  entered  into  the 
1-34;  Lk  teaching  of  Jesus  (cf  Mt  7  24-27), 
8:4-15;  13:  and  parable  has  once  been  met  with 
18-21)  (Lk  7  41.42);     now    parable    is    sys- 

tematically employed  as  a  means  of 
imparting  and  illustrating  important  truths,  while 
yet  veiling  them  from  those  whose  minds  were 
hostile  and  unreceptive  (Mk  4  10-12;  Lk  8  9.10). 
The  parable  thus  at  once  reveals  and  conceals.  The 
motive  of  this  partially  veiled  teaching  was  the 
growing  hostility  of  the  Pharisees.  In  its  nature 
the  parable  (from  a  verb  signifying  ''to  place  side 
by  side")  is  a  representation  in  some  form  of  earthly 
analogy  of  truths  relating  to  Divine  and  eternal 
things  (see  Parable).  The  parables  of  the  king- 
dom brought  together  in  Mt  13  form  an  invaluable 
series,  though  not  all  were  spoken  in  public  (cf 
Mt  13  3G-52),  and  some  may  belong  to  a  later 
occasion  (cf  Lk  13  18-21).  Mk  adds  the  parable 
of  the  Seed  Growing  Secretly  (4  26-29).  Of  three 
of  the  parables  (the  Sower,  the  Tares,  the  Dragnet), 
Jesus  Himself  gives  the  interpretation. 

Parables  of  the  kingdom. — In  scries  the  parables 
at  once  mirror  the  origin,  mixed  character  and 
development  of  the  kingdom  in  its  present  imper- 
fect earthly  condition,  and  the  perfection  which 
awaits  it  after  the  crisis  at  the  end.  In  the  parable 
of  the  Sower  is  represented  the  origin  of  the  kingdom 
in  the  good  seed  of  the  word,  and  the  varied  soils 
on  which  that  seed  falls;  in  the  Seed  Growing 
Secretly,  the  law  of  orderly  growth  in  the  kingdom; 
in  the  parable  of  the  Tares,  the  mixed  character 
of  the  subjects  of  the  kingdom;  in  those  of  the 
Mustard  Seed  and  Leaven,  the  progress  of  the 
kingdom — external  growth,  internal  transformative 
effect;  in  those  of  the  Treasure  and  Pearl  t  he  finding 
and  worth  of  the  kingdom;  in  that  of  the  Dragnet 
the  consummation  of  the  kingdom.  Jesus  compares 
His  disciples,  if  they  understand  these  things,  to 
householders  bringing  out  of  their  treasure  ''things 
new  and  old"  (Mt  13  52). 

IV.  From  the  Crossing  to  Gadara  to  the  Mission 
of  the  Twelve — a  Third  Circuit. — It  was  on  the 
evening  of  the  day  on  which  He  spoke 
1.  Crossing  the  parables — though  the  chronology 
of  the  Lake  of  the  incident  seems  unknown  to  Lk 
—Stilling  (8  22)— that  Jesus  bade  His  disciples 
of  the  cross   over   to   the   other   side   of   the 

Storm  (Mt  lake.  At  this  juncture  He  was  accosted 
8:18-27;  by  an  aspirant  for  discipleship.  Mat- 
Mk  4:35-  thew  gives  two  cases  of  aspirants; 
41;  Lk  8:  Luke  (hut  in  a  different  connection, 
22-25;  cf  9  57-62),  three.  Luke's  connection 
9:57-62)  (departure  from  Galilee)  is  perhaps 
preferable  for  the  second  and  third; 
but  the  three  may  be  considered  together. 

The  three  aspirants  may  be  distinguished  as,  (a) 
The  forward  disciple :  he  who  in  an  atmosphere  of 
enthusiasm  offered  himself  under  impulse,  without 
counting  the  cost.  The  zeal  of  this  would-be 
follower  Jesus  checks  with  the  pathetic  words,  "The 


foxes   have   holes,"   etc    (Mt  8  20;    Lk  9  58.     (b) 

The   procrastinating  disciple.     The  first   candidate 

needed  repression;  thesecond  needs  im- 

a)  Aspirants  pulsion.  He  would  follow  Jesus,  but 
for  Dis-  first Jet  him  bury  his  father.  There  had 
cipleship         come  a  crisis,  however,  when  the  Lord's 

claim  was  paramount:  ''Leave  the 
dead  to  bury  their  own  dead"  (Mt  8  22).  There 
are  at  times  higher  claims  than  mere  natural  rela- 
tionships, to  which,  in  themselves,  Jesus  was  the  last 
to  be  indifferent,  (c)  The  wavering  disciple.  The 
third  disciple  is  again  one  who  offers  himself,  but 
his  heart  was  too  evidently  still  with  the  things  at 
home.  Jesus,  again,  lays  His  finger  on  the  weak 
spot,  "No  man,  having  put  his  hand  to  the  plow, 
and  looking  back,"  etc  (Lk  9  62).  As  mentioned, 
the  latter  two  cases  tally  better  with  a  final  depar- 
ture from  Galilee  than  with  a  temporary  crossing 
of  the  lake. 

The   inland    lake    was    exposed    to    violent    and 
sudden  tempests.     One  of  these  broke  on  the  dis- 
ciples'   boat    as    they    sailed    across. 

b)  The  Everyone's  life  seemed  in  jeopardy. 
Storm  Jesus,  meanwhile,  in  calmest  repose, 
Calmed           was  asleep  on  a  cushion  in  the  stern 

(Mk  4  38).  The  disciples  woke  Him 
almost  rudely:  "Teacher,  carest  thou  not  that  we 
perish?"  Jesus  at  once  arose,  and,  reproving  their 
want  of  faith,  rebuked  wind  and  waves  ("Peace,  be 
still").  Immediately  there  was  a  great  calm.  It 
was  a  new  revelation  to  the  disciples  of  the  majesty 
of  their  Master.  "Who  then  is  this,  that  even  the 
wind  and  the  sea  obey  him?" 

The  lake  being  crossed,  Jesus  and  His  disciples 
came   into   the    country   of   the   Gadarenes    (Mt), 

or  Gerasenes  (Mk,  Lk) — Gadara  being 
2.  The  the  capital  of  the  district  (on  the  to- 

Gadarene  pography,  cf  Stanley,  Sinai  and  Pal, 
(Gerasene)  380-81).  From  the  lake  shore  rises  a 
Demoniac  mountain  in  which  are  ancient  tombs. 
(Mt  8:28-  Here  Jesus  was  met  by  a  demoniac 
34;  Mk  5:  (Mt  mentions  two  demoniacs:  M. 
1-20;  Lk  8:  Henry's  quaint  comment  is,  "If  there 
26-39)  were  two,   there  was  one."     Possibly 

one  was  the  fiercer  of  the  two,  the  other 
figuring  only  as  his  companion).  The  man,  as  de- 
scribed, was  a  raving  maniac  of  the  worst  type  (Mk 
5  3-5),  dwelling  in  the  tombs,  wearing  no  clothes 
(Lk  8  27),  of  supernatural  strength,  wounding 
himself,  shrieking,  etc.  Really  possessed  by  "an 
unclean  spirit,"  his  consciousness  was  as  if  he  were 
indwelt  by  a  "legion"  of  demons,  and  from  that 
consciousness  he  addressed  Jesus  as  the  Son  of 
God  come  for  their  tormenting.  In  what  follows 
it  is  difficult  to  distinguish  what  belongs  to  the 
broken,  incoherent  consciousness  of  the  man,  and 
the  spirit  or  spirits  who  spake  through  him.  In 
the  question,  "What  is  thy  name?"  (Mk  5  9) 
Jesus  evidently  seeks  to  arouse  the  victim's  shat- 
tered soul  to  some  sense  of  its  own  individuality. 
On  Jesus  commanding  the  unclean  spirit  to  leave 
the  man,  the  request  was  made  that  the  demons 
might  be  permitted  to  enter  a  herd  of  swine  feeding 
near.  The  reason  of  Christ's  permission,  with  its 
result  in  the  destruction  of  the  herd  ("rushed  down 
the  steep  into  the  sea")  need  not  be  too  closely 
scrutinized.  It  may  have  had  an  aspect  of  judg- 
ment on  the  (possibly)  Jewish  holders  of  the  swine; 
or  it  may  have  had  reference  to  tin;  victim  of  the 
possession,  as  enabling  him  to  realize  his  deliver- 
ance. Whatever  the  difficulties  of  the  narrative, 
none  of  the  rationalistic  explanations  afford  any 
sensible  relief  from  them.  The  object  of  the  miracle 
may  be  to  exclude  rationalistic  explanations,  by 
giving  a  manifest  attestation  of  the  reality  of  the 
demon  influence.  When  the  people  of  the  city 
came  they  found  the  man  fully  restored — "clothed 


Jesus  Christ 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1646 


right, 
they 


;m<l  m  ii 
sightedne 
their  borders. 
to  his  friends 
to  him. 

Repelled    by 
warm  welcorm 


mind."  Vet,  with  fatal  short- 
besought  Jesus  to  depart,  from 
e  man  was  sent,  home  to  declare 
great  things  the  Lord  had  done; 


3.  Jairus' 
Daughter 
Raised  — 
Woman 
with  Issue 


Mk5:21 
43;  Lk  8 
40-56) 


a)  Jairus' 
Appeal  and 
Its  Result 


b)  The 
Afflicted 
Woman 
Cured 


Gerasenes,    Jesus   received    a 

His  return  to  Capernaum  on 

the  western  shore  (Mk  5  21).     It  was 

probably  at  this  point  that  Matthew 

gave  the  feast,  formerly  referred  to. 

It  was  in  connection  with  this  feast, 
Matthew  himself  informs  us  (9  IS), 
that  Jairus,  one  of  the  rulers  of  the 
of  Blood  (Mt  synagogue,  made  his  appeal  for  help. 
9:18-26;  His  little  daughter,  about  12  years 
old  (Lk  8  42),  was  at  the  point  of 
death;  indeed,  while  Jesus  was  coming, 
she  died.  The  ruler's  faith,  though 
real,  was  not  equal  to  the  centurion's, 
who  believed  that  Jesus  could  heal  without  being 
present.  Jesus  came,  and  having  expelled  the  pro- 
fessional mourners,  in  sacred  privacy, 
only  the  father  and  mother,  with  Peter, 
James  and  John  being  permitted  to 
enter  the  death-chamber,  raised  the 
girl  to  life.  It  is  the  second  miracle 
on  record  of  the  raising  from  the  dead. 

On  the  way  to  the  ruler's  house  occurred  another 
wonder— a  miracle  within  a  miracle.  A  poor 
woman,  whose  case  was  a  specially 
distressing  one,  alike  as  regards  the 
nature  of  her  malady,  the  length  of 
its  continuance,  and  the  fruitlessness  of 
her  application  to  the  physicians,  crept 
up  to  Jesus,  confident  that  if  she 
could  but  touch  the  border  of  His  garment,  she 
would  be  healed.  The  woman  was  ignorant;  her 
faith  was  blended  with  superstition;  but  Jesus, 
reading  the  heart,  gave  her  the  benefit  she  desired. 
It  was  His  will,  however,  that,  for  her  own  good, 
the  woman  thus  cured  should  not  obtain  the  blessing 
by  stealth.  He  therefore  brought  her  to  open  con- 
fession, and  cheered  her  by  His  commendatory  word. 
At  this  point  begins  apparently  a  new  evangelistic 
tour  (Mt  9  35;  Mk  6  6),  extending  methodically 
to  "all  the  cities  and  villages."     To  it 

4.  Incidents  belong  in  the  narratives  the  healing  of 
of  Third  two  blind  men  (cf  the  case  of  Barti- 
Circuit  (Mt  maeus,  recorded  later);  the  cure  of  a 
9:27-38;  demoniac  who  was  dumb — a  similar 
13:53-58;  case  to  that  in  Mt  12  22;  and  a  second 
Mk  6:1-6)   rejection  at  Nazareth  (Mt,  Mk).    The 

incident  is  similar  to  that  in  Lk  4 
16-30,  and  shows,  if  the  events  are  different,  that 
the  people's  hearts  were  unchanged.  Of  this  cir- 
cuit Mt  gives  an  affecting  summary  (9  35-38),  em- 
phasizing the  Lord's  compassion,  and  His  yearning 
for  more  laborers  to  reap  the  abundant  harvest. 

Partly  with  a  view  to  the  needs  of  the  rapidly 
growing  work  and  the  training  of  the  apostles,  and 

partly  as  a  witness  to  Israel  (Mt  10 

5.  The  6.23),  Jesus  deemed  it  expedient  to 
Twelve  Sent  send  the  Twelve  on  an  independent 
Forth— Dis-  mission.  The  discourse  in  Mt  attached 
course  of  to  this  event  seems,  as  frequently, 
Jesus  (Mt  to  be  a  compilation.  Parts  of_  it  are 
10;  Mk  6:  given  by  Luke  in  connection  with  the 
7-13;  Lk  9:  mission  of  the  Seventy  (Lk  10  Iff; 
1-6;  cf  Lk     the  directions  were  doubtless  similar 

in  both  cases) ;  parts  on  other  occasions 
(Lk  12  2-12;  21  12-17,  etc;  cf  Mk 
13  9-13). 

The  Twelve  were  sent  out  two  by 
two.  Their  work  was  to  be  a  copy  of  the  Master's 
— to  preach  the  gospel  and  to  heal  the  sick.  To  this 
end  they  were  endowed  with  authority  over  unclean 
spirits,  and  over  all  manner  of  sickness.     They  were 


10:2-24; 
12:2-12, 

etc) 


to  go  forth  free  from  all  encumbrances— no  money, 

no  scrip,  no  changes  of  raiment,  no  staff  (save  that 

in  their  hand,  Mk  6  8),  sandals  only 

a)  The  on  their  feet,  etc.  They  were  to  rely 
Commission  for  support  on   those  to   whom   they 

preached.  They  were  for  the  present 
to  confine  their  ministry  to  Israel.  The  saying  in 
Mt.  10  23,  "Ye  shall  not  have  gone  through  the 
cities  of  Israel,  till  the  Son  of  man  be  come,"  ap- 
parently has  reference  to  the  judgment  on  the 
nation,  not  to  the  final  coming  (cf  16  28). 

The  mission  of  the  Twelve  was  the  first  step  of 

Christianity  as  an  aggressive  force  in  society.    Jesus 

speaks  of  it,  accordingly,  in  the  light 

b)  Counsels  of  the  whole  future  that  was  to  come 
and  out  of  it.  He  warns  His  apostles 
Warnings       faithfully  of  the  dangers  that  awaited 

them;  exhorts  them  to  prudence  and 
circumspection  ("wise  as  serpents,"  etc);  holds 
out  to  them  Divine  promises  for  consolation;  di- 
rects them  when  persecuted  in  one  place  to  flee  to 
another;  points  out  to  them  from  His  own  case  that 
such  persecutions  were  only  to  be  expected.  He 
assures  them  of  a  coming  day  of  revelation;  bids 
them  at  once  fear  and  trust  God ;_  impresses  on  them 
the  duty  of  courage  in  confession;  inculcates  in 
them  supreme  love  to  Himself.  That  love  would 
be  tested  in  the  dearest  relations.  In  itself  peace, 
the  gospel  would  be  the  innocent  occasion  of  strife, 
enmity  and  division  among  men.  Those  who  re- 
ceive Christ's  disciples  will  not  fail  of  their  reward. 
When  Christ  had  ended  His  discourse  He  pro- 
ceeded with  His  own  evangelistic  work,  leaving  the 
disciples  to  inaugurate  theirs  (Mt  11  1). 

Second  Period— After  the  Mission  of  the  Twelve  till 
the  Departure  from  Galilee 

I.  From  the  Death  of  the  Baptist  till  the  Discourse 
on  Bread  of  Life. — Shortly  before  the  events  now 
to  be  narrated,  John  the  Baptist  had 
1.  The  been    foully  murdered   in   his   prison 

Murder  of  by  Herod  Antipas  at  the  instigation 
the  Baptist  of  Herodias,  whose  unlawful  marriage 
and  Herod's  with  Herod  John  had  unsparingly 
Alarms  (Mt  condemned.  Jos  gives  as  the  place  of 
14:1-12;  the  Baptist's  imprisonment  the  for- 
Mk  6: 14-  tress  of  Machaerus,  near  the  Dead  Sea 
29;  Lk  9:  (Ant,  XVIII,  v,  2);  or  John  may  have 
7-9;  cf  3:  been  removed  to  Galilee.  Herod 
18-20)  would  ere  this  have  killed  John,  but 

was  restrained  by  fear  of  the  people 
(Mt  14  5).  The  hate  of  Herodias,  however,  did 
not  slumber.  Her  relentless  will  contrasts  with  the 
vacillation  of  Herod,  as  Lady  Macbeth  in  Shake- 
speare contrasts  with  Macbeth.  A  birthday  feast 
gave  her  the  opening  she  sought  for.  Her  daughter 
Salome,  pleasing  Herod  by  her  dancing,  obtained 
from  him  a  promise  on  oath  to  give  her  whatever 
she  asked.  Prompted  by  Herodias,  she  boldly  de- 
manded John  the  Baptist's  head.  The  weak  king 
was  shocked,  but,  for  his  oath's  sake,  granted  her 
what  she  craved.  The  story  tells  how  the  Baptist's 
disciples  reverently  buried  the  remains  of  their  mas- 
ter, and  went  and  told  Jesus.  Herod's  conscience 
did  not  let  him  rest.  When  rumors  reached  him  of 
a  wonderful  teacher  and  miracle-worker  in  Galilee, 
he  leaped  at  once  to  the  conclusion  that  it  was 
John  risen  from  the  dead.  Herod  cannot  have 
heard  much  of  Jesus  before.  An  evil  conscience 
makes  men  cowards. 

Another  Passover  drew  near  (Jn  6  4),  but  Jesus 
did  not  on  this  occasion  go  up  to  the  feast. 

Returning  from  their  mission,  the  apostles  re- 
ported to  Jesus  what  they  had  said  and  done  (Lk 
9  10) ;  Jesus  had  also  heard  of  the  Baptist's  fate, 
and  of  Herod's  fears,  and  now  proposed  to  His 
disciples  a  retirement  to  a  desert  place  across  the 


1647 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA         Jesus  Christ 


lake,  near  Bethsaida  (on  the  topography,  cf  Stanley, 
op.  cit.,  375,  381).     As  it  proved,  however,  the  mul- 
titudes had  observed  their  departure, 

2.  The  and,  running  round  the  shore,  were  at 
Feeding  of  the  place  before  them  (Nik  6  33). 
the  Five  The  purpose  of  rest  was  frustrated, 
Thousand  but  Jesus  did  not  complain.  He  pitied 
(Mt  14:13-  the  shepherdless  state  of  the  people, 
21;  Mk  6:  and  went  out  to  teach  and  heal  them. 
30-44 ;  Lk  The  day  wore  on,  and  the  disciples  sug- 
9: 10  17;  gested  that  the  fasting  multitude  should 
Jn  6:1-14)    disperse,  and  seek  victuals  in  the  nearest 

towns  and  villages.  This  Jesus,  who 
had  already  proved  Philip  by  asking  how  the  people 
should  be  fed  (Jn  6  5),  would  not  permit.  With 
the  scanty  provision  at  command — 5  loaves  and  2 
fishes — He  fed  the  whole  multitude.  By  His  bless- 
ing the  food  was  multiplied  till  all  were  satisfied, 
and  12  baskets  of  fragments,  carefully  collected,  re- 
mained over.  It  was  a  stupendous  act  of  creative 
power,  no  rationalizing  of  which  can  reduce  it  to 
natural  dimensions. 

The  enthusiasm  created  by  this  miracle  was  in- 
tense (Jn  6  14).    Mt  and  Mk  relate  (Lk  here  falls  for 

a  time  out  of  the  Synopsis)  that  Jesus 

3.  Walking  hurriedly  constrained  His  disciples  to 
on  the  Sea  enter  into  their  boat  and  recross  the 
(Mt  14:22-  lake— this  though  a  storm  was  gath- 
33;  Mk  6:  ering — while  He  Himself  remained  in 
45-52 ;  Jn  the  mountain  alone  in  prayer.  Jn  gives 
6:15-21)         the  key  to  this  action  in  the  statement 

that  the  people  were  about  to  take 
Him  by  force  and  make  Him  a  king  (ver  15).  Three 
hours  after  midnight  found  the  disciples  still  in  the 
midst  of  the  lake,  "distressed  in  rowing"  (Mk  6  48), 
deeply  anxious  because  Jesus  was  not ,  as  on  a  former 
occasion,  with  them.  At  last,  at  the  darkest  hour 
of  their  extremity,  Jesus  was  seen  approaching  in  a 
way  unlooked-for — walking  on  the  water.  Every 
new  experience  of  Jesus  was  a  surprise  to  the  disci- 
ples. They  were  at  first  terrified,  thinking  they  saw 
a  spirit,  but  straightway  the  well-known  voice  was 
heard,  "Be  of  good  cheer:  it  is  I;  be  not  afraid." 
In  the  rebound  of  his  feelings  the  impulsive  Peter 
asked  Jesus  to  permit  him  to  come  to  Him  on  the 
water  (Mt).  Jesus  said  "Come,"  and  for  the  first 
moment  or  two  Peter  did  walk  on  the  water;  then, 
as  he  realized  his  unwonted  sit  nation,  his  faith  failed, 
and  he  began  to  sink.  Jesus,  with  gentle  chiding, 
caught  him,  and  assisted  him  back  into  the  boat. 
Once  again  the  sea  was  calmed,  and  the  disciples 
found  themselves  safely  at  land.  To  their  adoring 
minds  the  miracle  of  the  loaves  was  eclipsed  by  this 
new  marvel  (Mk  6  52). 

On  the  return  to  Gennesaret  the  sick  from  all 
quarters   were   brought   to  Jesus — the  commence- 
ment apparently  of  a  new,  more  general 

4.  Gennes-  ministry  of  healing  (Mk  6  56).  Mean- 
aret — Dis-  while — here  we  depend  on  Jn — the 
course  on  people  on  the  other  side  of  the  lake, 
the  Bread  when  they  found  that  Jesus  was  gone, 
of  Life  (Mt  took  boats  hastily,  and  came  over  to 
14:34-36;  Capernaum.  They  found  Jesus  ap- 
Mk6:53-  parently  in  the  synagogue  (ver  59).  In 
66;  Jn  6:  reply  to  their  query,  "Rabbi,  when 
22-71)  earnest  thou  hither?"  Jesus  first  rebuked 

the  motive  which  led  them  to  follow 
Him — not  because  they  had  seen  in  His  miracles 
"signs"  of  higher  blessings,  but  because  they  had 
eaten  of  the  loaves  and  were  filled  (ver  26) — then 
spoke  to  them  His  great  discourse  on  the  bread  from 
heaven.  "Work,"  He  said,  "for  the  food  which 
abideth  unto  eternal  life,  which  the  Son  of  man  shall 
give  unto  you"  (ver  27).  When  asked  to  authenti- 
cate His  claims  by  a  sign  from  heaven  like  the  manna, 
He  replied  that  the  manna  also  (given  not  by  Moses 
but  by  God)  was  but  typical  bread,  and  surprised 


them  by  declaring  that  He  Himself  was  the  true 
bread  of  life  from  heaven  (vs  35.51).  The  bread 
was  Christ's  flesh,  given  for  the  life  of  the  world; 
His  flesh  and  blood  must  be  eaten  and  drunk  (a 
spiritual  appropriation  through  faith,  ver  63),  if 
men  were  to  have  eternal  life.  Jesus  of  set  purpose 
had  put  His  doctrine  in  a  strong,  testing  manner. 
The  time  had  come  when  His  hearers  must  make 
their  choice  between  a  spiritual  acceptance  of  Him 
and  a  break  with  Him  altogether.  What  He  had 
said  strongly  offended  them,  both  on  account  of  the 
claims  implied  (ver  42),  and  on  account  of  the  doc- 
trine taught,  which,  they  were  plainly  told,  they 
could  not  receive  because  of  their  carnality  of  heart 
(vs  43.44.61-64).  Many,  therefore,  went  back  and 
walked  no  more  with  Him  (vs  60.61.66);  but  their 
defection  only  evoked  from  the  chosen  Twelve  a  yet 
more  confident  confession  of  their  faith.  "Would  ye 
also  go  away?" 

1'der's  first  confession. — Peter,  as  usual,  spoke  for 
the  rest:  "Lord,  to  whom  shall  we  go?  ....  We 
have  believed  and  know  that  thou  art  the  Holy  One 
of  God"  (ver  69).  Here,  and  not  first  at  Caesarea 
Philippi  (Mt  16  16),  is  Peter's  brave  confession  of 
his  Master's  Messiahship.  Twelve1  thus  confessed 
Him,  but  even  of  this  select  circle  Jesus  was  com- 
pelled to  say,  "One  of  you  [Judas]  is  a  devil"  (Jn  6 
70.71). 

//.  From  Disputes  with  the  Pharisees  till  the 
Transfiguration. — The  discourse  in  Capernaum 
seems  to  mark  a  turning-point  in  the  Lord's  minis- 
try in  Galilee.  Soon  after  we  find  Him  ceasing  from 
public  teaching,  and  devoting  Himself  to  the  in- 
struction of  His  apostles  (Mt  15  21;  Mk  7  24, etc). 

Meanwhile,  that  Christ's  work  in  Galilee  was  at- 
tracting the  attention  of  the  central  authorities,  is 
shown  by  the  fact  that  scribes  and 
1.  Jesus  Pharisees  came  up  from  Jerus  to  watch 
and  Tradi-  Him.  They  speedily  found  ground  of 
tion — Out-  complaint  against  Him  in  His  uncon- 
ward  and  ventional  ways  and  His  total  disregard 
Inward  of  the  traditions  of  the  elders.     They 

Purity  (Mt  specially  blamed  Him  for  allowing  His 
15:1-20;  disciples  to  eat  bread  with  "common," 
Mk  7:1-23)  i.e.  unwashen  hands.  Here  was  a 
point  on  which  the  Pharisees  laid  great 
stress  (Mk  7  3.4).  Ceremonial  ablutions  (washing 
"diligently,"  Gr  "with  the  fist";  "baptizings"  of 
person  and  things)  formed  a  large  part  of  their  re- 
ligion. These  washings  were  part  of  the  "oral  tra- 
dition" said  to  have  been  delivered  to  Moses,  and 
transmitted  by  a  succession  of  elders.  Jesus  set 
all  this  ceremonialism  aside.  It  was  part  of  the 
"hypocrisy"  of  the  Pharisees  (Mk  7  6).  When 
questioned  regarding  it,  He  drew  a  sharp  distinc- 
tion between  God's  commandment  in  the  Scriptures 
and  man's  tradition,  and  accused  the  Pharisees  (in- 
stancing "Corban"  [q.v.],  in  support,  vs  10-12)  of 
making  "void"  the  former  through  the  latter.  This 
led  to  the  wider  question  of  wherein  real  defilement 
consisted.  Christ's  rational  position  here  is  that 
it  did  not  consist  in  anything  outward,  as  in  meats, 
but  consisted  in  what  came  from  within  the  man : 
as  Jesus  explained  afterward,  in  the  outcome  of  his 
heart  or  moral  life:  "Out  of  the  heart  of  men  evil 
thoughts  proceed,"  etc  (vs  20-23).  Christ's  saying 
was  in  effect  the  abrogation  of  the  old  ceremonial 
distinctions,  as  Mk  notes:  "making  all  meats  clean" 
(ver  19).  The  Pharisees,  naturally,  were  deeply 
offended  at  His  sayings,  but  Jesus  was  unmoved. 
Every  plant  not  of  the  Father's  planting  must  be 
rooted  up  (ver  13). 

From  this  point  Jesus  appears,  in  order  to  escape 
notice,  to  have  made  journeys  privately  from  place 
to  place.  His  first  retreat  was  to  the  borders,  or 
neighborhood,  of  Tyre  and  Sidon.  From  Mk  7  31 
it  is  to  be  inferred  that  He  entered  the  heathen  ter- 


Jesus  Christ         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1648 


ritory.     He  could  not,  however,  be  hid  (ilk  7  24). 

It  was  not  long  ere,    in    the   house  into   which    He 

had    entered,    there    reached    Him    the 

2.  Retire-  cry  of  human  distress.  A  woman  came 
ment  to  to  Him,  a  Creek  (or  Gentile,  Creek- 
Tyre  and  speaking),  but  Syrophoenician  by  race. 
Sidon— the  Her  "little  daughter"  was  grievously 
Syrophoeni-  afflicted  with  an  evil  spirit.  Flinging 
cian  Woman  herself  at  His  feet,  and  addressing 
(Mt  15:21-  Him  as  ''Son  of  David,"  she  besought 
28;  Mk  7:  His  mercy  for  her  child.  At  first 
24-30)             Jesus    seemed  —  yet    only    scented-    to 

repel  her,  speaking  of  Himself  as  sent 
only  to  the  lost  sheep  of  Israel,  and  of  the  un- 
meet ness  of  giving  the  children's  loaf  to  the  dogs 
(the  Gr  softens  the  expression,  "the  little  dogs"). 
With  a  beautiful  urgency  which  won  for  her  the  boon 
she  sought,  the  woman  seized  on  the  word  as  an  argu- 
ment in  her  favor.  "Even  the  dogs  under  the  table 
cat  of  the  children's  crumbs."  The  child  at  Jesus' 
word  was  restored. 

Christ's    second    retreat    was  to    Decapolis — the 
district  of  the  ten  cities    -E.  of  the  Jordan.     Here 

also     He    was    soon    discovered,    and 

3.  At  Decap-  followed  by  the  multitude;.  Sufferers 
olis — New  were  brought  to  Him,  whom  He 
Miracles  cured  (Alt  15  30).  Later,  He  fed  the 
(Mt  15:29-  crowds. 

39;  Mk  7:  The  miracle  of  the  deaf  man  is  at- 
31-37;  8:  tested  only  by  Mk.  The  patient  was 
1-10)  doubly  afflicted,  being  deaf,  and  having 

an  impediment  in  his  speech.  The  cure 
presents  several  peculiarities — its  privacy  (ver  33); 
the  actions  of  Jesus  in  put  ting  his  fingers  into  his  ears, 

etc  (a  mode  of  speech  by  signs  to  the 

a)  The  Deaf  deaf  man);  His  "sign,"  accompanied 
Man  (Mk  with  prayer,  doubtless  occasioned  by 
7:32-37)         something  in  the  man's  look;  the  word 

Ephphathd  (ver  34)  —  "Be  opened." 
The  charge  to  those  present  not  to  blazon  the  deed 
abroad  was  disregarded.  Jesus  desired  no  cheap 
popularity. 

The  next  miracle  closely  resembles  the  feeding  of 
the  Five  Thousand  at  Bethsaida,  but  the  place  and 

numbers  are  different;  4,000  instead_  of 

b)  Feeding  5,000;  7  loaves  and  a  few  fishes,  in- 
of  Four  stead  of  5  loaves  and  2  fishes;  7  baskets 
Thousand  of  fragments  instead  of  12  (Mark's  term 
(Mt  15:32-  denotes  a  larger  basket).  There  is  no 
39;  Mk  8:  reason  for  doubting  the  distinction  of 
1-9)                the  incidents   (cf  Mt  16  9.10;    Mk  8 

19.20). 
Returning  to  the  plain  of  Gennesaret  (Magdala, 
Mt  15  39  AV;  parts  of  Dalmanutha,   Mk  8  10), 
Jesus  soon  found  Himself  assailed  by 

4.  Leaven  His  old  adversaries.  Pharisees  and 
of  the  Phari- Sadducees  were  now  united.  They 
sees,  etc — ■  came  "trying"  Jesus,  and  asking  from 
Cure  of  Him  a  "sign  from  heaven" — some 
Blind  Man  signal  Divine  manifestation.  "Sigh- 
(Mt  16:1-  ing  deeply"  (Mk)  at  their  caviling 
12;  Mk  8:  spirit,  Jesus  repeated  His  word  about 
11-26)            the    sign    of    Jonah.     The    times    in 

which  they  lived  were  full  of  signs, 
if  they,  so  proficient  in  weather  signs,  could  only  see 
them.  To  be  rid  of  such  questioners,  Jesus  anew 
took  boat  to  Bethsaida.  On  the  way  He  warned 
His  disciples  against  the  leaven  of  the  spirit  they 
had  just  encountered.  The  disciples  misunder- 
stood, thinking  that  Jesus  referred  to  their  for- 
get fulness  in  not  taking  bread  (Mark  states  in  his 
graphic  way  that  they  had  only  one  loaf).  The 
leaven  Christ  referred  to,  in  fact,  represented  three 
spirits:  (1)  the  Pharisaic  leaven — formalism  and 
hypocrisy;  (2)  the  Sadducean  leaven — rationalistic 
skepticism;  (3)  the  Herodian  leaven  (Mk  8  15) — • 
political  expediency  and  temporizing.     Arrived  at 


Bethsaida,  a  miracle  was  wrought  on  a  blind  man 
resembling  in  some  of  its  features  the  cure  of  the 
deaf  man  at  Decapolis.  In  both  cases  Jesus  took 
the  patients  apart;  in  both  physical  means  were 
used  -the  spittle  ("spit  on  his  eyes,"  Mk  8  23); 
in  both  there  was  strict  injunction  not  to  noise  the 
cure  abroad.  Another  peculiarity  was  the  gradual- 
ness  of  the  cure.  It  is  probable  that  the  man  had 
not  been  blind  from  his  birth,  else  he  could  hardly 
have  recognized  men  or  trees  at  the  first  opening. 
It  needed  that  Jesus  should  lay  His  hands  on  Him 
before  Ik;  saw  all  things  clearly. 

The  next  retirement  of  Jesus  with  His  disciples 
was  to  the  neighborhood  of  Caesarea  Philippi,  near 

the  source  of  the  Jordan.  This  was 
5.  At  Caesa-  the  northernmost  point  of  His  journey- 
rea  Philippi  ings.  Here,  "on  the  geographical 
-  The  Great  frontier  between  Judaism  and  heathen- 
Confession  ism"  (Liddon),  Our  Lord  put  the 
First  An-  momentous  question  which  called  forth 
nouncement  Peter's  historical  confession, 
of  Passion  (1)  The  voices  of  the  acje  and  the  exter- 

(Mt  16:13-  rial  truth.— The  question  put  to  the 
28;  Mk  8:  Twelve  in  this  remote  region  was:  "Who 
27-30;  Lk  do  men  say  that  the  Son  of  man  is?" 
9:18-27)         "Son  of   man,"   as   already  said,   was 

the  familiar  name  given  by  Jesus  to 
Himself,  to  which  a  Messianic  significance  might 
or  might  not  be  attached,  according  to  the  prepos- 
sessions of  His  hearers.  First  the  changeful  voices 
of  the  age  were  recited  to  Jesus:  "Some  say  John 
the  Baptist;  some,  Elijah,"  etc.  Next,  in  answer  to 
the  further  question:  "But  who  say  ye  that  I  am  ?" 
there  rang  out  from  Peter,  in  the  name  of  all,  the 
unchanging  truth  about  Jesus:  "Thou  art  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God."  In  clearness, 
boldness,  decision,  Peter's  faith  had  attained _  a 
height  not  reached  before.  The  confession  embodies 
two  truths:  (1)  the  Divinity,  (2)  the  Messiahship, 
of  the  Son  of  man.  Jesus  did  honor  to  the  con- 
fession of  His  apostle.  Not  flesh  and  blood,  but 
the  Father,  had  revealed  the  truth  to  him.  Here 
at  length  was  "rock"  on  which  He  could  build  a 
church.  Reverting  to  Peter's  original  name, 
Simon  Bar-Jonah,  Jesus  declared,  with  a  play  on  the 
name  "Peter"  (petros,  "rock,"  "piece  of  rock") 
He  had  before  given  him  (Jn  1  42),  that  on  this 
"rock"  (petra),  He  would  build  His  church,  and 
the  gates  of  Hades  (hostile  evil  powers)  would  not 
prevail  against  it  (Mt  16  18).  The  papacy  has 
reared  an  unwarrantable  structure  of  pretensions 
on  this  passage  in  supposing  the  "rock"  to  be  Peter 
personally  and  his  successors  in  the  see  of  Rome 
(none  such  existed;  Peter  was  not  bishop  of  Rome). 
It  is  not  Peter  the  individual,  but  Peter  the 
confessing  apostle  —  Peter  as  representative  of  all 
— that  Christ  names  "rock";  that  which  consti- 
tuted him  a  foundation  was  the  truth  he  had  con- 
fessed (cf  Eph  2  20).  This  is  the  first  NT  men- 
tion of  a  "church"  (ekklesia) .  The  Christian  church, 
therefore,  is  founded  (1)  on  the  truth  of  Christ's 
Divine  Sonship;  (2)  on  the  truth  of  His  Messiah- 
ship,  or  of  His  being  the  anointed  prophet,  priest 
and  king  of  the  new  age.  A  society  of  believers 
confessing  these  truths  is  a  church;  no  society 
which  denies  these  truths  deserves  the  name.  To 
this  confessing  community  Jesus,  still  addressing 
Peter  as  representing  the  apostolate  (cf  Mt  18  18), 
gives  authority  to  bind  and  loose — to  admit  and  to 
exclude.  Jesus,  it  is  noted,  bade  His  disciples  tell 
no  man  of  these  things  (Mt  16  20;  Mk  8  30; 
Lk  9  21). 

(2)  The  cross  and  the  disciple.— -The  confession  of 
Peter  prepared  the  way  for  an  advance  in  Christ's 
teaching.  From  that  time,  Matthew  notes,  Jesus 
began  to  speak  plainly  of  His  approaching  suffer- 
ings and  death    (16  21).     There  are  in  all  three 


1649 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jesus  Christ 


solemn  announcements  of  the  Passion  (Mt  16 
21-23;  17  22.23;  20  17-19  , ■).  Jesus  foresaw, 
and  clearly  foretold,  what  would  befall  Him  at 
Jerus.  He  would  be  killed  by  the  authorities,  but 
on  the  third  day  would  rise  again.  On  the  first 
announcement,  following  His  confession,  Peter 
took  it  upon  him  to  expostulate  with  Jesus:  "Be 
it  far  from  thee,  Lord,"  etc  (Mt  16  22),  an  action 
which  brought  upon  him  the  stern  rebuke  of  Jesus: 
"Get  thee  behind  me,  Satan,"  etc  (ver  23).  The 
Rock-man,  in  his  fall  to  the  maxims  of  a  worldly 
expediency,  is  now  identified  with  Satan,  the 
tempter.  This  principle,  that  duty  is  only  to  be 
done  when  personal  risk  is  not  entailed,  Jesus 
not  only  repudiates  for  Himself,  but  bids  His 
disciples  repudiate  it  also.  The  disciple,  Jesus 
says,  must  be  prepared  to  deny  himself,  and  take 
up  his  cross.  The  cross  is  the  symbol  of  anything 
distressing  or  painful  to  bear.  There  is  a  saving 
of  life  which  is  a  losing  of  it,  and  what  shall  a  man 
be  profited  if  he  gain  the  whole  world,  and  forfeit 
his  (true,  higher)  life?  As,  however,  Jesus  had 
spoken,  not  only  of  dying,  but  of  rising  again, 
so  now  He  encourages  His  disci  pics  by  announcing 
His  future  coining  in  glory  to  render  to  every  man 
according  to  His  deeds.  That  final  coming  might 
be  distant,  (cf  Mt  24  30);  but  (so  it  seems  most 
natural  to  interpret  the  saying  16  28  )  there  were 
those  living  who  would  see  the  nearer  pledge  of  that, 
in  Christ's  coming  in  the  triumphs  and  successes  of 
His  kingdom  (cf  Mk  9  1;  Lk  9  27;   Mt  26  (54). 

About  eight  days  after  the  announcement  of  His 
passion  by  Jesus,  took  place  the  glorious  event  of 
the  transfiguration.     Jesus  had  spoken 
6.  The  of  His  future  glory,  and  here  was  a 

Transfigura-  pledge  of  it.  In  strange  contrast 
tion — the  with  the  scene  of  glory  on  the  summit 
Epileptic  of  the  mountain  was  the  painful  sight 
Boy  (Mt  which  met  Jesus  and  His  three  eom- 
17:1-20;  panions  when  they  descended  again  to 
Mk  9:2-29;  to  the  plain. 

Lk  9:28-43)      Tradition  connects  the  scene  of  the 
transfiguration  with  Mount  Tabor,  but 
it  more  probably  took  place  on  one  of   the  spurs 
of  Mount  Hermon.     Jesus  had  ascended  the  moun- 
tain with  Peter,  James  and  John,  for 

a)  The  prayer.  It  was  while  He  was  praying 
Glory  of  the  the  wonderful  change  happened.  For 
Only  once  the  veiled  glory  of  the  only 
Begotten        begotten  from   the   Father    (Jn  1  14) 

was  permitted  to  burst  forth,  suffusing 
His  person  and  garments,  and  changing  them  into 
a  dazzling  brightness.  His  face  did  shine  as  the 
sun;  His  raiment  became  white  as  light  ("as  snow," 
A  V,  Mk).  Heavenly  visitants,  recognized  from  1  heir 
converse  as  Moses  and  Elijah,  appeared  with  Him 
and  spoke  of  His  decease  (Lk)-  A  voice  from  an 
enveloping  cloud  attested:  "This  is  my  beloved 
Son,  in  whom  I  am  well  pleased."  Little  wonder 
the  disciples  were  afraid,  or  that  Peter  in  his  con- 
fusion should  stammer  out:  "It  is  good  for  us  to 
be  here:  if  thou  wilt,  I  will  make  here  three  taber- 
nacles [booths]."  This,  however,  was  not  per- 
mitted. Earth  is  not  heaven.  Glimpses  of  heavenly 
glory  are  given,  not  to  wean  from  duty  on  earth, 
but  to  prepare  for  the  trials  connected  therewith. 

The  spectacle  that  met  the  eyes  of  Jesus  and  the 
chosen  three  as  they  descended  was  distressing  in 

the    extreme.     A    man    had    brought 

b)  Faith's  his  epileptic  boy — a  sore  sufferer  and 
Entreaty  dumb — to  the  disciples  to  see  if  they 
and  Its  could  cast  out  the  evil  spirit  that  pos- 
Answer          sessed  him,  but  they  were  not  able. 

Their  failure,  as  Jesus  showed,  was  a 
failure  of  faith;  none  the  less  did  their  discomfiture 
afford  a  handle  to  the  gainsayers,  who  were  not  slow 
to  take  advantage  of  it  (Mk  9  14).     The  man's  ap- 


peal was  now  to  Jesus,  "If  thou  canst  do  anything," 
etc  (ver  22).  The  reply  of  Jesus  shifted  the  "canst" 
to  the  right  quarter,  "If  thou  canst  [believe]" 
(ver  23).  Such  little  faitli  as  the  man  had  revived 
under  Christ's  word:  "I  believe;  help  thou  mine 
unbelief."  The  multitude  pressing  around,  there 
was  no  call  for  further  delay.  With  one  energetic 
word  Jesus  expelled  the  unclean  spirit  (ver  25). 
The  first  effect  of  Christ's  approach  had  been  to 
induce  a  violent  paroxysm  (ver  20) ;  now  the  spirit 
terribly  convulsed  the  frame  it  was  compelled  to 
relinquish.  Jesus,  taking  the  boy's  hand,  raised 
him  up,  and  he  was  found  well.  The  lesson  drawn 
to  the  disciples  was  the  omnipotence  of  faith  (Mt 
17  19.20)  and  power  of  prayer  (Mk  9  28.29). 

///.  From  Private  Journey  through  Galilee  till 
Return  from  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles. — Soon  after 
the  last-mentioned  events  Jesus  passed 
1.  Galilee  privately  through  Galilee  (Mk  9  30), 
and  Caper-  returning  later  to  Capernaum, 
naum  During  the  Galilean  journey  Jesus 

made  to  His  disciples  His  2d  announce- 
ment   of    His    approaching    sufferings    and    death, 
accompanied  as  before  by  the  assurance  of  His  re- 
surrection.    The    disciples    still    could 

a)  Second  not  take  in  the  meaning  of  His  words, 
Announce-  though  what  He  said  made  them  "ex- 
ment  of  ceeding  sorry"  (Mt  17  23). 

Passion  (Mt  The  return  to  Capernaum  was 
17:22.23;  marked  by  an  incident  which  raised 
Mk  9:30-  the  question  of  Christ's  relation  to 
33;  Lk  9:  temple  institutions.  The  collectors  of 
44.45)  tribute  for  the  temple  inquired  of  Peter: 

"Doth  not  your  teacher  pay  the  half- 
shekel?"  (Gr  didrachma,  or  double  drachm,  worth 
about  32  cents  or  Is.  4f/.).     The  origin  of  this  tax  was 

in  the  half-shekel  of  atonement-money 

b)  The  of  Ex  30  1 1-16,  which,  though  a  special 
Temple  Tax  contribution,  was  made  the  basis  of 
(Mt  17:24-  later  assessment  (2  Ch  24  4-10;  in 
27)  Nehemiah's  time  the  amount  was  one- 
third  of  a  shekel,  Neh  10  32),  and  its 

object  was  the  upkeep  of  the  temple  worship 
(Schiirer).  The  usual  time  of  payment  was  March, 
but  Jesus  had  probably  been  absent  and  the  inquiry 
was  not  made  for  some  months  later.  Peter,  hasty 
as  usual,  probably  reasoning  from  Christ's  ordinary 
respect  for  temple  ordinances,  answered  at  once  that 
He  did  pay  the  tax.  It  had  not  occurred  to  him 
that  Jesus  might  have  something  to  say  on  it,  if 
formally  challenged.  Occasion  therefore  was  taken 
by  Jesus  gently  to  reprove  Peter.  Peter  had  but 
recently  acknowledged  Jesus  to  be  the  Son  of  God. 
Do  kings  of  the  earth  take  tribute  of  their  own 
sons?  The  half-shekel  was  suitable  to  the  subject- 
relation,  but  not  to  the  relation  of  a  son.  Never- 
theless, lest  occasion  of  stumbling  be  given,  Jesus 
could  well  waive  this  right,  as,  in  His  humbled  con- 
dition, He  had  waived  so  many  more.  Peter  was 
ordered  to  cast  his  hook  into  the  sea,  and  Jesus 
foretold  that  the  fish  he  would  bring  up  would  have 
in  its  mouth  the  necessary  coin  (Gr  slater,  about  64 
cents  or  2s.  8d.).  The  tax  was  paid,  yet  in  such  a 
way  as  to  show  that  the  payment  of  it  was  an  act 
of  condescension  of  the  king's  Son. 

On  the  way  to  Capernaum  a  dis- 

c)  Dis-  pute  had  arisen  among  the  disciples  as 
course  on  to  who  should  be  greatest  in  the  Messi- 
Greatness  anic  kingdom  about  to  be  set  up.  The 
and  For-  fact  of  such  disputing  showed  how 
giveness  largely  even  their  minds  were  yet  dom- 
(Mt  18:1-  mated  by  worldly,  sensuous  ideas  of 
35;  Mk  9:  the  kingdom.  Now,  in  the  house  (Mk 
33-50;  Lk  9  33),  Jesus  takes  occasion  to  check 
9:46-50)         their  spirit  of  ambitious  rivalry,  and 

to  inculcate  much-needed  lessons  on 
greatness  and  kindred  matters. 


Jesus  Christ         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1(350 


(1)  Greatness  in  humility.— First,  by  the  example 
of  a  little  child,  .Jesus  teaches  that  humility  is  the 
root-disposition  of  His  kingdom.  It  alone  admits 
to  the  kingdom,  and  conducts  to  honor  in  it.  He 
is  greatest  who  humbles  himself  most  (Mt  18  4;, 
and  is  the  servant  of  all  (Mk  9  35).  He  warns 
against  slighting  the  "little  ones,"  or  causing  them 
to  stumble,  and  uses  language;  of  terrible  severity 
against  those  guilty  of  this  sin. 

(2)  Tolerance.— The  mention  of  receiving  little 
ones  in  Christ's  name  led  John  to  remark  that  he 
had  seen  one  casting  out  demons  in  Christ's  name, 
and  had  forbidden  him,  because  he  was  not  of  their 
company.  "Forbid  him  not,"  Jesus  said,  "for  there 
is  no  man  who  shall  do  a  mighty  work  in  my  name, 
and  be  able  quickly  to  speak  evil  of  me.  For  he 
that  is  not  against  us  is  for  us"  (Mk  9  39.40). 

(3)  The  erring  brother. — The  subject  of  offences 
leads  to  the  question  of  sins  committed  by  one  Chris- 
tian brother  against  another.  Here  Christ  incul- 
cates kindness  and  forbearance;  only  if  private  rep- 
resentations and  the  good  offices  of  brethren  fail,  is 
the  matter  to  be  brought  before  the  church;  if  the 
brother  repents  he  is  to  be  unstintedly  forgiven 
("seventy  times  seven,"  Mt  18  22).  _  If  the  church 
is  compelled  to  interpose,  its  decisions  are  valid 
(under  condition,  however,  of  prayer  and  Christ's 
presence,  vs  18-20). 

(4)  Parable  of  the  Unmerciful  Servant. — To  en- 
force the  lesson  of  forgiveness  Jesus  speaks  the  para- 
ble of  the  Unmerciful  Servant  (Mt  18  23-35). 
Himself  forgiven  much,  this  servant  refuses  to  for- 
give his  fellow  a  much  smaller  debt.  His  lord  visits 
him  with  severest  punishment.  Only  as  we  for- 
give others  can  we  look  for  forgiveness. 

The  Oospel  of  Jn  leaves  a  blank  of  many  months 
between  chs  6  and  7,  covered  only  by  the  state- 
ment, "After  these  things,  Jesus  walked 
2.  The  in  Galilee"  (7  1).     In  this  year  of  His 

Feast  of  ministry  Jesus  had  gone  neither  to  the 
Tabernacles  feast  of  the  Passover  nor  to  Pentecost. 
— Dis-  The  Feast  of  Tabernacles  was  now  at 

courses,  etc  hand  (October).  To  this  Jesus  went  up, 
(Jn  7 — 10:  and  Jn  preserves  for  us  a  full  record  of 
21)  His  appearance,  discourses  and  doings 

there. 
The  brethren  of  Jesus,  still  unpersuaded  of  His 
claims  (ver  5),  had  urged  Jesus  to  go  up  with  them 
to  the  feast.     "Go  up,"  in  their  sense, 
a)  The  included    a    public    manifestation    of 

Private  Himself  as  the  Messiah.     Jesus  replied 

Journey —  that  His  time  for  this  had  not  yet  come. 
Divided  Afterward  He  went  up  quietly,  and  in 

Opinions  the  midst  of  the  feast  appeared  in  the 
(Jn  7:1-10)  temple  as  a  teacher.  The  comments 
made  about  Jesus  at  the  feast  before  His 
arrival  vividly  reflect  the  divided  state  of  opinion 
regarding  Him.  "He  is  a  good  man,"  thought  some. 
"Not  so,"  said  others,  "but  He  leadeth  the  multi- 
tude astray."  His  teaching  evoked  yet  keener  divi- 
sion. While  some  said,  "Thou  hast  a  demon"  (ver 
20),  others  argued,  "When  the  Christ  shall  come, 
will  he  do  more  signs?"  etc  (ver  31).  Some  de- 
clared, "This  is  of  a  truth  the  prophet,"  or  "This 
is  the  Christ";  others  objected  that  the  Christ 
was  to  come  out  of  Bethlehem,  not  Galilee  (vs 
40-42) .  Yet  no  one  dared  to  take  the  step  of  mo- 
lesting Him. 

Christ's  wisdom  and  use  of  the  Scriptures  excited 
surprise.  Jesus  met  this  surprise  by  stating  that 
His  knowledge  was  from  the  Father,  and  with  ref- 
erence to  the  division  of  opinion  about  Him  laid 
down  the  principle  that  knowledge  of  the  truth  was 
the  result  of  the  obedient  will:  "If  any  man  willeth 
to  do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  teaching,  whether 
it  is  of  God"  (ver  17).  It  was  objected  that  they 
knew  who  Jesus  was,   and  whence   He  came.     In 


a  sense,  Jesus  replied,  this  was  true;    in  a  deeper 

sense,    it    was    not.     He    came   from   the   Father, 

whom  they  knew  not  (vs  28.29).     The 

b)  The  Test  last  and  great  day  of  the  feast — the 
of  Truth—  eighth  (Nu  29  35)  — brought  with  it 
Christ's  a  new  self-attestation.  Jesus  stood 
Self-  and  cried,  "If  any  man  thirst,  let  him 
Witness;  come  unto  me  and  drink.  He  that 
a  Foiled  believeth  on  me  ....  from  within  him 
Purpose  shall  flow  rivers  of  living  water"  (vs 
(vs  14-52)      37.38).     The  words  are  understood  to 

have  reference  to  the  ceremony  of 
pouring  out  a  libation  of  water  at  this  feast — the 
libation,  in  turn,  commemorating  the  gift  of  water 
at  the  striking  of  the  rock.  The  evangelist  inter- 
prets the  saying  of  the  Spirit  which  believers  should 
receive.  Meanwhile,  the  chief  priests  and  Pharisees 
had  sent  officers  to  apprehend  Jesus  (ver  32),  but 
they  returned  without  Him.  "Why  did  ye  not 
bring  him?"  The  reply  was  confounding,  "Never 
man  so  spake"  (vs  45.46).  The  retort  was  the  poor 
one,  "Are  ye  also  led  astray?"  In  vain  did  Nico- 
demus,  who  was  present,  try  to  put  in  a  moderating 
word  (vs  50.51).  It  was  clear  to  what  issue  hate 
like  this  was  tending. 

The  discourses  at  the  feast  are  at  this  point  in- 
terrupted by  the  episode  of  the  woman  taken  in  adul- 
tery (8  1-11),  which,  by  general  con- 

c)  The  sent,  does  not  belong  to  the  original 
Woman  text  of  the  Gospel.  It  is  probably, 
Taken  in  however,  an  authentic  incident,  and 
Adultery —  illustrates,  on  the  one  hand,  the  eager- 
Continued  ncss  of  the  official  classes  to  find  an  ac- 
Self-Wit-  cusation  against  Jesus,  and,  on  the 
ness  (ch  8)    other,  the  Saviour's  dignity  and  wisdom 

in  foiling  such  attempts,  His  spirit  of 
mercy  and  the  action  of  conscience  in  the  accusers. 
In  His  continued  teaching,  Jesus  put  forth  even 
higher  claims  than  in  the  foregoing  discourse.  As 
He  had  applied  to  Himself  the  water  from  the  rock, 
so  now  He  applied  to  Himself  the  symbolic  meaning 
of  the  two  great  candelabra,  which  were  lighted  in 
the  temple  court  during  the  feast  and  bore  refer- 
ence to  the  pillar  of  cloud  and  fire.  "I  am  the  light 
of  the  world,"  said  Jesus  (ver  12).  Only  a  Divine 
being  could  put  forth  such  a  claim  as  that.  The 
Jews  objected  that  they  had  only  His  witness  to 
Himself.  Jesus  replied  that  no  other  could  bear 
adequate  witness  of  Him,  for  He  alone  knew  whence 
He  came  and  whither  He  went  (ver  14).  But  the 
Father  also  had  borne  witness  of  Him  (ver  18).  This 
discourse,  delivered  in  the  "treasury"  of  the  temple 
(ver  20),  was  soon  followed  by  another,  no  man  yet 
daring  to  touch  Him.  This  time  Jesus  warns  the 
Jews  of  the  fate  their  unbelief  would  entail  upon 
them:  "Ye  shall  die  in  your  sins"  (ver  24).  Ad- 
dressing Himself  next  specially  to  the  Jews  who 
believed  in  Him,  He  urged  them  to  continuance  in 
His  word  as  the  condition  of  true  freedom.  Re- 
sentment was  again  aroused  at  the  suggestion  that 
the  Jews,  Abraham's  seed,  were  not  free.  Jesus 
made  clear  that  the  real  bondage  was  that  of  sin; 
only  the  Son  could  make  spiritually  free  (vs  34-36). 
Descent  from  Abraham  meant  nothing,  if  the  spirit 
was  of  the  devil  (vs  39-41).  A  new  conflict  was  pro- 
voked by  the  saying,  "If  a  man  keep  my  word,  he 
shall  never  see  death"  (ver  51).  Did  Jesus  make 
Himself  greater  than  Abraham?  The  controversy 
that  ensued  resulted  in  the  sublime  utterance,  "Be- 
fore Abraham  was  born,  I  am"  (ver  58).  The  Jews 
would  have  stoned  Him,  but  Jesus  eluded  them,  and 
departed. 

The  Feast  of  Tabernacles  was  past,  but  Jesus  was 
still  in  Jerus.  Passing  by  on  a  Sabbath  (ver  14), 
He  saw  a  blind  man,  a  beggar  (ver  8),  well  known 
to  have  been  blind  from  his  birth.  The  narrative 
of  the  cure  and  examination  of  this  blind  man  is 


1651 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA         Jesus  Christ 


adduced  by  Paley  as  bearing  in  its  inimitable  cir- 
cumstantiality every  mark  of  personal  knowledge  on 
the  part  of  the  historian.     The  man, 

d)  The  cured  in  strange  but  symbolic  fashion 
Cure  of  the  by  the  anointing  of  his  eyes  with  clay 
Blind  Man  (thereby  apparently  sealing  them  more 
(ch  9)             firmly),  then  washing  in  the   Pool  of 

Siloam,  became  an  object  of  immediate 
interest,  and  every  effort  was  made  by  the  Pharisees 
to  shake  his  testimony  as  to  the  miracle  that  had 
been  wrought.  The  man,  however,  held  to  his 
story,  and  his  parents  could  only  corroborate  the 
fact  that  their  son  had  been  born  blind,  and  now 
saw.  The  Pharisees  themselves  were  divided,  some 
reasoning  that  Jesus  could  not  be  of  God  because 
He  had  broken  the  Sabbath — the  old  charge;  others, 
Nicodemus-like,  standing  on  the  fact  that  a  man 
who  was  a  sinner  could  not  do  such  signs  (vs  15.16). 
The  healed  man  applied  the  logic  of  common-sense: 
"If  this  man  were  not  from  God,  he  could  do  nothing" 
(ver  33).  The  Pharisees,  impotent  to  deny  the 
wonder,  could  only  cast  him  out  of  the  synagogue. 
Jesus  found  him,  and  brought  him  to  full  confession 
of  faith  in  Himself  (vs  35-38). 

Yet  another  address  of  Jesus  is  on  record  arising 
out  of  this  incident.     In  continuation  of  His  reply 

to  the  question  of  the  Pharisees  (9  40), 

e)  The  "Are  we  also  blind?"  Jesus  spoke  to 
Good  them  His  discourse  on  the  Good  Shep- 
Shepherd  herd.  Flocks  in  eastern  countries  are 
(10: 1-21)  gathered  at  night  into  an  inclosure  sur- 
rounded by  a  wall  or  palisade.     This 

is  the  "fold,"  which  is  under  the  care  of  a  "porter," 
who  opens  the  closely  barred  door  to  the  shepherds 
in  the  morning.  As  contrasted  with  the  legitimate 
shepherds,  the  false  shepherds  "enter  not  by  the 
door,"  but  climb  over  some  other  way.  The  al- 
lusion is  to  priests,  scribes,  Pharisees  and  gener- 
ally to  all,  in  any  age,  who  claim  an  authority  within 
the  church  unsanctioned  by  God  (Godet).  Jesus 
now  gathers  up  the  truth  in  its  relation  to  Himself 
as  the  Supreme  Shepherd.  From  His  fundamental 
relation  to  the  church,  He  is  not  only  the  Shepherd, 
but  the  Door  (vs  7-14).  To  those  who  enter  by 
Him  there  is  given  security,  liberty,  provision  (ver 
9).  In  his  capacity  as  Shepherd  Christ  is  preemi- 
nently all  that  a  faithful  shepherd  ought  to  be.  The 
highest  proof  of  His  love  is  that,  as  the  Good  Shep- 
herd, He  lays  down  His  life  for  the  sheep  (vs  11.15. 
17).  This  laying  down  of  His  life  is  not  an  accident, 
but  is  His  free,  voluntary  act  (vs  17. IS).  Again 
there  was  division  among  the  Jews  because  of  these 
remarkable  sayings  (vs  19-21). 

Chronological  note. — Though  John  does  not  mention 
the  fact,  there  is  Jittle  doubt  that,  after  this  visit  to 
Jerus,  Jesus  returned  to  Galilee,  and  at  no  long  interval 
from  His  return,  took  His  final  departure  southward. 
The  chronology  of  this  closing  period  in  Galilee  is  some- 
what uncertain.  Some  would  place  the  visit  to  the 
Feast  of  Tabernacles  before  the  withdrawal  to  Caesarea 
Philippi,  or  even  earlier  (cf  Andrews,  Life  of  Our  Lord, 
etc) ;   but  the  order  adopted  above  appears  preferable. 

D.   LAST  JOURNEY  TO  JERUSALEM — JESUS  IN  PERAEA 

An  interval  of  two  months  elapses  between  vs  21 
and  22  in  Jn  10 — from  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles  (Oc- 
tober) till  the  Feast  of  the  Dedication 
Departure      (December).     This    period    witnessed 
from  the  final  withdrawal  of  Jesus  from  Gali- 

Galilee  lee.     Probably  while  yet  in  Galilee  He 

sent  forth  the  seventy  disciples  to  pre- 
pare His  way  in  the  cities  to  which  He  should  come 
(Lk  10  1).  Repulsed  on  the  borders  of  Samaria  (Lk 
9  51-53),  He  passed  over  into  Peraea  ("beyond  Jor- 
dan"), where  he  exercised  a  considerable  ministry. 
The  record  of  this  period,  till  the  entry  into  Jerus, 
belongs  in  great  part  to  Luke,  who  seems  to  have 
had  a  rich  special  source  relating  to  it  (9  51 — 19  27). 


The  discourses  in  Lk  embrace  many  passages  and 
sections  found  in  other  connections  in  Mt,  and  it  is 
difficult,  often,  to  determine  their  proper  chrono- 
logical place,  if,  as  doubtless  sometimes  happened, 
portions  were  not  repeated. 

/.  From  Leaving  Galilee  till  the  Feast  of  the  Dedi- 
cation.— Conscious  that  He  went  to  suffer  and  die, 
Jesus  steadfastly  set  His  face  to  go  to 

1.  Rejected  Jerus.  His  route  was  first  by  Samaria 
by  Samaria  — an  opportunity  of  grace  to  that  peo- 
(Lk  9:  pie — but  here,  at  a  border  village,  the 
61-55)  messengers  He  sent  before  Him,  prob- 
ably also  He  Himself  on  His  arrival, 

were  repulsed,  because  of  His  obvious  intention  to 
go  to  Jerus  (ver  53).  James  and  John  wished  to 
imitate  Elijah  in  calling  down  fire  from  heaven  on 
the  rejecters,  but  Jesus  rebuked  them  for  their 
thought  (RV  omits  the  reference  to  Elijah,  and 
subsequent  clauses,  vs  55.56). 

In  the  present  connection  Luke  inserts  the  inci- 
dents of   the   three  aspirants   formerly   considered 
(9  57-62;    cf  p.    1645).     It  was  sug- 

2.  Mission  gested  that  the  second  and  third  cases 
of  the  may  belong  to  this  period. 

Seventy  (Lk  A  new  and  significant  step  was  now 
10:1-20)  taken  by  Jesus  in  the  sending  out  of 
70  disciples,  who  should  go  before  Him, 
two  by  two,  to  announce  His  coming  in  the  cities 
and  villages  He  was  about  to  visit.  The  number 
sent  indicates  how  large  a  following  Jesus  had  now 
acquired.  (Some  see  a  symbolical  meaning  in  the 
number  70,  but  it  is  difficult  to  show  what  it  is.) 
The  directions  given  to  the  messengers  are  similar 
to  those  formerly  given  to  the  Twelve  (9  1-5;  cf 
Mt  10);  a  passage  also  found  in  Mt  in  a  different 
connection  (11  21-24)  is  incorporated  in  this  dis- 
course, or  had  originally  its  place  in  it  (vs  13-15). 
In  this  mission  Jesus  no  longer  made  any  secret  of 
His  Messianic  character.  The  messengers  were  to 
proclaim  that  the  kingdom  of  God  was  come  nigh 
to  them  in  connection  with  His  impending  visit  (ver 
9).  The  mission  implies  that  a  definite  route  was 
marked  out  by  Jesus  for  Himself  (cf  13  22),  but  this 
would  be  subject  to  modification  according  to  the 
reception  of  His  emissaries  (vs  10.11.16).  The  cir- 
cuit need  not  have  occupied  a  long  time  with  so 
many  engaged  in  it.  The  results  show  that  it 
aroused  strong  _  interest.  Later  the  disciples  re- 
turned elated  with  their  success,  emphasizing  their 
victory  over  the  demons  (ver  17).  Jesus  bade 
them  rejoice  rather  that  their  names  were  written 
in  heaven  (ver  20).  Again  a  passage  is  inserted 
(vs  21.22)  found  earlier  in  Mt  (11  25-27;  cf  also 
vs  23.24,  with  Mt  13  16.17). 

Jesus  had  now  passed  "beyond  the  Jordan,"  i.e. 
into  Peraea,  and  vast  crowds  waited  on  His  teach- 
ing (cf  Mt  19  1  f;  Mk  10  1;  Lk  12  1). 

3.  The  At  one  place  a  lawyer  put  what  he 
Lawyer's  meant  to  be  a  testing  question,  "What 
Question —  shall  I  do  to  inherit  eternal  life?"  Jesus 
Parable  of  referred  him  to  the  great  command- 
Good  Sa-  ments  of  love  to  God  and  one's  neigh- 
maritan  (Lk  bor,  eliciting  the  further  query,  "And 
10:25-37)      who  is  my  neighbor?"     In  reply  Jesus 

spoke  to  him  the  immortal  parable  of 
the  Good  Samaritan,  and  asked  who  proved  neigh- 
bor to  him  who  fell  among  the  robbers.  The  lawyer 
could  give  but  one  answer,  "He  that  showed  mercy 
on  him."  "Go,"  said  Jesus,  "and  do  thou  like- 
wise." 

The  incident  of  Martha  and  Mary,  which  Luke 
inserts  here  (vs  38-42),  comes  in  better  later,  when 
Jesus  was  nearer  Bethany. 

At  this  place  Luke  brings  together  a  variety  of 
discourses,  warnings  and  exhortations,  great  parts 
of  which  have  already  been  noticed  in  earlier 
contexts.     It   does  not  follow   that    Lk   has    not, 


Jesus  Christ         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1652 


in  many  cases,  preserved  the  original  connection. 
This  is' probably  the  case  with  the  Lord's  Prayer 

(11  1-4),  and  with  portions  of  what, 
4    Dis-  Mt   includes    in    the   Sermon   on    the 

courses,  Mount  (e.g.  11  9-13.33-36;  12  22-34; 
Parables,  cf  13  24-27  with  Mt  7  13.14.22.23), 
and  and  in  other  discourses  (e.g.  11  42  52 

Miracles        =Mt  23  23-3(1;  12  2 -12  =  Ml   10  20 
(Lkchsll     33;    12  42-48  =  Mt  24  45-51;    13  18- 
-14)  21,    parables    of    Mustard    Seed    and 

Leaven  =  Mt  13  31.32,  etc). 
Of  matter  original  to  Lk  in  these  chs  may  be  noted 
such  passages  as  that  on  the  Friend  at  Midnight 

(11  5-8),  the  incident  of  the  man  who 
a)  Original  wished  Jesus  to  bid  his  brother  divide 
to  Luke  his    inheritance    with    him,    to    whom 

Jesus  spoke  the  parable  of  the  Rich 
Fool  (12  13-21),  the  parable  of  the  Barren  Fig  Tree, 
called  forth  by  the  disposition  to  regard  certain  Gali- 
leans whom  'Pilate  had  slain  in  a  tumult  at  the 
temple,  and  eighteen  on  whom  the  tower  of  Siloam 
had  fallen,  as  sinners  above  others  (13  1-9:  "Nay," 
said  Jesus,  "but,  except  ye  repent,  ye  shall  all 
likewise  perish"),  and  most  of  the  teaching  in 
ch  14,  referred  to  below.  In  11  37.38,  we  have  the 
mention  of  a  Pharisee  inviting  Jesus  to  dine,  and 
of  his  astonishment  at  the  Lord's  neglect  of  the 
customary  ablutions  before  eating.  Ver  53  gives 
a  glimpse  of  the  fury  to  which  the  scribes  and 
Pharisees  were  aroused  by  the  severity  of  Christ's 
denunciations.  They  "began  to  press  upon  him 
vehemently  ....  laying  wait  for  him,  to  catch 
something^  out  of  his  mouth."  In  13  31  ff  it  is 
told  how  the  Pharisees  sought  to  frighten  Jesus 
from  the  district  by  telling  Him  that  Herod  would 
fain  kill  Him.  Jesus  bade  them  tell  that  "fox" 
that  His  work  would  go  on  uninterruptedly  in  the 
brief  space  that  remained  ("day"  used  enigmatically) 
till  He  was  "perfected"  (ver  32).  The  woe  on 
Jems  (vs  34.35)  is  given  by  Mt  in  the  discourse  in 
ch  23. 

Of  the  miracles  in  this  section,  the  casting  out  of 
the  demon  that  was  dumb  (11  14  ff)  is  evidently 

the  same  incident  as  that  already  noted 
6)  The  in   Mt  12  22  ff.     Two  other  miracles 

Infirm  are  connected  with  the  old  accusation 

Woman —  of  Sabbath  breaking.  One  was  the 
the  Drop-  healing  in  a  synagogue  on  the  Sabbath 
sied  Man       day  of  a  woman  bowed  down  for  18 

years  with  "a  spirit  of  infirmity"  (13 
10-17) ;  the  other  was  the  cure  on  the  Sabbath  of  a 
man  afflicted  with  dropsy  at  a  feast  in  the  house  of  a 
ruler  of  the  Pharisees  to  which  Jesus  had  been  in- 
vited (14  1-6).  The  motive  of  the  Pharisee's  invi- 
tation, as  in  most  such  cases,  was  hostile  (ver  1). 
In  both  instances  Jesus  met  the  objection  in  the 
same  way,  by  appealing  to  their  own  acts  of  hu- 
manity to  their  animals  on  the  Sabbath  (13  15.16; 
14  5). 

This  feast  at  the  Pharisee's  house  had  an  inter- 
esting sequel  in  the  discourse  it  led  Jesus  to  utter 

against  vainglory  in  feasting,  and  on 
c)  Parable  the  spirit  of  love  which  would  prompt 
of  the  Great  to  the  table  being  spread  for  the  help- 
Supper  less  and  destitute  rather  than  for  the 

selfish  enjoyment  of  the  select  few, 
closing,  in  answer  to  a  pious  ejaculation  of  one  of  the 
guests,  with  the  parable  of  the  Great  Supper  (14 
7-24).  The  parable,  with  its  climax  in  the  invita- 
tion to  bring  in  the  poor,  and  maimed,  and  blind, 
and  those  from  the  highways  and  hedges,  was  a 
commentary  on  the  counsels  He  had  just  been  giv- 
ing, but  it  had  its  deeper  lesson  in  picturing  the 
rejection  by  the  Jews  of  the  invitation  to  the  feast 
God  had  made  for  them  in  His  kingdom,  and  the 
call  that  would  be  given  to  the  Gentiles  to  take 
their  place. 


The  injunctions  to  the  multitudes  as  to  the  sac- 
rifice and  cross-bearing  involved  in  discipleship  are 
pointed   by   the   examples   of    a   man 
(/)   Counting  building  a  tower,  and  a  king  going  to 
the  Cost         war,  who  count  the  cost  before  enter- 
ing on  their  enterprises  (vs  25-35). 
At  or  about  this  time — perhaps  before  the  inci- 
dents in  Lk  14 — Jesus  paid  the;  visit  to  Jerus  at  the 
Feast  of  the  Dedication  described  in 

5.  Martha     Jn  10  22-39.     This  seems  the  fitting 
and  Mary      place  for  the  introduction  of  the  epi- 
sode of  Martha  and  Mary  which  Luke 

narrates  a  little  earlier  (10  38-42).  The  "village" 
into  which  Jesus  entered  was  no  doubt  Bethany 
(Jn  11  1).  The  picture  given  by  Luke  of  the  con- 
trasted dispositions  of  the  two  sisters — Martha 
active  and  "serving"  (cf  Jn  12  2),  Mary  retiring 
and  contemplative — entirely  corresponds  with  that 
in  Jn.  Martha  busied  herself  with  preparations 
for  the  meal;  Mary  sat  at  Jesus'  feet,  ami  heard 
His  word.  To  Martha's  complaint,  as  if  her  sister 
were  idling,  Jesus  gave  the  memorable  answer,  "One 
thing  is  needful:  for  Mary  hath  chosen  the  good 
part,"  etc  (Lk  10  42). 

The  Feast  of  the  Dedication,  held  in  December, 

was  in  commemoration  of  the  cleansing  of  the  temple 

and  restoration  of  its  worship  after  its 

6.  Feast  of  profanation  by  Antiochus  Epiphanes 
the  Dedica-  (164  BC).  Great  excitement  was  oc- 
tion  (Jn  10:  casioned  by  the  appearance  of  Jesus  at 
22-39)  this  feast,  and  some  asked,  "How  long 

dost  thou  hold  us  in  suspense?  If 
thou  art  the  Christ,  tell  us  plainly."  Jesus  said 
He  had  told  them,  and  His  works  attested  His  claim, 
but  they  were  not  of  His  true  flock,  and  would  not 
believe.  To  His  own  sheep  He  gave  eternal  life. 
The  Jews  anew  wished  to  stone  Him  for  claiming 
to  be  God.  Jesus  replied  that  even  the  law  called 
the  judges  of  Israel  "gods"  (Ps  82  6,  "I  said,  Ye 
are  gods,  and  all  of  you  sons  of  the  Most  High"): 
how  could  it  then  be  blasphemy  for  Him  whom  the 
Father  had  sanctified  and  sent  into  the  world  to  say 
of  Himself,  "I  am  the  Son  of  God"?  The  Jews 
sought  to  take  Him,  but  He  passed  from  their  midst. 
//.  From  the  Abode  at  Bethabara  till  the  Raising 
of  Lazarus. — After  leaving  Jerus  Jesus  went  beyond 
Jordan  again  to  the  place  where  John  at  first  bap- 
tized (Jn  10  40;  cfl  28,  called  in  AV  "Bethabara," 
in  RV  "Bethany,"  distinct  from  the  Bethany  of  ch 
11) .  There  He  "abode,"  implying  a  prolonged  stay, 
and  many  resorted  to  Him.  This  spot,  sacred  to 
Jesus  by  His  own  baptism,  may  be  regarded  now 
as  His  headquarters  from  which  excursions  would 
be  made  to  places  in  the  neighborhood.  Several 
of  the  incidents  recorded  by  Luke  are  probably  con- 
nected with  this  sojourn. 

The    stronger    the     opposition    of    scribes    and 
Pharisees   to   Jesus  became,   the  more  by  natural 

affinity  did  the  classes  regarded  as  out- 
1.  Parables  cast  feel  drawn  to  Him.  He  did  not 
of  Lost  repel  them,  as  the  Pharisees  did,  but 

Sheep,  ate  and  drank  with  them.     Publicans 

Lost  Piece  and  sinners  gathered  to  His  teaching, 
of  Silver,  and  He  associated  with  them.  The 
Prodigal  murmuring  was  great:  "This  man  re- 
Son  (Lk  15)  ceiveth  sinners,  and  eateth  with  them." 

The  defence  of  Jesus  was  in  parables, 
and  the  Pharisees'  reproach  may  be  thanked  for 
three  of  the  most  beautiful  parables  Jesus  ever 
spoke— the  Lost  Sheep  (cf  Mt  18  12-14),  the  Lost 
Piece  of  Silver,  and  the  Prodigal  Son  (ch  15).  Why 
does  the  shepherd  rejoice  more  over  the  one  lost 
sheep  brought  back  than  over  the  ninety-nine  that 
have  not  gone  astray?  Why  does  the  woman  rejoice 
more  over  the  recovery  of  her  lost  drachma  than  over 
all  the  coins  safe  in  her  keeping?  Why  does  the 
father  rejoice  more  over  the  prodigal  son  come  back 


1653 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jesus  Christ 


in  rags  and  penitence  from  the  far  country  than 
over  the  obedient  but  austere  brother  that  had  never 
left  the  home?  The  stories  were  gateways  into  the 
inmost  heart  of  God.  There  is  joy  in  heaven  over 
one  sinner  that  repenteth  more  than  over  ninety- 
nine  just  persons  that  need  no  repentance  (ver  7). 

Two  other  parables,   interspersed   by  discourses 

(in  part  again  met  with  in  other  connections,  cf  16 

13  with  Mt  6  24;    ver  1(3  with  Mt  11 

2.  Parables  12;  ver  18  with  Mt  5  32;  19  9,  etc), 
of  the  were  spoken  at  this  time — that  of  the 
Unjust  Unjust  Steward  (16  1-9)  and  that  of 
Steward,  the  Rich  Man  and  Lazarus  (vs  19-31). 
the  Rich  The  dishonest  steward,  about  to  be  dis- 
Man  and  missed,  utilized  his  opportunities,  still 
Lazarus  dishonestly,  to  make  friends  of  his 
(Lk  16)           master's   creditors;     let   the   "children 

of  light"  better  his  example  by  riglit- 
eously  using  mammon  to  make  friends  for  them- 
selves, who  shall  receive  them  into  everlasting  habi- 
tations. The  rich  man,  pampered  in  luxury,  let  the 
afflicted  Lazarus  starve  at  his  gate.  At  death — in 
Hades — the  positions  are  reversed:  the  rich  man  is 
in  torment,  stripped  of  all  he  had  enjoyed;  the  poor 
man  is  at  rest  in  Abraham's  bosom,  compensated 
for  all  he  suffered.  It  is  character,  not  outward 
estate,  that  determines  destiny.  The  unmerciful 
are  doomed.  Even  a  messenger  from  the  unseen 
world  will  not  save  men,  if  they  hear  not  Moses  and 
the  prophets  (ver  31). 

In  this  connection  Lk  (17  1-10)  places  exhorta- 
tions to  the  disciples  on  occasions  of  stumbling,  for- 
giveness, the  power  of  faith,  renunciation  of  merit 
("We  are  unprofitable  servants"),  some  of  which  are 
found  elsewhere  (cf  Mt  18  6.7.15.21,  etc). 

While   Jesus   was   in    the   trans-Jordanic   Betha- 

bara,  or  Bethany,  or  in  its  neighborhood,  a  message 

came  to  Him  from  the  house  of  Martha 

3.  The  and  Mary  in  the  Judaean  Bethany  (on 
Summons  the  Mount  of  Olives,  about  2  miles  E. 
to  Bethany  from  Jerus),  that  His  friend  Lazarus 
■ — Raising  ("he  whom  thou  lovest")  was  sick. 
of  Lazarus  The  conduct  of  Jesus  seemed  strange, 
(Jn  11)           for  He  abode  still  two  days  where  He 

was  (Jn  11  6).  As  the  sequel  showed, 
this  was  only  for  the  end  of  a  yet  more  wonderful 
manifestation  of  His  power  and  love,  to  the  glory  of 
God  (ver  4).  Meanwhile  Lazarus  died,  and  was 
buried.  When  Jesus  announced  His  intention  of 
going  into  Judaea,  the  disciples  sought  hard  to  dis- 
suade Him  (ver  8);  but  Jesus  was  not  moved  by 
the  fears  they  suggested.  He  reached  Bethany  (a 
distance  of  between  20  and  30  miles)  on  the  fourth 
day  after  the  burial  of  Lazarus  (ver  17),  and  was 
met  on  the  outskirts  by  Martha,  and  afterward  by 
Mary,  both  plunged  in  deepest  sorrow.  Both 
breathed  the  same  plaint:  "Lord,  if  thou  hadst 
been  here,  my  brother  had  not  died"  (vs  21.32).  To 
Martha  Jesus  gave  the  pledge,  "Thy  brother  shall 
rise  again,"  strengthening  the  faith  she  already  had 
expressed  in  Him  (ver  22)  by  announcing  Himself 
as  "the  resurrection,  and  the  life"  (vs  25.26);  at 
Mary's  words  He  was  deeply  moved,  and  asked  to 
be  taken  to  the  tomb.  Here,  it  is  recorded,  "Jesus 
wept"  (ver  35),  the  only  other  instance  of  His  weep- 
ing in  the  Gospels  being  as  He  looked  on  lost  Jerus 
(Lk  19  41).  The  proof  of  love  was  manifest,  but 
some,  as  usual,  suggested  blame  that  this  miracle- 
worker  had  not  prevented  His  friend's  death  (ver 
37).  Arrived  at  the  rock-tomb,  Jesus,  still  groan- 
ing in  Himself,  caused  the  stone  at  its  mouth  to  be 
removed,  and,  after  prayer,  spoke  with  a  loud  voice, 
"Lazarus,  come  forth"  (ver  43).  The  spirit  re- 
turned, and  the  man  who  had  been  dead  came  forth 
bound  with  his  grave-clothes.  He  was  released  and 
restored  to  his  sisters. 

Even  this  mighty  deed  did  not  alter  the  mind  of  the 


Pharisees,  who  held  a  council,  and  decided,  on  the  ad- 
vice of  Caiaphas  (ver  50),  that  for  the  safety  of  the 
nation  it  was  "expedient"  that  this  man  should  die. 

The  circumstantiality  of  this  beautiful  narrative 
speaks  irresistibly  for  its  historical  truth,  and  the 
objections  raised  by  critical  writers  center  really  in 
their  aversion  to  the  miraculous  as  such. 

///.  From    the   Retirement   to    Ephraim    till  the 

Arrival  at  Bethany. — The  hostility   of    the  ruling 

classes  was  now  so  pronounced  that,  in 

1.  Retreat  the  few  weeks  that  remained  till  Jesus 
to  Ephraim  should  go  up  to  the  Passover,  He  deemed 
(Jn  11:54-  it  advisable  to  abide  in  privacy  at 
57)  a  city  called  Ephraim  (situation  un- 
certain). That  He  was  in  secrecy  dur- 
ing this  period  is  implied  in  the  statement  (ver  57) 
that  if  anyone  knew  where  He  was,  he  was  to  inform 

the   chief   priests  and  Pharisees.     The 

2.  The  retirement  would  be  for  Jesus  a  period 
Journey  of  preparation  for  the  ordeal  before 
Resumed        Him,  as   the  wilderness  had  been   for 

the  commencement  of  His  ministry. 
On  His  leaving  this  retreat  to  resume  His  advance 
to  Jerus  the  narratives  again  become  rich  in  incident 
and  teaching. 

It  is  not  easy  to  define  the  route  which  brought 

Jesus  again  to  the  border  line  between  Samaria  and 

Galilee  (Lk  17  11),  but,  in  traversing 

3.  Cure  of  this  region,  He  was  met  by  ten  lepers, 
the  Lepers  who  besought  Him  for  a  cure.  Jesus 
(Lk  17:  bade  them  go  and  show  themselves  to 
11-19)  the  priests,  and  on  the  way  they  were 

cleansed.     Only   one   of   the   ten,  and 

he  a  Samaritan,  returned  to  give  thanks  and  glorify 

God.     Gratitude  appeared  in  the  unlikely  quarter. 

At  some  point  in  this  journey  the  Pharisees  sought 

to  entrap  Jesus  on  the  question  of  divorce.     Was  it 

lawful  for  a  man  to  put  away  his  wife 

4.  Pharisaic  for  every  cause?  (Mt  19  3).  Jesus 
Question-  in  reply  admitted  the  permission  to 
ings  divorce  given  by  Moses  (Mk  10  3-5), 

but  declared  that  this  was  for  the  hard- 
ness of  their  hearts,  and  went  back  to  the  original 
institution  of  marriage  in  which  the  two  so  joined 

were  declared  to  be  "one  flesh."     Only 

a)  Divorce  one  cause  is  admissible  as  a  ground  of 
(Mt  19:3-  separation  and  remarriage  (Mt  19  9; 
12;  Mk  10:  cf  5  31.32;  Mk  has  not  even  the  ex- 
1-12)  ception,  which  is  probably,  however, 

implied).  Comments  follow  to  the  dis- 
ciples in  Mt  on  the  subject  of  continence  (vs  10-12). 
See  Divorce. 

Another  question  asked  by  the  Pharisees  of  Jesus 
was  as  to  when  the  kingdom  of  God  should  come. 

The  expectation  excited  by  His  own 

b)  Coming  ministry  and  claims  was  that  it  was 
of  the  near;  when  should  it  appear?  Re- 
Kingdom  buking  their  worldly  ideas,  Jesus 
(Lk  17:  warned  them  that  the  kingdom  did 
20-37)             not    come    "with    observation" — was 

not  a  "Lo,  there!  Lo,  here!";  it  was 
"within"  them,  or  "in  their  midst,"  though  they 
did  not  perceive  it.  In  the  last  decisive  coming  of 
the  Son  of  Man  there  would  be  no  dubiety  as  to 
His  presence  (vs  24.25).  He  adds  exhortations  as 
to  the  suddenness  of  His  coming,  and  the  separations 
that  would  ensue  (vs  26-37),  which  Mt  gives  as  part 
of  the  great  discourse  on  the  Last  Things  in  ch  24. 
In  close  connection  with  the  foregoing,  as  fur- 
nishing the  ground  for  the  certainty  that  this  day  of 

the  Son  of   Man   would    come,   Jesus 

c)  Parable  spoke  the  parable  of  the  Unjust  Judge. 
of  the  Un-  This  judge,  though  heedless  of  the 
just  Judge  claims  of  right,  yet  yielded  to  the 
(Lk  18:1-8)  widow's  importunity,  and  granted  her 

justice  against  her  adversary.  How 
much  more  surely  will  the  righteous,  long-suffering 


Jesus  Christ         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1054 


God  avenge  His  own  elect,  who  cry  unto  Him  day 
and  night  (vs  7.8)!  Yet  men,  in  that  supremo 
hour,  will  almost  have  lost  faith  in  His  coming 

A  scries  of  sayings  and  incidents  at  this  time 
throw  light  upon  the  spirit  of  the  kingdom. 

The    spirit    of    self-righteousness    is 

5.  The  rebuked  and  humble  penitence  as  the 
Spirit  of  the  condition  of  acceptance  is  enforced  in 
Kingdom  the  parable  of  the  Pharisee  and  Pub- 
lican. The  Pharisee  posing  in  his  self- 
complacency  at  his  fastings  and  tithes,  and  thanking 
God  for  his  superiority  to  others,  is  set  in  vivid  con- 
trast to  the  abased  publican,  standing 

a  I  Parable    afar  off,  and  able  only  to  say,  "( lod,  be 
of  Pharisee    thou  merciful  to  me  a  sinner"  (ver  13). 
and  Publi-     Yet  it  was  he  who  went  down  to  his 
can  (Lkl8:   house  "justified"   (ver  Id). 
9_14)  A  similar  lesson  is  inculcated  in  the 

beautiful  incident  of  the  blessing  of 
the  babes.  The  disciples  rebuked  the  mothers  for 
bringing  their  little  ones,  but  Jesus,  "moved  with 

indignation"  (Mk),  received  and  blessed 
b)  Blessing  the  babes,  declaring  that  to  such  (to 
of  the  them  and  those  of  like  spirit)  belonged 

Babes  (Mt     the  kingdom  of  heaven.     "Suffer  the 
19:13-15;      little  children,  and  forbid  them  not,  to 
Mk  10:13-  come  unto  me,"  etc. 
16;  Lk  18:        A  third  illustration— this  time  of  the 
15-17)  peril  of  covet  ousness — is  afforded  by 

the  incident  of  the  rich  young  ruler. 
This  amiable,  blameless,  and  evidently  sincere 
voting  man  ("Jesus  looking  upon  him  loved  him," 

Mk  10  21)  knelt,  and  addressing 
r)  The  Rich  Jesus  as  "Good  Teacher,"  asked  what 
Young  he  must  do  to  inherit  eternal  life.    Jesus 

Ruler  (Mt  first  declined  the  term  "good,"  in  the 
19:  16-30;  easy,  conventional  sense  in  which  it 
Mk  10:  was  applied,  then  referred  the  ruler  to 

17-31;  Lk  the  commandments  as  the  standard 
18:18-30)      of    doing.     All    these,    however,    the 

young  man  averred  he  had  observed 
from  his  youth  up.  He  did  not  know  himself.  Jesus 
saw  the  secret  hold  his  riches  had  upon  his  soul,  and 
revealed  it  by  t  he  searching  word,  "If  thou  wouldest 
be  perfect,  go,  sell  that  which  thou  hast,"  etc  (Mt 
19  21;  cfMk,  "One  thing  thou  lackest,"  etc).  This 
was  enough.  The  young  man  could  not  yield  up 
his  "great  possessions,"  and  went  away  sorrowing. 
Jesus  bases  on  his  refusal  earnest  warnings  against 
the  love  of  riches,  and  points  out,  in  answer  to  a 
question  of  Peter,  that  loss  for  His  sake  in  this  life 
is  met  with  overwhelmingly  great  compensations 
in  the  life  to  come. 

Not  unconnected  with  the  foregoing  teachings  is 
the  third  solemn  announcement  to  the  disciples,  so 

hard  to  be  persuaded  that  the  kingdom 

6.  Third  was  not  immediately  to  be  set  up  in 
Announce-  glory,  of  His  approaching  sufferings 
ment  of  the  and  death,  followed  by  resurrection. 
Passion  The  disciples  had  been  "amazed"  and 
(Mt  20:17-  "afraid"  (Mk)  at  something  strange 
19;  Mk  10:  in  the  aspect  and  walk  of  Jesus  as  they 
32-34;  Lk  were  on  the  way,  going  to  Jerus  (cf 
18:31-33)  Lk  9  51).  His  words  gave  the  ex- 
planation.    With  them  should  be  taken 

what  is  said  in  a  succeeding  incident  of  His  baptism 
of  suffering  (Mk  10  38.39;  cf  Lk  12  50). 

The  spirit  of  the  kingdom  and  sacrifice  for  the 

kingdom  have  already  been  associated  with  the  idea 

of  reward,  but  the  principles  underlying 

7.  The  this  reward  are  now  made  the  subject, 
Rewards  of   of  special  teaching. 

the  King-  First  by  the  parable  of  the  Laborers 

dom  in  the  Vineyard  the  lesson  is  inculcated 

that  reward  in  the  kingdom  is  not  ac- 
cording to  any  legal  rule,  but  is  governed  by  a  Di- 


vine equity,  in  accordance  with  which  the  last  may 

often  be  equal  to,  or  take  precedence  of,  the  first. 

The  laborers  were  hired   at  different 

a)  Parable  hours,  yet  all  at  the  end  received  the 
of  the  same  wage.  The  murmuring  at  the 
Laborers  generosity  of  the  householder  of  those 
in  the  Vine-  who  had  worked  longest  betrayed  a  de- 
yard  (Mt  fectiveness  of  spirit  which  may  explain 
20:1-17)  why  they  were  not  more  highly  re- 
warded.    In  strictness,  the  kingdom  is 

a  gift  of  grace,  in  the  sum  total  of  its  blessings  one 
and  the  same  to  all. 

Still  there  are  distinctions  of  honor  in  God's  king- 
dom, but  these  are  not  arbitrarily  made.     This  is 
the  lesson  of  the  reply  of  Jesus  to  the 

b)  The  plea  of  the  mother  of  the  sons  of  Zebe- 
Sons  of  dee,  James  and  John,  with,  apparently, 
Zebedee  the  concurrence  of  the  apostles  them- 
(Mt  20:20-  selves,  that  they  might  sit  one  on  the 
28;  Mk  10:  right  hand  and  the  other  on  the  left 
35-45)  hand  in  His  kingdom.     It  was  a  bold 

and  ambitious  request,  and  naturally 
moved  the  indignation  of  the  other  apostles.  _  Still  it 
had  its  ground  in  a  certain  nobility  of  spirit.  For 
when  Jesus  asked  if  they  were  able  to  drink  of  His 
cup  and  be  baptized  with  His  baptism,  they  an- 
swered, "We  are  able."  Jesus  told  them  they 
should  share  that  lot  of  suffering,  but  to  sit  on  His 
right  hand  and  on  His  left  were  not  favors  that  could 
be  arbitrarily  bestowed,  but  would  be  given  to  those 
for  whom  it  had  been  prepared  of  His  Father — the 
preparation  having  regard  to  character  and  fitness, 
of  which  the  Father  alone  was  judge.  Jesus  went 
on  to  rebuke  the  spirit  which  led  one  to  seek  promi- 
nence over  another,  and  laid  down  the  essential 
law,  "Whosoever  would  become  great  among  you 
shall  be  your  minister,"  enforcing  it  by  His  own 
never-to-be-forgotten  example,  "Even  as  the  Son  of 
man  came  not  to  be  ministered  unto,  but  to  min- 
ister, and  to  give  his  life  a  ransom  for  many"  (Mt 
20  28;  Mk  10  45). 

Accompanied  by  a  great  throng,  possibly  of  pil- 
grims to  the  feast,  Jesus  drew  near  to  the  influential 
city  of  Jericho,  in  the  Jordan  valley, 
8.  Jesus  at   about    17    miles   distant   from    Jerus. 
Jericho  Here    two    notable   incidents   marked 

His  progress. 
As  they  approached  the  city  (Lk)  (Mt  and  Mk 
place  the  incident  as  they  "went  out")  a  blind  beg- 
gar,  Bartimaeus,  hearing  that  "Jesus 

a)  The  the  Nazarene"  (Mk)  passed  by,  loudly 
Cure  of  called  on  Him  as  the  "Son  of  David" 
Bartimaeus  to  have  mercy  on  him.  The  multitude 
(Mt  20:29-  would  have  restrained  the  man,  but 
34;  Mk  10:  their  rebukes  only  made  him  the  more 
46-52;  Lk  urgent  in  his  cries.  Jesus  stopped  in 
18:35-43)      His  way,  called  the  blind  man  to  Him, 

then,  when  he  came,  renewing  his 
appeal,  healed  him.  The  cry  of  the  beggar  shows 
that  the  Davidic  descent,  if  not  the  Messiahship,  of 
Jesus  was  now  known.  Mt  varies  from  the  other 
evangelists  in  speaking  of  "two  blind  men,"  while 
Mt  and  Mk,  as  noted,  make  the  cure  take  place  on 
leaving,  not  on  entering  the  city.  Not  improbably 
there  are  two  healings,  one  on  entering  Jericho,  the 
other  on  going  from  the  city,  and  Matthew,  after  his 
fashion,  groups  them  together  (Luke's  language  is 
really  indefinite;  lit.  "as  they  were  near  to  Jericho"). 
The  entrance  of  Jesus  into  Jericho  was  signalized 
by  a  yet  more  striking  incident.  _  The  chief  collect- 
or of  revenue  in  the  city  was  Zacchaeus, 

b)  Zacchae-  rich,  but  held  in  opprobrium  ("a  .sin- 
us the  Pub-  ner")  because  of  his  occupation.  Being 
lican  (Lk  little  of  stature,  Zacchaeus  had  climbed 
19:1-10)        into  the  branches  of  a  sycomore   tree 

to  see  Jesus  as  He  passed.  To  his 
amazement,   and  that  of  the  crowd,  Jesus  stopped 


]  655 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA         Jesus  Christ 


on  His  way,  and  called  Zacchaeus  by  name  to  hasten 
to  come  down,  for  that  day  He  must  abide  at  his 
house.  Zacchaeus  joyfully  received  Him,  and,  moved 
to  a  complete  change  in  his  views  of  duty,  declared 
his  purpose  of  giving  half  his  goods  to  the  poor,  and 
of  restoring  fourfold  anything  he  might  have  taken  by 
false  accusation.  It  was  a  revolution  in  the  man's 
soul,  wrought  by  love.    "Today,"  Jesus  testified,  "is 

salvation  come  to  this  house For  the  Son  of 

man  came  to  seek  and  to  save  that  which  was  lost." 

The  expectations  of  the  multitude  that  the  king- 
dom of  God  should  immediately  appear  led  Jesus  to 
speak  the  parable  of  the  Pounds,  fore- 
c)  Parable  warning  them  that  the  consummation 
of  the  they  looked  for  might  be  longer  de- 

Pounds  layed  than  they  thought,  and  impress- 

(Lk  19:  ing    on    them    the    need   of    loyalty, 

11-27)  faithfulness  and  diligence,  if  that  day, 

when  it  came,  was  not  to  prove  dis- 
astrous to  them.  The  nobleman  went  into  a  "far 
country"  to  receive  a  kingdom,  and  his  ten  servants 
were  to  trade  with  as  many  pounds  (each  =  100 
drachmas)  in  his  absence.  On  his  return  the  faith- 
ful servants  were  rewarded  in  proportion  to  their 
diligence;  the  faithless  one  lost  what  he  had;  the 
rebellious  citizens  were  destroyed.  Thus  Jesus  fore- 
shadowed the  doom  that  would  overtake  those  who 
were  plotting  against  Him,  and  checked  hopes  that 
disregarded  the  moral  conditions  of  honor  in  His 
kingdom. 

Arrival  at  Bethany. — From  Jericho  Jesus  moved 
on  to  Bethany,  the  abode  of  Lazarus  and  his  sisters. 
To  His  halt  here  before  His  public  entrance  into 
Jerus  the  next  events  belong. 

E.      THE   PASSION  WEEK — BETRAYAL,   TRIAL   AND 
CRUCIFIXION 

We  reach  now  the  closing  week  and  last  solemn 
events  of  the  earthly  life  of  Jesus.     The  importance 

attached  to  this  part  of  their  narra- 
Importance  fives  is  seen  by  the  space  the  evangel- 
of  the  Last  ists  devote  to  it.  Of  the  Gospels  of 
Events  Mt  and  Mk  fully  one-third  is  devoted 

to  the  events  of  the  Passion  Week  and 
their  sequel  in  the  resurrection;  Luke  has  several 
chs;  John  gives  half  his  Gospel  to  the  same  period. 
It  is  obvious  that  in  the  minds  of  the  evangelists 
the  crucifixion  of  Jesus  is  the  pivot  of  their  whole 
narrative — the  denouement  to  which  everything  tends 
from  the  first. 

/.   The  Events  Preceding  the  Last  Supper. — The  arrival 
in  Bethany  is  placed  by  John  "six  clays  before  the  Pass- 
over"  (12  1).     Assuming  that  the  public 
1    The  entry  into  Jerus  took  place  on  the  Sun- 

„',  i  clay,  and  that  the  14th  of  Nisan  fell  on  the 

LhronolOgy  following  Thursday,  this  would  lead  to 
the  arrival  being  placed  on  the  Friday  or 
Saturday  preceding,  according  to  the  mode  of  reckoning. 
It  is  in  the  highest  degree  unlikely  that  Jesus  would  jour- 
ney from  Jericho  on  the  Jewish  Sabbath;  hence  He  may 
be  supposed  to  have  arrived  on  the  PMday  evening.  The 
supper  at  which  the  anointing  by  Mary  took  place  would 
be  on  the  Saturday  (Sabbath)  evening.  Mt  and  Mk  con- 
nect it  with  events  two  days  before  the  Passover  (Mt  26 
2;  Mk  14  1),  but  parenthetically,  in  a  way  which  leaves 
the  other  order  open. 

This  beautiful  deed  occurred  at  a  supper  given  in 
honor  of  Jesus  at  the  house  of  one  Simon,  a  leper 
(Mt    and    Mk) — probably    cured    by 
2.  The  Jesus — at   which   Martha,    Mary  and 

Anointing  Lazarus  were  guests.  Martha  aided 
at  Bethany  in  serving  (Jn  12  2).  In  the  course 
(Mt  26:6-  of  the  meal,  or  at  its  close,  Mary 
13;  Mk  14;  brought  a  costly  box  of  nard  (valued  by 
3-9;  Jn  Judas  at  "300  shillings,"  about  $50,  or 
12:1-9)  £10;    cf  ARVm  on  Jn  6  7),  and  with 

the  perfume  anointed  the  head  (Mt, 
Mk)  and  feet  (Jn)  of  Jesus,  wiping  His  feet  with  her 
hair  (Mt  and  Mk,  though  not  mentioning  the  "feet," 
speak  of  the  "body"  of  Jesus).     Indignation,  insti- 


gated by  Judas  (Jn),  was  at  once  awakened  at  what 
was  deemed  wanton  waste.  How  much  better  had 
the  money  been  given  to  the  poor!  Jesus  vindi- 
cated Mary  in  her  loving  act — a  prophetic  anoint- 
ing for  His  burial — and  declared  that  wherever  His 
gospel  went,  it  would  be  spoken  of  for  a  memorial 
of  her.  It  is  the  hearts  from  which  such  acts  come 
that  are  the  true  friends  of  the  poor.  The  chief 
priests  were  only  the  further  exasperated  at  what 
was  happening,  and  at  the  interest  shown  in  Lazarus, 
and  plotted  to  put  Lazarus  also  to  death  (Jn  12  10). 
On  the  day  following — Palm  Sunday  — Jesus 
made  His  public  entry  as  Messiah  into  Jerus.  All 
the    evangelists    narrate    this    event. 

3.  The  The  Mount  of  Olives  had  to  be  crossed 
Entry  into  from  Bethany,  and  Jesus  sent  two 
Jerusalem  disciples  to  an  adjacent  village — prob- 
(Mt  21:1-  ably  Bethphage  (this  seems  to  have 
11;  Mk  11:  been  also  the  name  of  a  district) — 
1-11;  Lk  where  an  ass  and  its  colt  would  be  found 
19:29-44;  tied.  These  they  were  to  bring  to 
Jn  12:  Him,  Jesus  assuring  them  of  the  per- 
12-19)             mission     of     the     owners.     Garments 

were  thrown  over  the  colt,  and  Jesus 
seated  Himself  on  it.  In  this  humble  fashion  (as 
Mt  and  Jn  note,  in  fulfilment  of  prophecy,  Zee  9 
9),  He  proceeded  to  Jerus,  from  which  a  multitude, 
bearing  palm  branches,  had  already  come  out  to 
meet  Him  (Jn).  Throngs  accompanied  Him,  going 
before  and  after;  these,  spreading  their  garments, 
and  strewing  branches  in  the  way,  hailed  Him  with 
hosannas  as  the  Son  of  David,  the  King  of  Israel, 
who  came  in  the  name  of  the  Lord.  Very  different 
were  the  feelings  in  the  breasts  of  the  Pharisees. 
"Behold,"  they  said,  "how  ye  prevail  nothing;  lo, 
the  world  is  gone  after  him"  (Jn  12  19).  They 
bade  Jesus  rebuke  His  disciples,  but  Jesus  replied 
that  if  they  were  silent,  the  very  stones  would  cry 
out  (Lk  19  40). 

Jesus  weeping  over  Jerusalem — return  to  Bethany. 
— One  incident  in  this  progress  to  Jerus  is  related 
only  by  Lk  (19  41-44).  As  at  a  bend  in  the  road 
Jerus  became  suddenly  visible,  Jesus  paused  and 
wept  over  the  city,  so  blind  to  its  day  of  visitation, 
and  so  near  to  its  awful  doom.  Not  His  own  suffer- 
ings, but  the  thought  of  Jerusalem's  guilt  and  woes, 
filled  Him  with  anguish.  On  reaching  the  city, 
Mark's  testimony  is  explicit  that  He  did  no  more 
than  enter  the  temple,  and  'look  round  on  all  things' 
(11  11).  Then  eventide  having  come,  He  returned 
to  Bethany  with  the  Twelve. 

The  morning  of  Monday  found  Jesus  and  His 

disciples  again  on  their  way  to  the  city.     Possibly 

the   early   hours   had   been   spent   by 

4.  Cursing  Jesus  in  solitary  prayer,  and,  as  they 
of  the  Fig  went,  it  is  recorded  that  "he  hungered." 
Tree—  A  fig  tree  from  which,  from  its  foliage, 
Second  fruit  might  have  been  expected,  stood 
Cleansing  invitingly  by  the  wayside,  but  when 
of  Temple  Jesus  approached  it,  it  was  found  to 
21:12-22;  have  nothing  but  leaves — a  striking 
Mk  11: 12-  symbol  of  the  outwardly  religious,  but 
26;  Lk  19:  spiritually  barren  Jewish  community. 
45-48)  And  in  this  sense  Jesus  used  it  in  pro- 
nouncing on  it  the  word  of  doom,  "No 

man  eat  fruit  from  thee  henceforward  for  ever" 
(Mk).  Next  morning  (Tuesday),  as  the  disciples 
passed,  the  tree  was  found  withered  from  the  roots. 
Mt  combines  the  events  of  the  cursing  and  the 
withering,  placing  both  on  the  second  day,  but  Mk 
more  accurately  distinguishes  them.  Jesus  used  the 
surprise  of  the  disciples  as  the  occasion  of  a  lesson 
on  the  omnipotence  of  faith,  with  added  counsels  on 
prayer. 

Were  there  two  cleansings  ? — Pursuing  His  journey 
on  the  first  morning,  Jesus  reached  the  temple,  and 
there,  as  His  first  act,  is  stated  by  Mt  and  Mk  to 


Jesus  Christ         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


165G 


have  cleansed  the  temple  of  the  traders.  It  is  a 
difficult  question  whether  this  is  a  second  cleansing, 
or  the  same  act  as  that  recorded  by  John  at  the 
beginning  of  the  ministry  (.In  2  13-22;  see  above), 
and  here  narrated  out  of  its  chronological  order. 
The  acts  are  at  least  quite  similar  in  character  and 
significance.  In  favor  of  a  second  cleansing  is  the 
anger  of  the  priests  and  scribes  (Mk  11  IS;  Lk  19 
47),  and  their  demand  next,  day  for  His  authority. 
No  other  incidents  are  recorded  of  this  visit,  to  the 
temple,  except  the  healing  of  certain  blind  and  lame, 
and  the  praises  of  the  children,  "Hosanna  to  the  son 
of  David"— an  echo  of  the  previous  day's  proceed- 
ings (Mt  21  14-16).  In  the  evening  He  went  back 
to  Bethany. 

Far  different  is  it  with  the  third  day  of  these  visits 
of  Jesus  to  the  temple— the  Tuesday  of  the  Passion 

Week.  This  is  crowded  with  parables, 
5.  The  discourse's,     incidents,     so     numerous, 

Eventful  impressive,  tragical,  as  to  oppress  the 
Tuesday         mind  in  seeking  to  grasp  how  one  short 

day  could  embrace  them  all.  It  was 
the  last  day  of  the  appearance  of  Jesus  in  the  temple 
(Jn  12  36),  and  marks  His  final  break  with  the 
authorities  of  the  nation,  on  whom  His  words  of 
denunciation  (Mt  23)  fell  with  overwhelming  force. 
The  thread  of  the  day's  proceedings  may  thus  be 
briefly  traced. 

On  His  first  appearance  in  the  temple  on  the  Tues- 
day morning,  Jesus  was  met,  by  a  demand  from  the 

chief  priests,  scribes  and  elders  (rep- 
a)  The  resentatives  of  the  Sanhedrin),  for  the 

Demand  for  authority  by  which  He  acted  as  He 
Authority —  did.  Jesus  met  them  by  a  counter- 
Parables  question,  "The  baptism  of  John,  was 
(Mt  21:  it  from  heaven,  or  from  men?"  The 
23—22:14;  dilemma  was  obvious.  If  John  was 
Mk  11:27  Divinely  accredited,  why  did  they  not 
—12:12;  accept,  his  testimony  to  Jesus?  Yet 
Lk 20: 1-18)  they  feared  to  say  his  mission  was  of 

men,  for  John  was  universally  esteemed 
a  prophet.  They  could  therefore  only  lamely  reply: 
"We  cannot  tell"  (AY).  Matters  had  now  come 
to  an  issue,  and  Jesus,  reverting  to  the  method  of 
parable,  set  forth  plainly  their  sin  and  its  results  to 
themselves  and  others. 

The  Two  Sons — the  Wicked  Husbandmen — the 
Marriage  of  the  King's  Son. — The  parables  spoken 
on  this  occasion  were:  that  of  the  Two  Sons,  one  who 
said  "I  go  not,"  but  afterward  repented  and  went, 
the  other  who  said,  ''I  go,  sir,"  but  went  not  — 
pointing  the  moral  that  the  publicans  and  harlots 
went  into  the  kingdom  of  God  before  the  self-right- 
eous leaders  who  rejected  the  preaching  of  John 
(Mt  21  28-32);  that  of  the  Wicked  Husbandmen, 
who  slew  the  servants,  and  finally  the  son,  sent  to 
them,  and  were  at  length  themselves  destroyed,  the 
vineyard  being  given  to  others — a  prophecy  of  the 
transferring  of  the  kingdom  to  the  Gentiles  (Mt, 
Mk,  Lk);  and  that  of  the  Marriage  of  the  King's 
Son  (Mt  22  2-14),  akin  to  that  of  the  Great  Supper 
in  Lk  14  16-24  in  its  gathering  in  of  the  outcasts  to 
take  the  place  of  those  who  had  been  bidden,  but 
distinguished  from  it  by  the  feature  of  the  wedding 
garment,  the  lack  of  which  meant  being  thrust  into 
the  outer  darkness.  The  Pharisees  easily  perceived 
that  these  parables  were  spoken  of  them  (Mt  21 
45;  Mk  12  12;  Lk  20  19),  and  were  correspond- 
ingly enraged,  yet  dared  not  touch  Jesus  for  fear 
of  the  people. 

The  attempt  was  next  made  on  the  part  of  the 
Pharisees,  Herodians  and  Saddueees — now  joined 
in  a  common  cause — to  ensnare  Jesus  by  captious 
and  compromising  questions.  These  attempts  He 
met  with  a  wisdom  and  dignity  which  foiled  His 
adversaries,  while  He  showed  a  ready  apprecia- 
tion  of   a   candid   spirit,  when  it   presented   itself, 


and    turned    the    point    against    His    opponents   by 
putting  a  question  on  the  Davidic  sonship   of  the 
Messiah. 

b)  Ensnar-  (1)  Tribute  to  Caesar — the  Resurrec- 
ing  Ques-  Hon — the  Great  Commandment. — First 
tions,  etc  the  Pharisees  with  the  I  lerodians  sought 
(Mt  22:1-  to  entrap  Him  by  raising  the  question 
46;  Mk  12:  of  the  lawfulness  of  tribute  to  Caesar. 
13-37;  Lk  By  causing  them  to  produce  a  denarius 
20:19-44)  bearing  Caesar's  image  and  superscrip- 
tion, Jesus  obtained  from  them  a  recog- 
nition of  their  acceptance  of  Caesar's  authority, 
and  bade  them  render  Caesar's  things  to  _  Caesar, 
and  God's  to  God.  The  Saddueees  next  tried  Him 
with  the  puzzle  of  the  wife  who  had  seven  husbands, 
leading  up  to  denial  of  the  resurrection;  but  Jesus 
met  them  by  showing  that  marriage  relations  have 
no  place  in  the  resurrection  life,  and  by  pointing 
to  the  implication  of  a  future  life  in  God's  word  to 
Moses,  "I  am  the  God  of  Abraham,"  etc.  God  "is 
not  the  God  of  the  dead,  but  of  the  living,"  a  fact 
which  carried  with  it  all  the  weight  of  resurrection, 
as  needed  for  the  completion  of  the  personal  life. 
The  candid  scribe,  who  came  last  with  His  question 
as  to  which  commandment  was  first  of  all,  had  a 
different  reception.  Jesus  met  Him  kindly,  sat- 
isfied him  with  His  answer,  and  pronounced  him 
"not  far  from  the  kingdom  of  God"  (Mk  12  34). 

(2)  David's  Son  and  Lord. — The  adversaries  were 
silenced,  but  Jesus  now  put  to  them  His  own  ques- 
tion. If  David  in  Ps  110  could  say  "Jeh  saith  unto 
my  lord,  Sit  thou  on  my  right  hand,"  etc,  how  was 
this  reconcilable  with  the  Christ  being  David's  son? 
The  question  was  based  on  the  acceptance  of  the 
oracle  as  spoken  by  David,  or  one  of  his  house,  of 
the  Messiah,  and  was  intended  to  suggest  the  higher 
nature  of  Christ  as  one  with  God  in  a  Divine  sover- 
eignty.    David's  son  was  also  David's  Lord. 

At  this  point,  in  audience  of  the  multitudes  and 

of  His  disciples  in  the  temple,  Jesus  delivered  that 

tremendous  indictment  of   the  scribes 

c)  The  and  Pharisees,  with  denunciations  of 
Great  De-  woes  upon  them  for  their  hypocrisy 
nunciation  and  iniquity  of  conduct,  recorded  most 
(Mt  23;  fully  in  Mt  23.  A  more  tremendous 
Mk  12:38-  denunciation  of  a  class  was  never 
40;  Lk  20:  uttered.  While  conceding  to  the 
45-47;  cf  scribes  and  Pharisees  any  authority 
Lk  11:  they  lawfully  possessed  (vs  2.3),  Jesus 
39-52)            specially    dwelt   on    their    divorce    of 

practice  from  precept.  They  said 
and  did  not  (ver  3).  He  denounced  their  perver- 
sion of  the  right,  their  tyranny,  their  ostentation, 
their  keeping  back  others  from  the  kingdom,  their 
zeal  in  securing  proselytes,  only  to  make  them,  when 
gained,  worse  than  themselves,  their  immoral  cas- 
uistry, their  scruples  about  trifles,  while  neglecting 
essentials,  their  exaltation  of  the  outward  at  the 
expense  of  the  inward,  their  building  the  tombs  of 
the  prophets,  while  harboring  the  spirit  of  those  that 
killed  the  prophets.  He  declared  them  to  be  foul 
and  corrupt  to  the  last  degree:  'sons  of  Gehenna' 
(vs  15.33).  So  awful  a  condition  meant  ripeness 
for  doom.  On  them,  through  that  law  of  retribution 
which  binds  generation  with  generation  in  guilt  and 
penalty,  would  come  all  the  righteous  blood  shed 
since  the  days  of  Abel  (the  allusion  to  "Zachariah 
son  of  Barachiah,"  ver  35,  is  unmistakably  to  2  Ch 
24  21 — this  being  the  last  book  in  the  Heb  Canon — 
but  "Barachiah"  seems  a  confusion  with  Zee  1  1, 
perhaps  through  a  copyist's  gloss  or  error).  At 
the  close  indignation  melts  into  tenderness  in  the 
affecting  plaint  over  Jerus — "O  Jerusalem,  Jerusa- 
lem, ....  how  often  would  I  have  gathered  thy 
children  together,"  etc  (vs  37-39) — words  found  in 
Lk  in  an  earlier  context  (13  34.35),  but  assuredly 
also  appropriate  here.     For  other  parts  of  the  dis- 


1657 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA         Jesus  Christ 


course  found  earlier,  cf  Lk  11  39-52.  All  seems 
to  have  been  gathered  up  afresh  in  this  final  accusa- 
tion. It  can  be  imagined  that  the  anger  of  the 
Pharisees  was  fierce  at  such  words,  yet  they  did  not 
venture  openly  to  touch  Him. 

Before  finally  leaving  the  temple,  Jesus  seems  to 

have  passed  from  the  outer  court  into  the  women's 

court,  and  there  to  have  sat  down  near 

d)  The  the  receptacles  provided  for  the  gifts 
Widow's  of  the  worshippers.  Many  who  were 
Offering  wealthy  cast  of  their  gold  and  silver  into 
(Mk  12:41-  the  treasury,  but  the  eye  of  Jesus  singled 
44;  Lk  21:  out  one  poor  widow  who,  creeping  up, 
1-4)  cast  in  two  mites  (Gr  lepld,  the  smallest 

of  coins),  which  made  up  but  a  farth- 
ing. It  was  little,  but  it  was  her  all,  and  Jesus 
immortalized  her  poor  offering  by  declaring  that, 
out  of  her  want,  she  had  given  more  than  the  wealth- 
iest there.  Gifts  were  measured  in  His  sight  by  the 
willingness  that  prompted  them,  and  by  the  sac- 
rifice they  entailed. 

It  is  perhaps  to  this  crowded  day,  though  some 
place  it  earlier  in  the  week  (on  Sunday  or  Monday), 

that  the  incident  should  be  referred  of 

e)  The  the  request  of  certain  Greeks  to  see 
Visit  of  the  Jesus,  as  related  in  Jn  12  20  ff.  Who 
Greeks  (Jn  these  Greeks  were,  or  whence  they 
12:20-36)  came,  is  unknown,  but  they  were  evi- 
dently proselytes  to  the  Jewish  faith, 

and  men  of  a  sincere  spirit.  Their  request  was  made 
through  Philip  of  Bethsaida,  and  Philip  and  An- 
drew conveyed  it  to  Jesus.  It  is  not  said  whether 
their  wish  was  granted,  but  we  can  hardly  doubt 
that  it  was.  Jesus  evidently  saw  in  the  incident  a 
prelude  of  that  glory  that  should  accrue  to  Himself 
through  all  men  being  drawn  to  Him  (vs  23.32). 
But  He  saw  as  clearly  that  this  "glorifying"  could 
only  be  through  His  death  (vs  24.33),  and  He  uni- 
versalized it  into  a  law  of  His  Kingdom  that,  as  a 
grain  of  wheat  must  fall  into  the  earth  and  die  if  it 
is  to  be  multiplied,  so  only  through  sacrifice  can 
any  life  be  made  truly  fruitful  (vs  24.25).  The 
thought  of  death,  however,  always  brought  trouble' 
to  the  soul  of  Jesus  (ver  27),  and  a  voice  from  the 
Father  was  given  to  comfort  Him.  The  multitude 
thought  it  thundered,  and  failed  to  apprehend  the 
meaning  of  the  voice,  or  His  own  words  about  being 
"lifted  up"  (vs  29.34). 

Jesus  had  now  bidden  farewell  to  the  temple.     As 
He  was  going  out,  His  disciples — or  one  of  them 
(Mk) — called    His    attention    to    the 
/)   Dis-  magnificence  of   the   buildings  of   the 

course  on  temple,  eliciting  from  Him  the  startling 
Last  Things  reply  that  not  one  stone  should  be  left 
(Mt  24;  Mk  upon  another  that  should  not  be  thrown 
13;  Lk  21:  down.  Later  in  the  evening,  when 
6-36)  seated  on  the  Mount  of  Olives  on  their 

return  journey,  in  view  of  the  temple, 
Andrew,  James  and  John  (Mk)  asked  Him  privately 
when  these  things  should  be,  and  what  would  be 
the  signs  of  their  fulfilment.  In  Mt  the  question  is 
put  more  precisely,  "When  shall  these  things  be? 
and  what  shall  be  the  sign  of  thy  coming  [parousia], 
and  of  the  end  of  the  world?"  (or  "consummation 
of  the  age").  It  is  in  answer  to  these  complex  ques- 
tions that  Jesus  spoke  His  great  discourse  on  the 
destruction  of  Jerus  and  His  final  coming,  some  of 
the  strands  in  which  it  is  difficult  now  to  disentangle. 
In  the  extended  report  in  Mt  24  certain  passages 
appear  wThich  are  given  elsewhere  by  Luke  (cf  Lk  17 
20-37).  It  may  tend  to  clearness  if  a  distinction 
be  observed  between  the  nearer  event  of  the  de- 
struction of  Jerus — also  in  its  way  a  coming  of  the 
Son  of  Man — and  the  more  remote  event  of  the  final 
parousia.  The  former,  to  which  vs  15-28  more 
specially  belong,  seems  referred  to  by  the  "these 
things"  in  ver  34,  which,  it  is  declared,  shall  be  ful- 


filled in  that  generation.  Of  the  final  parousia,  on 
the  other  hand,  it  is  declared  in  ver  36  that  "of  that 
day  and  hour  knoweth  no  one,  not  even  the  angels 
of  heaven,  neither  the  Son,  but  the  Father  only" 
(cf  Mk  13  32).  The  difficulty  occasioned  by  the 
"immediately"  of  ver  29  is  relieved  by  recalling  the 
absence_  of  perspective  and  grouping  of  future 
events  in  all  apocalyptic  prophecy — the  consum- 
mation ever  rising  as  the  background  of  the  imme- 
diate experience  which  is  its  prelude.  The  dis- 
course then  divides  itself  into  a  general  part  (vs 
4-14),  delineating  the  character  of  the  entire  period 
till  the  consummation  (false  Christs  and  prophets, 
wars,  tribulations,  apostasies,  preaching  of  the  gos- 
pel to  all  nations,  etc);  a  special  part  relating  to  the 
impending  destruction  of  the  city,  with  appropriate 
warnings  (vs  15-28);  and  a  closing  part  (vs  32-51) 
relating  mainly  to  the  final  parousia,  but  not  without 
reference  to  preceding  events  in  the  extension  of 
Christ's  kingdom,  and  ingathering  of  His  elect  (vs 
30.31).  Warning  is  given  of  the  suddenness  of  the 
coming  of  the  Son  of  Man,  and  the  need  of  being 
prepared  for  it  (vs  37-51).  The  whole  is  a  massive 
prophecy,  resting  on  Christ's  consciousness  that 
His  death  would  be,  not  the  defeat  of  His  mission, 
but  the  opening  up  of  the  way  to  His  final  glorifi- 
cation and  triumph. 

To  this  great  discourse  on  the  solemnities  of  the 
end,  Jesus,  still  addressing  His  disciples,  added  three 
memorable  parables  of  instruction  and 
g)  Parables  warning  (Mt  25)— the  first,  that  of 
of  Ten  the  Ten  Virgins,  picturing,  under  the 

Virgins,  figure  of  virgins  who  went  to  meet  the 

Talents  bridegroom  with  insufficient  provision 

and  Last  of  oil  for  their  lamps,  the  clanger  of 
Judgment  being  taken  unawares  in  waiting  for 
(Mt  25)  the  Son  of  Man;    the  second,  that  of 

the  Talents,  akin  to  the  parable  in  Lk 
of  the  Pounds  (19  11-27),  emphasizing  the  need  of 
diligence  in  the  Lord's  absence;  the  third,  that  of 
the  Sheep  and  Goats,  or  Last  Judgment,  showing 
how  the  last  division  will  be  made  according  as  dis- 
cipleship  is  evinced  by  loving  deeds  done  to  those 
in  need  on  earth — such  deeds  being  owned  by  Christ 
the  King  as  done  to  Himself.  Love  is  thus  declared 
to  be  the  ultimate  law  in  Christ's  kingdom  (cf  1  Cor 
13j ;  the  loveless  spirit  is  reprobated.  "These  shall 
go  away  into  eternal  punishment:  but  the  righteous 
into  eternal  life"  (ver  46). 

Lk  21  37.38  might  suggest  that  Jesus  taught  in 
the  temple  every  day  till  the  Thursday  of  the  Pass- 
over;    if,    however,    the   denunciation 

6.  A  Day  took  place,  as  nearly  all  agree,  on  Tues- 
of  Retire-  day,  an  exception  must  be  made  of  the 
ment  (cf  Wednesday,  which  Jesus  probably 
Jn  12 :  36)  spent  in  ret  irement  in  Bethany  in  prep- 
aration of  spirit  for  His  last  great  con- 
flict (others  arrange  differently,  and  put  some  of 
the  preceding  events  in  this  day).  The  summary 
in  Jn  12  36-43  connects  the  blindness  of  mind  of 
the  Pharisees  with  Isaiah's  vision  (6  10),  and  with 
the  prophecy  of  the  rejected  Servant  (53  1). 

The  plot  for  the  destruction  of  Jesus  was  mean- 
while  maturing.     Two   days   before   the   Passover 
(Tuesday  evening),  Jesus  forewarned 

7.  An  At-  the  disciples  of  His  approaching  be- 
mosphere  oftrayal  and  crucifixion  (Mt  26  2);  and 
Plotting —  probably  at  that  very  hour  a  secret 
Judas  and  meeting  of  the  chief  priests  and  elders 
the  Priests  was  being  held  in  the  court  of  the  house 
(Mt26:l-5.  of  the  high  priest,  Caiaphas  (Mt),  to 
14-16 ;  Mk  consult  as  to  the  means  of  putting  Him 
14:1.2.10.  to  death.  Their  resolve  was  that  it 
11;  Lk  22:  should  not  be  done  on  the  feast  day, 
1-6)  lest  there  should  be  a  tumult;   but  the 

appearance  of  Judas,  who  since  the 
anointing  had  seemingly  meditated  this  step,  speed- 


Jesus  Christ         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1658 


ily  changed  their  plans.  For  the  paltry  sum  of  30 
pieces  of  silver  (shekels  of  the  sanctuary,  less  than 
$20  or  £4;  the  price  of  a  slave,  Ex  21  32;  cf  Zee 
11  112),  the  recreant  disciple,  perhaps  persuading 
himself  that  lie  was  really  forcing  .Jesus  to  an  exer- 
cise of  His  Messianic  power,  agreed  to  betray  his 
Lord.  The  covenant  of  infamy  was  made,  and  the 
traitor  now  only  waited  his  opportunity  to  carry 
out  his  project. 

//     From  the  Last  Supper  till  the  Cross.  —  A  question  of 
admitted  (litliciiltv  arises  in  the  comparison  of  the  Synop- 
tics and  Jn  as  to  the  dates  of  the  Last  Supper 
1     TVif.  and  of  tin- crucifixion.     The  Synoptics  seem 

X.    ine  clearly   to    place  the    Last   Supper  on  the 

Chronology  evening  of  the  14th  of  Nisan  (in  Jewish 
reckoning,  the  beginning  of  the  loth),  and 
to  identify  it  with  the  ordinary  paschal  meal  (Mt  26  17- 
19)  The  crucifixion  then  look  place  on  the  15th.  .In,  on 
the  contrary,  seems  to  place  the  supper  on  the  day  before 
the  Passover  (13  1).  and  the  crucifixion  on  the  14th, 
when  the  Passover  had  not  yet  been  eaten  (18  28;  19  14). 
Many,  on  this  ground,  affirm  an  irreconcilable  dis- 
crepancy between  Jn  and  the  Synoptics,  some  (e.g. 
Meyer,  "Karrar,  less  decisively  Sanday)  preferring  Jn; 
others  (Strauss,  Baur,  Schmiedel,  etc)  using  the  fact  to 
discredit  Jn.  By  those  who  accept  both  accounts, 
various  modes  of  reconciliation  are  proposed.  A  favor- 
ite opinion  (early  church  writers;  many  moderns,  as 
Godet,  Westcott,  Karrar)  is  that  Jesus,  in  view  of  His 
death,  anticipated  tlie  Passover,  and  ate  His  parting 
meal  with  II is  disciples  on  the  evening  of  the  13th; 
others  (e.g.  Tholuck,  Luthardt,  Edersheim,  Andrews, 
D.  Smith),  adhering  to  the  Synoptics,  take  the  view,  here 
shared,  that  the  apparent  discrepancy  is  accounted  for 
by  a  somewhat  freer  usage  of  terms  in  Jn.  Details  of 
the  discussion  must  be  sought  in  the  works  on  the  sub- 
ject. The  case  for  the  anticipatory  view  is  well  given  in 
Westcott,  Intro  to  the  Study  of  the  (lospels,  339  If;  and 
in  Karrar,  Life  of  Christ,  Excur.  X;  a  good  statement 
of  that  for  the  Synoptics  may  be  seen  in  Andrews,  Life 
of  Our  Lord;  cf  Tholuck,  Comm.  on  Jn,  on  13  1;  Lut- 
hardt, Co  mm.  on  Jn,  on  13  1;  18  28;  D.  Smith,  Days 
of  His  Flesh,  App.  II.  The  language  of  the  Synop- 
tists  ("the  first  day  of  unleavened  bread,  when  they 
sacrificed  the  passover,"  Mk  14  12)  leaves  no  doubt 
that  they  intended  to  identify  the  Last  Supper  with  the 
regular  Passover,  and  it  is  hardly  conceivable  that  they 
could  be  mistaken  on  so  vital  a  point  of  the  apostolic 
tradition.  This  also  was  the  view  of  the  churches  of 
Asia  Minor,  where  John  himself  lattorly  resided.  On  the 
other  hand,  the  phrase  to  "eat  the  passover"  in  Jn  18 
28  may  very  well,  in  John's  usage,  refer  to  participation 
in  the  special  sacrifices  which  formed  a  chief  feature  of 
the  proceedings  on  the  loth.  The  allusion  in  Jn  13  1 
need  mean  no  more  than  that,  the  Passover  now  impend- 
ing, Jesus,  loving  His  disciples  to  the  end,  gave  them  a 
special  token  of  that  love  during  the  meal  that  ensued. 
The  "preparation  of  the  passover"  in  Jn  19  14.31  most 
naturally  refers  to  the  preparation  for  the  Sabbath  of 
the  Passover  week,  alluded  to  also  by  the  Synoptics  (Mt 
27  <>2;  Mk  15  42;  Lk  23  54).  The  objections  based 
on  rabbinical  regulations  about  the  Sabbath  are  con- 
vincingly met  by  Tholuck  (see  also  Andrews).  We 
assume,  therefore,  that  Our  Lord  ate  the  Passover  with 
His  disciples  at  the  usual  time — the  evening  of  the  14th  of 
Nisan  (i.e.  the  beginning  of  the  15th). 

In  the  scene  in  the  upper  chamber,  at  the  observ- 
ance of  the  Last  Supper,  we  enter  the  holy  of  holies 

of  this  part  of  the  Lord's  history.  It 
2.  The  Last  is  difficult,  in  combining  the  narratives, 
Supper  (Mt  to  be  sure  of  the  order  of  all  the  par- 
26: 17  -35;  ticulars,  but  the  main  events  are  clear. 
Mk  14:12-  They  may  be  exhibited  as  follows: 
31;  Lk  22-  On  "the  first  day  of  unleavened 
7-38;  Jn  bread"— Thursday,  14th  of  Nisan— 
13;  cf  1  Jesus  bade  two  of  His  disciples  (Lk 
Cor  11:  names  Peter  and  John)  make  the  need- 

23-25)  ful  preparations  for  the  observance  of 

the  Passover.  This  included  the  sacri- 
ficing of  the  lamb  at  the  temple,  and  the  securing  of 
a  guest-chamber.     Jesus  bade  the  disciples  follow 

a  man  whom  they  would  meet  bearing 
a)  The  a  pitcher,  and  at  the  house  where  he 

Preparation  stopped   they  would  find  one  willing 

to  receive  them.  The  master  of  the 
house,  doubtless  a  disciple,  at  once  gave  them  "a 
large  upper  room  furnished  and  ready"  (Mk);  there 
they  made  ready. 

Evening  being  come,  Jesus  and  the  Twelve  assem- 
bled, and  took  their  places  for  the  meal.     We  gather 


from  .In  13  23  that  John  reclined  next  to  Jesus  (on 
the  right),  and  the  sequel  shows  that  Judas  and 
Peter  were  near  on  the  other  side.  It 
/*)  Dispute  was  probably  this  arrangement  that 
about  gave  rise  to  the  unseemly  strife  for  pre- 

Precedence  cedence  among  the  disciples  narrated 
-Washing  in  Lk  22  24-30.  The  spirit  thus  dis- 
of  the  Dis-  played  Jesus  rebuked,  as  He  had  more 
ciples'  Feet  than  once  had  occasion  to  do  (cf  Mk  9 

Depart-      33-37);  then  (for  here  may  be  inserted 

ure  of  the  beautiful  incident   in  Jn  13  1  ff), 

Judas  rising  from  the  table,  He  gave  them  an 

amazing  illustration  of  His  own  precept, 

"He  that  is  chief  [let  him  become]  as  he  that  doth 

serve I  am  in  the  midst  of  you  as  he  that 

serveth"  (Lk  22  26.27),  in  divesting  Himself  of  His 
garments,  girding  Himself  with  a  towel,  and  per- 
forming the  act  of  a  servant  in  washing  His  disciples' 
feet.  Peter's  exclamation  must  have  expressed  the 
feelings  of  all:  "Lord,  dost  thou  wash  my  feet?" 
The  act  of  the  Divine  Master  was  a  wonderful  lesson 
in  humility,  but  Jesus  used  it  also  as  a  parable  of 
something  higher.  "If  I  wash  thee  not  [i.e.  if  thou 
art  not  cleansed  by  the  receiving  of  my  word  and 
spirit,  which  this  washing  symbolizes],  thou  hast  no 
part  with  me";  then  on  Peter's  further  impulsive 
protest,  "Lord,  not  my  feet  only,  but  also  my 
hands  and  my  head,"  the  word:  "He  that  is  bathed 
needeth  not  save  to  wash  his  feet,  but  is  clean 
every  whit"  (i.e.  sanctification  of  the  inner  man  is 
once  for  all,  but  there  is  need  for  cleansing  from 
the  sins  of  the  daily  walk).  Resuming  His  place  at 
the  table,  He  bade  them  imitate  the  example  He 
had  just  given  them. 

Is  it  I  ? — An  ominous  word  had  accompanied 
the  reply  to  Peter,  "Ye  are  not  all  clean"  (Jn  13 
10.11).  As  the  supper  proceeded,  the  meaning  of 
this  was  made  plain.  Judas,  who  had  already  sold 
his  Master,  was  at  the  table  with  the  rest.  _  He  had 
permitted  Jesus  to  wash  his  feet,  and  remained  un- 
moved by  that  surpassing  act  of  condescending 
love.  Jesus  was  "troubled  in  spirit,"  and  now 
openly  declared,  "One  of  you  shall  betray  me" 
(the  Gr  word  means  lit.  "deliver  up":  cf  Lk  22 
4.6,  and  II Vm  throughout).  It  was  an  astounding 
announcement  to  the  disciples,  and  from  one  and 
another  came  the  trembling  question,  "Lord,  is  it 
I?"  Jesus  answered  that  it  was  one  of  those  dipping 
his  hand  with  Him  in  the  dish  (Mk),  and  spoke  of 
the  woe  that  would  overtake  the  betrayer  ("Good 
were  it  for  that  man  if  he  had  not  been  born"). 
John,  at  a  sign  from  Peter,  asked  more  definitely, 
"Who  is  it?"  (Jn).  Jesus  said,  but  to  John  only, 
it  was  he  to  whom  He  would  give  a  sop,  and  the  sop 
was  given  to  Judas.  The  traitor  even  yet  sought 
to  mask  his  treachery  by  the  words,  "Is  it  I,  Rabbi?" 
and  Jesus  replied,  though  still  not  aloud,  "Thou  hast 
said"  (Mt);  then,  as  Satanic  passion  stirred  the 
breast  of  Judas,  He  added,  "What  thou  doest,  do 
quickly"  (Jn).  Judas  at  once  rose  and  went  out — 
into  the  night  (13  30).  The  disciples,  not  compre- 
hending his  abrupt  departure,  thought  some  errand 
had  been  given  him  for  the  feast  or  for  the  poor. 
Jesus  was  relieved  by  his  departure  and  spoke  of 
the;  glory  coming  to  Himself  and  to  His  Father,  and 
of  love  as  the  mark  of  true  discipleship  (13  31-35). 

The  forms  of  the  observance  of  the  Passover  by 
the  Jews  are  given  elsewhere  (see  Passover).  Luke 
alone  of  the  NT  writers  speaks  of  2 
c)  The  cups  (22  17.20);    in  Jewish  practice  4 

Lord's  cups  were  used.     The  "Western"  text 

Supper  D  omits  Lk's  2d  cup,  from  which  some 

(cf  Sanday,  HDB)  infer  duplication, 
but  this  is  not  necessary.  Lk's  1st  cup  (ver  17)  may 
be  that  with  which  the  paschal  supper  opened; 
the  2d  cup — that  mentioned  by  all  the  writers — 
was  probably  the  3d  Jewish  cup,  known  as  "the  cup 


1659 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA         Jesus  Christ 


of  blessing"  (cf  1  Cor  10  16).  Some,  however,  us 
Meyer,  make  it  the  4th  cup.  It  is  implied  in  Mt, 
Mk,  Jn,  that  by  this  time  Judas  had  gone.  Left 
thus  with  His  own,  the  essent  ials  of  the  paschal  meal 
being  complete,  Jesus  proceeded,  by  taking  and 
distributing  bread  and  wine,  associating  them  with 
His  body  and  blood,  soon  to  be  offered  in  death  upon 
the  cross,  to  institute  that  sacred  rite  in  which, 
through  all  ages  since  (though  its  simplicity  has 
often  been  sadly  obscured)  His  love  and  sacrifice 
have  been  commemorated  by  His  church.  There 
are  variations  of  phrase  in  the  different  accounts, 
but  in  the  essentials  of  the  sacramental  institution 
there  is  entire  agreement.  Taking  bread,  after 
thanks  to  Cod,  Jesus  broke  it,  and  gave  it  to  the 
disciples  with  the  words,  "This  is  my  body";  the 
cup,  in  like  manner,  after  thanksgiving,  He  gave 
them  with  the  words,  "This  is  my  blood  of  the  cov- 
enant [in  Lk  and  Paul,  ''the  new  covenant  in  my 
blood"]  which  is  poured  out  for  many"  (Alt  adds, 
"unto  remission  of  sins").  Lk  and  Paul  add  what 
is  implied  in  the  others:  "This  do  in  remembrance 
of  me"  (Lk  22  P);  1  Cor  11  24).  Nothing  could 
more  plainly  designate  the  bread  and  wine  as  holy 
symbols  of  the  Lord's  body  and  blood,  offered  in 
death  for  man's  redemption,  and  sealing  in  His  blood 
a  new  covenant  with  Cod;  nor,  so  long  as  the  rite- 
is  observed  in  its  Divine  simplicity,  as  Jesus  insti- 
tuted it,  will  it  be  possible  to  expunge  from  His 
death  the  character  of  a  redeeming  sacrifice.  In 
touching  words  Jesus  intimated  that  He  would  no 
more  drink  of  the  fruit  of  the  vine  till  He  drank  it 
new  with  them  in  their  Father's  Kingdom  (on  the 
doctrinal  aspects,  see  Eucharist;  Sacrament; 
Lord's  Supper). 

The  Supper  was  over,  and  parting  was  imminent, 
but  Jesus  did  not  leave  the  holy  chamber  till  He  hail 

poured  out  His  inmost  heart  in  those 
d)  The  Last  tender,  consolatory,  profoundly  spirit- 
Discourses  ual  addresses  which  the  beloved  disciple 
■ — Inter-  has  preserved  for  us  in  the  14th,  loth 
cessory  and   Kith  chs  of  his  Gospel,    followed 

Prayer  by  the  wonderful  closing  intercessory 

prayer  of  eh  17.  He  was  leaving  them, 
but  their  hearts  were  not  to  be  disquieted,  for  they 
would  see  Him  again  (14  IS;  16  16  ff),  and  if,  ere 
long,  He  would  part  with  them  again  in  visible  form, 
it  was  only  outwardly  He  would  be  separated  from 
them,  for  He  would  send  them  the  Holy  Spirit,  the 
Paraclete,  who  would  take  His  place,  to  guide  them 
into  all  truth,  and  bring  all  things  to  their  remem- 
brance that  He  had  said  to  them  (14  16.17;  15  26; 
16  7-14).  If  He  went  away,  it  was  to  prepare  a 
place  for  them,  and  He  would  come  again  to  receive 
them  to  Himself  in  His  Father's  house  (14  1-3); 
let  them  meanwhile  show  their  love  to  Him  by  keep- 
ing His  commandments  (14  15.23.24).  In  the 
Spirit  He  Himself  and  the  Father  would  dwell  in  the 
souls  that  loved  Him  (14  21-23).  The  intimacy 
of  their  union  with  Him  would  be  like  that  of 
branches  in  the  vine;  only  by  abiding  in  Him  could 
they  bring  forth  fruit  (15  Iff).  They  would  have 
tribulations  (15  18  ff;  16  1.2),  but  as  His  dying 
bequest  He  left  them  His  own  peace  (14  27) ;  that 
would  sustain  their  hearts  in  all  trial  (16  33). 
With  many  such  promises  did  He  comfort  them  in 
view  of  the  terrible  ordeal  through  which  they  were 
soon  to  pass;  then,  addressing  His  Father,  He 
prayed  for  their  holy  keeping,  and  their  final  ad- 
mission to  His  glory  (17  9-18.24). 

These  solemn  discourses  finished,  Jesus  and  His 
disciples  sang  a  hymn  (the  "Hallel")  and  departed 
to  go  to  the  Mount  of  Olives.  Comparing  the 
evangelists,  one  would  infer  that  the  conversation 
in  which  Jesus  foretold  the  denial  of  Peter  at  least 
commenced  before  they  left  the  chamber  (Lk  22 
31  ff;  Jn  connects  it,  probably  through  relation  of 


subject,   with    the   exposure   of   Judas,    13  36-38); 
but   it   seems  to  have  continued  on  the  way  (Mt, 
Mk).     Jesus  had  spoken  of  their  being 
e)  The  "offended"    in    Him    that    night.     In 

Departure  his  exaltation  of  spirit,  Peter  declared 
and  Warn-  that  though  all  should  be  offended  in 
ing  Him,    he    would    never    be    offended. 

Jesus,  who  had  already  warned  Peter 
that  Satan  sought  to  have  him,  that  he  might  sift 
him  as  wheat  (Lk  22  31;  but  "I  made  supplica- 
tion for  thee,"  etc),  now  told  him  that  before  the 
cock  should  crow,  he  would  thrice  deny  Him.  Peter 
stoutly  maintained  that  he  would  die  rather  than 
be  guilty  of  so  base  an  act— so  little  did  he  or  the 
others  (Mt  26  35;  Mk  14  31)  know  themselves! 
The  enigmatic  words  in  Lk  22  36  about  taking 
scrip  and  sword  point  metaphorically  to  the  need, 
in  the  times  that  were  coming  upon  them,  of  every 
lawful  means  of  provision  and  self-defence;  the 
succeeding  words  show  that  "sword"  is  not  intended 
to  be  taken  literally  (ver  38). 

Descending  to  the  valley,  Jesus  and  His  disciples, 
crossing  the  brook  Kidron  ("of  the  cedars"),  en- 
tered the  "garden"  (Jn)  known  as 
3.  Geth-  Gethsemane  ("oil-press"),  at  the  foot 
semane—  of  the  Mount  of  Olives.  Here  took 
the  Betrayal  place  the  agony,  which  is  the  proper 
and  Arrest  commencement  of  the  Passion,  the 
(Mt  26:36- betrayal  by  Judas  and  the  arrest  of 
56;  Mk  14:  Jesus. 

32-52;  Lk  During  the  evening  the  thoughts  of 

22:39-53;  Jesus  had  been  occupied  mainly  with 
Jn  18: 1-12)  His  disciples;  now  that  the  hour  had 
come  when  the  things  predicted  con- 
cerning Him  should  have  fulfilment  (Lk  22  37: 
"your  hour,  and  the  power  of  darkness,"  ver  53),  it 
was  inevitable  that  mind  and  spirit 
a)  Agony  should  concentrate  on  the  awful  bodily 
in  the  and  mental  sufferings  that  lay  before 

Garden  Him.     It  was  not  the  thought  of  physi- 

cal suffering  alone— from  that  also  the 
pure  and  sensitive  humanity  of  Jesus  shrank  with 
natural  horror— but  death  to  Him,  the  Holy  One 
and  Prince  of  Life,  had  an  indescribably  hateful 
character  as  a  hostile  power  in  humanity,  due  to 
the  judgment  of  Cod  on  sin,  and  now  descending 
upon  Him  through  the  workings  of  the  vilest  of 
human  passions  in  the  religious  heads  of  His  nation. 
What  anguish  to  such  an  One,  filled  with  love  and 
the  desire  to  save,  to  feel  Himself  rejected,  betrayed, 
deserted,  doomed  to  a  malefactor's  cross — alone, 
yet  not  alone,  for  the  Father  was  with  Him!  (Jn 
16  32).  The  burden  on  His  spirit  when  He  reached 
Gethsemane  was  already,  as  the  language;  used 
shows,  all  but  unendurable — "amazed,"  "sore 
troubled,"  "My  soul  is  exceeding  sorrowful  even 
unto  death"  (Mk).  There,  bidding  the  other  dis- 
ciples wait,  He  took  with  Him  Peter,  and  James, 
and  John,  and  withdrew  into  the  recesses  of  the 
garden.  Leaving  these  also  a  little  behind,  He  sank 
on  the  ground  in  solitary  "agony"  (Lk),  and  "with 
strong  crying  and  tears"  (He  5  7),  poured  out  His 
soul  in  earnest  supplication  to  His  Father.  "Let 
this  cup  pass  away  from  me" — it  could  not  be,  but 
thus  the  revulsion  of  His  nature  was  expressed— 
"howbeit  not  what  I  will,  but  what  thou  wilt." 
The  passage  in  Lk  (22  44),  "His  sweat  became  as 
it  were  great  drops  of  blood,"  etc,  though  omitted 
in  certain  MSS,  doubtless  preserves  a  genuine  trait. 
Returning  to  the  three,  He  found  them  overpowered 
with  sleep :  even  the  support  of  their  wakeful  sym- 
pathy was  denied  Him!  "Watch  and  pray,"  He 
gently  admonished  them,  "that  ye  enter  not  into 
temptation."  A  second  and  third  time  the  same 
thing  happened — wrestling  with  God  on  His  part, 
sleep  on  theirs,  till,  with  Divine  strengthening  (Lk 
22  41),   victory  was  attained,   and  calm  restored. 


Jesus  Christ         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1060 


"Sleep  on  now,"  He  said  to  His  disciples  (the  crisis 
is  past;  your  help  can  avail  no  more):  "Arise,  let 
ns  be  going"  (the  future  has  to  be  faced;  the  be- 
trayer is  at  hand.  See  the  remarkable  sermon  of 
F.  W.  Robertson,  II,  sermon  22). 

The  crisis  had  indeed  arrived.     Through  the  dark- 
ness, even  as  Jesus  spoke,  was  seen  flashing  the  light 

of  torches  and  lanterns,  revealing  a 
b)  Betrayal  mingled  company  of  armed  men— 
by  Judas—  Rom  soldiers,  temple  officers  (Jn), 
Jesus  others— sent     by     the     chief     priests, 

Arrested        scribes  and  elders,  to  apprehend  Jesus. 

Their  guide  was  Judas.  It  had  been 
found  impracticable  to  lay  hands  on  Jesus  in  public, 
but  Judas  knew  this  retreat  (Jn  18  2),  and  had 
arranged,  by  an  act  of  dastardly  treachery,  to  en- 
able them  to  effect  the  capture  in  privacy.  The 
sign  was  to  be  a  kiss.  With  an  affectation  of  friend- 
ship, only  possible  to  one  into  whose  heart  the  devil 
had  truly  entered  (Lk  22  3;  Jn  13  27),  Judas 
advanced,  and  hailing  Jesus  as  "Master,"  effusively 
kissed  Him  (Mt  26  49;  Mk  14  45m).  Jesus  had 
asked,  "Betrayest  thou  the  Son  of  man  with  a  kiss?" 
(Lk);  now  He  said,  "Friend,  do  that  for  which  thou 
art  come"  (Mt) .  The  soldiers  essayed  to  take  Jesus, 
but  on  their  first  approach,  driven  back  as  by  a 
supernatural  power,  they  fell  to  the  ground  (Jn). 
A  proof  thus  given  of  the  voluntariness  of  His  sur- 
render (cf  Mt  26  53:  "Thinkest  thou  that  I  cannot 
beseech  my  Father,"  etc),  Jesus,  remarking  only 
on  the  iniquity  of  secret  violence  when  every  day 
they  had  opportunity  to  take  Him  in  the  temple, 
submitted  to  be  seized  and  bound.  At  this  point 
Peter,  with  characteristic  impetuosity,  remember- 
ing, perhaps,  his  pledge  to  die,  if  need  be,  with  Jesus, 
drew  a  sword,  and  cut  off  the  right  ear  of  the  high 
priest's  servant,  Malchus  (Jn  gives  the  names).  If 
he  thought  his  deed  justified  by  what  Jesus  had 
earlier  said  about  "swords"  (Lk  22  36.38),  he  was 
speedily  undeceived  by  Jesus'  rebuke  (Mt  26  52; 
Jn  18  11),  and  by  His  healing  of  the  ear  (Lk;  the 
last  miracle  of  Jesus  before  His  death).  How  little 
this  flicker  of  impulsive  boldness  meant  is  shown 
by  the  general  panic  that  immediately  followed. 
"All  the  disciples,"  it  is  related,  "left  him,  and  fled" 
(Mt,  Mk).  Mk  tells  of  a  young  man  who  had  come 
upon  the  scene  with  only  a  linen  cloth  cast  about 
his  naked  body,  and  who  fled,  leaving  the  cloth 
behind  (14  51.52).  Not  improbably  the  young  man 
was  Mark  himself. 

It  would  be  about  midnight  wThen  Jesus  was  ar- 
rested, and  He  was  at  once  hurried  to  the  house  of 

Caiaphas,  the  high  priest,  where  in 
4.  Trial  expectation  of  the  capture,  a  company 

before  the     of   chief  priests,   scribes   and  elders — 
Sanhedrin     members   of   the   Sanhedrin — were  al- 
(Mt  26:57-  ready  assembled.     Here  the  first  stage 
75;  27: 1-      in  the  trial  of  Jesus  took  place. 
10;  Mk  14: 
53-72;  15: 
1;  Lk  22: 
54-71;  Jn 
18:12-27; 
cf  Acts 
1:18.19) 


The  legal  and  constitutional  questions 
connected  with  the  trial  of  Jesus  are  con- 
sidered in  the  art.  on  Jehus  Christ,  Aehest 
and  Trial  of;  see  also  Dr.  Taylor  Innes, 
The  Trial  of  Jesus  Christ;  on  the  powers 
of  the  Sanhedrin,  see  Sanhedrin,  and  cf 
Schiirer,  Jewish  People,  etc,  II,  1,  pp.  163  ft*. 
There  seems  little  doubt  that,  while  certain 
judicial  forms  were  observed,  the  trial  was 
illegal  in  nearly  every  particular.  The 
arrest  itself  was  arbitrary,  as  not  founded  on  any  formal 
accusation  (the  Sanhedrin,  however,  seems  to  have  ar- 
rogated to  itself  powers  of  this  kind;  cf  Acts  4  1  ff) ; 
but  the  night  session,  lack  of  definite  charge,  search  for 
testimony,  interrogation  of  accused,  haste  in  condem- 
nation, were  unquestionably  in  flagrant  violation  of  the 
established  rules  of  Jewish  judicial  procedure  in  such 
cases.  It  is  to  be  remembered  that  the  death  of  Jesus  had 
already  been  decided  on  by  the  heads  of  the  Sanhedrin,  so 
that  the  trial  was  wholly  a  means  to  a  foregone  conclusion. 
On  the  historical  side,  certain  difficulties  arise.  Jn  seems 
to  make  the  first  interrogation  of  Jesus  take  place  before 
Annas,  father-in-law  to  Caiaphas  (on  Annas,  see  below; 
though  deposed  15  years  before,  he  retained,  in  reality. 


all  the  dignity  and  influence  of  the  high-priesthood;  cf  Lk 
3  2;  Acts  4  <>);  after  which  He  is  sent  to  Caiaphas  (Jn 
18  1:5.14.19-24).  The  narrative  is  simplified  if  either  (1) 
vs  19-23  are  regarded  as  a  preliminary  interrogatory  by 
Annas  till  matters  were  prepared  for  the  arraignment 
before  Caiaphas;  or  (2)  ver  24  is  taken  as  retrospective  (in 
the  sense  of  "had  sent,"  as  in  AV),  and  the  interrogation 
is  included  in  the  trial  by  Caiaphas  (cf  ver  19:  "  the  high 
priest").  Annas  and  Caiaphas  may  be  presumed  from 
the  account  of  Peter's  denials  to  have  occupied  the  same 
official  residence;  else  Annas  was  present  on  this  night  to 
be  in  readiness  for  the  trial.  The  frequently  occurring 
term  "chief  priests"  denotes  the  high  priests,  with  those 
who  had  formerly  held  this  rank,  and  members  of  their 
families  (cf  Schiirer,  op.  cit.,  203  ff).  They  formed,  with 
the  scribes,  the  most  important  element  in  the  Sanhedrin. 

First  Jesus  was  led  before  Annas,  then  by  him, 
after  a  brief  interview,  was  transferred,  still  bound, 
to  Caiaphas.  Annas  had  been  de- 
a)  Before  posed,  as  above  noticed,  much  earlier 
Annas  and  (15  AD),  but  still  retained  the;  name 
Caiaphas—  and  through  his  sons  and  relations,  as 
the  Unjust  long  as  he  lived,  exercised  much  of  the 
Judgment  authority  of  high  priest.  Like  all 
those  holding  this  high  office,  he  and 
Caiaphas  were  Sadducees.  Annas — if  he  is  the 
questioner  in  Jn  18  19-23 — asked  Jesus  concern- 
ing His  disciples  and  His  teaching.  Such  interroga- 
tion was  unlawful,  the  duty  of  the  accuser,  in  Jewish 
law,  being  to  produce  witnesses;  properly,  there- 
fore, Jesus  referred  him  to  His  public  teaching  in  the 
temple,  and  bade  him  ask  those  who  heard  Him 
there.  An  officer  standing  by  struck  Jesus  with 
his  hand  for  so  speaking:  an  indignity  which  Jesus 
endured  with  meek  remonstrance  (vs  22.23). 

(1)  An  illegal  session. — Meanwhile  a  company 
of  the  Sanhedrin  had  assembled  (23  sufficed  for  a 
quorum),  and  Jesus  was  brought  before  this  tri- 
bunal, which  was  presided  over  by  Caiaphas.  A 
hurried  search  had  been  made  for  witnesses  (this, 
like  the  night  session,  was  illegal),  but  even  the 
suborned  testimony  thus  obtained  ("false  witnesses") 
was  found  useless  for  the  purpose  of  establishing, 
constructively  or  directly,  a  charge  of  blasphemy 
against  Jesus.  At  length  two  witnesses  were  pro- 
duced who  gave  a  garbled  version  of  the  early  saying 
of  Jesus  (Jn  2  19)  about  destroying  the  temple 
and  rebuilding  it  in  three  days.  To  speak  against 
the  temple  might  be  construed  as  speaking  against 
God  (cf  Mt  23  16.21;  Acts  6  13.14),  but  here  too 
the  witnesses  broke  down  through  lack  of  agree- 
ment. At  all  costs,  however,  must  Jesus  be  con- 
demned: the  unprecedented  course  therefore  was 
taken  of  seeking  a  conviction  from  the  mouth  of  the 
accused  Himself.  Rising  from  his  seat,  the  high 
priest  adjured  Jesus  by  the  living  God  to  tell  them 
whether  He  was  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  God  (in  Mk, 
"Son  of  the  Blessed").  In  using  this  title,  Caiaphas 
had  evidently  in  view,  as  in  Jn  5  18;  10  33,  a 
claim  to  equality  with  God.  The  supreme  moment 
had  come,  and  Jesus  did  not  falter  in  His  reply: 
"Thou  hast  said."  Then,  identifying  Himself  with 
the  Son  of  Man  in  Daniel's  vision  (7  13.14),  He  sol- 
emnly added,  "Henceforth  [from  His  resurrection 
on]  ye  shall  see  the  Son  of  man  sitting  at  the  right 
hand  of  Power,  and  coming  on  the  clouds  of  heaven." 
It  was  enough.  Without  even  the  pretense  of  in- 
quiry into  the  truth  or  falsehood  of  the  claim,  the 
high  priest  rent  his  garments,  exclaiming,  "He  hath 
spoken  blasphemy,"  and  by  assent  of  all  Jesus  was 
adjudged  worthy  of  death.  Abuse  and  insult  fol- 
lowed. The  minions  of  the  Sanhedrin  were  per- 
mitted to  spit  on  the  condemned  One,  smite  Him, 
blindfold  and  mock  Him,  saying,  "Prophesy  unto 
us,  thou  Christ :  who  is  he  that  struck  thee?"  Then, 
with  further  blows,  He  was  led  away  (Mt  26  68). 

(2)  A  morning  confirmation.— To  give  color  of 
judicial  sanction  to  these  tumultuous  and  wholly 
irregular  night  proceedings,  a  more  formal  meeting 
of  the  Sanhedrin  was    convened  as  soon  as  day 


1661 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Jesus  Christ 


hud  dawned  (Mt  27  1;  Mk  15  1 ;  Lk  22  66-71). 
Probably  the  irregularities  were  held  to  be  excused 
by  the  urgency  of  the  occasion  and  the  solemnities 
of  the  feast.  Jesus  was  again  brought  forward; 
new  questions  were  put  which  He  declined  to  an- 
swer. Possibly  a  new  avowal  of  His  Messiahship 
was  made  (more  probably  Luke  includes  in  this  scene, 
the  only  one  he  records,  some  of  the  particulars  of 
the  earlier  proceedings).  The  judgment  of  the  past 
night  was  confirmed. 

While  this  greatest  moral  tragedy  of  the  trial  and 
condemnation  of  Jesus  was  in  process,  a  lesser,  but 

still  awful,  tragedy  in  the  history  of  a 
6)  The  soul  was  being  enacted  in  the  court 

Threefold  of  the  same  building  (from  this  the 
Denial  chamber  in  which  the  Sanhedrin  sat 

was  visible),  in  the  threefold  denial  of 
his  Master  by  the  apostle  Peter.  Peter,  who  had 
followed  "afar  off"  (Lk),  had  gained  access  to  the 
court  through  an  unnamed  disciple,  whom  it  is  easy 
to  identify  with  John  (Jn  18  15).  As  he  stood 
warming  himself  at  a  fire  which  had  been  kindled, 
the  maid  who  had  admitted  them  (Jn),  gazing  atten- 
tively at  Peter,  said  boldly,  "Thou  also  wast  with 
Jesus  the  Galilean"  (Mt  26  69).  Unnerved,  and 
affrighted  by  his  surroundings,  Peter  took  the  readi- 
est mode  of  escape  in  denial.  "I  know  him  not." 
His  heart  must  have  sunk  within  him  as  he  framed 
the  words,  and  the  crowing  of  a  cock  at  the  moment 
(Mk — perhaps  an  hour  after  midnight),  reminding 
him  of  his  Master's  warning,  completed  his  dis- 
comfiture. Guiltily  he  withdrew  to  the  porch,  only 
a  little  after  to  be  accosted  by  another  (the  maid 
had  spoken  to  her  neighbors,  Mk),  with  the  same 
charge.  More  afraid  than  ever,  he  declared  again, 
"I  know  not  this  man,"  and,  seeing  he  was  not  be- 
lieved, strengthened  the  denial  with  an  oath.  Yet 
a  third  time,  an  hour  later,  a  bystander  (or  several, 
Mk),  this  time  founding  on  his  Galilean  speech, 
pronounced,  "Of  a  truth  thou  art  one  of  them." 
Peter,  to  clear  himself,  cursed  and  swore,  anew  dis- 
claiming knowledge  of  his  Lord.  To  this  depth 
had  the  boastful  apostle  fallen — as  low,  it  might 
seem,  as  Judas!  But  there  was  a  difference.  As 
Peter  spoke  the  cock  again  crew — the  cockcrow 
which  gives  its  form  to  three  of  the  narratives  (Mk 
alone  mentions  the  double  cockcrowing).  At  the 
same  instant,  either  from  within,  or  as  He  was  being 
led  forth,  Jesus  turned  and  looked  on  His  erring 
disciple.  That  look — so  full  of  pity,  sorrow,  re- 
proach— could  never  be  forgotten!  Its  effect  was 
instantaneous:  "Peter  went  out,  and  wept  bitterly." 
Peter's  heartfelt  repentance  has  its  counterfoil 
in  the  remorse  of  Judas,  which,  bitter  as  it  also  was, 

cannot  receive  the  nobler  name.  First, 
c)  Remorse  Judas  sought  to  return  the  30  shekels 
and  Suicide  paid  him  as  the  price  of  blood  ("I  be- 
of  Judas        trayed  innocent  blood");    then,  when 

callously  rebuffed  by  the  priests  and 
elders,  he  flung  down  the  accursed  money  in  the 
sanctuary,  and  went  and  hanged  himself.  Mt  and 
Acts  seem  to  follow  slightly  divergent  traditions  as 
to  his  end  and  the  purchase  of  the  potter's  field. 
The  underlying  facts  probably  are  that  the  priests 
applied  the  money,  which  they  could  not  put  into 
the  treasury  (Mt),  to  the  purchase  of  the  field, 
where,  either  before  or  after  the  purchase,  Judas 
destroyed  himself  (Acts:  falling  and  bursting  asun- 
der), assigning  it  as  a  place  to  bury  strangers  in. 
Its  connection  with  Judas  is  attested  by  its  name, 
"Akeldama,"  "the  field  of  blood." 

The  Jews  might  condemn,  but  they  had  no  power 
to  execute  sentence  of  death  (Jn  18  31).  This 
power  had  been  taken  from  them  by  the  Romans, 
and  was  now  vested  in  the  Rom  governor.  The 
procurator  of  Judaea  was  Pontius  Pilate,  a  man  hated 
by  the  Jews  for  his  ruthless  tyranny  (see  Pilate), 


yet,  as  the  Gospels  show  him,  not  without  a  sense 
of  right,  but   vacillating  and   weak-willed   in   face 

of  mob  clamor,  and  risk  to  his  own  in- 
5.  Trial  terests.     His  residence  in  Jerus  ("Prae- 

before  torium,"  ERV  "palace")  was  probably 

Pilate  (Mt  Herod's  former  palace  (thus  Schiirer, 
27:2.11-  G.  A.  Smith,  etc),  on  the  tesselated 
31;  Mk  15:  pavement  (Jn  19  13)  in  the  semicir- 
1-20;  Lk  cular  front  of  which  was  placed  the 
23:1-25;  tribunal  (bima)  from  which  judgments 
Jn  18:28-  were  delivered.  It  was  to  this  place 
40;  19:  Jesus  was  now  brought.     The  events 

1-16)  took  place  when  it  was  "early"  (Jn  18 

28),  probably  between  6  and  7  AM  (cf 
19  14,  Rom  computation). 

Jesus  was  taken  within  the  Praetorium,  but  His 
accusers  were  too  scrupulous  about  defilement  at 

the    Passover    festival    (Jn  18  28)    to 

a)  Attitude  enter  the  building.  Pilate  therefore 
of  the  came  out  to  hear  their  accusation. 
Accusers        They  would  fain  have  had  him  endorse 

their  condemnation  without  further 
inquiry,  but  this  he  would  not  do.  They  would  not 
have  it  that  it  was  a  simple  question  of  their  law, 
yet  had  to  justify  their  demand  for  a  death  sentence 
(ver  31).  They  based,  therefore,  on  the  alleged 
revolutionary  character  of  Christ's  teaching,  His 
forbidding  to  pay  tribute  to  Caesar  (a  false  charge), 
His  claim  to  be  a  king  (Lk  23  2.5),  to  all  which 
charges  Jesus  answered  not  a  word  (Mk  15  3.5). 
At  a  later  stage,  after  Pilate,  who  knew  very  well 
that  no  mere  sedition  against  the  Rom  power  had 
called  forth  all  this  passion  (witness  the  choice  of 
Barabbas),  had  repeatedly  declared  that  he  found 
no  crime  in  Jesus  (Mk  15  14;  Lk  23  4.14.22;  Jn 
18  38;  19  4.6),  the  real  spring  of  their  action  was 
laid  bare:  "We  have  a  law,  and  by  that  law  he 
ought  to  die,  because  he  made  himself  the  Son  of 
God"  (Jn  19  7).  When  it  was  seen  how  this 
declaration  made  Pilate  only  the  more  unwilling 
to  yield  to  their  rage,  return  was  made  to  the  politi- 
cal motive,  now  in  the  form  of  personal  threat:  "If 
thou  release  this  man,  thou  art  not  Caesar's  friend" 
(ver  12).  This  was  Pilate's  weak  point,  and  the 
Jews  knew  it.  The  clamor  grew  ever  louder,  "Cru- 
cify him,  crucify  him."  Hate  of  Jesus  and  national 
degradation  could  go  no  farther  than  in  the  cry, 
"We  have  no  king  but  Caesar"  (ver  15). 

Pilate  was  from  the  first  impressed  with  the  inno- 
cence of  Jesus,  and  was  sincerely  anxious,  as  his 
actions  showed,  to  save  Him  from  the 

b)  The  terrible  and  ignominious  death  His 
Attitude  of  implacable  enemies  were  bent  on  in- 
Pilate             flicting    upon    Him.     His    crime    was 

that,  as  Rom  judge,  he  finally,  against 
his  own  convictions,  through  fear  of  a  charge  of  dis- 
loyalty to  Caesar,  yielded  up  to  torture  and  death 
One  whom  he  had  pronounced  guiltless,  to  gratify 
the  brutal  passions  of  a  mob.  By  Pilate's  own  ad- 
missions, Christ's  death  was,  not  a  punishment  for 
any  crime,  but  a  judicial  murder.  First,  through 
private  examination,  Pilate  satisfied  himself  that 
the  kingship  Jesus  claimed  ("Thou  sayest")  carried 
with  it  no  danger  to  the  throne  of  Caesar.  Jesus 
was  a  king  indeed,  but  His  kingdom  was  not  of  this 
world;  was  not,  like  earthly  kingdoms,  supported 
by  violence;  was  founded  on  the  truth,  and  gathered 
its  subjects  from  those  that  received  the  truth  (Jn 
18  36.37).  _  The  indifference  to  the  name  of  truth 
which  the  jaded  mind  of  Pilate  confessed  ("What  is 
truth?")  could  not  hide  from  him  the  nobility  of 
soul  of  the  Holy  One  who  stood  before  him.  He 
declared  publicly,  "I  find  no  fault  in  this  man,"  and 
thereafter  sought  means  of  saving  Him,  at  least  of 
shifting  the  responsibility  of  His  condemnation  from 
himself  to  others. 

(1)  Jesus  sent  to  Herod. — Hearing  in  the  clamor 


Jesus  Christ         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1662 


round  the  judgment  seat  thai  Jesus  was  a  Galilean, 
and   remembering   that    Herod    Antipas,    who    had 

jurisdiction  in  that  region,  was  in  the  city,  Pilate's 
first  expedient  was  to  send  Jesus  to  Herod,  to  be 
examined  by  him  (Lk  23  (ill).  This  act  of  cour- 
tesy had  the  effect  of  making  Herod  and  Pdate, 
who  had  been  at,  enmity,  again  friends  (ver  12); 
otherwise  it  failed  of  its  object.  Herod  was  pleased 
enough  to  see  One  he  had  so  often  heard  about  - 
even  thought  in  his  flippancy  that  a  miracle  might 
be  done  by  Him— but  when  Jesus,  in  presence  ol 
"that  fox"'  (Lk  13  32),  refused  to  open  His  mouth 
in  answer  to  the  accusations  heaped  upon  Him, 
Herod,  with  his  soldiers,  turned  the  matter  into 
jest,  by  clothing  Jesus  in  gorgeous  apparel,  and 
sending  Him  back  as  a  mock-king  to  Pilate. 

(2)  "Not  this  man,  hut  Bar abbas."— Pilate's  next 
thought  was  to  release  Jesus  in  pursuance  of  a  Jew- 
ish custom  of  setting  free  a  prisoner  at  the  feast, 
and  to  this  end,  having  again  protested  that  no  fault 
had  been  found  in  Him,  offered  the  people  the  choice 
between  Jesus  and  a  notorious  robber  and  murderer 
called  Barabbas,  then  in  prison.  Just  then,  as  he 
sat  on  the  judgment  seat,  a  message  from  his  wife 
regarding  a  dream  she  had  ("Have  thou  nothing  to 
do  with  that  righteous  man,"  Mt  27  ID)  must, 
strongly  have  influenced  his  superstitious  mind. 
Pilate  could  hardly  have  conceived  that  the  multi- 
tude would  prefer  a  murderer  to  One  so  good  and 
pure;  but,  instigated  by  the  priests,  they  perpe- 
trated even  this  infamy,  shouting  for  the  release  of 
Barabbas   and  the  crucifixion  of  Jesus. 

(3)  "Ecce  Homo." — Pilate's  weakness  now  began 
to  reveal  itself.  He  proposed  to  "chastise"  (scourge) 
Jesus— why  "chastise,"  if  He  was  innocent? — then 
release;  Him.  But  this  compromise,  as  was  to  be 
anticipated,  only  whetted  the  eagerness  for  blood, 
and  the  cries  grew  ever  louder,  "Crucify  him." 
Pilate,  however,  as  if  yielding  to  the  storm,  did 
deliver  Jesus  to  be  scourged  (scourging— a  fearful 
infliction — preceded  crucifixion),  the  cruelty  being 
aggravated  by  the  maltreatment  of  the  soldiers, 
who,  outstripping  former  mockeries,  put  on  His  head 
a  crown  of  thorns,  arrayed  Him  in  a  purple  robe, 
and  rained  blows  upon  His  bleeding  face  and  form. 
It  seems  to  have  been  a  design  of  Pilate  to  awake 
pity,  for  once  again  he  brought  Jesus  forth,  and  in 
this  affecting  guise,  with  new  attestation  of  His  in- 
nocence, presented  Him  to  the  people  in  the  words, 
"Behold,  the  man!"  (Jn  19  5).  How  hideous  the 
mockery,  at  once  to  declare  of  such  an  one,  "I  find 
no  crime  in  him,"  and  to  exhibit  Him  to  the  crowd 
thus  shamefully  abused!  No  pity  dwelt  in  these 
hearts,  however,  and  the  shouts  became  still  an- 
grier, "Crucify  him." 

(4)  A  last  appeal — Pilate  yields. — The  words  of 
the  leaders,  "He  made  himself  the  Son  of  God," 
spoken  as  a  reason  for  putting  Jesus  to  death  (Jn 
19  7),  struck  a  new  fear  into  the  heart  of  Pilate.  It 
led  him  again  to  enter  the  Praetorium,  and  inquire 
of  this  strange  prisoner,  unlike  any  he  had  ever  seen, 
"Whence  art  thou?"  Jesus  was  silent.  "Knowest 
thou  not,"  asked  Pilate,  "that  I  have  power  to  re- 
lease thee,  and  have  power  to  crucify  thee?"  Jesus 
answered  only  that  he,  Pilate,  had  no  power  over 
Him  at  all  save  what  was  given  him  of  Cod;  the 
greater  therefore  was  the  crime  of  those  who  had 
subjected  Him  to  this  abuse  of  Divinely  given  power. 
Again  Pilate  went  out  and  sought  to  release  Him, 
but  was  met  by  the  fierce  cries  that  foreboded  com- 
plaint to  Caesar  (Jn  19  12).  A  tumult  seemed 
imminent,  and  Pilate  succumbed.  Here  probably 
(though  possibly  after  the  choice  of  Barabbas)  is  to 
be  placed  the  washing  of  his  hands  by  Pilate — a 
vain  disclaiming  of  his  responsibility — recorded  in 
Mt  27  24,  and  the  awful  answer  of  the  people,  "His 
blood  be  on  us,  and  on  our  children"    (ver  25). 


Pilate  now  ascends  the  judgment  seat,  and,  fully 
conscious  of  the  iniquity  of  his  procedure,  pronounces 
the  formal  sentence  which  dooms  Jesus  to  the  cross. 
The  trial  over,  Jesus  is  led  again  into  the  Praeto- 
rium, where  the  cruel  mockery  of  the  soldiers  is 
resumed  in  intensified  form.  The  Holy  One,  thorn- 
crowned,  clad  in  purple,  a  reed  thrust  into  His 
hand,  is  placed  at  the  mercy  of  the  whole  band, 
who  bow7  the  knee  in  ridicule  before;  Him  ("Hail, 
King  of  the  Jews"),  spit  upon  Him  in  contempt, 
smite;  Him  on  the  head  with  the  reed  (Mt,  Mk). 
Then,  stripped  of  the;  robe,  His  own  garments  are 
put  on  Him,  in  preparation  for  the  end. 

In  all  this  hideous  scene  of  cruelty,  injustice,  and 
undeserved   suffering,    the   conspicuous   feature   in 
the   bearing   of   Jesus   is  the   absolute 
c)  The  calmness,  dignity  and   meekness   with 

Attitude  which  He  endures  the  heaviest  wrongs 
of  Jesus  and  insults  put  upon  Him.  The  pic- 
ture in  Isa  53  7.8  is  startling  in  its 
fidelity:  "When  he  was  afflicted  he  opened  not  his 
mouth;  as  a  lamb  that  is  led  to  the  slaughter,  and 
as  a  sheep  that  before  its  shearers  is  dumb,  so  he 
opened  not  his  mouth.  By  oppression  and  judg- 
ment he  was  taken  away,"  etc.  There  is  no  return 
of  the  perturbation  of  Gethsemane.  As  if  the 
strength  won  there  had  raised  Him  into  a  peace 
that  nothing  could  shake,  He  passed  through  the 
frightful  physical  exhaustion,  mental  strain,  agony 
of  scourging,  suffering  from  wounds  and  blows,  of 
that  terrible  night  and  morning,  with  unbroken 
fortitude  and  unembittered  spirit.  Not  a  word  of 
complaint  passes  His  lips;  He  makes  no  reply  to 
accusations;  when  reviled,  He  reviles  not  again; 
He  takes  all  with  submission,  as  part  of  the  cup  the 
Father  has  given  Him  to  drink.  It  is  a  spectacle 
to  move  the  stoniest  heart.  Well  to  remember  that 
it  is  the  world's  sin,  in  which  all  share,  that  mingled 
the  bitter  draught! 

///.   The  Crucifixion  and  Burial. — Crucifixion  was 
the  form  of  punishment  reserved  by  the  Romans 
for  slaves,    foreigners    and   the   vilest 
1.  The  criminals,   and   could  not  be  inflicted 

Crucifixion  on  a  Rom  citizen.  With  its  prolonged 
(Mt  27:31-  and  excruciating  torture,  it  was  the 
56;  Mk  15:  most  agonizing  and  ignominious  death 
20-41;  Lk  which  the  cruelty  of  a  cruel  age  could 
23:26-49;  devise.  Jewish  law  knew  nothing  of 
Jn  19:  it  (the  'hanging  on  a  tree'  of  Dt  21  22. 

16-37)  23,  was  after  death;   cf  Gal  3  13),  yet 

to  it  the  Jewish  leaders  hounded  Pilate 
on  to  doom  their  Messiah.  The  cross  was  no  doubt 
of  the  usual  Rom  shape  (see  Cross).  The  site  of 
Golgotha,  "the  place  of  a  skull"  (in  Lk  "Calvary," 
the  Latinized  form),  is  quite  uncertain.  It  may  have 
been  a  slight  mound  resembling  a  skull  (thus  Meyer, 
Luthardt,  Godet,  etc),  but  this  is  not  known.  _  It 
is  only  plain  that  it  was  outside  the  wall,  in  the  im- 
mediate vicinity  of  the  city  (see  note  below7  on 
sepulcher).  The  time  of  the  crucifixion  was  about 
9  AM  (Mk  15  25).  The  day  (Friday)  was  the 
"preparation"  for  the  Sabbath  of  the  Passover  week 
(Mt,  Mk,  Lk;  cf  Jn  19  14.31). 

It  was  part  of  the  torment  of  the  victim  of  this 
horrible  sentence  that  he  had  to  bear  his  own  cross 
(according  to   some   only   the   patibu- 
a)  On  the      lum,  or  transverse  beam)  to  the  place 
Way  of    execution.     As    Jesus,    staggering, 

possibly  fainting,  under  this  burden, 
passed  out  of  the  gate,  a  stranger  coming  from  the 
country,  Simon,  a  man  of  Cyrene,  was  laid  hold  of, 
and  compelled  to  carry  the  cross  (such  an  one  would 
not  be  punctilious  about  rabbinical  rules  of  travel, 
especially  as  it  was  not  the  regular  Sabbath).  Jesus, 
however,  was  not  wholly  unpitied.  In  the  crowd 
following  Him  were  some  women  of  Jerus,  who  be- 
wailed  and   lamented   Him.     The    Lord,    turning, 


1663 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jesus  Christ 


bade  these  weep,  not  for  Him,  but  for  themselves 
and  for  their  children.  "If  they  do  these  things  in 
the  green  tree,  what  shall  be  done  in  the  dry?"  (Lk 
23  27-31). 

Golgotha  being  reached,  the  crucifixion  at  once 

took  place  under  the  care  of  a  centurion  and  a 

quaternion  of  soldiers.     With  ruthless 

b)  Between  blows,  hands  and  feet  were  nailed  to 
the  Thieves  the  wood,  then  the  cross  was  reared 
• — the  (the  perpendicular  part  may,  as  some 
Superscrip-  think,  have  first  been  placed  in  posi- 
tion— the  tion).  As  if  to  emphasize,  from  Pilate's 
Seamless  point  of  view,  the  irony  of  the  pro- 
Robe  ceedings,    two   robbers   were   crucified 

with  Jesus,  on  right  and  left,  an  unde- 
signed fulfilment  of  prophecy  (Isa  53  12).  It  was 
doubtless  when  being  raised  upon  the  cross  that 
Jesus  uttered  the  touching  prayer — His  1st  word 
on  the  cross  (its  genuineness  need  not  be  questioned, 
though  some  ancient  MSS  omit) — "Father,  for- 
give them;  for  they  know  not  what  they  do"  (Lk). 
Above  His  head,  according  to  custom,  was  placed 
a  tablet  with  His  accusation,  written  in  three  lan- 
guages, Heb,  Gr  and  Lat.  The  chief  priests  took 
offence  at  the  form,  "This  is  the  King  of  the  Jews," 
and  wished  the  words  changed  to,  'Tie  said,  I  am 
King,"  etc,  but  Pilate  curtly  dismissed  their  com- 
plaint: "What  I  have  written  I  have  written"  (Jn). 
Whether  Jesus  still  wore  the  crown  of  thorns  is 
doubtful.  The  garments  of  the  Crucified  were  di- 
vided among  the  soldiers,  but  for  His  inner  garment, 
woven  without  seam,  they  cast  lots  (cf  Ps  22  18). 
A  draught  of  wine  mingled  with  an  opiate  (gall  or 
myrrh),  intended  to  dull  the  senses,  was  offered,  but 
refused. 

The  triumph  of  Christ's  enemies  now  seemed  com- 
plete,   and    their    glee    was    correspondingly    unre- 
strained.    Their  victim's  helplessness 

c)  The  was  to  them  a  disproof  of  His  claims. 
Mocking —  Railing,  and  wagging  their  heads,  they 
the  Peni-  taunted  Him,  "If  thou  art  the  Son  of 
tent  Thief  God,  come  down  from  the  cross";  "He 
— Jesus  saved  others;  himself  he  cannot  save." 
and  His  At  first  the  robbers  who  wen;  crucified 
Mother  with  Him  (possibly  only  one)  joined  in 

this  reproach,  but  ere  long  there  was 
a  change.  The  breast  of  one  of  the  malefactors 
opened  to  the  impression  of  the  holiness  and  meek- 
ness of  Jesus,  and  faith  took  the  place  of  scorn.  He 
rebuked  his  neighbor  for  reviling  One  who  had  "done 
nothing  amiss";  then,  addressing  Jesus,  he  prayed: 
"Jesus,  remember  me  when  thou  comest  in  thy 
kingdom."  The  reply  of  Jesus — His  2d  word  on 
the  cross — surpassed  what  even  the  penitent  in  these 
strange  circumstances  could  have  anticipated,  "To- 
day shalt  thou  be  with  me  in  Paradise"  (Lk).  A 
not  less  touching  incident  followed — perhaps  pre- 
ceded— this  rescue  of  a  soul  in  its  last  extremity. 
Standing  rfoar  the  cross  was  a  group  of  holy  women, 
one  of  them  the  mother  of  Jesus  Himself  (Jn  19  25: 
Mary  the  mother  of  Jesus,  Mary's  sister,  Mary  the 
wife  of  Clopas — some  identify  the  two  latter — Mary 
Magdalene).  Mary,  whose  anguish  of  spirit  may 
be  imagined,  was  supported  by  the  disciple  John. 
Beholding  them — His  3d  word  from  the  cross — Jesus 
tenderly  commended  His  mother  to  the  care  of 
John;  to  Mary,  "Woman,  behold,  thy  son";  to 
John,  "Behold,  thy  mother."  From  that  time  Mary 
dwelt  with  John. 

Three  hours  passed,  and  at  noon  mocking  was 
hushed  in  presence  of  a  startling  natural  change. 
The  sun's  light  failed  (Lk),  and  a  deep  darkness, 
lasting  for  3  hours,  sett  led  over  the;  land.  The;  dark- 
ness was  preternatural  in  its  time  and  occasion, 
whatever  natural  agencies  may  have  been  con- 
cerned in  it.  The  earthquake  a  little  later  (Mt) 
would  be  due  to  the  same  causes.     It  was  as  if 


Nature  veiled  itself,  and  shuddered  at  the  enormity 

of  the  crime  which  was  being  perpetrated.     But  the 

outer  gloom  was  only  the  symbol  of  a  yet 

d)  The  more  awful  darkness  that,  toward  the 
Great  close  of  this  period,  overspread  the  soul 
Darkness —  of  Jesus  Himself.  Who  shall  fathom  the 
the  Cry  of  depths  of  agony  that  lay  in  that  awful 
Desertion      cry — the  4th  from  the  cross — that  burst 

loudly  from  the  lips  of  Jesus,  "Eli, 
Eli,  lamd  sabachthani" — "My  God,  My  God,  why 
hast  thou  forsaken  me"  (or,  "Why  didst  thou  for- 
sake me?") — words  borrowed  from  Ps  22  1!  It  was 
before  remarked  that  death  was  not  a  natural  event 
to  Jesus,  but  ever  had  in  it  to  His  mind  its  signifi- 
cance as  a  judgment  of  God  on  sin.  Here  it  was  not 
simply  death  that  He  experienced  in  its  most  cruel 
form,  but  death  bereft  of  the  sensible  comforts  of 
the  Father's  presence.  What  explanation  of  that 
mystery  can  be  found  which  does  not  take  into 
account  with  Isa  53  (cf  Jn  1  29)  His  character  as 
Sin-Bearer,  even  as  the  unbroken  trust  with  which 
in  His  loneliness  He  clings  to  God  ("MyGod")  may 
be  felt  to  have  in  it  the  element  of  atonement  ?  On 
this,  however,  the  present  is  not  the  place  to  dwell. 
The  end  was  now  very  near.  The  victim  of 
crucifixion  sometimes  lingered  on  in  his  agony  for 
days;    but  the  unexampled  strain  of 

e)  Last  body  and  mind  which  Jesus  had  under- 
Words  and  gone  since  the  preceding  day  brought 
Death  of  an  earlier  termination  to  His  suffer- 
Jesus              ings.     Light  was  returning,  and  with 

it  peace;  and  in  the  consciousness  that 
all  things  were  now  finished  (Jn  19  28),  Jesus  spoke 
again — the  5th  word — "I  thirst"  (Jn).  A  sponge 
filled  with  vinegar  was  raised  on  a  reed  to  His  lips, 
while  some  who  had  heard  His  earlier  words  ("Eli, 
Eli,"  etc),  and  thought  He  called  for  Elijah,  said, 
"Let  us  see  whether  Elijah  cometh  to  save  him" 
(Mt).  With  a  last  effort,  Jesus  cried  aloud — 6th 
and  memorable  word — "It  is  finished,"  then,  in 
a  final  utterance — the  7th — commended  His  spirit 
to  (iod:  "Father  into  thy  hands  I  commend  my 
spirit"  (Lk).  Following  on  this  word,  bowing  His 
head,  He  surrendered  Himself  to  death.  It  will  be 
seen  that  of  the  7  words  spoken  from  the  cross,  3 
are  preserved  by  Lk  alone  (1st,  2d,  7th),  3  by  Jn 
alone  (3d,  5th,  6th),  while  the  4th  cry  ("Eli,  Eli," 
etc)  occurs  only  in  the  first  2  evangelists  (Mt  and 
Mk,  however,  speak  of  Jesus  "crying  with  a  loud 
voice"  at  the  close). 

Jesus  had  died;    the  malefactors  still  lived.     It 
was  now  3  o'clock  in  the  afternoon,  and  it  was  de- 
sired that  the  bodies  should  not  remain 
/)  The  upon    the    cross    on    the    approaching 

Spear-  Sabbath.     Permission     was     therefore 

Thrust — ■  obtained  from  Pilate  for  the  soldiers 
Earthquake  to  break  the  legs  of  the  crucified  (cruri- 
and  Rend-  fragi um),  and  so  hasten  death.  When 
ing  of  the  it  was  discovered  that  Jesus  was 
Veil  already   dead,    a   soldier,    possibly    to 

make  sure,  pierced  His  side  with  a 
spear,  and  John,  who  was  present,  notices  as  a  spe- 
cial fact  that  "there  came  out  blood  and  water"  (19 
34).  Whether  this  means,  as  Stroud  and  others 
have  contended,  that  Jesus  literally  died  of  rupture 
of  the  heart,  or  what  other  physiological  explana- 
tion may  be  given  of  the  phenomenon,  to  which  the 
apostle  elsewhere  attaches  a  symbolical  significance 
(1  Jn  5  (>),  need  not  be  here  discussed  (see  Blood 
and  W'atek).  This,  however,  was  not  the  only 
startling  and  symbolically  significant  fact  attend- 
ing the  death  of  Jesus.  A  great  darkness  had  pre- 
luded the  death;  now,  at  the  hour  of  His  expiry, 
the  veil  of  the  temple  (i.e.  of  the  inner  shrine)  was 
rent  from  top  to  bottom — surely  a  sign  that  the  way 
into  the  holiest  of  all  was  now  opened  for  mankind 


Jesus  Christ         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1664 


2.  The 
Burial  (Mt 
27:57-66; 
cf  28: 11- 
lS;  Mkl5: 
42-47;  Lk 
23:50-56; 
Jn  19: 
38-42) 


(He  9  8.12)— and  a  great  earthquake  shook  the 
city  and  rent  the  rocks.  Mt  connects  with  this  the 
statement  that  from  the  tombs  thus  opened  "many 
bodies  of  the  saints  ....  were  raised;  and  coming 
forth  out  of  the  tombs  after  his  resurrection  they 
entered  into  the  holy  city  and  appeared  unto  many" 
(27  52.53).  There  is  nothing  in  itself  improbable, 
though  none  of  the  other  evangelists  mention  it, 
in  such  an  early  demonstration  being  given  of  what 
the  Lord's  death  and  resurrection  meant  for  be- 
lievers. In  other  ways  the  power  of  the  cross 
was  revealed.  A  dying  robber  had  been  won  to 
penitence;  now  the  centurion  who  commanded 
the  soldiers  was  brought  to  the  avowal,  "Truly 
this  was  the  Hon  of  Cod"  (Mt,  Mk;  in  Lk,  "a 
righteous  man").  The  mood  of  the  crowd,  too, 
was  changed  since  the  morning;  they  "returned, 
smiting  their  breasts"  (Lk  23  48).  "Afar  off," 
speechless  with  sorrow,  stood  the  women  who  had 
followed  Jesus  from  Galilee,  with  other  friends  and 
disciples.  The  evangelists  name  Mary  Magda- 
lene, Mary,  the  mother  of  James  and  Joses, 
Salome  (Mk),  and  Joanna,  the  wife  of  Chuza, 
Herod's  steward  (Lk). 

Jesus  had  conquered  hearts  on  His  cross;  now 
His  death  reveals  friends  from  the  wealthier  classes, 
hitherto  kept  back  by  fear  (Jn  19 
38.39),  who  charge  themselves  with 
His  honorable  burial.  One  was  Joseph 
of  Arimathaea,  a  just  man,  "looking 
for  the  kingdom  of  God,"  of  whom  the 
interesting  fact  is  recorded  that, 
though  a  member  of  the  Sanhedrin, 
"he  had  not  consented  to  their  coun- 
sel and  deed"  (Lk);  the  other  was 
Nicodemus,  he  who  came  to  Jesus  by 
night  (Jn  3  1.2;  19  39),  mentioned 
again  only  in  Jn  7  50-52,  where,  also  as  a  member 
of  the  Sanhedrin,  he  puts  in  a  word  for  Jesus. 

Joseph  of  Arimathaea  takes  the  lead.     "Having 
dared,"  as  Mk  says  (15  43,  Gr),  he  begged  the  body 
of  Jesus  from  Pilate,  and  having  ob- 
«)  The  tained  it,  bought  linen  cloth  wherein 

New  Tomb  to  wrap  it,  and  reverently  buried  it 
in  a  new  rock-tomb  of  his  own  (Mt, 
Mk),  "where  never  man  had  yet  lain"  (Lk).  Jn 
furnishes  the  further  particulars  that  the  tomb  was 
in  a  "garden,"  near  where  Jesus  was  crucified  (19 
41.42).  He  tells  also  of  the  munificence  of  Nico- 
demus, who  brought  as  much  as  100  pounds  (about 
75  lbs.  avoir.)  of  spices — "a  mixture  of  myrrh  and 
aloes"  (ver  39),  with  which  to  enwrap  the  body  of 
Jesus.  This  is  not  to  be  thought  of  as  an  "anoint- 
ing": rather,  the  spices  formed  a  powder  strewn 
between  the  folds  of  the  linen  bandages  (cf  Lut- 
hardt,  Comm.  on  Jn  19  40).  The  body,  thus  pre- 
pared, was  then  placed  in  the  tomb,  and  a  great 
stone  rolled  to  the  entrance.  The  burial  was  of 
necessity  a  very  hurried  one,  which  the  holy  women 
who  witnessed  it — Mary  Magdalene  and  Mary  the 
mother  of  Joses  are  specially  mentioned  (Mt,  Mk) 
— purposed  to  supplement  by  an  anointing  when  the 
Sabbath  was  past  (cf  Lk  23  56). 

Though  Jesus  was  dead,  the  chief  priests  and 
Pharisees  were  far  from  easy  in  their  minds  about 
Him.  Mysterious  words  of  His  had 
been  quoted  about  His  building  of  the 
temple  in  three  days;  possibly  Judas 
had  told  something  about  His  sayings 
regarding  His  death  and  rising  again 
on  the  3d  day;  in  any  case,  His  body 
was  in  the  hands  of  His  disciples,  and  they  might 
remove  it,  and  create  the  persuasion  that  He  had 
risen.  With  this  plea  they  went  to  Pilate,  and  asked 
from  him  a  watch  of  soldiers  to  guard  the  tomb.  To 
make  assurance  doubly  sure,  they  sealed  the  tomb 
with  the  official  seal.     The  result  of  their  efforts 


b)  The 
Guard  of 
Soldiers 

(Mt) 


was  only,  under  Providence,   to  provide  new  evi- 
dence of  the  reality  of  the  resurrection! 

The  uncertainty  attaching  to  the  site  of  Golgotha 
attaches  also  to  the  site  of  Joseph's  rock-tomb.  Opinion 
is  about  equally  divided  in  favor  of,  and  against,  the 
traditional  site,  where  the  Church  of  the  Holy  Sepulchre 
now  stands.  A  principal  ground  of  uncertainty  is 
whether  that  site  originally  lay  within  or  without  the 
second  wall  of  the  city  (cf  Stanley,  Sinai  and  Pal,  457  IT; 
G.  A.  Smith,  Jerus,  II,  576;  a  good  conspectus  of  the 
different  opinions,  with  the  authorities,  is  given  in 
Andrews,  Part  VII). 

P.      THE    RESURRECTION   AND   ASCENSION 

The  resurrection  of  Jesus,  with  its  completion  in 
the  ascension,  setting  the  seal  of  the  Father's  accept- 
ance on  His  finished  work  on  earth, 
The  Resur-  and  marking  the  decisive  change  from 
rection  a  His  state  of  humiliation  to  that  of 
Funda-  exaltation,   may   be   called   in   a   true 

mental  Fact  sense  the  corner  stone  of  Christianity 
(cf  1  Cor  15  14.17).  It  was  on  the 
preaching  of  Christ  crucified  and  risen  that  the 
Christian  church  was  founded  (e.g.  Acts  2  32-36; 
1  Cor  15  3.4).  Professor  Harnack  would  dis- 
tinguish between  "the  Easter  faith"  (that  Jesus 
lives  with  God)  and  "the  Easter  message,"  but  the 
church  never  had  any  Easter  faith  apart  from  the 
Easter  message.  The  subversion  of  the  fact  of  the 
resurrection  is  therefore  a  first  task  to  which  unbe- 
lief addresses  itself.  The  modern  spirit  rules  it  out 
a  priori  as  miraculous.  The  historical  fact  is  de- 
nied, and  innumerable  theories  (imposture,  theories 
of  swoon,  of  hallucination,  mythical  theories,  spirit- 
ualistic theories,  etc)  are  invented  to  explain  the 
belief.  None  of  these  theories  can  stand  calm 
examination  (see  the  writer's  work,  The  Resurrec- 
tion of  Jesus).  The  objections  are  but  small  dust 
of  the  balance  compared  with  the  strength  of  the 
evidence  for  the  fact.  From  the  standpoint  of 
faith,  the  resurrection  of  Jesus  is  the  most  credible 
of  events.  If  Jesus  was  indeed  such  an  One  as  the 
gospel  history  declares  Him  to  be,  it  was  impossible 
that  death  should  hold  Him  (Acts  2  24).  The 
resurrection,  in  turn,  confirms  His  claim  to  be  the 
Son  of  God  (Rom  1  4). 

With    the    narratives    of    the    resurrection    arc 
here  included,  as  inseparably  connected,  those  of 
the  appearances  of  Jesus  in  Jerus  and 
1.  The  Galilee.     The  accounts  will  show  that, 

Resurrec-  while  the  body  of  Jesus  was  a  true  body, 
tion  (Mt  identical  with  that  which  suffered  on 
28;  Mk  16;  the  cross  (it  could  be  seen,  touched, 
Lk  24;  Jn  handled),  it  exhibited  attributes  which 
20,  21;  1  showed  that  Jesus  had  entered,  even 
Cor  15:3-8)  bodily,  on  a  new  phase  of  existence, 
in  which  some  at  least  of  the  ordinary 
limitations  of  body  were  transcended.  Its  condi- 
tion in  the  interval  between  the  resurrection  and 
the  ascension  was  an  intermediate  one  —  no  longer 
simply  natural,  yet  not  fully  entered  into  the  state 
of  glorification.  "I  am  not  yet  ascended  ....  I 
ascend"  (Jn  20  17);  in  these  two  parts  of  the  one 
saying  the  mystery  of  the  resurrection  body  is 
comprised. 

The   main  facts  in   the  resurrection  narratives 
stand  out  clearly.     "According  to  all  the  Gospels," 
the     arch-skeptic     Strauss     concedes, 
a)  The  "Jesus,  after  having  been  buried  on  the 

Easter  Friday  evening,   and  lain  during  the 

Morning —  Sabbath  in  the  grave,  came  out  of  it 
the  Open  restored  to  life  at  daybreak  on  Sun- 
Tomb  day"  (New  Life  of  Jesus,  I,  397,  ET). 
Discrepancies  are  alleged  in  detail  as 
to  the  time,  number,  and  names  of  the  women,  num- 
ber of  angels,  etc;  but  most  of  these  vanish  on 
careful  examination.  The  Synoptics  group  their 
material,  while  Jn  gives  a  more  detailed  account  of 
particular  events. 


1G65 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA         Jesus  Christ 


(1)  The  angel  and  the  keepers. — No  eye  beheld  the 
actual  resurrection,  which  took  place  in  the  early 
morning,  while  it  was  still  dark.  Mt  records  that 
there  was  "a  great  earthquake,"  and  tells  of  the 
descent  of  an  angel  of  the  Lord,  who  rolled  away 
the  stone,  and  sat  upon  it.  Before  his  dazzling 
aspect  the  keepers  became  as  dead  men,  and  after- 
ward fled.  The  chief  priests  bribed  them  to  conceal 
the  facts,  and  say  the  body  had  been  stolen  (Alt  28 
2-4.11-15). 

(2)  Visit  of  the  women. — The  first  intimation  of 
the  resurrection  to  the  disciples  was  the  discovery 
of  the  empty  tomb  by  the  women  who  had  come  at 
early  dawn  (Mt  28  1;  Mk  16  2;  Lk  24  1;  Jn 
20  1)  with  spices,  prepared  to  anoint  the  body  of 
Jesus  (Mk  16  1;  cf  Lk  23  56).  Apparently  ig- 
norant of  the  guard,  the  women  were  concerned 
on  their  way  as  to  who  should  roll  away  the  stone 
from  the  door  of  the  tomb  (Mk  16  3),  and  were 
much  surprised  to  find  the  stone  rolled  away,  and 
the  tomb  open.  There  is  no  need  for  supposing 
that  the  women  mentioned  all  came  together.  It 
is  much  more  probable  that  they  came  in  different 
groups  or  companies  —  perhaps  Mary  Magdalene 
and  the  other  Mary,  or  these  with  Salome,  first 
(Mt,  Mk;  cf  the  "we"  of  Jn  20  2);  then  Joanna 
and  other  members  of  the  Galilean  band  (Lk). 
(On  the  appearance  of  Jesus  to  Mary,  see  below.) 

(3)  The  angelic  message.  —  As  the  women  stood, 
perplexed  and  affrighted,  at  the  tomb,  they  received 
a  vision  of  angels  (Mt  and  Mk  speak  oidy  of  one 
angel;  Lk  and  Jn  mention  two;  all  allude  to  the 
dazzling  brightness),  who  announced  to  them  that 
Jesus  had  risen  ("He  is  not  here;  for  he  is  risen; 
.  .  .  .  come,  see  the  place  where  the  Lord  lay"),  and 
bade  them  tell  His  disciples  that  He  went  before 
them  to  Galilee,  where  they  should  see  Him  (Mt, 
Mk;  Lk,  who  does  not  record  the  Galilean  appear- 
ances, omits  this  part,  and  recalls  the  words  spoken 
by  Jesus  in  Galilee,  concerning  His  death  and  re- 
surrection; cf  Mt  16  21).  The  women  departed 
with  "trembling  and  astonishment"  (Mk),  yet 
"with  great  joy"  (Mt).  Here  the  original  Mk 
breaks  off  (ver  8),  the  remaining  vs  being  an  ap- 
pendix. But  it  is  granted  that  Mk  must  originally 
have  contained  an  account  of  the  report  to  the  dis- 
ciples, and  of  an  appearance  of  Jesus  in  Galilee. 

The  narrative  in  Jn  enlarges  in  important  respects 
those  of  the  Synoptics.     From  it  we  learn  that  Mary 

Magdalene  (no  companion  is  named, 
b)  Visit  of  but  one  at  least  is  implied  in  the  "we" 
Peter  and  of  ver  2),  concluding  from  the  empty 
John —  tomb  that  the  body  of  Jesus  had  been 

Appearance  removed,  at  once  ran  to  carry  the  news 
to  Mary  to  Peter  and  John  ("They  have  taken 
(Jn;  cf  Mk  away  the  Lord  out  of  the  tomb,  and 
16:9.10;  we  know  not  where  they  have  laid 
Lk  24:  him").     These  apostles  lost  no  time 

12.24)  in  hastening  to  the  spot.     John,  who 

arrived  first,  stooping  down,  saw  the 
linen  cloths  lying,  while  Peter,  entering,  beheld  also 
the  napkin  for  the  head  rolled  up  in  a  place  by  itself. 
After  John  likewise  had  entered  ("He  saw,  and  be- 
lieved"), they  returned  to  their  home.  Meanwhile 
Mary  had  come  back  disconsolate  to  the  tomb, 
where,  looking  in,  she,  like  the  other  women,  had  a 
vision  of  two  angels.  It  was  then  that  Jesus  ad- 
dressed her,  "Why  weepest  thou?"  At  first  she 
thought  it  was  the  gardener,  but  on  Jesus  tenderly 
naming  her,  "Mary,"  she  recognized  who  it  was, 
and,  with  the  exclamation,  "Rabboni"  ("Teacher"), 
would  have  clasped  Him,  but  He  forbade:  "Touch 
me  not,"  etc  (ver  17,  m  "Take  not  hold  on  me"), 
i.e.  "Do  not  wait,  but  hasten  to  tell  my  disciples 
that  I  am  risen,  and  ascend  to  my  Father"  (the 
ascension-life  had  already  begun,  altering  earlier 
relations) . 


Report  to  the  disciples — incredulity . — The  appear- 
ance of  Jesus  to  the  other  women  (Mt  28  9.10) 
is  referred  to  below.  It  is  probable  that,  on  the 
way  back,  Mary  Magdalene  rejoined  her  sisters, 
and  that  the  errand  to  the  disciples — or  such  of  them 
as  could  be  found — was  undertaken  together.  Their 
report  was  received  with  incredulity  (Lk  24  11; 
cf  Mk  16  11).  The  visit  of  Peter  referred  to  in 
Lk  24  12  is  doubtless  that  recorded  more  precisely 
in  Jn. 

Ten  appearances  of  Jesus  altogether  after  His 
resurrection   are   recorded,   or  are  referred   to;    of 

these  five  were  on  the  day  of  resurrec- 
c)   Other        tion.     They  are  the  following: 
Easter-Day        (1)  The 'first  is  the  appearance   to 
Appear-  Mary  Magdalene  above  described. 

ances  (2)  The  second  is  an  appearance  to 

(Emmaus,      the  women  as  they  returned  from  the 
Jerusalem)    tomb,  recorded  in  Mt  28  9.10.     Jesus 

met  them,  saying,  "All  hail,"  and  as 
they  took  hold  of  His  feet  and  worshipped  Him, 
He  renewed  the  commission  they  had  received  for 
the  disciples.  Some  regard  this  as  only  a  general- 
ization of  the  appearance  to  Mary  Magdalene,  but 
it  seems  distinct. 

(3)  An  appearance  to  Peter,  attested  by  both 
Lk  (24  34)  and  Paul  (1  Cor  15  5).  This  must 
have  been  early  in  the  day,  probably  soon  after 
Peter's  visit  to  the  tomb.  No  particulars  are  given 
of  this  interview,  so  marked  an  act  of  grace  of  the 
risen  Lord  to  His  repentant  apostle.  The  news  of 
it  occasioned  much  excitement  among  the  disciples 
(Lk  24  34). 

(4)  The  fourth  was  an  appearance  to  two  disci- 
ples on  their  way  from  Jerus  to  Emmaus — a  village 
about  two  hours  distant  (Lk  24  12-35;  Mk  16 
12.13).  They  were  conversing  on  the  sad  events 
of  the  last  few  days,  and  on  the  strange  tidings  of 
the  women's  vision  of  angels,  when  Jesus  overtook 
them,  and  entered  into  conversation  with  them. 
At  first  they  did  not  recognize  Him — a  token,  as 
in  Mary's  case,  of  change  in  His  appearance — though 
their  hearts  burned  within  them  as  He  opened  to 
them  the  Scriptures  about  Christ's  sufferings  and 
glory.  As  the  day  was  closing,  Jesus  abode  with 
them  to  the  evening  meal;  then,  as  He  blessed  and 
brake  the;  bread,  "Their  eyes  were  opened,  and  they 
knew  him;  and  he  vanished  out  of  their  sight"  (Lk 
24  30.31).  They  hastily  rose,  and  returned  to  the 
company  of  disciples  at  Jerus.  According  to  Mk 
16  13,  their  testimony,  like  that  of  the  women,  was 
not  at  first  believed. 

(5)  The  fifth  appearance  was  that  to  "the  eleven," 
with  others,  in  the  evening — an  appearance  recorded 
by  Luke  (24  3(3  ff),  and  John  (20  19-23),  and  al- 
luded to  by  Paul  (1  Cor  15  5).  The  disciples  from 
Emmaus  had  just  come  in,  and  found  the  company 
thrilling  with  excitement  at  the  news  that  the  Lord 
had  appeared  to  Simon  (Lk).  The  doors  were 
closed  for  fear  of  the  Jews,  when  suddenly  Jesus 
appeared  in  their  midst  with  the  salutation,  "Peace 
be  unto  you"  (Lk,  Jn;  doubt  is  unnecessarily  cast 
on  Lk  24  36.40,  by  their  absence  from  some  West- 
ern texts).  The  disciples  were  affrighted;  they 
thought  they  had  seen  a  spirit  (Lk);  "disbelieved 
for  joy"  (Lk  24  41).  To  remove  their  fears,  Jesus 
showed  them  His  hands  and  His  feet  (in  Jn,  His 
side),  and  ate  before  them  (Lk).  He  then  breathed 
on  them,  saying,  "Receive  ye  the  Holy  Spirit,"  and 
renewed  the  commission  formerly  given  to  remit 
and  retain  sins  (Jn;  cf  Mt  18  17.18).  The  breath- 
ing was  anticipative  of  the  later  affusion  of  the 
Spirit  at  Pentecost  (cf  Jn  7  39;  Acts  2);  the 
authority  delegated  depends  for  its  validity  on  the 
possession  of  that  Spirit,  and  its  exercise  according 
to  the  mind  of  Christ  (cf  e.g.  1  Cor  5  3).  The 
incident  strikingly  illustrates  at  once  the  reality  of 


Jesus  Christ 


THE   INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


166G 


Christ's   risen    body,    :in<l    the   changed    conditions 
under  which  thai  body  now  existed. 

Eight    days   after   this  first    appearance -i.e.   the 
next  Sunday  evening— a  second  appearance  of  Jesus 
to  the  apostles  took  place  in  the  same 
d)  The  chamber    and    under    like    conditions 

Second  ("the  doors  being  shut").     The  pecul- 

Appearance    iar  feature  of  this  second  meeting  was 
to  the  the  removal  of  the  doubt  of  Thomas 

Eleven  -  who,  it  is  related,  had  not  been  present 
the  Doubt  on  the  former  occasion.  Thomas, 
of  Thomas  devoted  (ef  Jn  11  10),  but  of  naturally 
questioning  temperament  (14  5),  re- 
fused to  believe  on  the  mere  report  of  others  that 
the  Lord  had  risen,  and  demanded  indubitable 
sensible  evidence  for  himself.  Jesus,  at  the  second 
appearance,  after  salutation  as  before,  graciously 
gave  the  doubting  apostle  the  evidence  he  asked: 
"Reach  hither  thy  finger,  and  see  my  hands,"  etc 
(Jn  20  27).  though,  as  the  event  proved,  the  sign 
was  not  needed.  The  faith  and  love  of  the  erst- 
while doubter  leaped  forth  at  once  in  adoring  con- 
fession: "My  Lord  and  my  God."  It  was  well; 
but  Jesus  reminded  him  that,  the  lushest  faith  is 
not  that  which  waits  on  the  evidence  of  sense 
("Blessed  are  they  that  have  not  seen,  and  yet  have 
believed,"    ver  29). 

The   scene   now   shifts   for   the   time   to   Galilee. 
Jesus  had  appointed  to  meet  with  His  disciples  in 
Galilee     (Alt  26  32;      Mk  16  7;      cf 
e)  The  .Mk  14  28).     Prior,   however,   to   this 

Galilean         meeting — that    recorded  in  Mt  28  10- 
Appear-  20,  probably  to  be  identified  with  the 

ances  appearance    "to    above    five    hundred 

brethren  at  once,"  mentioned  by  Paul 
(1  Cor  15  6) — there  is  another  appearance  of  Jesus 
to  seven  disciples  at  the  Lake  of  Galilee,  of  which 
the  story  is  preserved  in  Jn  21  1-23. 

(1)  At  the  Sen  of  Tiberias — the  draught  of  fishes — 
Peter's  restoration. — The  chapter  which  narrates 
this  appearance  of  Jesus  at  the  Lake  of  Galilee  ("Sea 
of  Tiberias")  is  a  supplement  to  the  Gospel,  but  is 
so  evidently  Johannine  in  character  that  it  may 
safely  be  accepted  as  from  the  pen  of  the  beloved 
disciple  (thus  Lightfoot,  Meyer,  Godet,  Alford,  etc). 
The  appearance  itself  is  described  as  the  third  to 
the  disciples  (ver  14),  i.e.  the  third  to  the  apostles 
collectively,  and  in  Jn's  record  seven  disciples  are 
stated  to  have  been  present,  of  whom  five  are 
named-Peter,  Thomas,  Nathanael  (probably  to 
be  identified  with  Bartholomew),  and  the  sons  of 
Zebedec,  James  and  John.  The  disciples  had  spent 
the  night  in  fishing  without  result.  In  the  morning 
Jesus— yet  unrecognized — appeared  on  the  beach, 
and  bade  them  cast  down  their  net  on  the  right  side 
of  the  boat.  The  draught  of  fishes  which  they  took 
revealed  to  John  the  presence  of  the  Master.  "It 
is  the  Lord,"  he  said  to  Peter,  who  at  once  flung 
himself  into  the  lake  to  go  to  Jesus.  On  landing, 
the  disciples  found  a  fire  of  coals,  with  fish  placed 
on  it,  and  bread;  and  Jesus  Himself,  after  more 
fish  had  been  brought,  distributed  the  food,  and,  it 
seems  implied,  Himself  shared  in  the  meal.  Still 
a  certain  awe — another  indication  of  a  mysterious 
change  in  Christ's  appearance — restrained' the  dis- 
ciples from  asking  openly,  "Who  art  thou?"  (ver 
12).  It  was  not  long,  however  ("when  they  had 
broken  their  fast"),  before  Jesus  sufficiently  dis- 
closed Himself  in  the  touching  episode  of  the  res- 
toration of  Peter  (the  three-fold  question,  "Lovest 
thou  me ?"  answering  to  the  three-fold  denial,  met 
by  Peter's  heartfelt,  "Yea,  Lord;  thou  knowest 
that  I  love  thee,"  with  the  words  of  reinstatement, 
"Feed  my  lambs,"  "Feed  my  sheep").  In  another 
way,  Jesus  foretold  that  Peter  would  have  the  oppor- 
tunity of  taking  back  his  denial  in  the  death  by 
which  he  should  glorify  God   (vs  18.19;    tradition 


says  he  was  crucified  head-downward).  Curious 
inquiries  were  set  aside,  and  attention  recalled  to 
duty,  "Follow  thou  me"  (ver  22). 

(2)  On  the,  mountain — the  (Ireat  Commission — 
baptism. — Though  only  the  eleven  apostles  are 
named  in  Matthew's  account  (28  10),  the  fact  of 
an  'appointment'  for  a  definite  time  and  place 
("the  mountain"),  and  the  terms  in  which  the  mes- 
sage was  given  to  the  "disciples,"  suggests  a  collect- 
ive gathering  such  as  is  implied  in  Paul's  "above 
five  hundred  brethren  at  once"  (1  Cor  15  0).  The 
company  being  assembled,  Jesus  appeared;  still, 
at  first,  with  that  element  of  mystery  in  His  appear- 
ance, which  led  some  to  doubt  (ver  17).  Such  doubt 
would  speedily  vanish  when  the  Lord,  announcing 
Himself  as  clothed  with  all  authority  in  heaven  and 
earth,  gave  to  the  apostles  the  supreme  commission 
to  "make  disciples  of  all  the  nations"  (vs  18-20; 
cf  Mk  16  lo,  "Go  ye  into  all  the  world,"  etc). 
Discipleship  was  to  be  shown  by  baptism  "into  the 
name  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son  and  of  the  Holy 
Spirit"  {one  name,  yet  threefold),  and  was  to  be 
followed  by  instruction  in  Christ's  commands.  Be- 
hind the  commission,  world-wide  in  its  scope,  and 
binding  on  every  age,  stands  the  word  of  never- 
failing  encouragement,  "Lo,  I  am  with  you  always, 
even  unto  the  end  of  the  world."  Doubts  of  the 
genuineness  of  these  august  utterances  go  as  a  rule 
with  doubt  of  the  resurrection  itself. 

It  will  be  noticed  that  the  Lord's  Supper  and 
Baptism  are  the  only  sacraments  instituted  by  Jesus 
in  I  lis  church. 

Paul  records,  as  subsequent  to  the  above,  an  ap- 
pearance of  Jesus  to  James,  known  as  "the  Lord's 
brother"  (1  Cor  15  7;  cf  Gal  1  19). 
/)  Appear-  No  particulars  are  given  of  this  appear- 
ance to  ance,  which  may  have  occurred  either 
James  in  Galilee  or  Jerus.  James,  so  far  as 
known,  was  not  a  believer  in  Jesus 
before  the  crucifixion  (cf  Jn  7  3);  after  the  ascen- 
sion he  and  the  other  brethren  of  Jesus  are  found 
in  the  company  of  the  disciples  (Acts  1  14),  and  he 
became  afterward  a  chief  "pillar"  of  the  church  at 
Jerus  (Gal  1  19;  2  9).  This  appearance  may  have 
marked  the  turning-point. 

The  final   appearance   of  Jesus   to   the   apostles 
(1  Cor  15  7)    is  that  which   Luke   in   the   closing 
verses  of  his  Gospel   (44-53),   and  in 
g)  The  Acts  1  3-12,  brings  into  direct  rela- 

Last  tion  with  the  ascension.     In  the  Gos- 

Meeting  pel  Luke  proceeds  without  a  break 
from  the  first  appearance  of  Jesus  to 
"the  eleven"  to  His  last  words  about  "the  promise 
of  my  Father";  but  Acts  1  shows  that  a  period  of 
40  days  really  elapsed  during  which  Jesus  repeatedly 
"appeared"  to  those  whom  He  had  chosen.  This 
last  meeting  of  Jesus  with  His  apostles  was  mainly 
occupied  with  the  Lord's  exposition  of  the  pro- 
phetic Scriptures  (Lk  24  44-40),  with  renewed 
commands  to  preach  repentance  and  remission  of 
sins  in  His  name,  "beginning  from  Jerus"  (vs  47. 
48;  cf  Acts  1  8),  and  with  the  injunction  to  tarry  in 
Jerus  till  the  Spirit  should  be  given  (ver  49;  cf  Acts 
1  4.5).  Then  He  led  them  forth  to  Olivet,  "over 
against  Bethany,"  and,  while  blessing  them,  "was 
carried  up  into  heaven"  (vs  50.51;  cf  Acts  1  10.12). 
Jesus  had  declared,  "I  ascend  unto  my  Father" 
(Jn  20  17),  and  Luke  in  Acts  1  narrates  the  cir- 
cumstances of  that  departure.  Jesus 
2.  The  might   simply  have   "vanished"   from 

Ascension  the  sight  of  His  disciples,  as  on  pre- 
(Lk  24:50-  vious  occasions,  but  it  was  His  will  to 
53;  Acts  1:  leave  them  in  a  way  which  would  vis- 
6  14 ;  cf  Mk  ibly  mark  the  final  close  of  His  asso- 
16:19)  ciation  with  them.     They  are  found, 

as   in   the   Gospel,    "assembled"   with 
Him  at  Jerus,  where  His  final  instructions  are  given. 


1667 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA         Jesus  Christ 


Then  the  scone  insensibly  changes  to  Olivet,  where 
the  ascension  is  located  (Acts  1  12).  The  disciples 
inquire  regarding  the  restoration  of  the  kingdom  to 
Israel  (even  yet  their  minds  are  held  in  these  tem- 
poral conceptions),  but  Jesus  tells  them  that  it  is 
not  for  them  to  know  times  and  seasons,  which  the 
Father  had  set  within  His  own  authority  (ver  7). 
Ear  more  important  was  it  for  them  to  know  that 
within  the  next  days  they  should  receive  power  from 
the  Holy  Spirit  to  he  witnesses  for  Him  to  the  utter- 
most part  of  the  earth  (ver  S).  Even  as  He  spake, 
He  was  taken  up,  and  a  cloud  received  Him  out  of 
their  sight  (ver  9).  Then,  as  the  apostles  stood 
gazing  upward,  two  heavenly  messengers  appeared, 
who  comforted  them  with  the  assurance  that  in  like 
manner  as  they  had  seen  Jesus  ascend  into  heaven, 
so  also  would  He  come  again.  For  that  return  the 
church  still  prays  and  waits  (cf  Rev  22  20).  See, 
further,  Ascension. 

Retracing  their  steps  to  Jerus,  the  apostles  joined 
the  larger  company  of  disciples  in  the  "upper  room" 
where  their  meetings  seem  to  have  been  habitually 
held,  and  there,  with  one  accord,  to  the  number  of 
about  120  (Acts  1  15),  they  all  continued  sted- 
fastly  in  prayer  till  ''the  promise  of  the  Father" 
(Lk  24  49;  Acts  1  4)  was,  at  Pentecost,  bestowed 
upon  them. 

Part  IV.     Epilogue:    The  Apostolic  Teaching 

The  earthly  life  of  Jesus  is  finished.     With  His  res- 
urrection and  ascension  a  new  age  begins.     Yet  the 
work   of   Christ   continues.     As   Luke 

1.  After  the  expressively  phrases  it  in  Acts  1  1.2, 
Ascension      the  Gospels  are  but  the  records  of  "all 

that  Jesus  began  both  to  do  and  to 
teach,  until  the  day  in  which  he  was  received  up." 
It  is  beyond  the  scope  of  this  art.  to  trace  the  suc- 
ceeding developments  of  Christ's  activity  through 
His  church  and  by  His  Spirit;  in  order,  however, 
to  bring  the  subject  to  a  proper  close,  it  is  necessary 
to  glance,  even  if  briefly,  at  the  light  thrown  back 
by  the  Spirit's  teachings,  after  the  ascension,  on  the 
significance  of  the  earthly  life  itself,  and  at  the  en- 
largement of  the  apostles'  conceptions  about  Christ, 
consequent  on  this,  as  seen  in  the  Epistles  and  the 
Apocalypse. 

It  was  the  promise  of  Jesus  that,  after  His  de- 
parture, the  Spirit  would  be  given  to  His  disciples, 

to  teach  them  all  things,  and  bring  to 

2.  Revela-  their  remembrance  all  that  He  had 
tion  through  said  to  them  (Jn  14  26).  It  was  not 
the  Spirit       a  new  revelation  they  were  to  receive, 

but  illumination  and  guidance  of  their 
minds  into  the  meaning  of  what  they  had  received 
already  (Jn  16  13-15).  This  promise  of  the  Spirit 
was  fulfilled  at  Pentecost  (Acts  2).  Only  a  few 
personal  manifestations  of  Jesus  (Acts  7  55.56;  22 
17.18;  23  11)  are  recorded  after  that  event — the; 
two  chief  being  the  appearance  to  Paul  on  the  way 
to  Damascus  (1  Cor  15  8;  cf  Acts  9  3  ff,  etc),  and 
the  appearance  in  vision  to  John  in  Patmos  (Rev  1 
10  ff).  The  rest  was  internal  revelation  (cf  Gal  1 
12.16;  Eph  1  17;  3  3-5j.  The  immense  advance 
in  enlargement  and  clearness  of  view — aided,  no 
doubt,  by  Christ's  parting  instructions  (Lk  24  44- 
48;  Acts  1  2) — is  already  apparent  in  Peter's 
discourses  at  Pentecost;  but  it  is  not  to  be  supposed 
that  much  room  was  not  left  for  after-growth  in 
knowledge,  and  deepened  insight  into  the  connec- 
tion of  truths.  Peter,  e.g.,  had  to  be  instructed 
as  to  the  admission  of  the  Gentiles  (Acts  10  11); 
the  apostles  had  much  gradually  to  learn  as  to 
the  relations  of  the  law  (cf  Acts  15;  21  20  ff; 
Gal  2,  etc);  Paul  received  revelations  vastly  widen- 
ing the  doctrinal  horizon;  both  John  and  Paul 
show  progressive  apprehension  in  the  truth  about 
Christ. 


It  is  therefore  a  question  of  much  interest  how  the 

apostolic  conceptions  thus  gained  stand  related  to 

the    picture    of    Jesus    we    have    been 

3.  Gospels  studying  in  the  Gospels.  Itisthecon- 
and  Epistles  tention    of    the    so-called    "historical" 

(anti-supernaturalistic)  school  of  the 
day  that  the  two  pictures  do  not  correspond.  The 
transcendental  Christ  of  Paul  and  John  has  little 
in  common,  it  is  affirmed,  with  the  Man  of  Nazareth 
of  the  Synoptic  Gospels.  Theories  of  the  "origins 
of  Christianity"  are  concocted  proceeding  on  this 
assumption  (cf  Pfieiderer,  Weizsiicker,  Bousset, 
Wernle,  etc).  Such  speculations  ignore  the  first 
conditions  of  the  problem  in  not  accepting  the  self- 
testimony  of  Jesus  as  to  who  He  was,  and  the  ends 
of  His  mission  into  the  world.  When  Jesus  is  taken 
at  His  own  valuation,  anil  the  great  fact  of  His 
resurrection  is  admitted,  the  alleged  contradictions 
between  the  "Jesws  of  history"  and  the  "Christ  of 
faith"  largely  disappear. 

It  is  forgotten  how  great  a  change  in  the  center  of 

gravity  in  the  conception  of  Christ's  person  and 

work  was  necessarily  involved  in  the 

4.  Fact  of  facts  of  Christ's  death,  resurrection  and 
Christ's  exaltation  to  the  right  hand  of  power. 
Lordship        The  life  is  not  ignored — far  from  it. 

Its  influence  breathes  in  every  page, 
e.g.  of  Paul's  epistles.  But  the  weakness,  the  limi- 
tations, the  self-suppression — what  Paul  in  Phil  2  7 
calls  the  "emptying" — of  that  earthly  life  have  now 
been  left  behind;  the  rejected  and  crucified  One 
has  now  been  vindicated,  exalted,  has  entered  into 
His  ^lory.  This  is  the  burden  of  Peter's  first  ad- 
dress at  Pentecost:  "God  hath  made  him  both  Lord 
and  Christ,  this  Jesus  whom  ye  crucified"  (Acts  2 
36).  Could  anything  look  quite  the  same  after 
that?  The  change  is  seen  in  the  growing  substitu- 
tion of  the  name  "Christ"  for  "Jesus"  (see  at  be- 
ginning of  art.),  and  in  the  habitual  speaking  of 
Jesus  as  "Lord." 

With  belief  in  the  lordship  of  Jesus  went  neces- 
sarily an  enlarged  conception  of  the  significance  of 

His    person.     The   elements   were    all 

5.  Signifi-  there  in  what  the  disciples  had  seem 
cance  of  and  known  of  Jesus  while  on  earth 
Christ's  (Jn  1  14;  1  Jn  1  1-3),  but  His  ex- 
Person           altation  not  only  threw  back  light  upon 

His  claims  while  on  earth — confirmed, 
interpreted,  completed  them — but  likewise  showed 
the  ultimate  ground  of  these  claims  in  the  full  Di- 
vine dignity  of  His  person.  He  who  was  raised  to 
the  throne  of  Divine  dominion;  who  was  worshipped 
with  honors  due  to  God  only;  who  was  joined,  with 
Father  and  with  Holy  Spirit  as,  coordinately,  the 
source  of  grace  and  blessing,  must  in  the  fullest  sense 
be  Divine.  There  is  not  such  a  thing  as  honorary 
Godhead.  In  this  is  already  contained  in  substance 
everything  taught  about  Jesus  in  the  epistles:  His 
preexistence  (the  Lord's  own  words  had  suggested 
this,  Jn  8  58;  17  5,  etc),  His  share  in  Divine  attri- 
butes (eternity,  etc),  in  Divine  works  (creation,  etc, 
1  Cor  8  6;  Col  1  16.17;  He  1  2;  Rev  1  8;  3  14, 
etc),  in  Divine  worship  (Phil  2  9-11;  Rev  5  11.12, 
etc),  in  Divine  names  and  titles  (He  1  8,  etc).  It 
is  an  extension  of  the  same  conception  when  Jesus  is 
represented  as  the  end  of  creation — the  "Head"  in 
whom  all  things  are  finally  to  be  summed  up  (Eph 
1  10;  cf  He  2  6-9).  These  high  views  of  the  per- 
son of  Christ  in  the  Epistles  are  everywhere  assumed 
to  be  the  possession  of  the  readers. 

Jesus  had  furnished  His  disciples  with  the  means 
of  understanding  His  death  as  a  necessity  of  His 
Messianic  vocation,  endured  for  the  salvation  of 
the  world;  but  it  was  the  resurrection  and  exalta- 
tion which  shed  light  on  the  utmost  meaning  of  this 
also.  Jesus  died,  but  it  was  for  sins.  He  was  a 
propitiation  for  the  sin  of  the  world  (Rom  3  25; 


Jesus  Christ, 
Arrest,  Trial 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1668 


1  Jn  2  2;    4  10).     He  was 'made  sin' for  us  (2  Cor 

5  21).     The    strain    of    Isa  53    runs    through    the 

NT  teaching  on  this  theme  (cf  1   Pet 

6.  Signifi-  1  19;  2  22-25,  etc).  Jesus'  own  word 
canceofthe  "ransom"  is  reproduced  by  Paul  (1  Tim 
Cross  and  2  0).  The  song  of  the  redeemed  is, 
Resurrec-  "Thou  didst  purchase  unto  God^  with 
tion  thy    blood    men   of   every   tribe,"   etc 

(Rev  5  9).  Is  it  wonderful,  in  view 
of  this,  that  in  the  apostolic  writings— not  in 
Paul  only,  but  in  Pet,  in  Jn,  in  He,  and  Lev, 
equally— the  cross  should  .assume  the  decisive  im- 
portance it  docs?  Paul  only  works  out  more  fully 
in  relation  to  the  law  and  the  sinner's  justification 
;i  truth  shared  by  all.  He  himself  declares  it  to 
be  the  common  doctrine  of  the  churches  (1  Cor 
15  3.4). 

The  newer  tendency  is  to   read   an   apocalyptic 
character    into    nearly    all    the    teaching    of    Jesus 

(cf  Schweitzer,  Quest  of  the  Historical 

7.  Hope  of  Jesus).  This  is  an  exaggeration,  but 
the  Advent    that  Jesus  taught  His  disciples  to  look 

for  His  coining  again,  and  connected 
with  that  coining  the  perfection  of  His  kingdom,  is 
plain  to  every  reader  of  the  Gospels.  It  will  not  be 
denied  that  the  apostolic  church  retained  this  fea- 
ture of  the  teaching  of  Jesus.  In  accordance  with 
the  promise  in  Acts  1  11,  it  looked  for  the  glorious 
reappearing  of  its  Lord.  The  Epistles  are  full  of 
this  hope.  Even  Jn  gives  it  prominence  (1  Jn  2 
28;  3  2).  In  looking  for  the  parousia  as  something 
immediately  at  hand,  the  early  believers  went  even 
beyond  what  had  been  revealed,  and  Paul  had  to 
rebuke  harmful  tendencies  in  this  direction  (2  Thess 
2).  The  hope  might  be  cherished  that  the  coming 
would  not  long  be  delayed,  but  in  face  of  the  express 
declarations  of  Jesus  that  no  one,  not  the  angels, 
not  even  the  Son,  knew  of  that,  day  and  hour  (Mt 
24  30;  Mk  13  32),  and  that  the  Father  had  set 
these  tilings  in  His  own  authority  (Acts  17;  cf 
also  such  intimations  as  in  Mt  13  30;  24  LI;  25 
19;  28  19;  Lk  19  11,  etc),  none  could  affirm  this 
with  certainty.  Time  has  proved — proved  it  even 
in  the  apostolic  age  (2  Pet  3  3.4)— that  the  Ad- 
vent was  not  so  near  as  many  thought.  In  part, 
perhaps,  the  church  itself  may  be  to  blame  for 
the  delay.  Still  to  faith  the  Advent  remains  the 
great  fixed  event  of  the  future,  the  event  which 
overshadows  all  others — in  that  sense  is  ever 
near — the  polestar  of  the  church's  confidence  that 
righteousness  shall  triumph,  the  dead  shall  be 
raised,  sin  shall  be  judged  and  the  kingdom  of 
God  shall  come. 

Literature. — The   lit.    on    the   life    and    teaching   of 

Jesus  is  so  voluminous,  and  represents  such  diverse 
standpoints,  that  it  would  be  unprofitable  to  furnish 
an  extended  catalogue  of  it.  It  may  be  seen  prefixed 
to  any  of  the  larger  books.  On  the  skeptical  and  ration- 
alistic side  the  best  account  of  the  lit.  will  be  found 
in  Schweitzer's  book,  From  Reimarus  to  Wrede  (ET ,  Quest 
of  the  Historical  Jesus).  Of  modern  believing  works  may 
be  specially  named  those  of  Lange,  Weiss,  Ellicott,  Eders- 
heim.  Farrar,  1).  Smith.  Dr.  Sanday's  book.  The  Life  of 
Christ  in  Recent  Research,  surveys  a  large  part  of  the  tield, 
and  is  preparatory  to  an  extended  Life  from  Dr.  Sanday's 
own  pen.  His  art.  in  II I) B  has  justly  attracted  much 
attention.  Schiirer's  Hist  of  the  Jewish  People  in  the  Time 
oj  Jesus  chnst  (ET,  5  vols;  a  new  German  ed  has  been 
published)  is  the  best  authority  on  the  external  conditions. 
The  works  on  XT  Bib.  theology  (Reuss,  Weiss,  Schmid, 
Stevens,  etc)  deal  with  t  lie  teaching  of  Jesus;  see  also 
Wendt.  The  Teaching  of  Jesus  (ET).  Works  and  arts,  on 
the  Chronology,  on  Harmony  of  the  Gospels,  on  geog- 
raphy and  topography  (cf  esp.  Stanley,  G.  A.  Smith)  are 
legion.  A  good,  comprehensive  book  on  these  topics  is 
Andrews,  Life  of  Our  Lord  (rev.  ed).  The  present  writer 
has  published  works  on  The  Virgin  Birth  of  Christ  and 
The  Resurrection  of  Jesus.  On  the  relations  of  gospel  and 
epistle,  see  J.  Denney.  Jesus  and  the  Gospel.  See  also  the 
various  arts,  in  this  Enc,  on  Gospels;  The  Person  of 
Christ;  Ethics  of  Jesus;  Virgin  Birth;  Jesus  Christ, 
Arrest  ami  Trial  of;  Resurrection;  Ascension; 
Pharisees;  Sadducees;  Herod;  Jerusalem,  etc. 

James  Orr 


JESUS  CHRIST,  ARREST  AND  TRIAL  OF: 

1.  Jewish  and  Roman  Law 

2.  Difficulties  of  the  Subject 

3.  Illustrations  of  Difficulties 
I.     The   Arrest 

1.  Preparatory  Steps 

2.  The  Arrest  in  the  Oardon 

3.  Taken  to  the  City 
II.     The  Jewish  Trial 

1.  The  Jewish  Law 

2.  The  Mishna 

3.  Criminal  Trials 

4.  The  Trial  of  Jesus 

5.  The  Preliminary  Examination 

6.  The  Night  Trial 

7.  False  Witnesses 

8.  A  Browbeating  Judge 

9.  The  Morning  Session 

10.  Powers  of  the  Sanhedrin 

11.  Condemnation  for  Blasphemy 

12.  Summary 

III.     The  Roman  Trial 

1.  Taken  before  Pilate 

2.  Roman  Law  and  Procedure 

3.  Full  Trial  Not  Desired 

4.  Final  Accusation 

5.  Examination,  Defence  and  Acquittal 

6.  Fresh  Accusations 

7.  Reference  to  Herod 

8.  Jesus  or  Barabbas 

9.  Behold  the  Man! 

10.  Pilate  Succumbs  to  Threats 

11.  Pilate  Washes  His  Hands 

12.  The  Sentence 

13.  Review 

This  subject  is  of  special  interest,  not  only  on 
account  of  its  inherent  importance,  but  more  par- 
ticularly on  account  of  its  immediately  preceding, 
and  leading  directly  up  to  what  is  the  greatest 
tragedy  in  human  history,  the  crucifixion  of  Our 
Lord.  It  has  also  the  added  interest  of  being  the 
only  proceeding  on  record  in  which  the  two  great 
legal  systems  of  antiquity,  the  Jewish  and  the 
Roman,  which  have  most  largely  influenced  modern 
legislation  and  jurisprudence,  each  played  a  most 
important  part. 

The  coexistence  of  these  two  systems  in  Judaea,  and 

their  joint  action  in  bringing  about  the  tremendous  results 

in   question,    were  made   possible   by  the 

1      Tewish        generous  policy  pursued  by  Rome  in  allow  - 

a  t»  ing  conquered  nations  to  retain  their  an- 

and  Koman    cjent  laws,  institutions  and  usages,  in  so 

Law  far  as  they  were  compatible  with   Rom 

sovereignty  and  supremacy.     Not  only  so. 

but    in  a  large  degree,  they  permitted  these  laws  to  be 

administered  by  the  officials  of  the  subject  peoples.    This 

privilege  was  not  granted  absolutely,  but  was  permitted 

only  so  long  as  it  was  not  abused.    It  might  be  withdrawn 

at  any  time,  and  the  instances  in  which  this  was  done 

were  by  no  means  rare. 

Of  the  matters  considered  in  this  article,  the 
arrest  of  Jesus  and  the  proceedings  before  Annas, 
Caiaphas  and  the  Sanhedrin  took  place  professedly 
under  Jewish  law;  the  proceedings  before  Pilate 
and  the  reference  to  Herod,  under  Rom  law. 

It  is  very  difficult  to  construct  from  the  materials 
in  the  four  Gospels  a  satisfactory  continuous  record 
of  the  arrest,  and  of  what,  may  be 
2.  Diffi-  called  the  twofold  trial  of  Jesus.  The 
culties  of  Gospels  were  written  from  different 
the  Subject  viewpoints,  and  for  different  purposes, 
each  of  the  writers  selecting  such  par- 
ticulars as  seemed  to  him  to  be  of  special  importance 
for  the  particular  object  he  had  in  view.  Their 
reports  are  all  very  brief,  and  the  proper  chrono- 
logical order  of  the  various  events  recorded  in 
different  Gospels  must,  in  many  cases,  be  largely  a 
matter  of  conjecture.  The  difficulty  is  increased 
by  the  great  irregularit  ies  and  the  tumultuous 
character  of  the  proceedings;  by  our  imperfect 
knowledge  of  the  topography  of  Jerus  at  this  time 
(29  AD) ;  also  by  the  fact  that  the  reports  are  given 
mainly  in  popular  and  not  in  technical  language; 
and  when  the  latter  form  is  used,  the  technical 
terms  have  had  to  be  trd  into  Gr,  either  from  the 
Heb  or  from  the  Lat . 


1669 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jesus  Christ, 
Arrest,  Trial 


For  instance,  opinions  are  divided  as  to  where  Pilate 
resided  when  in  Jerus,  whether  in  the  magnificent  palace 
built  by  Herod  the  Great,  or  in  the  castle 
3.  Illustra-  °f  Antonia;  as  to  where  was  the  palace 
tions  of  occupied  by  Herod  Antipas  during  the  Pass- 

tv*k      ...  over;    whether  Annas  and  Caiaphas  occu- 

Dirhculties  pied  different  portions  of  the  same  palace, 
or  whether  they  lived  in  adjoining  or 
different  residences ;  whether  the  preliminary  examination 
of  Jesus,  recorded  by  John,  was  before  Annas  or  Caiaphas, 
and  as  to  other  similar  matters.  It  is  very  satisfactory, 
however,  to  know  that,  although  it  is  sometimes  difficult 
to  decide  exactly  as  to  the  best  way  of  harmonizing  the 
different  accounts,  yet  there  is  nothing  irreconcilable  or 
contradictory  in  them,  and  that  there  is  no  material  point 
in  the  history  of  the  very  important  proceedings  falling 
within  the  scope  of  this  article  which  is  seriously  affected 
by  any  of  these  debatable  matters. 

For  a  clear  historical  statement  of  the  events  of  the 
concluding  day  in  the  life  of  Our  Lord  before  His  cruci- 
fixion, see  the  article  on  Jesus  Christ.  The  present 
article  will  endeavor  to  consider  the  matters  relating  to 
His  arrest  and  trial  from  a  legal  and  constitutional  point 
of  view. 

/.  The  Arrest. — During  the  last  year  of  the  min- 
istry of  Jesus,  the  hostility  of  the  Jews  to  Him  had 
greatly  increased,  and  some  six  months  before  they 
finally  succeeded  in  accomplishing  their  purpose, 
they  had  definitely  resolved  to  make  away  with 
Him.  At  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles  they  sent  officers 
(the  temple-guards)  to  take  Him  while  He  was 
teaching  in  the  temple  (Jn  7  32);  but  these,  after 
listening  to  His  words,  returned  without  having 
made  the  attempt,  giving  as  a  reason  that  "never 
man  so  spake"  (ver  46). 

After  His  raising  of  Lazarus,  their  determination 
to  kill  Him  was  greatly  intensified.  A  special  meet- 
ing of  the  council  was  held  to  consider  the  matter. 
There  Caiaphas,  the  high  priest,  strongly  advocated 
such  a  step  on  national  grounds,  and  on  the  ground 
of  expediency,  quoting  in  support  of  his  advice, 
in  a  cold-blooded  and  cynical  manner,  the  Jewish 
adage  that  it  was  expedient  that  one  man  should 
die  for  the  people,  and  that  the  whole  nation  perish 
not.  Their  plans  to  this  end  were  frustrated,  for 
the  time  being,  by  Jesus  withdrawing  Himself  to  the 
border  of  the  wilderness,  where  He  remained  with 
His  disciples  (Jn  11  47-54). 

On  His  return  to  Bethany  and  Jerus,  six  days 
before  the  Passover,  they  were  deterred  from  carry- 
ing out  their  design  on  account  of  His  manifest 
popularity  with  the  people,  as  evidenced  by  His 
triumphal  entry  into  Jerus  on  the  first  day  of  the 
Passover  week  (Palm  Sunday),  and  by  the  crowds 
who  thronged  around  Him,  and  listened  to  His 
teachings  in  the  temple,  and  who  enjoyed  the  dis- 
comfiture of  the  Pharisees,  Sadducees  and  Hero- 
dians,  as  they  successively  sought  to  entangle  Him 
in  His  talk. 

Two  days  before  the  Passover,  at  a  council  meet- 
ing held  in  the  palace  of  Caiaphas,  they  planned 
to  accomplish  their  purpose  by  subtlety,  but  "not 
during  the  feast,  lest  a  tumult  arise  among  the 
people"  (Mt  26  3-5;  Mk  14  1.2).  While  they 
were  in  this  state  of  perplexity,  to  their  great  relief 
Judas  came  to  them  and  agreed  to  betray  his 
Master  for  money  (Alt  26  14-16;   Mk  14  10.11). 

This  time  they  determined  not  to  rely  solely  upon 
their  own  temple-guards  or  officers  to  execute  their 
warrant  or  order  of  arrest,  fearing  that 
1.  Prepara-  these  officials,  being  Jews,  might  again 
tory  Steps  be  fascinated  by  the  strange  influence 
which  Jesus  exercised  over  His  country- 
men, or  that  His  followers  might  offer  resistance. 
They  therefore  applied  to  Pilate,  the  Rom  proc- 
urator (governor),  for  the  assistance  of  a  band  of 
Rom  soldiers.  He  granted  them  a  cohort  (Gr 
speira,  400  to  600  men)  from  the  legion  then  quar- 
tered in  the  castle  of  Antonia,  which  adjoined  and 
overlooked  the  temple-area.  The  final  arrange- 
ments as  to  these  would  probably  be  completed 
while  Judas  was  at  the  supper  room.     It  has  been 


suggested  that  the  whole  cohort  would  not  go,  but 
only  a  selection  from  them.  However,  it  is  said 
that  Judas  "received  the  band  [cohort]  of  soldiers" 
(Jn  18  3),  and  that  they  were  under  the  command 
of  a  chief  captain  (Gr  chiliarch,  Lat  tribune,  ver  12). 
If  there  had  not  been  more  than  100  soldiers,  they 
would  not  have  been  under  the  command  of  a 
captain,  but  the  chief  officer  would  have  been  a 
centurion.  The  amazing  popularity  of  Jesus,  as 
shown  by  His  triumphal  entry  into  the  city,  may 
have  led  the  authorities  to  make  such  ample  provi- 
sion against  any  possible  attempt  at  rescue. 

The  Garden  of  Gethsemane,  in  which  Judas  knew 
that  Jesus  would  be  found  that  night,  was  well 
known  to  him  (Jn  18  2);  and  he  also  knew  the 
time  he  would  be  likely  to  find  his  Master  there. 
Thither  at  the  proper  hour  he  led  the  band  of  sol- 
diers, the  temple  officers  and  others,  and  also  some 
of  the  chief  priests  and  elders  themselves;  the 
whole  being  described  as  "a  great  multitude  with 
swords  and  staves"  (Mt  26  47).  Although  the 
Easter  full  moon  would  be  shining  brightly,  they 
also  carried  "lanterns  and  torches"  (Jn  18  3),  in 
order  to  make  certain  that  Jesus  should  not  escape 
or  fail  to  be  recognized  in  the  deep  shade  of  the  olive 
trees  in  the  garden. 

On  their  arrival  at  the  garden,  Jesus  came  forward 

to  meet  them,  and  the  traitor  Judas  gave  them  the 

appointed  signal  by  kissing  Him.     As 

2.  The  the  order  or  warrant  was  a  Jewish  one, 
Arrest  in  the  temple  officers  would  probably  be 
the  Garden  in  front,  the  soldiers  supporting  them 

as  reserves.  On  Jesus  announcing  to 
the  leaders  that  He  was  the  one  they  sought, 
what  the  chief  priests  had  feared  actually  oc- 
curred. There  was  something  in  the  words  or 
bearing  of  Jesus  which  awed  the  temple  officers; 
they  were  panic-stricken,  went  backward,  and  fell 
to  the  ground.  On  their  rallying,  the  impetuous 
Peter  drew  his  sword,  and  cut  off  the  ear  of  one 
of  them,  Malchus,  the  servant  of  the  high  priest 
(Jn  18  6-10). 

On  this  evidence  of  resistance  the  Rom  captain 
and  soldiers  came  forward,  and  with  the  assistance 
of  the  Jewish  officers  bound  Jesus.  Under  the 
Jewish  law  this  was  not  lawful  before  condemnation, 
save  in  exceptional  cases  where  resistance  was  either 
offered  or  apprehended. 

Even  in  this  trying  hour  the  concern  of  Jesus  was 
more  for  others  than  for  Himself,  as  witness  His 
miracle  in  healing  the  ear  of  Malchus,  and  His 
request  that  His  disciples  might  be  allowed  their 
liberty  (Jn  18  8).  Notwithstanding  His  efforts,  His 
followers  were  panic-stricken,  probably  on  account 
of  the  vigorous  action  of  the  officers  and  soldiers 
after  the  assault  by  Peter,  "and  they  all  left  him 
and  fled"  (Mk  14  50). 

It  is  worthy  of  note  that  Jesus  had  no  word  of 
blame  or  censure  for  the  Rom  officers  or  soldiers 
who  were  only  doing  their  sworn  duty  in  supporting 
the  civil  authorities;  but  His  pungent  words  of 
reproach  for  not  having  attempted  His  arrest  while 
He  was  teaching  openly  in  the  temple  were  reserved 
for  "the  chief  priests,  and  captains  of  the  temple, 
and  elders"  (Lk  22  52),  who  had  shown  their  in- 
ordinate zeal  and  hostility  by  taking  the  unusual, 
and  for  those  who  were  to  sit  as  judges  on  the 
case,  the  improper  and  illegal  course  of  accom- 
panying the  officers,  and  themselves  taking  part 
in  the  arrest. 

The  whole  body  departed  with  their  prisoner  for 

the  city.     From  the  first  three  Gospels  one  might, 

infer  that  they  went  directly  to  the  pal- 

3.  Taken  to  ace  of  Caiaphas,  the  high  priest, 
the   City         In   the    Fourth    Gospel,   however,   we 

are  told  that  they  took  him  first  to 
Annas  (Jn  18  13). 


Jesus  Christ, 
Arrest,  Trial 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1670 


Why  they  did  so  we  are  not  informed,  the  only  state- 
ment 'made'  being  that  he  was  the  father-in-law  of  Caia- 
phas  (ver  i:<).  He  had  been  the  high  priest  from  7  AD 
to  15  AD,  when  lie  was  deposed  by  Valerius  (iratus,  the 
Kom  procurator.  He  was  still  the  most  influential 
member  of  the  Sanhedrin,  and,  being  of  an  aggressive 
disposition,  it.  may  In1  that  it  was  he  who  had  given  in- 
structions as  to  t  lir  arrest .  and  that  they  thought  it  their 
duty  to  report  first  to  him. 

Annas,  however,  sent  Jesus  hound  to  Caiaphas 
(ver  24).  Having  delivered  over  their  prisoner,  the; 
Rom  soldiers  would  proceed  to  their  quarters  in  the 
castle,  the  temple  officials  retaining  Jesus  in  their 
charge. 

Meanwhile,  the  members  of  the  Sanhedrin  were 
assembling  at  the  palace  of  the  high  priest,  and  the 
preliminary  steps  toward  the  first  or  Jewish  trial 
were  being  taken. 

//.  The  Jewish  Trial. — It  is  the  just  boast  of  those 
countries  whose  jurisprudence  had  its  origin  in  the 
common  law  of  England,  that  their 
1.  The  Jew-  system  of  criminal  law  is  founded  upon 
ish  Law  the  humane  maxims  that   everyone  is 

presumed  to  he  innocent  until  lie  is 
proved  to  he  guilty,  and  that  no  one  is  bound  to 
criminate  himself.  But  the  Jewish  law  went  even 
farther  in  the  safeguards  which  it  placed  around  tin 
accused  person.  In  the  Pent  it  is  provided  that 
one  witness  shall  not  be  sufficient  to  convict  any 
man  of  even  a  minor  offence.  "One  witness  shall 
not  rise  up  against  a  man  for  any  iniquity,  or  for 
any  sin,  in  any  sin  that  he  sinneth:  at  the  mouth 
of  two  witnesses,  or  at  the  mouth  of  three  witnesses, 
shall  a  matter  be  established"  (Dt  19  15). 

These  principles  of  the  Mosaic  law  were  elaborated 

and  extended  in  the  system  which  grew  up  after  the 

return  from  Babylon.     It  was  begun  by 

2  The  fcne  men  of  tlle  Great  Synagogue,  and  was 
JL.  ,  afterward  completed  by  the  Sanhedrin 
Misnna           which  succeeded  them.      Up  to  the  time  of 

Our  Lord,  and  for  the  first  two  centuries 
of  the  Christian  era,  their  rules  remained  largely  in  an 
oral  or  unwritten  form,  until  they  were  compiled  or  codi- 
fied in  the  Mish  by  Rabbi  Judah  and  his  associates  and 
successors  in  the  early  part  of  the  3d  cent.  It  is  generally 
conceded  by  both  Jewish  and  Christian  writers  that  the 
main  provisions,  therein  found  for  the  protection  of 
accused  persons,  had  been  long  incorporated  in  the  oral 
law  and  were  recognized  as  a  part  of  it  in  the  time  of 
Annas  and  Caiaphas. 

The  provisions  relating  to  criminal  trials,  and  esp.  to 
those  in  which  the  offence    was    punishable    by  death, 

were  very  stringent  and  were  all  framed 

3  Criminal  in  tne  interest  of  the  accused.  Among 
T*  •  ,  '  them  were  the  following:  The  trial  must 
1  rials  be  begun   by   day,   and  if  not  completed 

before  night  it  must  be  adjourned  and 
resumed  by  day;  the  quorum  of  judges  in  capital  cases 
was  23,  that  being  the;  quorum  of  the  Grand  Council;  a 
verdict,  of  acquittal,  which  required  only  a  majority  of 
one,  might  be  rendered  on  the  same  day 'as  the  trial  was 
completed;  any  other  verdict  could  only  be  rendered 
on  a  subsequent  day  and  required  a  majority  of  at  least 
two;  no  prisoner  could  be  convicted  on  his  own  evidence; 
it  was  the  duty  of  a  judge  to  see  that  the  interests  of  the' 
accused  were  fully  protected. 

The  modern  practice  of  an  information  or  complaint 
and  a  preliminary  investigation  before  a  magistrate  was 
wholly  unknown  to  the  Jewish  law  and  foreign  to  its 
genius.  The  examination  of  the  witnesses  in  open  court 
was  in  reality  the  beginning  of  a  Jewish  trial,  and  the 
crime  for  which  the  accused  was  tried,  and  the  sole  charge 
he  had  to  meet,  was  that  which  was  disclosed  by  the  evi- 
dence of  the  witnesses. 

Let  tis  see  how  far  the  foregoing  principles  and 
rules  were  followed  and  observed  in  the  proceedings 

before  the  high  priest  in  the  present 
4.  The  instance.     The  first  step  taken  in  the 

Trial  of  trial  was  the  private  examination  of 

Jesus  Jesus    by    the    high    priest,    which    is 

recorded  only  in  Jn  18  19-23.  Opin- 
ions differ  as  to  whether  this  examination  was  con- 
ducted by  Annas  at  his  residence  before  he  sent 
Jesus  to  Caiaphas  (ver  24),  or  by  the  latter  after 
Jesus  had  been  delivered  up  to  him. 

Caiaphas  was  actually  the  high  priest  at  the  time,  and 
had  been  for  some  years.      Annas  had  been  deposed  from 


the  office;  about  14  years  previously  by  the  Rom  procu- 
rator; but  he  was  still  accorded  the  title  (Acts  4  6). 
Many  of  the  Jews  did  not  concede  the  right  of  the  proc- 
urator to  di'pose  him,  and  looked  upon  him  as  still  the 
rightful  high  priest.  He  is  also  said  to  have  been  at 
this  time  tho  vice-president  of  the  Sanhedrin.  The 
arguments  as  to  which  of  them  is  called  the  high  priest 
by  John  in  this  passage  are  based  largely  upon  two  differ- 
ent renderings  of  Jn  18  24.  In  AV  the  verse  reads 
"Now  Annas  had  sent  him  bound  unto  Caiaphas  the 
high  priest,"  a  reading  based  upon  the  Tit  whichimplies 
that  Jesus  had  been  sent  to  Caiaphas  before  the  exami- 
nation. On  the  other  hand,  RV,  following  the  Or  text 
adopted  by  Nestle  and  others,  reads,  "Annas  therefore 
sent  him  bound  unto  Caiaphas  the  high  priest,"  implying 
that  Annas  sent  him  to  Caiaphas  on  account  of  what  had 
taken  place  in  the  examination. 

However,  it  is  not  material  which  of  these  two 
leading  members  of  the  Sanhedrin  conducted  the 
examination.  The  same  may  also  be  stud  as  to  the 
controversy  regarding  the  residence  of  Annas  at  the 
time,  whether  it  was  in  some  part  of  the  official 
palace  of  the;  high  priest  or  elsewhere.  The  im- 
portant matters  are  the  fact,  the  time,  and  the 
manner  of  the  examination  by  one  or  other  of  these 
leading  members  of  the  council,  not  the  precise 
place  where,  or  the  particular  person  by  whom,  it 
was  conducted. 

The  high  priest  (whether  Annas  or  Caiaphas) 
proceeded  to  interrogate  Jesus  concerning  His  dis- 
ciples and  His  doctrine  (Jn  18  19). 
6.  The  Pre-  Such  a  proceeding  formed  no  part  of  a 
liminary  regular  Jewish  trial,  and  was,  more- 
Examina-  over,  not  taken  in  good  faith;  but 
tion  with  a  view  to  entrapping  Jesus  into 

admissions  that  might  be  used  against 
Him  at  the  approaching  trial  before  the  council. 
It  appears  to  have  been  in  the  nature  of  a  private 
examination,  conducted  probably  while  the  mem- 
bers of  the  council  were  assembling.  The  dignified 
and  appropriate  answer  of  Jesus  pointedly  brought 
before  the  judge  the  irregularity  he  was  committing, 
and  was  a  reminder  that  His  trial  should  begin  with 
the  examination  of  the  witnesses:  "I  spake  openly 
to  the  world;  I  ever  taught  in  the  synagogue,  and 
in  the  temple,  whither  the  Jews  always  resort ;  and 
in  secret  have  I  said  nothing,  ^'hy  askest  thou 
me?  Ask  them  which  heard  me,  what  I  have  said 
unto  them:  behold,  they  know  what  I  said"  (vs 
20.21  AV).  The  reply  to  this  was  a  blow  from  one 
of  the  officers,  an  outrageous  proceeding  which 
appears  to  have  passed  unrebuked  by  the  judge, 
and  it  was  left  to  Jesus  Himself  to  make  the  appro- 
priate protest. 

The  next  proceeding  was  the  trial  before  the 
council  in  the  palace  of  Caiaphas,  attended  at  least 
by  the  quorum  of  23.     This  was  an 
6.  The  illegal  meeting,   since  a  capital  trial, 

Night  Trial  as  we  have  seen,  could  not  either  be 
begun  or  proceeded  with  at  night. 
Some  of  the  chief  priests  and  elders,  as  previously 
stated,  had  been  guilty  of  the  highly  improper 
act  for  judges,  of  taking  part  in  and  directing 
the  arrest  of  Jesus.  Now,  "the  chief  priests  and 
the  whole  council"  spent  the  time  intervening  be- 
tween the  arrest  and  the  commencement  of  the 
trial  in  something  even  worse:  they  "sought  false 
witness  against  Jesus,  that  they  might  put  him  to 
death"  (Mt  26  59).  This,  no  doubt,  only  means 
that  they  then  collected  their  false  witnesses  and 
instructed  them  as  to  the  testimony  they  should 
give.  For  weeks,  ever  since  the  raising  of  Laza- 
rus, they  had  been  preparing  for  such  a  trial, 
as  we  read:  "So  from  that  day  forth  they 
took  counsel  that  they  might  put  him  to  death" 
(Jn  11  53). 

Caiaphas,  as  high  priest  and  president  of  the  San- 
hedrin, presided  at  the  meeting  of  the  council.  The 
oath  administered  to  witnesses  in  a  Jewish  court 
was  an  extremely  solemn  invocation,  and  it  makes 


1671 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jesus  Christ, 
Arrest,  Trial 


one  shudder  to  think  of  the  high  priest  pronouncing 
these  words  to  perjured  witnesses,  known  by  him 
to  have  been  procured  by  the  judges  before  him  in 
the  manner  stated. 

But  even  this  did  not  avail.     Although  "many 

bare  false  witness  against  him,"  yet  on  account  of 

their  having  been  imperfectly  tutored 

7.  False  by  their  instructors,  or  for  other  cause, 
Witnesses      "their   witness   agreed    not    together" 

(Mk  14  56),  and  even  these  prejudiced 
and  partial  judges  could  not  find  the  concurring 
testimony  of  two  witnesses  required  by  their  law 
(Dt  19  15). 

The  nearest  approach  to  the  necessary  concur- 
rence came  at  last  from  two  witnesses,  who  gave  a 
distorted  report  of  a  figurative  and  enigmatic  state- 
ment made  by  Jesus  in  the  temple  during  His  early 
ministry:  "Destroy  this  temple,  and  in  three  days 
I  will  raise  it  up"  (Jn  2  19).  The  explanation  is 
given:  "He  spake  of  the  temple  of  his  body"  (ver 
21) .  The  testimony  of  the  two  witnesses  is  reported 
with  but  slight  variations  in  the  two  first  Gospels 
as  follows:  "This  man  said,  I  am  able  to  destroy 
the  temple  of  God,  and  to  build  it  in  three  days" 
(Mt  26  61);  and  "We  heard  him  say,  I  will  destroy 
this  temple  that  is  made  with  hands,  and  in  three 
days  I  will  build  another  made  without  hands" 
(Mk  14  58).  Whether  these  slightly  different 
statements  represent  the  discrepancies  in  their  tes- 
timony, or  on  account  of  some  other  variations  or 
contradictions,  the  judges  reluctantly  decided  that 
"not  even  so  did  their  witness  agree  together" 
(ver  59). 

Caiaphas,  having  exhausted  his  list  of  witnesses, 

and  seeing  the  prosecution  on  which  he  had  set  his 

heart  in  danger  of  breaking  down  for 

8.  A  Brow-  the  lack  of  legal  evidence,  adopted  a 
beating  blustering  tone,  and  said  to  Jesus, 
Judge  "Answerest  thou  nothing?  what  is  it 

which  these  witness  against  thee?  But 
Jesus  held  his  peace"  (Mt  26  62.63),  relying  on  the 
fact  that  the  prosecution  had  utterly  failed  on 
account  of  the  lack  of  agreement  of  two  witnesses 
on  any  of  the  charges.  As  a  final  and  desperate 
resort,  Caiaphas  had  recourse  to  a  bold  strategic 
move  to  draw  from  Jesus  an  admission  or  confession 
on  which  he  might  base  a  condemnation,  similar  to 
the  attempt  which  failed  at  the  preliminary  exami- 
nation; but  this  time  fortifying  his  appeal  by  a 
solemn  adjuration  in  the  name  of  the  Deity.  He 
said  to  Jesus:  "I  adjure  thee  by  the  living  God,  that 
thou  tell  us  whether  thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son 
of  God.  Jesus  saith  unto  him,  Thou  hast  said: 
nevertheless  I  say  unto  you,  Henceforth  ye  shall  see 
the  Son  of  man  sitting  at  the  right  hand  of  Power, 
and  coming  on  the  clouds  of  heaven"  (vs  63.64). 
Caiaphas,  although  knowing  that  under  the  law 
Jesus  could  not  be  convicted  on  His  own  answers 
or  admissions,  thereupon  in  a  tragic  manner  "rent 
his  garments,  saying,  He  hath  spoken  blasphemy: 
what  further  need  have  we  of  witnesses?  behold, 
now  ye  have  heard  the  blasphemy :  what  think  ye? 
They  answered  and  said,  He  is  worthy  of  death" 
(vs  65.66). 

The  night  session  then  broke  up  to  meet  again 
after  daybreak  in  order  to  ratify  the  decision 
just  come  to,  and  to  give  a  semblance  of  le- 
gality to  the  trial  and  verdict.  The  closing  scene 
was  one  of  disorder,  in  which  they  spat  in  their 
prisoner's  face  and  buffeted  him  (vs  67.68;  Lk  22 
63-65). 

The  following  morning,  "as  soon  as  it  was  day," 
the  council  reassembled  in  the  same  place,  and  Jesus 
was  led  into  their  presence  (Lk  22  66).  There 
were  probably  a  number  of  the  council  present 
who  had  not  attended  the  night  session.  For  the 
benefit  of  these,  and  perhaps  to  give  an  appearance 


of  legality  to  the  proceeding,  the  high  priest  began 

the   trial   anew,  but  not  with  the  examination  of 

witnesses   which   had    proved   such    a 

9.  The  failure  at  the  night  session.  He  pro- 
Morning  ceeded  at  once  to  ask  substantially  the 
Session  same  questions  as  had  finally  brought 

out  from  Jesus  the  night  before  the 
answer  which  he  hat!  declared  to  be  blasphemy,  and 
upon  which  the  council  had  "condemned  him  to  be 
worthy  of  death"  (Mk  14  64).  The  meeting  is 
mentioned  in  all  the  Gospels,  the  details  of  the  ex- 
amination are  related  by  Luke  alone.  When  asked 
whether  He  was  the  Christ,  He  replied,  "If  I  tell 
you,  ye  will  not  believe:  and  if  I  ask  you,  ye  will 
not  answer.  But  from  henceforth  shall  the  Son  of 
man  be  seated  at  the  right  hand  of  the  power  of 
God"  (Lk  22  67-69).  This  answer  not  being  suf- 
ficient to  found  a  verdict  of  blasphemy  upon,  they 
all  cried  out,  "Art  thou  then  the  Son  of  God?"  To 
this  He  gave  an  affirmative  answer,  "Ye  say  that  I 
am.  And  they  said,  What  further  need  have  we  of 
witness?  for  we  ourselves  have  heard  from  his  own 
mouth"  (vs  70.71). 

It  will  be  observed  that  neither  at  the  night  nor 
at  the  morning  session  was  there  any  sentence  pro- 
nounced upon  Jesus  by  the  high  priest. 

10.  Powers  There  was  on  each  occasion  only  what 
of  the  San-  would  be  equivalent  to  a  verdict  of 
hedrin  guilty    found    by  a   jury    under  our 

modern  criminal  practice,  but  no 
sentence  passed  upon  the  prisoner  by  the  presiding 
judge.  When  Judaea  lost  the  last  vestige  of  its 
independence  and  became  a  Rom  province  (6  AD), 
the  Sanhedrin  ceased  to  have  the  right  to  inflict 
capital  punishment  or  to  administer  the  law  of 
life  and  death.  This  jurisdiction  was  thenceforth 
transferred  to  the  Rom  procurator.  The  San- 
hedrin submitted  very  reluctantly  to  this  cur- 
tailment of  its  powers.  A  few  years  later  it 
exercised  it  illegally  and  in  a  very  riotous  manner 
in  the  case  of  Stephen  (Acts  7  58).  Annas,  how- 
ever, of  all  men,  had  good  reason  not  to  violate 
this  law,  as  his  having  done  so  during  the  absence 
of  the  procurator  was  the  cause  of  his  being  de- 
posed from  the  office  of  high  priest  by  Valerius 
G  rat  us  (15  AD). 

The  proceedings  may  have  been  taken  before  the 
high  priest  in  the  hope  that  Pilate  might  be  induced 
to  accept  the  verdict  of  the  Sanhedrin  as  conclusive 
that  Jesus  had  been  guilty  of  an  offence  punishable 
by  death  under  the  Jewish  law. 

Now  what  was  the  precise  crime  or  crimes  for 

which  Jesus  was  tried  at  these  two  sittings  of  the 

council?     The  first  impression  would 

11.  Con-  probably  be  that  there  was  no  connec- 
demnation  tion  between  the  charge  of  destroying 
for  Bias-  the  temple  and  building  another  in 
phemy  three  days,  and  His  claiming  to  be  the 

Son  of  God.  And  yet  they  were 
closely  allied  in  the  Jewish  mind.  The  Jewish 
nation  being  a  pure  theocracy,  the  overthrow  of  the 
temple,  the  abode  of  the  Divine  Sovereign,  would 
mean  the  overthrow  of  Divine  institutions,  and  be 
an  act  of  treason  against  t  lie  Deity.  The  profession 
of  ability  to  build  another  temple  in  three  days 
would  be  construed  as  a  claim  to  the  possession  of 
supernatural  power  and,  consequently,  blasphemy. 
As  to  the  other  claim  which  He  Himself  made  and 
confessed  to  the  council,  namely,  that  He  was  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  none  of  them  would  have 
any  hesitation  in  concurring  in  the  verdict  of  the 
high  priest  that  it  was  rank  blasphemy,  when  made 
by  one  whom  they  regarded  simply  as  a  Galilean 
peasant. 

To  sum  up:  The  Jewish  trial  of  Our  Lord  was 
absolutely  illegal,  the  court  which  condemned  Him 
being  without  jurisdiction  to  try  a  capital  offence, 


Jesus  Christ, 
Arrest,  Trial 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1072 


which  blasphemy  was  under  the  Jewish  law.  Even 
if  there  had  been  jurisdiction,  it  would  have  been 
irregular,  as  the  judges  had  rendered 
12.  Sum-  themselves  incompetent  to  try  the 
mary  case,  having  been  guilty  of  the  viola- 

tion of  the  spirit  of  the  law  that  re- 
quired judges  to  be  unprejudiced  and  impartial, 
and  carefully  to  guard  the  interests  of  the  accused. 
Even  the  letter  of  the  law  had  been  violated  in  a 
number  of  important  respects.  Among  these  may 
be  mentioned:  (lj  some  of  the  judges  taking  part 
in  and  directing  the  arrest;  (2)  the  examination 
before  the  trial  and  the  attempt  to  obtain  admis- 
sions; (3)  endeavors  of  the  judges  to  procure  the 
testimony  of  false  witnesses;  (4)  commencing  and 
continuing  the  trial  at  night;  (5)  examining  and 
adjuring  the  accused  in  order  to  extort  admissions 
from  Him;  (5)  rendering  a  verdict  of  guilty  at  the 
close  of  the  night  session,  without  allowing  a  day 
to  intervene;  (7)  holding  the  morning  session  on  a 
feast  day,  and  rendering  a  verdict  at  its  close;  and 
(8)  rendering  both  verdicts  without  any  legal 
evidence. 

///.  The  Roman  Trial. — Early  on  the  morning 
of  Friday  of  the  Passover  week,  as  we  have  al- 
ready seen,  "the  chief  priests  with  the  elders  and 
scribes,  and  the  whole  council"  held  a  consulta- 
tion (Nik),  in  the  palace  of  the  high  priest;  and 
after  the  examination  of  Jesus  and  their  verdict 
that  He  was  guilty  of  blasphemy,  they  took  coun- 
sel against  Him  "to  put  him  to  death"  (Mt),  this 
being,  in  their  judgment,  the  proper  punishment 
for  the  offence  of  which  they  had  pronounced  Him 
guilty. 

For  the  reasons  already  mentioned,  they  came 

to   the   conclusion   that   it   would   be  necessary  to 

invoke  the  aid  of  the  Rom  power  in 

1.  Taken  carrying  out  this  sentence.  They 
before  thereupon  bound  Jesus,  and  led  Him 
Pilate             away  and  delivered  Him  up  to  Pilate, 

who  at  this  time  probably  occupied, 
while  in  Jerus,  the  magnificent  palace  built  by  Herod 
the  Great .  Jesus  was  taken  into  the  judgment  hall 
of  the  palace  or  Praetor ium;  His  accusers,  unwill- 
ing to  defile  themselves  by  entering  into  a  heathen 
house  and  thereby  rendering  themselves  unfit  to 
eat  the  Passover,  remained  outside  upon  the  marble 
pavement. 

The  proceedings  thus  begun  were  conducted  under  a 

system  entirely  different  from  that  which  we  have  thus 

far   been  considering,    both  in  its  nature 

2.  Roman  an(l  ils  administration.  The  Jewish  law 
Law  and  was    a    part    of    tne    religion,    and    in   its 

aw  aiiu  growth    and    development    was    adminis- 

Procedure  tered  in  important  cases  by  a  large  body 
of  trained  men,  who  were  obliged  to  follow 
strictly  a  well-defined  procedure.  The  Rom  law,  on  the 
other  hand,  had  its  origin  and  growth  under  the  stern 
and  manly  virtues  and  the  love  of  justice  which  char- 
acterized republican  Rome,  and  it  still  jealously  guarded 
the  rights  and  privileges  of  Rom  citizens,  even  in  a  con- 
quered province.  Striking  illustrations  of  this  truth 
are  found  in  the  life  of  St.  Paul  (see  Acts  16  35-39;  22 
24-29;  25  10-12).  The  lives  and  fortunes  of  the  natives 
in  an  imperial  province  like  Judaea  may  be  said  to  have 
been  almcxst  completely  at  the  mercy  of  the  Rom  procu- 
rator or  governor,  who  was  responsible  to  his  imperial  mas- 
ter alone,  and  not  even  to  the  Rom  senate.  Pdate  there- 
fore was  well  within  the  mark  when,  at  a  later  stage  of  the 
trial,  being  irritated  at  Jesus  remaining  silent  when 
questioned  by  him,  he  petulantly  exclaimed:  "Speakest 
thou  not  unto  me?  knowest  thou  not  that  I  have  power 
to  release;  thee,  and  have  power  to  crucify  thee?"  (Jn 
19  10).  While,  however,  the  procurator  was  not  com- 
pelled in  such  cases  to  adhere  strictly  to  the  prescribed 
procedure,  and  had  a  wide  discretion,  he  was  not  allowed 
to  violate  or  depart  from  the  established  principles  of 
the  law. 

On  this  occasion,  Pilate,  respecting  the  scruples 
of  the  chief  priests  about  entering  the  palace,  went 
outside  at  their  request,  apparently  leaving  Jesus 
in  the  Praetorium.     He  asked  them  the  usual  for- 


mal question,  [tut   at,  the  opening  of  a  Rom  trial; 

"What     accusation    bring    ye    against,    this    man? 

They  answered  and  said  unto  him,  If 

3.  Full  he  were  not,  an  evil-doer,  we  should  not, 
Trial  Not  have  delivered  him  up  unto  thee" 
Desired  (Jn  18  29f  AV).     Pilate  could  see  at 

once  that,  this  was  a  mere  attempt  to 
evade  the  direct  question  he  had  asked,  and  was 
not  such  an  accusation  as  disclosed  any  offence 
known  to  the  Rom  law.  Affecting  to  treat  it  with 
disdain,  and  as  something  known  only  to  their  own 
law,  he  said,  "Take  him  yourselves,  and  judge  him 
according  to  your  law.  The  Jews  said  unto  him, 
It  is  not  lawful  for  us  to  put  any  man  to  death" 
(ver  31). 

Perceiving  that   Pilate  would  not  gratify  their 
desire   to   have   Jesus   condemned   on   the   verdict 

which   they   had  rendered,   or   for   an 

4.  Final  offence  against  their  own  law  only, 
Accusation     "they   began   to   accuse   him,   saying, 

"We  found  this  man  perverting  our 
nation,  and  forbidding  to  give  tribute  to  Caesar,  and 
saying  that  he  himself  is  Christ  a  king"  (Lk  23  2). 
This  was  an  accusation  containing  three  charges, 
much  like  a  modern  indictment  containing  three 
counts.  Pilate  appears  to  have  been  satisfied  that 
there  was  nothing  in  the  first  two  of  these  charges; 
but  the  third  was  too  serious  to  be  ignored,  esp. 
as  it  was  a  direct  charge  of  majestas  or  treason, 
the  greatest  crime  known  to  the  Rom  law,  and 
as  to  which  the  reigning  emperor,  Tiberius,  and 
his  then  favorite,  Scjanus,  were  particularly  sen- 
sitive and  jealous.  The  charges  in  this  case  were 
merely  oral,  but  it  would  appear  to  have  been 
in  the  discretion  of  the  procurator  to  receive  them 
in  this  form  in  the  case  of  one  who  was  not  a  Rom 
citizen. 

The  accusers  having  been  heard,  Pilate  returned 
to  the  Praetorium  to  examine  Jesus  regarding  the 

last  and  serious  accusation.    The  Four 

5.  Exami-  Gospels  give  in  the  same  words  the 
nation,  De-  question  put  to  him  by  Pilate,  "Art 
fence  and  thou  the  King  of  the  Jews?"  The 
Acquittal  first  three  record  only  the  final  affirma- 
tive answer,  "Thou  sayest,"  which  if 

it  stood  alone  might  have  been  taken  as  a  plea  of 
guilty;  but  John  gives  the  intervening  discussion 
which  explains  the  matter  fully.  _  He  tells  us  that 
Jesus  did  not  answer  the  question  directly,  but 
asked  Pilate,  "Sayest  thou  this  of  thyself,  or  did 
others  tell  it  thee  concerning  me?"  (Jn  18  34) 
(apparently  not  having  been  outside  when  the 
charges  were  made).  On  being  told  that  it  came 
from  the  chief  priests,  He  went  on  to  explain  that 
His  kingdom  was  not  of  this  world,  but  was  a  spirit- 
ual kingdom.  Being  again  asked  if  He  was  a  king, 
He  replied  in  effect,  that  He  was  a  king  in  that 
sense,  and  that  His  subjects  were  those  who  were 
of  the  truth  and  heard  His  voice  (vs  35-37).  Pilate, 
being  satisfied  with  His  explanation,  "went  out 
again  unto  the  Jews,"  and  apparently  having  taken 
Jesus  with  him,  he  mounted  his  judgment  seat  or 
movable  tribunal,  which  had  been  placed  upon  the 
tesselated  pavement,  and  pronounced  his  verdict, 
"I  find  in  him  no  fault,  at  all"  (ver  38  AV,  RV  "I 
find  no  crime  in  him"). 

According  to  the  Rom  law,  this  verdict  of  ac- 
quittal should  have  ended   the  trial   and  at  once 
secured   the  discharge  of  Jesus;    but 

6.  Fresh  instead  it  brought  a  volley  of  fresh 
Accusations  accusations  to  which  Jesus  made  no 

reply.  Pilate  hesitated,  and  hearing 
a  charge  that  Jesus  had  begun  His  treasonable 
teaching  in  Galilee,  the  thought  occurred  to  him 
that  he  might  escape  from  his  dilemma  by  sending 
Jesus  for  trial  to  Herod  Antipas,  the  tetrarch  of 


1673 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jesus  Christ, 
Arrest,  Trial 


Galilee,  who  was  then  in  Jerus  for  the  feast,  which 
he  accordingly  did  (Lk  23  7). 

Herod   had   long   been   desirous   to   see   Jesus— 

"hoped   to  see  some  miracle  done   by   him,"   and 

"questioned  him  in  many  words;    but 

7.  Refer-  he  answered  him  nothing."  The 
ence  to  chief  priests  and  scribes,  who  had 
Herod            followed  him  from  the  Praetorium  to 

the  Maceabean  palace,  which  Herod 
was  then  occupying,  "stood,  vehemently  accus- 
ing" Jesus  (vs  8-10).  "That  fox,"  however,  as 
Jesus  had  called  him  (Lk  13  32),  was  too  astute  to 
intermeddle  in  a  trial  for  treason,  which  was  a  dan- 
gerous proceeding,  and  possibly  he  was  aware  that 
Pilate  had  already  acquitted  Him;  in  which  case 
a  retrial  by  him  would  be  illegal.  He  and  his 
soldiers,  probably  irritated  at  the  refusal  of  Jesus 
to  give  him  any  answer,  mocked  Him,  and  array- 
ing Him  in  a  gorgeous  robe,  no  doubt  in  ridicule 
of  His  claim  to  be  a  king,  sent  Him  back  to 
Pilate.  This  reference  to  Herod  in  reality  formed 
no  effective  part  of  the  trial  of  Jesus,  as  Herod 
declined  the  jurisdiction,  although  Pilate  sought 
to  make  use  of  it  in  his  subsequent  discussion 
with  the  chief  priests.  The  only  result  was  that 
Herod  was  flattered  by  the  courtesy  of  Pilate,  the 
enmity  between  them  ceased,  and  they  were  made 
friends  (Lk  23  11.12.15). 

On  their  return,  Pilate  resumed  his  place  on  the 
judgment  seat  outside.     What  followed,  however, 

properly  formed  no  part  of  the  legal 

8.  Jesus  or  trial,  as  it  was  a  mere  travesty  upon 
Barabbas       law   as  well   as  upon   justice.     Pilate 

resolved  to  make  another  attempt  to 
secure  the  consent  of  the  Jews  to  the  release  of 
Jesus.  To  this  end  he  summoned  not  only  the 
chief  priests  and  the  rulers,  but  "the  people"  as 
well  (Lk  23  13),  and  after  mentioning  the  failure 
to  prove  any  of  the  charges  made  against  Jesus, 
he  reminded  them  of  the  custom  of  releasing  at  the 
feast  a  prisoner  selected  by  them,  and  offering  as 
a  compromise  to  chastise  or  scourge  Jesus  before 
releasing  Him.  At  this  point  Pilate's  anxiety  to 
release  Jesus  was  still  further  increased  by  the  mes- 
sage he  received  from  his  wife  concerning  her  dis- 
turbing dream  about  Jesus  and  warning  him  to 
"have  ....  nothing  to  do  with  that  righteous 
man"  (Mt  27  19).  Meanwhile,  the  chief  priests 
and  elders  were  busily  engaged  in  canvassing  the 
multitude  to  ask  for  the  release  of  Barabbas,  the 
notable  robber,  and  destroy  Jesus  (ver  20).  When 
Pilate  urged  them  to  release  Jesus,  they  cried  out 
all  together,  "Away  with  this  man,  and  release  unto 
us  Barabbas";  and  upon  a  further  appeal  on  behalf 
of  Jesus  they  cried,  "Crucify,  crucify  him."  A 
third  attempt  on  his  part  met  with  no  better  result 
(Lk  23  18-23). 

The  Fourth  Gospel  alone  records  a  final  attempt 
on  the  part  of  Pilate  to  save  Jesus.     He  scourged 

Him,   it  has  been   suggested,   with   a 

9.  Behold  view  to  satisfying  their  desire  for  His 
the  Man!       punishment,  and  afterward  appealing 

to  their  pity.  He  allowed  his  soldiers 
to  repeat  what  they  had  seen  done  at  Herod's 
palace,  and  place  a  crown  of  thorns  upon  His  head, 
array  Him  in  a  purple  robe,  and  render  mock  hom- 
age to  Him  as  king  of  the  Jews.  Pilate  went  out 
to  the  Jews  with  Jesus  thus  arrayed  and  bleeding. 
Again  declaring  that  he  found  no  fault  in  Him,  he 
presented  Him,  saying,  "Behold,  the  man!"  This 
was  met  by  the  former  cry,  "Crucify  him,  crucify 
him."  Pilate  replied,  "Take  him  yourselves  .... 
for  I  find  no  crime  in  him."  The  Jews  referred  him 
to  their  law  by  which  He  deserved  death  because 
He  made  Himself  the  Son  of  God.  This  alarmed 
Pilate's  superstitious  fears,  who  by  this  time  appears 
to  have  wholly  lost  control  of  himself.     He  took 


Jesus  into  the  palace  and  said  to  Him,  "Whence  art 
thou?  But  Jesus  gave  him  no  answer."  Irritated 
at  His  silence,  Pilate  reminded  Him  of  his  absolute 
power  over  Him.  The  mysterious  answer  of  Jesus 
as  to  the  source  of  power  still  further  alarmed  him, 
and  lie  made  new  efforts  to  secure  His  discharge 
(Jn  19  1-9). 

The  Jews  were  well  aware  that   Pilate  was  arbi- 
trary and  cruel,  but   they  had  also  found  that  he 
was  very  sensitive  as  to  anything  that 

10.  Pilate  might  injuriously  affect  his  official 
Succumbs  position  or  his  standing  with  his  inas- 
to  Threats     ter,    the    emperor.     As    a    last    resort 

they  shouted  to  him,  '"If  thou  release 
this  man,  thou  art  not  Caesar's  friend:  every  one 
that  maketh  himself  a  king  speaketh  against 
Caesar"  (ver  12).  The  prospect  of  a  charge  of  his 
aiding  and  abetting  such  a  crime  as  treason,  in  addi- 
tion to  the  other  charges  that  a  guilty  conscience 
told  him  might  be  brought  against  him,  proved  too 
much  for  the  vacillating  procurator.  He  brought 
Jesus  out,  and  sat  down  again  upon  the  judgment 
seat  placed  upon  the  pavement.  He  made  one 
more  appeal,  "Shall  I  crucify  your  King?"  The 
chief  priests  gave  the  hypocritical  answer,  "We  have 
no  king  but  Caesar"  (ver  15).  Pilate  finally  suc- 
cumbed to  their  threats  and  clamor;  but  took  his 
revenge  by  placing  upon  the  cross  the  superscription 
that  was  so  galling  to  them,  "The  King  of  the 
Jews." 

Then  occurred  the  closing  scene  of  the  tragedy, 
recorded   only   in   the   First   Gospel,    when   Pilate 

washed  his  hands  before  the  multitude 

11.  Pilate  (a  Jewish  custom),  saying  to  them, 
Washes  His  "I  am  innocent  of  the  blood  of  this 
Hands  righteous  man;    see  ye  to  it."     The 

reply  was  that  dreadful  imprecation, 
"His  blood  be  on  us,  and  on  our  children"  (Alt  27 
24.25). 

Pilate  resumes  his  place  upon  the  judgment  seat, 

the  fatal  sentence  at  last  falls  from  his  lips,  and 

Jesus  is  delivered  up  to  be  crucified. 

12.  The  Now,  how  far  were  these  proceed- 
Sentence       ings  in  accordance  with  the  Rom  law 

under  which  they  purported  to  have 
been  taken  and  conducted?  In  the  first  place, 
Pilate,  as  procurator,  was  the  proper  officer  to  try 

the    charges    brought    against    Jesus. 

13.  Review   In  the  next  place  he  acted  quite  prop- 

erly in  declining  to  entertain  a  charge 
which  disclosed  no  offence  known  to  the  Rom  law, 
or  to  pass  a  sentence  based  on  the  verdict  of  the 
Sanhedrin  for  an  alleged  violation  of  the  Jewish 
law.  He  appears  to  have  acted  in  accordance  with 
the  law,  and  indeed  in  a  judicial  and  praiseworthy 
manner  in  the  trial  and  disposition  of  the  threefold 
indictment  for  treason  (unless  it  be  a  fact  that  Jesus 
was  not  present  when  these  accusations  were  brought 
against  Him  outside  the  Praetorium,  which  would  be 
merely  an  irregularity,  as  they  were  made  known  to 
him  later  inside).  Pilate's  initial  mistake,  which 
led  to  all  the  others,  was  in  not  discharging  Jesus 
at  once,  when  he  had  pronounced  the  verdict  of 
acquittal. 

All  the  subsequent  proceedings  were  contrary 
to  both  the  letter  and  the  spirit  of  the  law.  Al- 
though Pilate  took  his  place  upon  the  judgment 
seat,  his  acts,  properly  speaking,  were  not  those 
of  a  judge,  and  had  no  legal  force  or  value;  but  were 
rather  the  futile  attempts  of  a  weak  and  vacillating 
politician  to  appease  an  angry  mob  thirsting  for  the 
blood  of  an  innocent  countryman.  The  carrying 
out  of  a  sentence  imposed  in  such  circumstances, 
and  under  such  conditions,  may  not  inaptly  be 
described  as  a  judicial  murder. 

John  James  Maclarent 


Jesus, Geneal. of  Tin,:  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 
Jezebel  


1674 


JESUS,    GENEALOGY    OF.      Sec    Genealogy 
of  Jesus. 

JESUS   JUSTUS,  je'zus  jus'tus  ('Lio-ovs  6  \tyo- 

(xevos   'Iovo-to?,  If'sotis  ho  leyihnenos  loustos,   ".Jesus 

that     is     culled     Justus,"     Col  4   1  L): 

1.  A  Jew        One    of    three    friends    of     Paul — the 
by  Birth         others  being  Aristurchus  and   Murk 

whom  he  associates  with  himself  in 
sending  salutations  from  Koine  to  the  church  at 
Colossae.  Jesus  Justus  is  not  mentioned  elsewhere 
in  the  NT,  and  there  is  nothing  more  known  about 
him  than  is  given  in  this  passage  in  Col,  viz.  that 
he  was  by  birth  a  Jew — "of  the  circumcision" 
that  he  had  been  converted  to  Christ,  and  that  he 
was  one  of  the  inner  circle  of  intimate  friends  and 
associates  of  the  apostle  during  his  first  Rom  cap- 
tivity. 

The  words  also  contain  the  information  that  at  a  stage 

in  Paul's  imprisonment,   when  the  welcome  extended  to 

him    by    the    Christians    in    Rome    on    his 

2.  He  Re-      arrival  there  had  lost  its  first  warmth,  and 

True  when  in  consequence,  probably,  of  their  fear 
mains  true  ()f  persecution,  most  of  them  had  proved 
to  Paul  untrue  and   were  holding  aloof  from  him, 

,f.  J.  and  his  two  friends  remained  faith- 
ful. It  would  be  pressing  this  passage  unduly  to  make 
it  mean  that  out  of  the  large  number — hundreds,  or 
perhaps  even  one  or  two  thousands  -who  composed  the 
membership  of  the  church  in  Home  at  this  time,  and 
who  within  the  next  few  years  proved  their  loyalty 
to  Christ  by  their  stedfastness  unto  death  in  the  Xe- 
ronic  persecution,  all  fell  away  from  their  affectionate 
allegiance  to  Paul  at  this  difficult  time.  The  words 
cannot  be  made  to  signify  more  than  that  it  was  the 
.Jewish  section  of  the  church  in  Koine  which  acted  in  this 
unworthy  manner — only  temporarily,  it  is  to  be  hoped. 
Hut  among  these  Jewish  Christians,  to  such  dimensions 
had  this  defection  grown  that  Aristarchus,  Mark  and 
J.  J.  alone  were  the  apostle's  fellow-workers  unto  the 
kingdom  of  God.  These  three  alone,  at  that  particular 
time — from  among  the  Jewish  Christians — were  helping 
him  in  the  work  of  the  gospel  in  Home.  That  this  de- 
fection refers  to  the  .Jewish  section  of  the  church  and  not 
to  the  converts  from  among  the  Gentiles,  is  evident  from 
many  considerations.  It  seems  to  be  proved,  for  example 
by  ver  14  of  the  same  chapter  (i.e.  Col  4  14),  as  well  as 
by  Philem  ver  24,  in  both  of  which  passages  Paul  names 
Demas  and  Luke  as  his  fellow-laborers;  and  Luke  was 
not  a  Jew  by  birth.  Hut  in  the  general  failure  of  the 
Christians  in  Rome  in  their  conduct  toward  Paul,  it  is 
wit  h  much  affection  and  pat  hos  t  hat  he  writes  concerning 
Aristarchus,  Mark,  and  J.  .1..  "  These  only  are  my  fellow- 
workers  unto  the  kingdom  of  (tod,  men  that  have  been 
a  comfort  unto  me." 

John  Rutherfurd 
JETHER,  je'ther  prP ,  yether,  "abundance"): 

(1)  Ex  4  18  RVm,  AVm.     See  Jethro. 

(2)  Gideon's  eldest  son  (Jgs  8  20),  who  was 
called  upon  by  his  father  to  slay  Zebah  and  Zal- 
munnah,  but  ''feared,  because  he  was  yet  a  youth." 
The  narrative  there  (8  4  ff)  should  be  connected 
with  that  of  6  34,  where  Gideon  is  followed  by  his 
clan,  and  not  with  that  of  eh  7,  where  he  has  300 
picked  men.  The  captives  would  be  taken  to  Or- 
pah,  Gideon's  home,  and  slain  there. 

(3)  Father  of  Amasa  (1  K  2  5.32);  he  was  an 
Ishmaelite  according  to  1  Ch  2  17  =  "Ithra,  the 
Israelite"  of  2  S  17  25,  where  "the  Ishmaelite" 
should  be  read  for   "the   Israelite." 

(4)  A  Jerahmeelite  (1  Ch  2  32bis). 

(5)  A  Judahite  (1  Ch  4  17). 

(0)  A  man  of  Asher  (1  Ch  7  3S)  =  "Ithran"  of 
ver  37.  David  Francis  Roberts 

JETHETH,  je'theth  (r?^  ,   ythcth,  meaning  un- 
known):   A  chief  (or  clan)  of  Edom  (Gen  36  40 
1   Ch   1  51),   but  probably  a  mistake  for  "Jether" 
=  "Ithran"  (Gen  36  20). 

JETHLAH,  jeth'la  (Tlbni ,  yithlah).     See  Ithlah. 

JETHRO,  jeth'rd,  je'thro  CnrP  ,  yithro,  "excel- 
lence," Ex  3  1;  4  IS/;;  18  1-12  [in  4  18a,  probably 
a  textual  error,  IfP ,  yether,  "lether,"  AVm,  RVm]; 


LXX  always  'Io06p,  lothor):  The  priest  of  Midiun 
and  father-in-law  (hothen)  of  Moses. 

It  is  not  easy  to  determine  the  relation  of  J.  to 
Keuel  and  ilobab.      If   we  identify  J.   with  Keuel  as  in 

Ex  2  is;  3  1  (and"  in  Ant,  111,  iii;  V, 
1  u;c  -p„  ii,  3),  we  must  connect  "Moses'  father-in- 
x.  nib  «.e-  law..  in  N„  1Q  •>,,  immediately  with 
lation  to  "Reuel"  (AV  "Raguel"),  and  make  Hobab 

Reuel  and  tll('  brother-in-law  of  Moses.  But  while 
Hnhah  't  's   I),)SS',)'('  that  hothen   may  be  used   in 

xxoudu  th(,   wi([(,r  S1.,1S(.  0f  a   wife's  relative,  it  is 

nowhere  tr1  "brother-in-law"  except  in 
Jgs  1  Hi;  4  11  ("father-in-law,"  AV,  RVm).  If  we 
insert,  as  Ewald  suggests  (///,  11,  25),  "Jethro  son  of" 
before  "  Reuel "  in  Ex  2  18  (cf  LXX  ver  16,  where  the 
name  "Jethro"  is  given),  we  would  then  identify  J.  with 
Ilobab,  the  son  of  Reuel,  in  Nu  10  29,  taking  "Moses' 
father-in-law"  to  refer  back  to  Ilobab.  Against  this 
identification,  however,  it  is  stated  that  J.  went  away 
into  his  own  country  without  any  effort  on  the  part  of 
Moses  to  detain  him  (Ex  18  27),  whereas  Hobab,  though 
at  first  he  refused  to  remain  with  the  Israelites,  seems  to 
have  yielded  to  the  pleadings  of  Moses  to  become  their 
guide  to  Canaan  (Nu  10  29-:52;  Jgs  1  10,  where;  Kittel 
reads  "Hobab  the  Kenite";  4  11).  It  may  be  noted 
that  while  the  father-in-law  of  Moses  is  spoken  of  as  a 
"  Midianite"  in  Ex.  he  is  called  a  "  Kenite"  in  Jgs  1  Hi; 
4  11.  Prom  this  Ewald  infers  that  the  Midianites  were 
at  that  time  intimately  blended  with  the  Amalekites, 
to  which  tribe  the  Kenites  belonged  (///,  II,  44). 

When  Moses  fled  from  Egypt  he  found  refuge  in 

Midian,  where  he  received  a  hearty  welcome  into 

the  household  of  J.  on  account  of  the 

2.  His  courtesy  and  kindness  he  had  shown 
Hearty  to  the  priest's  7  daughters  in  helping 
Reception  them  to  wafer  their  flock.  This 
of  Moses       friendship  resulted  in  J.  giving  Moses 

his  daughter,  Zipporah,  to  wife  (Ex 
2  15-21).  After  Moses  had  been  for  about  40 
years  in  the  service  of  his  father-in-law,  the  angel  of 
the  Lord  appeared  to  him  in  the  burning  bush  as 
he  was  keeping  the  flock  at  Iloreb,  commanding 
him  to  return  to  Egypt  and  deliver  his  enslaved 
brethren  out  of  the  hands  of  Pharaoh  (3  1  ff). 
With  J.'s  consent  Moses  left  Midian  to  carry  out 
the  Divine  commission  (4  IS). 

When  tidings  reached  Midian  of  "all  that  God 
had  done  for  Moses,  and  for  Israel"  in  delivering 

them  from  Egyp  bondage,  J.,  with  a 

3.  His  natural  pride  in  the  achievements  of 
Visit  to  his  relative,  set  out  on  a  visit  to  Moses, 
Moses  in  taking  Zipporah  and  her  two  sons  with 
the  Wilder-  him  (Ex  18  1-12).  On  learning  of 
ness               his     father-in-law's     arrival     at     the 

"mount  of  God,"  Moses  went  out  to 
meet  him,  and  after  a  cordial  exchange  of  courtesies 
they  retired  to  Moses'  tent,  where  a  pleasant  inter- 
view took  place  between  them.  We  are  told  of  the 
interest  J.  felt  in  all  the  particulars  of  the  great  de- 
liverance, how  he  "rejoiced  for  all  the  goodness 
which  Jeh  had  done  to  Israel,"  and  how  the  con- 
viction was  wrought  within  him  that  Jeh  was 
"greater  than  all  gods;  yea,  in  the  thing  wherein 
they  dealt  proudly  against  them"  (ver  11).  In  this 
condition  so  expressed  there  is  evidently  a  reference 
to  the  element  by  which  the  F>gyptians  thought  in 
their  high-handed  pursuit  they  would  be  able  to 
bring  back  Israel  into  bondage,  but  by  which  they 
were  themselves  overthrown. 

It  is  worth  noting  that  in  the  religious  service 
in  which  J.  and  Moses  afterward  engaged,  when  J., 
as  priest,  offered  a  burnt  offering,  and  Aaron  with 
all  the  elders  of  Israel  partook  of  the  sacrificial 
feast,  prominence  was  given  to  J.  over  Aaron,  and 
thus  a  priesthood  was  recognized  beyond  the  limits 
of  Israel. 

This  visit  of  J.  to  Moses  had  important  conse- 
quences for  the  future  government  of  Israel  (Ex 
18  13-27).     The     priest     of     Midian 

4.  His  Wise  became  concerned  about  his  son-in- 
Counsel  law  when  he  saw  him  occupied  from 

morning  to  night  in  deciding  the  dis- 
putes that  had  arisen  among  the  people.     The  labor 


1675 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  feeb'ef eneaL  of 


this  entailed,  J.  said,  was  far  too  heavy  a  burden 
for  one  man  to  bear.  Moses  himself  would  soon 
be  worn  out,  and  the  people,  too,  would  become 
weary  and  dissatisfied,  owing  to  the  inability  of  one 
judge  to  overtake  all  the  cases  that  were  brought 
before  him.  J.,  therefore,  urged  Moses  to  make 
use  of  the  talents  of  others  and  adopt  a  plan  of 
gradation  of  judges  who  would  dispose  of  all  cases 
of  minor  importance,  leaving  only  the  most  difficult 
for  him  to  settle  by  a  direct  appeal  to  the  will  of 
God.  Moses,  recognizing  the  wisdom  of  his  father- 
in-law's  advice,  readily  acted  upon  his  suggestion 
and  appointed  "able  men  out  of  all  Israel,  and  made 
them  heads  over  the  people,  rulers  of  thousands, 
rulers  of  hundreds,  rulers  of  fifties,  and  rulers  of 
tens."  Thereafter,  J.  returned  to  his  own  country. 
The  story  of  J.  reveals  him  as  a  man  of  singular 
attractiveness  and  strength,  in  whom  a  kind,  con- 
siderate disposition,  a  deeply  religious 
5.  His  spirit,   and   a   wise  judgment   all   met 

Character  in  happy  combination.  And  this  an- 
and  In-  cient  priest  of  Midian  made  Israel  and 

fluence  all  nations  his  debtors  when  he  taught 

the  distinction  between  the  legislative 
and  the  judicial  function,  and  the  importance  of 
securing  that  all  law  be  the  expression  of  the  Divine 
will,  and  that  its  application  be  entrusted  only  to 
men  of  ability,  piety,  integrity  and  truth  (Ex  18 
21).  James  Crichton 

JETUR,  je'tur  pV^"1 ,  iftilr,  meaning  uncertain): 
A  ;'son"  of  Ishmael  ((Jen  25  15  1  Ch  1  31); 
against  this  clan  the  two  and  a  half  tribes  warred 
(1  Ch  5  ISf);  they  are  the  Ituraeans  of  NT  times. 
See  Ituraba. 

JEUEL,  je-u'el,  ju'el  (bSjHy?,  if'itti,  meaning  un- 
known) : 

(1)  A  man  of  Judah  (1  Ch  9  6);  the  name  is  not 
found  in  the     of  Neh   11  24. 

(2)  A  Levite,  AV  "Jeiel"  (2  Ch  29   13). 

(3)  A  companion  of  Ezra,  AV  "Jeiel"  (Ezr  8  13). 

(4)  The  name  occurs  also  as  Ivthibh  in  1  Ch  9 
35;  2  Ch  26  11.     See  Jeiel,  (2),  (G). 

JEUSH,  je'ush  OW,  if'ilsh,  probably  "he  pro- 
tects," "he  comes  to  help";  see  HPN,  109;  Ivthibh 
is  TIJT),  y'Hsh,  in  Gen  36  5.14;    1  Ch  7  10): 

(1)  A  "son"  of  Esau  (Gen  36  5. 14. IS;  1  Ch  1 
35).  "The  name  is  thought  by  some  to  be  identical 
with  that  of  an  Arabian  lion-god  Yagut  .  .  .  .  , 
meaning  'helper,'  whose  antiquity  is  vouched  for 
by  inscriptions  of  Thamud"  (Skinner,  Gen,  432). 

(2)  A  Benjamite  (1  Ch  7  10),  but  probably  a 
Zebulunite.     See  Curtis,  Ch,  145  ff. 

(3)  A  descendant  of  King  Saul,  AV  "Jehush" 
(1  Ch  8  39). 

(4)  A  Gershonite  Levite  (1  Ch  23  10.11). 

(5)  A  son  of  King  Rehoboam  (2  Ch  11  19). 

David  Francis  Roberts 
JEUZ,  je'uz   Opy?,    ir'uq,  "he  counsels"):    The 
eponym  of  a  Benjamite  family  (1  Ch  8   10). 

JEW,  jii,  jdo,  JEWESS,  JEWISH,  ju'ish,  joo'ish 

P"TirH,  yhudhi,  pi.  D'H/TH,  ifhudhvm;  'IovScuoi, 
Ioudaloi;  adj.f.  P-H^Pp,  y'hudhlth;  'IovScukos,  Iou- 
daikos):  "Jew"  denotes  originally  an  inhabitant  of 
Judah  (2  K  16  G  applies  to  the  two  tribes  of  the 
Southern  Kingdom),  but  later  the  meaning  was 
extended  to  embrace  all  descendants  of  Abraham. 
In  the  OT  the  word  occurs  a  few  times  in  the  sing. 
(Est  2  5;  3  4,  etc;  Jer  34  9;  Zee  8  23);  very  fre- 
quently in  the  pi.  in  Ezr  and  Neh,  Est,  and  in  Jer 
and  Dnl.  The  adj.  in  the  OT  applies  only  to  the 
"Jews'  language"  or  speech  (2  K  18  26.28  Neh 
13  24;   Isa  36  11.13).     "Jews"  (always  pi.)  is  the 


familiar  term  for  Israelites  in  the  Gospels  (esp.  in 
Jn),  Acts,  Epp.,  etc.  "Jewess"  occurs  in  1  Ch  4  18; 
Acts  16  1;  24  24.  In  Tit  1  14  a  warning  is  given 
against  "Jewish  fables"  (in  Gr  the  adj.  is  found  also 
in  Gal  2  14).  The  "Jews'  religion"  (Ioudaismos) 
is  referred  to  in  Gal  1  13.14.  On  the  "Jews'  lan- 
guage," see  Languages  of  the  OT;  on  the  "Jews' 
religion,"  see  Israel,  Religion  of.      James  Orr 

JEWEL,  ju'el,  joo'el:  An  ornament  of  gold,  silver 
or  of  precious  stones  in  the  form  of  armlet,  bracelet 
anklet,  nose-ring,  etc.  Oriental  dress  yields  itself 
freely  to  such  adornment,  to  which  there  are  many 
allusions  in  Scripture.  A  frequent  term  in  Heb  is 
Ml  ("utensil,"  "vessel"),  coupled  with  mention  of 
"gold"  or  "silver"  or  both  (Gen  24  53;  Ex  3  22* 
11  2;  12  35;  35  22;  1  S  6  8.15,  etc;  RV  in  2  Ch 
32  27  tr8  "vessels").  In  Cant  1  10,  where  AV 
has  "rows  [of  jewels],"  RV  has  "plaits  [of  hair]"; 
in  7  1,  the  word  is  from  a  root  hdltih,  meaning  "to 
adorn."  In  3  instances  in  AV  "jewel"  represents 
the  Heb  nezem  (Prov  11  22;  Isa  3  21;  Ezk  16 
12);  ARV  changers  Prov  11  22  to  "ring"  (LXX 
here  =  "earring"),  and  both  ERV  and  ARV  have 
'ring"  in  Ezk  16  12.  The  familiar  phrase  in  Mai 
3  17,  "in  that  day  when  I  make  up  my  jewels," 
becomes  in  ERV,  "in  the  day  that  I  do  make,  even 
a  peculiar  treasure"  (m  "or,  wnerein  I  do  make  a 
peculiar  treasure"),  and  in  ARV,  "even  mine  own 
possession,  in  the  day  that  I  make"  (m  "or,  do  this"). 
See,  further,  Ornament;  Dress;  Stones,  Precious. 
_  James  Our 

JEWRY,  jQ'ri,  joo'ri:  In  Dnl  5  13  AV,  where 
RV  has  "Judah";  in  the  NT,  in  two  places  in  AV, 
Lk  23  5;  Jn  7  1,  where  RV  has  correctly  "Judaea" 
(loudaia)  (q.v.). 

JEWS,  juz,  jooz.     See  Jew. 

JEZANIAH,  jez-a-nl'a  0n^:n  ,  yzanyahu,  prob- 
ably "Jeh  hears";  cf  Jaazamah):  In  Jer  40  8, 
and  also  42  1  where  LXX  has  "Azariah,"  as  in  43  2 
(see  Driver,  Jer)  =  Jaazani ah,  (1)  (q.v.). 

JEZEBEL,  jez'e-bel  (b^X ,  'izebhel,  "unexalted," 
"unhusbanded"[?j;  'Iej;d|3«X,  Iezdbel;  see  BDB:  1  K 
16  31;  18  4.13.19;  19  1.2;  21  5ff;  2  K  9  7ff.30ff; 
Rev  2  20) :  Daughter  of  Ethbaal,  king  of  the  Zido- 
nians,  i.e.  Phoenicians,  and  queen  of  Ahab,  king  of 
Northern  Israel.  Ahab  (c  874-853  BC)  carried  out 
a  policy,  which  his  father  had  perhaps  started,  of 
making  alliances  with  other  states.  The  alliance 
with  the;  Phoenicians  was  cemented  by  his  marriage 
with  J.,  and  he  subsequently  gave  his  daughter 
Athahah  in  marriage  to  Jehoram,  son  of  Jehosha- 
pliat,  king  of  Judah.  His  own  union  with  Jezebel 
is  regarded  as  a  sin  in  1  K  16  31,  where  the  MT  is 
difficult,  being  generally  understood  as  a  question. 
The  LXX  trs:  "And  it  was  not  enough  that  he  should 
walk  in  the  sins  of  Jeroboam  ben  Nebat,  Ik;  also  took 
to  wife  Jezebel,"  etc.  The  Heb  can  be  pointed  to 
mean,  "And  it  was  the  lightest  thing  for  him  to  walk 
m  the  sins  of  Jeroboam  ben  Nebat,  he  also  took  to 
wife  Jezebel,  and  went  and  served  Baal  and  wor- 
shipped him,"  i.e.  all  the  other  sins  were  light  as 
compared  with  the  marriage  with  Jezebel  and  the 
serving  of  Baal  (cf  Mic  6  16).  Is  this  a  justifiable 
view  to  take  of  the  marriage?  One  answer  would 
be  that  Ahab  made  a  wise  alliance;  that  Baal- 
worship  was  not  non-IIeb,  that  Ahab  named  his 
children  not  after  Baal  but  after  Jeh  (cf  Ahaziah, 
Jehoram,  Athaliah),  and  that  he  consulted  the 
prophets  of  Jeh  (cf  1  K  22  G);  further,  that  he 
only  did  what  Solomon  had  done  on  a  much  larger 
scale;  it  may  be  added  too  that  Ahab  was  in  favor 
of  religious  toleration,  and  that  Elijah  and  not  the 
king  is  the  persecutor.     What  then  can  be  said  for 


Jezebel 
Joab 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1076 


1.  Perse- 
cution of 
Jeh's 
Prophets 


the  unfavorable  verdict  of  the  Hob  historians? 
That  verdict  is  based  on  I  he  results  and  effects  of 
the  marriage,  on  the  life  and  character  of  J.,  and 
in  that,  life  two  main  incidents  demand  attention. 

This  is  not  described;  it-  is  only  referred  to  in  1  K 
18  1,  "when  .1.  cut  off  the  prophets  of  Jeh";  and 
this  shows  the  history  of  the  time  to 
be  incompletely  related.  In  1  K  18 
19  we  are  further  told  that.  "450 
prophets  of  Baal  ate  at  her  table" 
(commentators  regard  the  reference  to 
"KM)  prophets  of  the  Asherah"  as  an  ad- 
dition). In  1  K  19  1  Ahab  tells  J.  of  the  slaughter 
of  the  prophets  of  Baal  by  Elijah,  and  then  .J.  (19  2) 
sends  a  messenger  to  Elijah  to  threaten  his  life. 
This  leads  to  the  prophet's  flight.,  an  object  which 
J.  had  in  view,  perhaps,  for  she  would  hardly  dare 
to  murder  Elijah  himself.  2  K  9  7  regards  the 
massacre  of  Ahab's  family  as  a  punishment  for  the 
persecution  of  the  prophets  by  J. 

Ahab  expresses  a  desire  to  possess  the  vineyard  neigh- 
boring upon  his  palace  in  Jezreel,  owned  by  Naboth, 
who  refuses  to  part  with  the  family  inherit- 
o  t  t  Kot'o  ance  though  offered  either  its  money  value 
z.  jezeDeis  ()(.  a  better  vineyard  in  exchange.  Ahab 
Plot  Against  is  depressed  at  tins,  and.).,  upon  finding  the 
Naboth  cause  of  his  melancholy  feelings,  asks  him 

1  V  01  ^  sarcastically  if  he  is  not  king,  suggesting 
{L  r*.  41)  t[lat  as  jjjjjg  |xjs  wishes  should  be  imme- 
diately granted  by  his  subjects.  She  there- 
upon plots  to  secure  him  NTaboth's  vineyard.  J.  sends 
letters  sealed  in  Ahab's  name  to  the  elders  of  Naboth's 
township,  and  bids  them  arrange  a  public  fast  and  make 
Naboth  "sit  at  the  head  of  the  people"  (RVm),  a  phrase 
taken  by  some  to  mean  that  he  is  to  be  arraigned,  while 
it  is  explained  by  others  as  meaning  that  Naboth  is  to 
be  given  the  chief  place.  Two  witnesses — a  sufficient 
number  for  that  purpose — are  to  be  brought  to  accuse 
Naboth  of  blasphemy  and  treason.  This  is  done,  and 
Naboth  is  found  guilty,  and  stoned  to  death.  The 
property  is  confiscated,  and  falls  to  the  king  (vs  1-10). 
Elijah  hears  of  this,  and  is  sent  to  threaten  Ahab  with 
Divine  vengeance;  dogs  shall  lick  his  dead  body  (ver 
19).  But  in  vs  20-23  this  prophecy  is  made,  not  con- 
cerning Ahab  but  against  Jezebel,  and  ver  25  attributes 
the  sins  of  Ahab  to  her  influence  over  him. 

The  prophecy  is  fulfilled  in  2  K  9  30-37.  Ahaziah 
and  Jehoram  had  succeeded  their  father  Ahab;  the  one 
reigned  for  2  years  (1  K  22  51),  the  other  12  years  (2  K 
3  1).  Jehu  heads  a  revolt  against  the  house  of  Ahab, 
and  one  day  comes  to  Jezreel.  J.  had  "  painted  her  eyes, 
and  attired  her  head."  and  sees  Jehu  coming.  She 
greets  him  sarcastically  as  his  master's  murderer.  Ac- 
cording to  MT,  Jehu  asks,  "Who  is  on  my  side?  who?" 
but  the  text  is  emended  by  Klostermann,  following  LXX 
in  the  main.  "  Who  art  thou  that  thou  shouldest  find  fault 
with  me?"  i.e.  thou  art  but  a  murderess  thyself.  She 
is  then  thrown  down  and  the  horses  tread  upon  her 
(reading  "they  trod"  for  "he  trod"  inver33J.  When 
search  is  afterward  made  for  her  remains,  they  are  found 
terribly  mutilated.  Thus  was  the  prophecy  fulfilled. 
(Some  comms.  hold  that  Naboth's  vineyard  and  Ahab's 
garden  were  in  Samaria,  and  Naboth  a  Jezreelite.  The 
words,  "which  was  in  Jezreel,"  of  1  K  21  1  are  wanting 
in  I. XX,  which  has  "And  Naboth  had  a  vineyard  by  the 
threshing-floor  of  Ahab  king  of  Samaria."  But  cf  1  K 
18  45;  21  23;  2  K  8  29;  9  10.15  if. 30  ff.)  See  Ahab; 
Jehu. 

The  character  of  J.  is  seen  revived  in  that  of  her 
daughter,  Athaliah  of  Judah  (2  K  11);  there  is  no 
doubt  that  J.  was  a  powerful  person- 
3.  Jezebel's  ality.  She  brought  the  worship  of 
Character  the  Phoen  Baal  and  Astarte  with  her 
into  Heb  life,  and  indirectly  introduced 
it  into  Judah  as  well  as  into  the  Northern  King- 
dom. In  judging  her  connection  with  this  propa- 
gation, we  should  bear  in  mind  that  she  is  not  a 
queen  of  the  20th  cent.;  she  must  be  judged  in 
company  with  other  queens  famous  in  history. 
Her  religious  attitude  and  zeal  might  profitably  be 
compared  with  that  of  Mary,  queen  of  Scots.  It 
must  also  be  remembered  that  the  introduction  of 
any  religious  change  is  often  resented  when  it  comes 
from  a  foreign  queen,  and  is  apt  to  be  misunder- 
stood, e.g.  the  attitude  of  Greece  to  the  proposal  of 
Queen  Olga  to  have  an  authorized  edition  of  the 
Bible  in  modern  Or. 

On  the  other  hand,  although  much  may  be  said 


that  would  be  favorable  to  J.  from  the  religious 
standpoint,  the  balance  is  heavy  against  her  when 
we  remember  her  successful  plot  against  Naboth. 
It  is  not  perhaps  blameworthy  in  her  that  she  upheld 
the  religion  of  her  native  land,  although  the  nat- 
ural thing  would  have  been  to  follow  that  of  her 
adopted  land  (cf  Ruth  1  10  f).  due  superiority 
of  Jeh-worship  was  not  as  clear  then  as  it  is  to 
us  today.  If  may  also  be  held  that  Baal-worship 
was  not  unknown  in  Heb  life  (cf  Jgs  6  25  f),  that 
Baal  of  Canaan  had  become  incorporated  with  Jeh 
of  Sinai,  and  that  there  were  pagan  elements  in  the 
worship  of  the  latter.  But  against  all  this  it  must 
be  clear  that  the  Baal  whom  J.  attempted  to  intro- 
duce was  the  Phoen  Baal,  pure  and  simple;  he 
was  another  god,  or  rather  in  him  was  presented  an 
idea  of  God  very  different  from  Jeh.  And  further, 
"in  Phoenicia,  where  wealth  and  luxury  had  been 
enjoyed  on  a  scale  unknown  to  either  Israel  or  the 
Canaanites  of  the  interior,  there  was  a  refinement, 
if  one  may  so  speak,  and  at  the  same  time  a  prodi- 
gality of  vicious  indulgences,  connected  with  the 
worship  of  Baal  and  Astarte  to  which  Israel  had 

hitherto  been  a  stranger It  was  like  a  cancer 

eating  into  the  vitals  or  a  head  and  heart  sickness 
resulting  in  total  decay  (Isa  1  0).  In  Israel,  moral 
deterioration  meant  political  as  well  as  spiritual 
death.  The  weal  of  the  nation  lay  in  fidelity  to  Jeh 
alone,  and  in  His  pure  worship"  (HPM,  §213). 

The  verdict  of  the  Heb  historian  is  thus  sub- 
stantiated. J.  is  an  example — an  extreme  one  no 
doubt — of  the  bad  influence  of  a  highly  developed 
civilization  forcing  itself  with  all  its  sins  upon  a 
community  less  highly  civilized,  but  possessed  of 
nobler  moral  and  religious  conceptions.  She  has 
parallels  both  in  family  and  in  national  life.  For  a 
parallel  to  Elijah's  attitude  toward  J.  cf  the  words 
of  Carlyle  about  Knox  in  On  Hemes  and  Hero- 
Worship,  IV,  esp.  the  section,  "We  blame  Knox  for 
his  intolerance,"  etc. 

In  Rev  2  20,  we  read  of  Iezabel,  "the  woman 
Jezebel,  who  calleth  herself  a  prophetess";  not  "thy 
wife"  (i.e.  the  wife  of  the  bishop)  RVm,  but  as  Mof- 
fat (Expos  Gr  Test.)  aptly  renders,  "that  Jezebel 
of  a  woman  alleging  herself  a  prophetess."  Some 
members  of  the  church  at  Thyatira  "under  the 
sway  of  an  influential  woman  refused  to  separate 
from  the  local  guilds  where  moral  interests,  though 
not  ostensibly  defied,  were  often  seriously  com- 
promised  Her   lax   principles  or   tendencies 

made  for  a  connection  with  foreign  and  compro- 
mising associations  which  evidently  exerted  a  dan- 
gerous influence  upon  some  weaker  Christians  in  the 
city."  Her  followers  "prided  themselves  upon 
their  enlightened  liberalism  (ver  24)."  Moffat 
rejects  both  the  view  of  Schiirer  (Theol.  Abhand- 
lungen,  39  f),  that  she  is  to  be  identified  with  the 
Chaldaean  Sibyl  at  Thyatira,  and  also  that  of  Selwyn 
making  her  the  wife  of  the  local  asiarch.  "It  was 
not  the  cults  but  the  trade  guilds  that  formed  the 
problem  at  Thyatira."  See  also  Zahn,  Intro  to  the 
NT,  §  73,  n.  7;  Ahab;  Baal;  Elijah. 

David  Francis  Roberts 

JEZELUS,  je-ze'lus,  jez'e-lus  ('IetriXos,  Ieztios): 

(1)  In  1  Esd  8  32;  called  "Jahaziel"  in  Ezr  8  5. 

(2)  In  1  Esd  8  35;  called  "Jehiel"  in  Ezr  8  9. 

JEZER,  je'zer  (~\1~* ,  yecer,  "form"  or  "purpose"): 
A  "son"  of  Naphtali  (Gen  46  24;  Nu  26  49; 
1  Ch  7  13). 

JEZERITES,  je'zer-Its,  THE  ('HS'T',  ha-yicrl 
[collective  with  art.]):  Descendants  of  "Jezer" 
(Nu  26  49). 

JEZIAH,  je-zl'a.     See  Izziah. 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1677  THE  INTERNATIONAL  STAN 

JEZIEL,  je'zi-el,  jg-zl'el  (Knhlbh  is  b^T) , 
yezu'el,  or  iXlT"^,  yezo'el;  K.ereb^J1,  yezl'el=ilGod 
gathers,"  perhaps):  One  of  David's  Benjamite 
recruits  at  Ziklag  (1  Ch  12  3). 

JEZLIAH,  jez-ll'a.     See  Izliah. 

JEZOAR,  je-zo'ar.     See  Izhar. 

JEZRAHIAH,  jez-ra-hl'a.     See  Izrahiah. 

JEZREEL,  jez'rfj-el,  jez'rel  (bs^nn ,  ylzr^el, 
"God  soweth"): 

(1)  A  city  on  the  border  of  the  territory  of 
Issachar  (Josh  19  18).     It  is  named  with  Chesul- 

loth   and    Shunem  (modern  Iksal  and 

1.  Territory  Solam).     It    remained    loyal    to    the 

house  of  Saul,  and  is  mentioned  as 
part  of  the  kingdom  over  which  Abner  set  Ish- 
bosheth  (2  S  2  9).  From  Jezreel  came  the  tidings 
of  Saul  and  Jonathan's  death  on  Gilboa,  which 
brought  disaster  to  Mephibosheth  (2  S  4  4).  The 
city  plays  no  important  part  in  the  history  till  the 
time  of  Ahab.  Attracted,  doubtless,  by  the  fine; 
position  and  natural  charms  of  the  place,  he  made  it 
one  of  his  royal  residences,  building  here  a  palace 
(1  K  21  1).  This  was  evidently  on  the  eastern 
wall;  and  the  gate  by  which  Jehu  entered  was  over- 
looked by  the  quarters  of  Queen  Jezebel  (2  K  9 
30  f).  The  royal  favor  naturally  enhanced  the 
dignity  of  the  city,  and  "elders"  and  "nobles"  of 
Jezreel  are  mentioned  (1  K  21  8,  etc).  Under  the 
influence  of  Jezebel,  an  institution  for  the  worship 
of  Baal  was  founded  here,  from  which,  probably,  the 
men  were  drawn  who  figured  in  the  memorable  con- 
test with  Elijah  on  Carmel  (2  K  10  11).  "The  tower 
in  Jezreel"  was  part  of  the  defences  of  the  city. 
It  commanded  a  view  of  the  approach  up  the  valley 
from  Beth-shean — the  way  followed  by  the  hordes 
of  the  E.,  who,  from  time  immemorial,  came  west- 
ward for  the  rich  pasture  of  the  plain  (2  K  9  17). 
It  was  necessary  also  to  keep  constant  watch,  as 
the  district  E.  of  the  Jordan  was  always  more  un- 
settled than  that  on  the  W.;  and  danger  thence 
might  appear  at  any  moment.  The  garden  of 
Naboth  seems  to  have  lain  to  the  E.  of  the  city 
(2  K  9  21),  near  the  royal  domain,  to  which  Ahab 
desired  to  add  it  as  a  garden  of  herbs  (1  K  21  1  ff). 
See  Naboth.  This  was  the  scene  of  the  tragic 
meetings  between  Elijah  and  Ahab  (1  K  21  17  ff), 
and  between  Jehu  and  Joram  and  Ahaziah  (2  X  9 
21).  Joram  had  returned  to  Jezreel  from  Ramoth- 
gilead  to  be  healed  of  his  wounds  (9  15).  By  the 
gateway  tiie  dogs  devoured  Jezebel's  body  (vs  31 
ft).  Naboth  had  been  stoned  to  death  outside 
the  city  (1  K  21  13).  Jos  lays  the  scene  by  the 
fountain  of  Jezreel,  and  here,  he  says,  the  dogs 
licked  the  blood  washed  from  the  chariot  of  Ahab 
(Ant,  VIII,  xv,  6).  This  accords  with  1  K  21  19; 
but  22  38  points  to  the  pool  at  Samaria. 

The  site  of  Jezreel  must  be  sought  in  a  position  where 

a  tower  would  command  a  view  of  the  road  coming  up  the 

valley  from  Beth-shean.    It  has  long  been 

2.  Identi-  t'.lc  custom  to  identify  it  with  the  modern 
fi'  . .  village,  Zer'in,  on  the  northwestern  spur  of 
ncation            (lilboa.    This  meets  the  above  condition; 

and  it  also  agrees  with  the  indications  in 
Onom  as  lying  between  Legio  (Lejjun)  and  Scythopolis 
(Beisan).  Recently,  however,  Professor  A.  It.  S.  Mac- 
alister  made  a  series  of  excavations  here,  and  failed  to  find 
any  evidence  of  ancient  Israelite  occupation.  This  casts 
doubt  upon  the  identification,  and  further  excavation  is 
necessary  before  any  certain  conclusion  can  be  reached. 
For  the  "fountain  which  is  in  Jezreel,"  see  Hakod,  Well 
of. 

(2)  An  unidentified  town  in  the  uplands  of  Judah 
(Josh  15  56),  the  home  of  Ahinoam  (1  S  27  3,  etc). 

W.    EwiNG 

JEZREEL,  VALE  OF.    See  Esdraelon,  Plain 

OF. 


Jezebel 
Joab 


JEZREELITE,  jez'rO-el-It,  jez'rel-It  CbKJP^n, 
ha-yiz^e'll) :  Applied  to  Naboth,  a  native  of  Jez- 
reel (1)  (1  K  21  1,  etc). 

JEZREELITESS,  jez'rf-el-It-es,  jez'rel-it-cs 
(mbscnr! ,  yizfe'lilh,  "of  Jezreel,"  fern.):  Applied 
to  Ahinoam,  one  of  David's  first  two  wives,  a  native 
of  Jezreel  in  Judah  (1  S  27  3;  30  5:  2  S  2  2: 
3  2;    1  Ch  3  1). 

JEZRIELUS,  jez-ri-e'lus  ('Ietp^Xos,  IezriUos;  AV 
Hierielus;  1  Esd  9  27):  Corresponding  to  "Jehiel" 
in  Ezr  10  26. 

JIBSAM,  jib'sam.     See  Ibsam. 

JIDLAPH,  jid'laf  (Clb"T ,  yidhlaph,  perhaps  "he 
weeps"):  A  "son"  of  Nahor  (Gen  22  22). 

JIMNA,  JTMNAH,  jim'na  (njp-!,  yimnah,  per- 
haps="good  fortune"):  A  "son"  of  Asher  (Gen 
46  17,  AV  "Jinmah";  Nu  26  44,  AV  "Jimna"), 
whereas  RV  has  Imnah  (q.v.). 

JIMNITES,  jim'nlts,  THE  (same  as  "Jimna," 
only  collective  with  the  def.  art.;  Nu  26  44  AV, 
where  RV  has  "Inmites"):  Descendants  of  Jimna 
or  Imna. 

JIPHTAH,  jif'ta  (Tin?? ,  yiphtah).     See  Iphtah. 

JIPHTHAHEL,  jif'tha-el.     See  Iphtahel. 

JOAB,  jo'ab  p8Y\  yo'abh,  "Jeh  is  father"; 
Tudp,  I  dab): 

(1)  Son  of  Zeruiah,  David's  sister.  He  was 
"captain  of  the  host"  (cf  2  S  19  13)  under  David. 

(a)  Joab  is  first  introduced  in  the  narrative  of 
the  war  with  Abner,  who  supported  the  claims  of 

Ishbosheth  to  the  throne  against  those 

1.  Joab  of  David  (2  S  2  8—3  1).  The  two 
and  Abner     armies  met,  and  on  Abner's  suggestion 

a  tournament  took  place  between  12 
men  from  each  side;  a  general  engagement  follows, 
and  in  this  J.'s  army  is  victorious.  Asahel,  J.'s 
brother,  is  killed  in  his  pursuit  of  Abner,  but  the 
latter's  army  is  sorely  pressed,  and  he  appeals  to  J. 
for  a  cessation  of  hostilities.  J.  calls  a  halt,  but 
declares  that  he  would  not  cease  had  Abner  not 
made  his  plea. 

(b)  2  S  3  12-29.  Abner  visits  David  at  Hebron, 
and  makes  an  alliance  with  David.  He  then  leaves 
the  town,  apparently  under  royal  protection.  J. 
is  absent  at  the  time,  but  returns  immediately  after 
Abner's  departure,  and  expostulates  with  David 
for  not  avenging  Asahel's  death,  and  at  the  same 
time  attributes  a  bad  motive  to  Abner's  visit.  He 
sends  a  message,  no  doubt  in  the  form  of  a  royal 
command,  for  Abner  to  return;  the  chief  does  so, 
is  taken  aside  "into  the  midst  of  the  gate"  (or  as 
LXX  and  commentators  read,  "into  the  side  of  the 
gate,"  3  27),  and  slain  there  by  J.  David  pro- 
claims his  own  innocence  in  the  matter,  commands 
J.  as  well  as  the  people  to  mourn  publicly  for  the 
dead  hero  (3  31),  composes  a  lament  for  Abner,  and 
pronounces  a  curse  upon  J.  and  his  descendants 
(ver  30  is  regarded  as  an  editorial  note,  and  com- 
mentators change  ver  39). 

(a)  2  S  10  1-14;    1  Ch  19  1-15.     David  sends 

ambassadors  with  his  good  wishes  to  Hanun  on  his 

ascending  the  throne  of  the  Anunon- 

2.  The  Am-  ites;  these  are  ill-treated,  and  war 
monite  follows,  David's  troops  being  corn- 
War:  mandecl  by  J.  On  finding  himself 
Death  of  placed  between  the  Ammonites  on  the 
Uriah              one  hand,  and  their  Syrian  allies  on 

the  other,  he  divides  his  army,  and 
himself    leads    one    division    against    the    Syrians, 


Joab 

Job,  Book  of 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1678 


leaving  Abishai,  his  brother,  to  fight  the  Ammonites; 
the  detent  of  the  Syrians  is  followed  by  the  rout  of 
the  Ammonites. 

{b)  2  S  10  15-19;  1  Ch  19  10-19  describes  a 
second  war  between  Hadarezer  and  David.  J.  is 
not  mentioned  here. 

(c)  2  S  11  1  narrates  the  resumption  of  the  war 
against  the  Ammonites;  J.  is  in  command,  and  the 
town  of  Kabbah  is  besieged.  Here  occurs  the 
account  of  David's  sin  with  Bathsheba,  omitted 
by  Ch.  David  gets  J.  to  send  Uriah,  her  husband, 
to  Jerus,  and  when  he  refuses  to  break  the  soldier's 
vow  (11  6-13),  J.  is  used  to  procure  Uriah's  death 
in  the  siege,  and  the  general  then  sends  news  of  it 
to  David  (11  14-27).  After  capturing  the  'water- 
city'  of  Kabbah,  J.  sends  for  David  to  complete  the 
capture  and  lead  the  triumph  himself  (12  26-29). 

(a)  The  next,  scene  depicts  J.  attempting  and 
succeeding  in  his  attempt  to  get    Absalom  restored 

to  royal  favor.     He  has  noticed  that 

3.  Joab  and  "the  king's  heart  is  toward  Absalom" 
Absalom         (14   1),    and    so   arranges   for    "a  wise 

woman''  of  Tekoa  to  bring  a  supposed 
complaint  of  her  own  before  the  king,  and  then 
rebuke  him  for  his  treatment  of  Absalom.  The 
plan  succeeds.  David  sees  J.'s  hand  in  it,  and 
gives  him  permission  to  bring  Absalom  to  Jerus. 
But  the  rebel  has  to  remain  in  his  own  house,  and  is 
not  allowed  to  see  his  father  (14  1-24). 

(b)  Absalom  attempts  to  secure  J.'s  intercession 
for  a  complete  restoration  to  his  father's  confidence. 
J.  turns  a  deaf  ear  to  the  request  until  his  field  is 
put  on  fire  by  Absalom's  command.  He  then  sees 
Absalom,  and  gets  David  to  receive  his  prodigal 
son  back  into  the  royal  home  (14  28-33). 

(c)  Absalom  revolts,  and  makes  Amasa,  another 
nephew  of  David,  general  instead  of  J.  (17  24  f). 
David  flees  to  Mahanaim,  followed  by  Absalom. 
J.  is  given  a  third  of  the  army,  the  other  divisions 
being  led  by  Abishai  and  Ittai.  He  is  informed 
that  Absalom  has  been  caught  in  a  tree  (or  thicket), 
and  expostulates  with  the  informer  for  not  having 
killed  him.  Although  he  is  reminded  of  David's 
tender  plea  that  Absalom  be  kindly  dealt  with,  he 
dispatches  the  rebel  himself,  and  afterward  calls 
for  a  general  halt  of  the  army.  When  David  gives 
vent  to  his  feelings  of  grief,  he  is  sternly  rebuked  by 
J.,  and  the  rebuke  has  its  effect,  (17 — 19  8a). 

2  S  19  86-15.     On    David's    return    to    Jerus, 

Amasa  is  made  "captain  of  the  host"  instead  of  J. 

(19  13).     Then  Sheba  revolts,  Amasa 

4.  Joab  and  loses  time  in  making  preparation  for 
Amasa  quelling  it,  and  Abishai  is  bidden  by 

David  to  take  the  field  (20  6).  The 
Syr  VS  reads  "J."  for  "Abishai"  in  this  verse,  and 
some  commentators  follow  it,  but  LXX  supports 
MT.  J.  seems  to  have  accompanied  Abishai;  and 
when  Amasa  meets  them  at  Gibeon,  J.,  on  pretense 
of  kissing  his  rival,  kills  him.  He  then  assumes  com- 
mand, is  followed  by  Amasa's  men,  and  arranges 
with  a  woman  of  Abel  beth-maacah  to  deliver  to 
him  Sheba' s  head.     The  revolt  is  then  at  an  end. 

J.  subsequently  opposed  David's  suggestion  of  a 

census,  but  eventually  carried  it  out  (2  S  24  1-9; 

1  Ch  21  1-0),  yet  1  Ch  21  0  and  27 

5.  Joab's  24  relate  that  he  did  not  carry  it 
Death  out  fully.     He  was  one  of  Adonijah's 

supporters  in  his  claim  to  the  throne 
(1  K  1  7.19.41).  For  this  he  had  to  pay  the  penalty 
with  his  life,  being  slain  at  the  altar  in  the  "Tent  of 
Jeh"  (1  K  2  2S-34)  by  Benaiah,  who  acted  upon 
Solomon's  orders.  His  murderer  became  his  suc- 
cessor as  head  of  the  army.  1  K  2  5  makes  David 
advise  Solomon  not  to  forget  that  J.  slew  Abner  and 
Amasa,  and  1  K  11  14-22  contains  a  reference  to 
the  dread  of  his  name  in  Edom.  1  Ch  11  6  makes 
him  win  his  spurs  first  at  the  capture  of  Jerus,  but 


2  S  2,  3  arc  previous  in  time  to  this  event  (cf  2  S  5 
0  10),  and  1  Ch  11  8  makes  him  repair  the  city, 
while  1  Ch  26  28  refers  to  a  dedication  of  armor 
by  him. 

In  summing  up  J.'s  character,  we  must  remember 
the  stirring  times  in  which  he  lived.  That,  he  was 
a  most  able  general,  there  is  no  doubt. 
6.  Joab's  He  was,  however,  very  jealous  of  his 
Character  position,  and  this  accounts  for  Amasa's 
murder,  if  not  partially  for  that  of 
Abner  loo:  if  he  was  afraid  that  Abner  would  sup- 
plant him,  that  fear  may  be  held  to  be  justified,  for 
Amasa,  who  had  not  been  too  loyal  to  David  did 
take  J.'s  place  for  a  time.  But  blood  revenge  for 
Asahel's  death  was  perhaps  the  chief  cause.  Yet 
even  when  judged  in  the  light  of  those  rough  times, 
and  in  the  light  of  eastern  life,  the  murder  of  Abner 
was  a  foul,  treacherous  deed  (see  Trumbull,  Studies 
in  Oriental  Social  Life,  129-31). 

J.  opposed  the  census  probably  because  it  was  an 
innovation.  His  rebuke  of  David's  great  grief 
over  Absalom's  death  can  only  be  characterized 
as  just;  he  is  the  stern  warrior  who,  after  being 
once  merciful  and  forgiving,  will  not  again  spare 
a  deceitful  rebel;  and  yet  David  shows  how  a 
father's  conduct  toward  a  prodigal,  rebellious  son 
is  not  regulated  by  stern  justice.  J.'s  unswerving 
loyalty  to  David  leads  one  to  believe  that  no  dis- 
loyalty was  meant  by  his  support  of  Adonijah,  who 
was  really  the  rightful  heir  to  the  throne.  But 
their  plans  were  defeated  by  those;  of  the  harem, 
and  J.  had  to  pay  the  price  with  his  life. 

Taken  as  a  whole,  his  life,  as  depicted  in  the  very 
reliable  narrative  of  2  S  and  1  K,  may  be  said  to 
be  as  characteristic  of  the  times  as  that  of  David 
himself,  with  a  truly  Homeric  ring  about  it.  He 
was  a  great  man,  great  in  military  prowess  and  also 
in  personal  revenge,  in  his  loyalty  to  the  king  as 
well  as  in  his  stern  rebuke  of  his  royal  master.  He 
was  the  greatest  of  David's  generals,  and  the  hitter's 
success  and  glory  owed  much  to  this  noblest  of  that 
noble  trio  whom  Zeruiah  bore. 

(2)  A  Judahite,  father  or  founder  of  Ge-harashim 
(1  Ch  4  14,  "valley  of  craftsmen"  RVm).  See 
Ge-harashim. 

(3)  A  family  of  returned  exiles  (Ezr  2  6  ||  Neh 
7  11;   Ezr  8  9;    1  Esd  8  35). 

(4)  See  Athoth-beth-joab. 

David  Francis  Roberts 
JOACHAZ,   jo'a-kaz    ('I^xa?,   Idchdz,   ,lt\ovLa.%, 
Icchonias):    Son  of  Josiah    (1   Esd  1  34).     In   Mt 
111  "Jechoniah"  is  the  reading. 

JOACIM,  jo'a-sim.     See  Joaki.m. 

JOADANUS,  jo-a-da'nus  ('IwaSdvos,  Idaddnos): 
In  1  Esd  9  19,  apparently,  through  some  corrup- 
tion; the  same  as  Gedaliah,  a  son  of  Jeshua,  the  son 
of  Jozadak,  in  Ezr  10  18. 

JOAH,  jo' a  (nS"P ,  yo'ah,  "Jeh  is  brother"): 

(1)  Son  of  Asaph  and  recorder  under  King  Keze- 
kiah  (2  K  18  18.20;  Isa  36  3.11.22);  he  was  one 
of  the  3  officers  sent  by  the  king  to  speak  to  the 
Assyr  envoys  at  the  siege  of  Jerus  (c  701  BC). 

(2)  In  1  Ch  6  21  (Heb  6);  2  Ch  29  12,  a 
Levite  (son  of  Zimmah)  =  "Ethan"  of  1  Ch  6  42 
(Heb  27). 

(3)  A  son  of  Obed-edom  (1  Ch  26  4). 

(4)  Son  of  Joahaz  and  recorder  under  King 
Josiah  (2  Ch  34  8). 

JOAHAZ,  jo'a-haz  (TnXl*1 ,  yo'dhaz,  "Jeh  has 
grasped" = "Jehoahaz") : 

(1)  Father  of  Joah  (4)  (2  Ch  34  8). 

(2)  RV  and  Heb  in  2  K  14  1  for  Jehoahaz,  king 
of  Israel.     See  Jehoahaz. 


1679 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Joab 

Job,  Book  of 


(3)  RV  and  Heb  in  2  Ch  36  2.4  for  Jehoahaz, 
king  of  Judah  (q.v.). 

JOAKIM,  jo'a-kim  ('Ia>a.K€iji,  Idakeim;  AV 
Joacim) : 

(1)  Jehoiakim,  king  of  Judah  and  Jcrus  (1  Esd 
1  37-39;   Bar  1  3). 

(2)  Jehoiachin,  son  of  (1)  (1  Esd  1  43). 

(3)  Son  of  Jeshua  (1  Esd  5  5),  called  by  mistake 
son  of  Zerubbabel;  in  Neh  12  10.26  his  name  occurs 
as  in  1  Esd,  among  the  priests  and  Levites  who 
returned  to  Jerus  with  Zerubbabel. 

(4)  High  priest  of  Jerus  in  the  time  of  Baruch 
(Bar  1  7). 

(5)  High  priest  in  Jerus  in  the  days  of  Judith  who, 
along  with  "the  ancients  of  the  children  of  Israel," 
welcomed  the  heroine  back  to  the  city  after  the 
death  of  Holofernes  (Jth  4).  He  cannot  be  identi- 
fied with  any  of  the  high  priests  in  the  lists  given  in 
1  Ch  or  in  Jos,  Ant,  X,  viii,  6.  The  word  means 
"the  Lord  hath  set  up."  It  is  probably  symbolical, 
and  tends  with  other  names  occurring  in  the  narra- 
tive to  establish  the  supposition  that  the  book  was 
a  work  of  imagination  composed  to  support  the 
faith  of  the  Jews  in  times  of  stress  and  difficulty. 

(6)  The  husband  of  Susanna  (Sus  vs  1  ff),  perhaps 
here  also  a  symbolical  name.  J.   Hutchison 

JOANAN,  jo-a'nan  ('Ioxxvdv  WH,  Idandn;  'Iu- 
awd  TR,  Ioannd;   AY  Joanna) : 

(1)  A  grandson  of  Zerubbabel  in  the  genealogy  of 
Jesus  according  to  St.  Luke  (3  27). 

(2)  ThesonofEliasib(l  Esd  9  1  AV,  RY  "Jonas"). 

JOANNA,  jo-an'a  ('Iwdva,  Iodna,  or  'Iwdwa, 
Iodnna):  The  wife  of  Chuzas,  Herod's  steward. 
She  was  one  of  the  "women  who  had  been  healed 
of  evil  spirits  and  infirmities"  which  "ministered 
unto  him  [AV,  i.e.  Jesus,  or  "them"  RV,  i.e.  Jesus 
and  His  disciples]  of  their  substance,"  on  the  occa- 
sion of  Jesus'  tour  through  Galilee  (Lk  8  2.3). 
Along  with  other  women  she  accompanied  Jesus 
on  His  last  journey  from  Galilee  to  Jerus,  and  was 
present  when  His  body  was  laid  in  the  sepulcher 
(Lk  23  55).  She  was  thus  among  those  who  pre- 
pared spices  and  ointments,  who  found  the  grave 
emptv,  and  who  "told  these  things  unto  the  apostles" 
(Lk  23  56—24  10).  C.  M.  Kerr 

JOANNES,  jo-an'es,  jo-an'ez  ('Iwdwris,  Iodnnes; 
AV  Johannes) : 

(1)  Son  of  Acatan  (1  Esd  8  38),  called  also 
"Johanan"  in  Ezr  8  12. 

(2)  Son  of  Bebai  (1  Esd  9  29),  called  "Jehohan- 
an"  in  Ezr  10  28. 

JOARIB,  jo'a-rib  ('Loaptp,  Idarib;  AV  Jarib): 
Ancestor  of  Mattathias  (1  Mace  14  29),  given  as 
"Joarib"  in  AV  of  1  Mace  2  1;  he  was  chief  of  the 
first  of  the  24  courses  of  priests  in  the  reign  of  David. 
Varieties  of  the  name  are  Jarib,  Joarib,  and  Je- 
hoiarib  (1  Ch  24  7). 

JOASH,  jo'ash  (TD&$"P,  yo'dsh,  "Jeh  is  strong"  or 
"Jeh  has  bestowed" ;   'Iwds,  Idas) : 

(1)  Father  of  Gideon,  of  the  clan  of  Abiezer  and 
the  tribe  Manasseh  (Jgs  6  11.29.30.31;  7  14;  8 
13.29.32).  Gideon  declares  (6  15)  that  the  family 
is  the  poorest  in  Manasseh,  words  similar  to  those 
of  Saul  (1  S  9  21),  and  not  to  be  taken  too  literally. 
J.  would  be  a  man  of  standing  and  wealth,  for 
Gideon  was  able  to  command  10  servants  to  destroy 
the  altar  and  the  Asherah  (Jgs  6  27.34),  and  also 
to  summon  the  whole  clan  to  follow  him.  Further, 
the  altar  that  J.  had  was  that  used  by  the  com- 
munity (6  28),  so  that  he  would  be  the  priest,  not 
only  of  his  own  family  qua  paterfamilias,  but  also 


of  the  community  in  virtue  of  his  position  as  chief. 
When  Gideon  destroyed  the  altar  and  the  Asherah 
or  sacred  pillar  by  it,  J.  refused  to  deliver  his  son 
to  death,  declaring  that  Baal,  if  he  was  a  god,  should 
avenge  himself  (cf  Elijah  in  1  K  18). 

(2)  Called  "the  king's  son"  (1  K  22  26;  2  Ch 
18  25;  cf  Jer  -36  26;  38  6),  or,  less  probably,  "the 
son  of  Hammelech,"  RVm;  perhaps  a  son  of  Ahab. 
Micaiah  the  prophet  was  handed  over  to  his  custody 
and  that  of  Anion  by  Ahab. 

(3)  A  Judahite,  descendant  of  Shelah  (1  Ch  4 
22). 

(4)  A  Benjamite  recruit  of  David  at  Ziklag. 
Commentators  read  here,  "J.  the  son  of  Shemaiah 
[or  Jehoshamai],  the  Gibeathite"  (1  Ch  12  3). 

(5)  In  2  K  11  2,  etc  =  Jehoash,  king  of  Judah. 

(6)  In  2  K  13  9,  etc  =  Jehoash,  king  of  Northern 
Israel.  David  Francis  Roberts 

JOASH  (T»3n\  yd\lsh,  "Jeh  has  aided"): 

(1)  A  Benjamite,  or,  more  probably,  a  Zebulunite 
(1  Ch  7  8). 

(2)  One  of  David's  officers;  J.  was  "over  the 
cellars  of  oil"  (1  Ch  27  28). 

JOATHAM,  jo'a-tham  ('IudGan,  Iddtham):  AV 
for  RV  "Jotham"  (Mt  1  9).    See  Jotham  (the  king). 

JOB,  job  P*PS  ,  'tyobh,  meaning  of  name  doubt- 
ful; some  conjecturing  "object  of  enmity,"  others 
"he  who  turns,"  etc,  to  God;  both  uncertain 
guesses;  'I(i8,  lob):  The  titular  hero  of  the  Book 
of  Job,  represented  as  a  wealthy  and  pious  land- 
holder who  lived  in  patriarchal  times,  or  at  least 
conditions,  in  the  land  of  Uz,  on  the  borders  of 
Iduinaea.  Outside  of  the  Book  of  Job  he  is 
mentioned  by  Ezekiel  (Ezk  14  14.20)  as  one  of  3 
great  personages  whose  representative  righteousness 
would  presumably  avail,  if  that  of  any  individuals 
could,  to  redeem  the  nation;  the  other  two  being 
Noah,  an  ancient  patriarch,  and  Daniel,  a  con- 
temporary of  the  prophet.  It,  is  difficult  to  deter- 
mine whether  J.  was  an  actual  personage  or  not.  If 
known  through  legend,  it  must  have  been  on  account 
of  some  such  experience  as  is  narrated  in  the  book, 
an  experience  unique  enough  to  have  become  a 
potent  household  word;  still,  the  power  and  in- 
fluence of  it  is  due  to  the  mast  erly  vigor  and  exposi- 
tion of  the  story.  It  was  the  J.  of  literature,  rather 
than  the  J.  of  legend,  who  lived  in  the  hearts  of 
men;  a  character  so  commanding  that,  albeit 
fictitious,  it  could  be  referred  to  as  real,  just  as  we 
refer  to  Hamlet  or  Othello.  It  is  not  the  way  of 
Heb  writers,  however,  to  evolve  literary  heroes  from 
pure  imagination;  they  crave  an  authentic  basis  of 
fact.  It  is  probable  that  such  a  basis,  in  its  essen- 
tial outlines,  existed  under  the  story  of  Job.  It  is 
not  necessary  to  suppose,  however,  that  the  legend 
or  the  name  was  known  to  Israel  from  ancient 
times.  Job  is  introduced  (Job  1  1)  as  if  he  had 
not  been  known  before.  The  writer,  who  through- 
out the  book  shows  a  wide  acquaintance  with  the 
world,  doubtless  found  the  legend  somewhere,  and 
drew  its  meanings  together  for  an  undying  message 
to  his  and  all  times.      John  Franklin  Genung 

JOB,  BOOK  OF: 

I.     Introductory 

1.  Place  in  the  Canon 

2.  Rank  and  Readers 

II.     The  Literary  Framework 

1.  Setting  of  Time,  Place  and  Scene 

2.  Characters  and  Personality 

3.  Form  and  Style 

III.     The  Course  of  the  Story 

A)  To  Job's  Blessing  and  Curse 

1.  His  "Autumn  Days" 

2.  The  Wager  in  Heaven 

3.  The  Silent  Friends 

4.  Whose  Way  Is  Hid 


Job,  Book  of         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1680 


B     To  Job's  ntimatum  of  Protest 
1     Thr  Wiled  Impeachment 
L>     Wisdom  Insipid.  Friends  Doubtful 
3.    Crookedness  of  the  Order  of  Things 
V.    No  Mediation  in  Sight 

C)  To  Job's  ntimatum  of  Faith 

1.  Detecting  the  Friends'  False  Note 

2.  Staking  All  on  Integrity 

3.  "  If  a  Man  Die" 

V.   The  Surviving  Next  of  Kin 

D)  To  Job's  Verdict  on  Things  as  They  Are  _ 

1.  Climax    and    Subsidence    of    the     Inends 
( !harge 

2.  The  Keal  Cause  of  Job's  Dismay 

3.  Manhood  in  the  Ore 

4.  Job  Reads  His  Indictment 

E)  'The  Denouement- 

1.  The  Self-constituted  Interpreter 

2.  The  Whirlwind  and  the  Voice 

3.  The  Thins  That  Is  Right 

4.  The  Restored  Situation 
IV.     The  Problem  and  the  Purpose 

1.  lievond  the  Didactic  Tether 

2.  What  Comes  of  Limiting  the  Purpose 

3.  The  Hook's  Own  Import  of  Purpose 

4.  Problem  of  the  Intrinsic  Man 

V.     Considerations  of  Age   and  Setting 

1.  Shadowy  Contacts  with  History 

2.  Place  in  Bib.  Literature 

3.  Parallels  and  Echoes 
Literature 

/.  Introductory. — The  greatest  production  of  the 

Ileb  Wisdom   literature,   and  one  of  the  supreme 

literary   creations   of    the   world.     Its 

1.  Place  in  place  in  the  Heb  Canon  corresponds 
the  Canon      to  the  high  estimation  in  which  it  was 

held;  it  stands  in  the  3d  section,  the 
"writings"  (kHhubhim)  or  Hagiographa,  next  after 
the  two  great  anthologies  Pss  and  Prov;  apparently 
put  thus  near  the  head  of  the  list  for  weighty  read- 
ing and  meditation.  In  the  Gr  Canon  (which  ours 
follows),  it  is  put  with  the  poetical  books,  standing 
at  their  head.  It  is  one  of  3  Scripture  books,  the 
others  being  Pss  and  Prov,  for  which  the  later  Hcb 
scholars  (the  Massoretes)  employed  a  special  system 
of  punctuation  to  mark  its  poetic  character. 

The  Book  of  Job  was  not  one  of  the  books  desig- 
nated for  public  reading  in  the  synagogues,  as  were 

the   Pent   and   the     Prophets,    or    for 

2.  Rank  occasional  reading  at  feast  seasons,  as 
and  were  the  5  megilloth  or  rolls.  It  was 
Readers         rather  a  book  for  private  reading,  and 

one  whose  subject-matter  would  appeal 
esp.  to  the  more  cultivated  and  thoughtful  classes. 
Doubtless  it  was  all  the  more  intimately  valued  for 
this  detachment  from  sanctuary  associations;  it 
was,  like  Prov,  a  people's  book;  and  esp.  among 
the  cultivators  of  Wisdom  it  must  have  been  from 
its  first  publication  a  cherished  classic.  At  any 
rate,  the  patriarch  Job  (though  whether  from  the 
legend  or  from  the  finished  book  is  not  clear;  see 
Job)  is  mentioned  as  a  well-known  national  type  by 
Lzk  (14  14.20);  and  James,  writing  to  Jewish 
Christians  (5  11),  refers  to  the  character  of  the 
patriarch  as  familiar  to  his  readers.  It  was  as  one 
of  the  great  classic  stories  of  their  lit.,  rather  than 
as  embodying  a  ritual  or  prophetic  standard,  that 
it  was  so  universally  known  and  cherished. 

//.  The  Literary  Framework. — In  view  of  the 
numerous  critical  questions  by  which  the  inter- 
pretation of  the  book  has  been  beclouded — ques- 
tions of  later  alterations,  additions,  corruptions, 
dislocations — it  may  be  well  to  say  at  the  outset 
that  what  is  here  proposed  is  to  consider  the  Book 
of  Job  as  we  have  it  before  us  today,  in  its  latest  and 
presumably  definitive  edition.  It  will  be  time 
enough  to  remove  excrescences  when  a  fair  view  of 
the  book  as  it  is,  with  its  literary  values  and  rela- 
tions, makes  us  sure  that  there  are  such;  see  III, 
below.  Meanwhile,  as  a  book  that  has  reached  a 
stage  so  fixed  and  finished  that  at  any  rate  modern 
tinkering  cannot  materially  change  it,  we  may 
consider  what  its  literary  framework  does  to  justify 
itself.     And  first,  of  all,  we  may  note  that   preemi- 


nently among  Scripture  books  it  bears  the  matured 
literary  stamp;  both  in  style  and  structure  it  is  a 
work,  not  only  of  spiritual  edification,  but  of 
finished  literary  art.  This  may  best  be  realized, 
perhaps,  by  taking  it,  as  from  the  beginning  it 
purports  to  be,  as  a  continuously  maintained  story, 
with  the  consistent  elements  of  plot,  character 
scheme,  and  narrative  movement  which  we  nat- 
urally associate  with  a  work  of  the  narrator's  art. 

The  story  of  the  Book  of  Job  is  laid  in  the  far-off 

patriarchal  age,  such  a  time  as  we  find  elsewhere 

represented  only  in  the  Book  of  Gen; 

1.  Setting  a  time  long  before  the  Israelitish  state, 
of  Time,  with  its  religious,  social  and  political 
Place  and  organization,  existed.  Its  place  is  "the 
Scene  land    of    l'z,"    a    little-known    region 

S.E.  of  Pal,  on  the  borders  of  Edom; 
a  place  remote  from  the  ways  of  thinking  peculiar 
to  Israelitish  lawgivers,  priests  and  prophets.  Its 
scene  is  in  the  free  open  country,  among  mountains, 
wadies,  pasture-lands,  and  rural  towns,  where  the 
relations  of  man  and  man  are  more  elemental  and 
primitive,  and  where  the  things  of  God  are  more 
intimately  apprehended  than  in  the  complex  affairs 
of  city  and  state.  It  is  easy  to  see  what  the  writer 
gains  by  such  a  choice  of  setting.  The  patriarchal 
conditions,  wherein  the  family  is  the  social  and 
communal  unit,  enable  him  to  portray  worship 
and  conduct  in  their  primal  elements:  religious 
rites  of  the  simplest  nature,  with  the  family  head 
the  unchallenged  priest  and  intercessor  (cf  1  4.5; 
42  8),  and  without  the  austere  exactions  of  sanctu- 
ary or  temple;  to  represent  God,  as  in  the  old 
folk-stories,  as  communicating  with  men  in  audible 
voice  and  in  tempest;  and  to  give  to  the  patriarch 
or  sheikh  a  function  of  counsel  and  succor  in  the 
community  analogous  to  that  of  the  later  wise  man 
or  sage  (cf  ch  29).  The  place  outside  the  bounds 
of  Pal  enables  him  to  give  an  international  or  rather 
intercommunal  tissue  to  his  thought,  as  befits  the 
character  of  the  wisdom  with  which  he  is  dealing, 
a  strain  of  truth  which  Israel  could  and  did  share 
with  neighbor  nations.  This  is  made  further  evi- 
dent by  the  fact  that  in  the  discourses  of  the  book, 
the  designation  of  God  is  not  Jeh  (with  one  excep- 
tion, 12  9),  but  Elohim  or  Eloah  or  Shaddai,  appel- 
latives rather  than  names,  common  to  the  Sem 
peoples.  The  whole  archaic  scene  serves  to  detach 
the  story  from  complex  conditions  of  civilization, 
and  enables  the  writer  to  deal  with  the  inherent  and 
intrinsic  elements  of  manhood. 

All  the  characters  of  the  story,  J.  included,  are 
from   non-Palest  inian   regions.     The   chief  spokes- 
man of  the  friends,   Eliphaz,  who  is 

2.  Charac-  from  Teman,  is  perhaps  intended  to 
ters  and  represent  a  type  of  the  standard  and 
Personality    orthodox  wisdom  of  the  day:  Teman, 

and  Edom  in  general  being  famed  for 
wisdom  (Jer  49  7;  Ob  vs  8.9).  The  characters  of 
the  friends,  while  representing  in  general  a  remark- 
able uniformity  of  tenet,  are  quite  aptly  individual- 
ized: Eliphaz  as  a  venerable  and  devout  sage  who, 
with  his  eminent  penetrativeness  of  insight,  com- 
bines a  yearning  compassion;  Bildad  more  as  a 
scholar  versed  in  the  derived  lore  of  tradition;  and 
Zophar  more  impetuous  and  dogmatic,  with  the 
dogmatist's  vein  of  intolerance.  In  Elihu,  the 
young  Aramaean  who  speaks  after  the  others,  the 
writer  seems  endeavoring  to  portray  a  young  man's 
positiveness  and  absoluteness  of  conviction,  and 
with  it  a  self-conceit  that  quite  outruns  his  ability. 
The  Satan  of  the  Prologue,  who  makes  the  wager 
with  Jeh,  is  masterfully  individualized,  not  as  the 
malignant  tempter  and  enemy  of  mankind,  but  as 
a  spirit  compact  of  impudent  skepticism,  who  can 
appreciate  no  motive  beyond  self-advantage.  Even 
the  wife  of  J.,  with  her  peremptory  disposition  to 


1G81 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA         Job,  Book  of 


make  his  affliction  a  personal  issue  with  God,  is  not 
without  an  authentic  touch  of  the  elemental  femi- 
nine. But  high  above  them  all  is  the  character  of 
J.  himself,  which,  with  all  its  stormy  alternations 
of  mood,  range  of  assertion  and  remonstrance  and 
growth  of  new  conviction,  remains  absolutely  con- 
sistent with  itself.  Nor  can  we  leave  unmentioned 
what  is  perhaps  the  hardest  achievement  of  all,  the 
sublime  venture  of  giving  the  very  words  of  God,  in 
such  a  way  that  lie  speaks  no  word  out  of  character 
nor  measures  His  thought  according  to  the  standards 
of  men. 

The  Prologuo,  chs  1  and  2,  a  few  verses  at  the  begin- 
ning of  ch  32  (vs  l-6a),  and  the  Epilogue  (42  7-17)  are 

written   in   narrative  prose.     The   rest   of 

3    Form  tne  book  (except  the  short  sentences  in- 

,  c     .  traducing   the   speakers)    is  in   poetry;     a 

and  otyle        poetic  tissue  conforming  to  the  type  of  the 

later  mdshal  (see  under  Proverb),  which, 
in  continuous  series  of  couplets,  is  admirably  adapted 
alike  to  imaginative  sublimity  and  impassioned  address. 
Beginning  with  J.'s  curse  of  his  day  (eh  3),  J-  and  his 
three  friends  answer  each  other  back  and  forth  in  three 
rounds  of  speeches,  complete  except  that,  for  reasons  which 
the  subject  makes  apparent,  Zophar,  the  third  friend,  fails 
to  speak  tin;  third  time.  After  the  friends  are  thus  put 
to  silence,  J.  speaks  three  times  in  succession  (chs  26- 
31),  and  then  "the  words  of  J.  are  ended."  At  this 
point  (ch  32)  a  fourth  speaker,  Elihu,  hitherto  unmen- 
tioned, is  introduced  and  speaks  four  times,  when  he 
abruptly  ceases  in  terror  at  an  approaching  whirlwind 
(37  24).  Jell  speaks  from  the  whirlwind,  two  speeches, 
each  of  which  J.  answers  briefly  (40  3-5;  42  1-6),  or 
rather  declines  to  answer.  Such,  which  we  may  sum- 
marize in  Prologue  (chs  1,  2).  Body  of  Discussion  (3 — 
42  0),  and  Epilogue  (42  7-17),  is  the  literary  frame- 
work of  the  book.  The  substance  of  the  book  is  in  a 
way  dramatic;  it  cannot,  however,  be  called  so  truly 
a  drama  as  a  kind  of  forum  of  debate;  its  movement  is 
too  rigid  for  dramatic  action,  and  it  lacks  besides  the 
give-and-take  of  dialogue.  In  a  book  of  mine  published 
some  years  ago  I  ventured  to  call  it  "The  Epic  of  the 
Inner  Life,"  epic  not  so  much  in  the  technical  sense,  as 
in  recognition  of  an  underlying  epos  which  for  funda- 
mental significance  may  be  compared  to  the  story  under- 
lying the  Prometheus  Bound  of  Aeschylus.  It  will  not 
do,  however,  to  make  too  much  of  either  of  these  forms 
as  designating  the  Book  of  Job;  cither  term  has  to  be 
accommodated  almost  out  of  recognition,  because  the 
Heb  literary  forms  were  not  conceived  according  to  the 
Or  categories  from  which  our  terms  "epic"  and  "dra- 
matic" are  derived.  A  greater  limitation  on  our  appre- 
ciation of  its  form,  I  think,  is  imposed  by  those  who 
regard  it  as  a  mixture  of  forms.  It  is  too  generally  di- 
vided between  narrative  and  didactic  debate.  To  the 
Heb  mind  it  was  all  a  continuous  narrative,  in  which  the 
poetic  discussion,  though  overweighting  the  current  of 
visualized  action,  had  nevertheless  the  movement  and 
value  of  real  events.  It  is  in  this  light,  rather  than  in 
the  didactic,  that  we  may  most  profitably  regard  it. 

///.  The  Course  of  the  Story. — To  divide  the  story 
of  J.  into  42  parts,  according  to  the  42  numbered 
chapters,  is  in  the  last  degree  arbitrary.  Nothing 
conies  of  it  except  convenience  in  reading  for  those 
who  wish  to  take  their  Job  in  little  detached  bits. 
The  chapter  division  was  no  part  of  the  original, 
and  a  very  insignificant  step  in  the  later  apprehen- 
sion of  the  original.  To  divide  according  to  the 
speeches  of  the  interlocutors  is  better;  it  helps  us 
realize  how  the  conflict  of  views  brought  the  various 
phases  of  the  thought  to  expression;  but  this  too, 
with  its  tempting  three-times-three,  turns  out  to  be 
merely  a  framework;  it  corresponds  only  imperfectly 
with  the  true  inwardness  of  the  story's  movement; 
it  is  rather  a  scheme  than  a  continuity.  We  are 
to  bear  in  mind  that  this  Book  of  Job  is  funda- 
mentally the  inner  experience  of  one  man,  as  he 
rises  from  the  depths  of  spiritual  gloom  and  doubt 
to  a  majestic  table-land  of  new  insight  and  faith; 
the  other  characters  are  but  ancillary,  helps  and  foils, 
whose  function  is  subordinate  and  relative.  _  Hence, 
mindful  of  this  inwardness  of  Job's  experience,  I 
have  ventured  to  trace  the  story  in  5  main  stages, 
naming  them  according  to  the  landing-stage  attained 
in  each. 

The  story  begins  (1  1-5)  with  a  brief  description 
of  J.  as  he  was  before  his  trial  began;  the  elements 
of    his   life,  outer   and   inner,   on   which   is  to  be 


raised  the  question  of  motive.  A  prosperous  land- 
holder of  the  land  of  Uz,  distinguished  far  and  wide 

as  the  greatest  (i.e.  richest)  of  the  sons 
^1)  To  Job's  of  the  East,  his  inner  character  corre- 
Blessing  sponds:  to  all  appearance  nothing  lack- 
and  Curse      ing,  a  man  "perfect  and  upright,  and 

one  that  feared  God,  and  turned  away 
from  evil."  The  typical  Heb  blessings  of  life  were 
his  to  the  full:  wealth,  honor,  health,  family.  He 
is  evidently  set  before  us  as  the  perfect  example 
of  the  validity  of  the  established  Wisdom-tenet, 
that  righteousness  and  Wisdom  are  identical  (see 
under  Proverbs,  Tub  Book  of),  and  that  this 
is  manifest  in  its  visible  rewards.  This  period  of 
his  life  J.  describes  afterward  by  retrospect  as  his 
"autumn  days,"  when  the  friendship  or  intimacy 
(""10  ,  sodh)  of  God  was  over  his  tent  (see  29  4,  and 
the  whole  ch).     Nor  are  we  left  without  a  glimpse 

into  his  heart:  his  constant  attitude  of 

1.  His  worship,  and  his  tender  solicitude  lest, 
"Autumn  in  their  enjoyment  of  the  pleasures  of 
Days"  life,  his  sons  may  have  been  disloyal 

to  God  (1  4.5).  It  is  easy  to  see  that 
not  J.  alone,  but  Wisdom  as  embodied  in  J.,  is 
postulated  here  for  its  supreme  test . 

Nor  is  the  test  delayed,  or  its  ground  ambiguous 
when   it   comes.     Satan  proposes  it.     Two  scenes 

are  given    (1  6-12;    2  1-6)   from  the 

2.  The  court  of  God,  wherever  that  is;  for 
Wager  in  they  are  overheard  by  the  reader,  not 
Heaven          seen,  and  of  course  neither  J.  nor  any 

inhabitant  of  earth  is  aware  of  them. 
In  these  scenes  the  sons  of  God,  the  spirits  who 
rejoiced  over  creation  (38  7),  are  come  together  to 
render  report,  and  Satan,  uninvited,  enters  among 
them.  He  is  a  wandering  spirit,  unanchored  to  any 
allegiance,  who  roams  through  the  earth,  prying 
and  criticizing.  There  is  nothing,  it  would  seem, 
in  which  he  cannot  find  some  flaw  or  discount.  To 
Jeh's  question  if  he  has  considered  J.,  the  man 
perfect  and  upright,  he  makes  no  denial  of  the  fact, 
but  raises  the  issue  of  motive:  "Doth  J.  fear  God 
for  nought?"  and  urges  that  J.'s  integrity  is  after 
all  only  a  transparent  bargain,  a  paying  invest- 
ment with  only  reward  in  view.  It  is  virtually  an 
arraignment  both  of  God's  order  and  of  the  essen- 
tial human  character:  of  God's  order  in  connecting 
righteousness  so  intimately  with  gain;  and  of  the 
essential  human  character,  virtually  denying  that 
there  is  such  a  tiling  as  disinterested,  intrinsic 
human  virtue.  The  sneer  strikes  deep,  and  J.,  the 
perfect  embodiment  of  human  virtue,  is  its  desig- 
nated victim.  Satan  proposes  a  wager,  to  the  issue 
of  which  Jeh  commits  Himself.  The  trial  of  J.  is 
carried  out  in  two  stages:  first  against  his  property 
and  family,  with  the  stipulation  that  it  is  not  to 
touch  him;  and  then,  this  failing  to  detach  him 
from  his  allegiance,  against  his  person  in  sore  disease, 
with  the  stipulation  that  his  life  is  to  be  spared. 
Jeh  acknowledges  that  for  once  He  is  consenting  to 
an  injustice  (2  3),  and  Satan,  liar  that  he  is,  uses 
instrumentalities  that  men  have  ascribed  to  God 
alone:  the  first  time,  tempest  and  lightning  (as  well 
as  murderous  foray),  the  second  time,  the  black 
leprosy,  a  fell  disease,  loathsome  and  deadly,  which 
in  men's  minds  meant  the  immediate  punitive 
stroke  of  God.  The  evil  is  as  absolute  as  was  the 
reward;  a  complete  reversal  of  the  order  in  which 
men's  wisdom  had  come  to  trust.  But  in  the  imme- 
diate result,  Jeh's  faith  in  His  noblest  creature  is 
vindicated.  Urged  by  his  wife  in  his  extremity  to 
"curse  God  and  die,"  J.  remains  true  to  his  allegi- 
ance; and  in  his  staunch  utterance,  "Jeh  gave,  and 
Jeh  hat h  taken  away;  blessed  be  the  name  of  Jeh," 
J.,  as  the  writer  puts  it,  'sinned  not,  nor  attributed 
aught  unbeseeming  [<1f5n  ,  tiphlah,  lit.  "tasteless"] 


Job,  Book  of         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1682 


to  God.'  Such  is  1  lie  first  onset  of  J. 's  affliction  and 
its  result.  Jt  remains  to  be  seen  what  the  long  issue, 
days  and  months  of  wretchedness,  will  bring  forth. 

We  are  now  to  imagine  the  lapse  of  some  time, 

perhaps  several  months  (cf  7  3),  during  which  J. 

suffers  alone,  an  outcast   from   house 

3.  The  and  society,  on  a  leper's  ash-heap. 
Silent  Meanwhile  three  friends  of  his  who 
Friends           have  heard  of  his  affliction  make  an 

appointment  together  and  come  from 
distant  regions  to  give  him  sympathy  and  comfort, 
(2  11-13).  On  arriving,  however,  they  find  tilings 
different  from  what  they  had  expected;  perhaps  the 
ominous  nature  of  his  disease;  has  developed  since 
they  started.  What  they  find  is  a  man  wretched 
and  outcast,  with  a  disease  (elephantiasis)  which 
to  them  can  mean  nothing  but  the  immediate 
vengeance  of  God.  The  awful  sight  gives  them 
pause.  Instead  of  condoling  with  him,  they  sit 
silent  and  dismayed,  and  for  seven  days  and  nights 
no  word  is  spoken  (cf  lsa  63  3).  What  they  were 
debating  with  themselves  during  that  time  is  be- 
trayed by  the  after-course  of  the  story.  How  can 
they  bless  one  whom  God  has  stamped  with  His 
curse?  To  do  so  would  be  taking  sides  with  the 
wicked.  Is  it  not  rather  their  duty  to  side  with 
God,  and  be  safe,  and  let  sympathy  go?  By  this 
introduction  of  the  friends  and  their  averted  atti- 
tude, the  writer  with  consummate  skill  brings  anew 
element  into  the  story,  the  element  of  the  Wisdom- 
philosophy;  and  time  will  show  whether  as  a 
theoretical  thing,  cold  and  intellectual,  it  will  retain 
or  repress  the  natural  out  welling  of  human  friend- 
ship.    And  this  silence  is  ominous. 

The  man  who,  in  the  first  onset  of  trial,  blessed 

Jeh  and  set  himself  to  bear  in  silence  now  opens  his 

mouth  to  curse.     His  curse  is  directed, 

4.  Whose  not  against  Jeh  nor  against  the  order 
Way  Is  Hid  of  things,  but  against  the  day  of  his 

birth.  It  is  a  day  that  has  ceased  to 
have  meaning  or  worth  for  him.  The  day  stands  for 
life,  for  his  individual  life,  a  life  that  in  the  order  of 
things  should  carry  out  the  personal  promise  and 
fruitage  for  which  it  had  been  bestowed.  And  his 
quarrel  with  it  is  that  he  has  lost  its  clue.  Satan 
unknown  to  him  has  sneered  because  Jeh  had 
hedged  him  round  with  protection  and  favor  (1  10) ; 
but  his  complaint  is  that  all  this  is  removed  without 
cause,  and  God  has  hedged  him  round  with  darkness. 
His  way  is  hid  (3  23).  Why  then  was  life  given  at  all? 
In  all  this,  it  will  be  noted,  he  raises  no  train  of  intro- 
spection to  account  for  his  condition;  he  assumes  no 
sinfulness,  nor  even  natural  human  depravity;  the 
opposite  rather,  for  a  baffling  element  of  his  case  is 
his  shrinking  sensitiveness  against  evil  and  disloyalty 
(cf  3  25.26,  in  which  the  tenses  should  be  past,  wit  h 
1  5;  see  also  6  30;  16  17).  His  plight  has  become 
sharply,  poignantly  objective;  his  inner  self  has  no 
part  in  it.  Thus  in  this  opening  syieech  he  strikes 
the  keynote  of  the  real,  against  which  the  friends' 
theories  rage  and  in  the  end  wreck  themselves. 

With  all  the  gentle  regret  of  having  to  urge  a 
disagreeable    truth    the    friends,    beginning    with 

Eliphaz,  the  wisest  and  most  venerable, 
B)  To  Job's  enter  upon  their  theory  of  the  case. 
Ultimatum  Eliphaz  covers  virtually  the  whole 
of  Protest      ground;  the  others  come  in  mainly  to 

echo  or  emphasize.  He  veils  his  re- 
proof in  general  and  implicatory  terms,  the  seasoned 
terms  of  wisdom  in   which  Job   himself  is  expert 

(4  3-5);  reminds  him  that  no  righteous 
1.  The  man  perishes,  but  that  men  reap  what 

Veiled  they  sow  (4  7.8) ;  adduces  a  vision  that 

Impeach-  he  had  had  which  revealed  to  him  that 
ment  man,  by  the  very  fact  of  being  mortal, 

is  impure  and  iniquitous  (4  17-19); 
implies  that  J.'s  turbulence  of  mind  precludes  him 


from  similar  revelations,  and  jeopards  his  soul  (5  1.2); 
advises  him  to  commit  his  case  to  God,  with  the  im- 
plication, however,  that  it  is  a  case  needing  correc- 
tion rather  than  justification,  and  that  the  result 
in  view  is  restored  comfort  and  prosperity.  As  J. 
answers  with  a  more  passionate  and  detailed  por- 
trayal of  his  wrong,  Bildad,  following,  abandons  the 
indirect  impeachment  and  attributes  the  children's 
death  to  their  sin  (8  4),  .saying  also  that  if  J.  were 
pure  and  upright  he  might  supplicate  and  regain 
God's  favor  (8  5.6).  He  then  goes  on  to  draw  a 
lesson  from  the  traditional  Wisdom  lore,  to  the  effect 
that  sure  destruction  awaits  the  wicked  and  sure 
felicity  the  righteous  (8  11-22).  On  J.'s  following 
this  with  his  most  positive  arraignment  of  God's 
order  and  claim  for  light,  Zophar  replies  with  im- 
petuous heat,  averring  that  J.'s  punishment  is  less 
than  he  deserves  (11  6),  and  reproving  him  for  his 
presumption  in  trying  to  find  the  secret  of  God  (11 
7-12).  All  three  of  the  friends,  with  increasing 
emphasis,  end  their  admonitions  in  much  the  same 
way;  'promising  J.  reinstatement  in  God's  favor,  but 
always  with  the  veiled  implication  that  he  must 
own  to  iniquity  and  entreat  as  a  sinner. 

To  the  general  maxims  of  Wisdom  urged  against 

him,  with  which  he  is  already  familiar  (cf  13  2), 

J.'s   objection    is   not    that    they    are 

2.  Wisdom  untrue,  but  that  they  are  insipid 
Insipid,  (6  6.7);  they  have  lost  their  appli- 
Friends  cation  to  the  case.  Yet  it  is  pain  to 
Doubtful        him  to  think  that  the  words  of  the 

Holy  One  should  fail;  he  longs  to  die 
rather  than  deny  them  (6  9.10).  One  poignant 
element  of  his  sorrow  is  that  the  intuitive  sense 
(tushlyah;  see  under  Proverbs,  The  Book  of)  is 
driven  away  from  him;  see  6  13.  He  is  irritated 
by  the  insinuating  way  in  which  the  friends  beg 
the  question  of  his  guilt ;  longs  for  forthright  and 
sincere  words  (6  25).  It  is  this  quality  of  their 
speech,  in  fact,  which  adds  the  bitterest  drop  to  his 
cup;  his  friends,  on  whom  he  had  counted  for  sup- 
port, are  deceitful  like  a  dried-up  brook  (6  15-20); 
he  feels,  in  his  sick  sensitiveness,  that  they  are  not 
sympathizing  with  him  but  using  him  for  their  cold, 
calculating  purposes  (6  27). _  Thus  is  introduced 
one  of  the  most  potent  motives  of  the  story,  the 
motive  of  friendship;  much  will  come  of  it  when 
from  the  fallible  friendships  of  earth  he  conquers 
his  way  by  faith  to  a  friendship  in  the  unseen  (cf 
16  19;  19  27). 

With  the  sense  that  the  old  theories  have  become 
stale  and  pointless,  though  his  discernment  of  the 

evil  of  things  is  undulled  by  sin  (6  30), 

3.  Crook-  J.  arrives  at  an  extremely  poignant 
edness  of  realization  of  the  hardness  and  crook- 
the  Order  edness  of  the  world-order,  the  result 
of  Things      both  of  what   the  friends  are  saying 

and  of  what  he  has  always  held  in 
common  with  them.  It  is  the  view  that  is  forced 
upon  him  by  the  sense  that  he  is  unjustly  dealt  with 
by  a  God  who  renders  no  reasons,  who  on  the  score 
of  justice  vouchsafes  to  man  neither  insight  nor 
recourse,  and  whose  severity  is  out  of  all  proportion 
to  man's  sense  of  worth  (7  17)  or  right  (9  17)  or 
claim  as  a  creature  of  His  hand  (10  8-14).  Ch  9, 
which  contains  J.'s  direct  address  to  this  arbitrary 
Being,  is  one  of  the  most  tremendous,  not  to  say 
audacious  conceptions  in  literature;  in  which  a 
mortal  on  the  threshold  of  death  takes  upon  himself 
to  read  God  a  lesson  in  godlikeness.  In  this  part 
of  the  story  J.  reaches  his  ultimatum  of  protest;  a 
protest  amazingly  sincere,  but  not  blasphemous  when 
we  realize  that  it  is  made  in  the  interest  of  the 
Godlike. 

The  great  lack  which  J.  feels  in  his  arraignment 
of  God  is  the  lack  of  mediation  between  Creator 
and  creature,  the  Oppressor  and  His  victim.     There 


1683 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA         Job,  Book  of 


is  no  umpire  between  them,  who  might  lay  his  hand 
upon  both,  so  that  the  wronged  one  might  have  a 
voice  in  the  matter  (9  32-35).    The 
4.  No  two  things  that  an  umpire  might  do: 

Mediation  to  remove  God's  afflicting  hand,  and 
in  Sight  to  prevent  God's  terror  from  unman- 
ning His  victim  (see  13  20-22,  as  com- 
pared with  the  passage  just  cited),  are  the  great 
need  to  restore  normal  and  reciprocal  relations  with 
Him  whose  demand  of  righteousness  is  so  inexorable. 
This  umpire  or  advocate  idea,  thus  propounded 
negatively,  will  grow  to  a  sublime  positive  convic- 
tion in  the  next  stage  of  J.'s  spiritual  progress  (16 
19;  19  25-27). 

As  the  friends  finish  their  first  round  of  speeches, 
in  which  a  remote  and  arbitrary  God  is  urged  upon 
him  as  everything,  and  man  so  cor- 
C)  To  rupt  and  blind  that  he  cannot  but  be 

Job's  Ulti-  a  worm  and  culprit  (cf  25  4-6),  J.'s 
matum  of  eyes,  which  hitherto  have  seen  with 
Faith  theirs,  are  suddenly  opened.     His  first 

complaint   of   their   professed   friend- 
ship was  that  it  was  fallible;   instead  of  sticking  to 
him  when  he  needed  them  most  (6  14),  and  in  spite 
of  his  bewilderment  (6  26),  they  were 

1.  Detect-  making  it  virtually  an  article  of  traffic 
ing  the  (6  27),  as  if  it  were  a  thing  for  their 
Friends'  gain.  It  was  not  sincere,  not  intrinsic 
False  Note    to    their    nature,    but    an   expedient. 

And  now  all  at  once  he  penetrates  to  its 
motive.  They  are  deserting  him  in  order  to  curry 
favor  with  God.  That  motive  has  prevented  them 
from  seeing  true;  they  see  only  their  theoret  ical  God, 
and  are  respecting  His  person  instead  of  responding 
to  the  inner  dictate  of  truth  and  integrity.  To  his 
honest  heart  this  is  monstrous;  they  ought  to  be 
afraid  of  taking  falseness  for  God  (13  3-12).  Nor 
does  his  inference  stop  with  thus  detecting  their 
false  note.  If  they  are  ''forgers  of  lies"  in  this 
respect ,  what  of  all  their  words  of  wisdom?  They 
have  been  giving  him  "proverbs  of  ashes"  (13  12); 
the  note  of  false  implication  is  in  them  all.  From 
this  point  therefore  he  pays  little  attention  to  what 
they  say;  lets  them  go  on  to  grossly  exaggerated 
statement  of  their  tenet,  while  he  opens  a  new  way 
of  faith  for  himself,  developing  the  germs  of  insight 
that  have  come  to  him. 

Having  cut  loose  from  all  countenancing  of  the 

friends'   self-interested  motives,   J.   now,   with  the 

desperate  sense  of  taking  his  life  in  his 

2.  Staking  hand  and  abandoning  hope,  resolves 
All  on  that  come  what  will  he  will  maintain 
Integrity        his  ways  to  Ciod's  face.     This,  as  he 

believes,  is  not  only  the  one  course 
for  his  integrity,  but  his  one  plea  of  salvation,  for 
no  false  one  shall  appear  before  him.  How  tre- 
mendous the  meaning  of  this  resolve,  we  can  think 
when  we  reflect  how  he  has  just  taken  God  in  hand 
to  amend  His  supposed  iniquitous  order  of  things; 
and  that  he  is  now,  without  mediator,  pleading  the 
privilege  that  a  mediator  would  secure  (13  20.21 ;  see 
8,  above)  and  urging  a  hearing  on  his  own  charges. 
The  whole  reach  of  his  sublime  faith  is  involved  in 
this. 

In  two  directions  his  faith  is  reaching  out;    in 

both   negatively    at   first.     One,    the   belief   in    an 

Advocate,  has  already  been  broached, 

3.  "If  a  and  is  germinating  from  negative  to 
Man  Die"     positive.     The  other,  the  question  of 

life  after  death,  rises  here  in  the  same 
tentative  way:  using  first  the  analogy  of  the  tree 
which  sprouts  again  after  it  is  cut  down  (14  7-9), 
and  from  it  inquiring,  'If  a  man  die — might  he 
live  again  ?'  and  dwelling  in  fervid  imagination  on 
the  ideal  solution  which  a  survival  of  death  would 
bring  (14  13-17),  but  returning  to  his  reluctant 
negative,  from  the  analogy  of  drying  waters  (14  11) 


and  the  slow  wearing  down  of  mountains  (14  18.19). 
As  yet  he  can  treat  the  idea  only  as  a  fancy;  not 
yet  a  hope  or  a  grounded  conviction. 

The  conviction  comes  by  a  nobler  way  than  fancy, 
by  the  way  of  his  personal  sense  of  the  just  and 
Godlike  order.     The  friends  in  their 
4.  The  second  round  of  speeches  have  begun 

Surviving  their  lurid  portrayals  of  the  wicked 
Next  of  Kin  man's  awful  fate;_  but  until  all  have 
spoken  again  he  is  concerned  with  a 
far  more  momentous  matter.  Dismissing  these  for 
the  present  as  an  academic  exercise  composed  in 
cold  blood  (16  4.5),  and  evincing  a  heart  hid  from 
understanding  (17  4),  he  goes  on  to  recount  in  the 
most  bitter  terms  he  has  yet  used  the  flagrancy  of 
his  wrong  as  something  that  calls  out  for  expiation 
like  the  blood  of  Cain  (16  18),  and  breaks  out  with 
the  conviction  that  his  witness  and  voucher  who 
will  hear  his  prayer  for  mediation  is  on  high  (16 
19-21).  Then  after  Bildad  in  a  spiteful  retort  has 
matched  his  complaint  with  a  description  of  the 
calamities  of  the  wicked  (an  augmented  echo  of 
Eliphaz),  and  he  has  pathetically  bewailed  the 
treachery  of  earthly  friends  (19  13.14.21.22),  he 
mounts,  as  it  were,  at  a  bound  to  the  sublime  ulti- 
matum of  his  faith  in  an  utterance  which  he  would 
fain  see  engraved  on  the  rock  forever  (19  23-29). 
"I  know  that  my  Redeemer  liveth,"  he  exclaims; 
lit .  my  Go'el  0VS3 ,  go' all),  or  next  of  kin,  the  person 
whose  business  in  the  old  Heb  idea  was  to  maintain 
the  rights  of  an  innocent  wronged  one  and  avenge 
his  blood.  He  does  not  recede  from  the  idea  that 
his  wrong  is  from  God  (cf  19  6.21);  but  over  his 
dust  stands  his  next  of  kin,  and  as  the  result  of  this 
one's  intercession  J.,  in  his  own  integral  person, 
shall  see  God  no  more  a  stranger.  So  confident  is 
he  that  he  solemnly  warns  the  friends  who  have 
falsely  impeached  him  that  it  is  they,  not  he,  who 
arc  in  peril  (19  28.29;  cf  13  10.11). 

That  in  this  conviction  of  a  living  Redeemer 
J.'s  faith  has  reached  firm  and  final  ground  is  evi- 
dent from  the  fact  that  he  does  not 
D)  To  recur  to  his  old  doubts  at  all.     They 

Job's  Ver-  are  settled,  and  settled  right.  But 
diet  on  now,  leaving  them,  he  can  attend  to 

Things  as  what  the  friends  have  been  saying. 
They  Are  Zophar,  the  third  speaker,  following, 
presses  to  vehement  extreme  their 
iterated  portrayal  of  the  wicked  man's  terrific 
woes;  it  seems  the  design  of  the  writer  to  make 
them  outdo  themselves  in  frantic  overstatement 
of  their  thesis.  As  Zophar  ceases,  and  J.  has  thus, 
as  it  were,  drawn  all  their  fire,  J.  refutes  them 
squarely,  as  we  shall  presently  see. 
1.  Climax  Meanwhile,  in  the  course  of  his  ex- 
and  Sub-  tended  refutation,  the  friends  begin 
sidence  of  a  third  round  of  speeches.  Eliphaz, 
the  Friends'  who  has  already  taken  alarm  at  the 
Charge  tendency  of  J.'s  words,  as  those  of  a 

depraved  _  skeptic  and  ruinous  to  de- 
votion (15  4-6),  now  in  the  interests  of  his  ortho- 
doxy brings  in  his  bill  of  particulars.  It  is  the  kind 
of  theoretical  cant  that  has  had  large  prevalence 
in  dogmatic  religion,  but  in  J.'s  case  atrociously 
false.  He  accuses  J.  of  the  most  heartless  cruelties 
and  frauds  (22  5-11),  and  of  taking  occasion  to 
indulge  in  secret  wickedness  when  God  was  not 
looking  (22  12-14);  to  this  it  is  that  he  attributes 
the  spiritual  darkness  with  which  J.  is  encompassed. 
Then  in  a  beautiful  exhortation — beautiful  when  we 
forget  its  unreal  condition  (22  23) — he  ends  by 
holding  open  to  J.  the  way  of  reinstatement  and 
peace.  This  is  the  last  word  of  the  friends  that 
has  any  weight.  Bildad  follows  J.'s  next  speech 
indeed  very  briefly  (eh  25),  giving  a  last  feeble  echo 
of  their  doctrine  of  total  depravity;   a  reply  which 


Job,  Book  of         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1684 


J.  ridicules  and  carries  on  in  a  kind  of  parody  (ch 
26'.  Zophar  docs  not  speak  a  third  time  at  all. 
He  has  nothing  to  say.  And  this  silence  of  his  is 
the  writer's  way  of  making  the  friends'  theory  sub- 
side ingloriously. 

The  idea  that  J.  lias  a  defensible  cause  or  sees 

farther  than  they  is  wholly  lost  on  the  friends;   to 

them  he  is  simply  a  wicked  man  tor- 

2.  The  mented  by  the  consciousness  of  guilt, 
Real  Cause  and  they  attribute  the  tumult  of  his 
of  Job's  thoughts  to  a  wrath,  or  vexation,  which 
Dismay  blinds  and  imperils  his  soul   (cf  5  2; 

18  4).  Thai  is  not  the  cause  of  his 
dismay  at  all,  nor  is  it  merely  that  his  personal  fate 
is  inscrutable  (cf  23  17  m).  He  is  confounded 
rather,  even  to  horror,  because  the  probable  facts 
of  the  world-order  prove  the  utter  falsity  of  all  that 
they  allege.  Leaving  his  case,  the  righteous  man's, 
out  of  the  account,  he  sees  the;  wicked  just  as  pros- 
perous, just  as  secure,  just  as  honored  in  life  and 
death,  as  the  righteous  (215-15.29-33).  The 
friends  ought  to  see  so  plain  a  fact  as  wed  as  he 
;21  29).  To  all  outward  appearance  there  is  abso- 
lutely no  diversity  of  fate  between  righteous  and 
wicked  (21  23-26).  The  friends'  cut-and-dried 
Wisdom-doctrine  and  their  thrifty  haste  to  justify 
God  (cf  13  7.8)  have  landed  them  in  a  lie;  the  truth 
is  that  God  has  left  His  times  mysterious  to  men 
(24  1).  They  may  as  well  own  to  the  full  the 
baffling  fact  of  the  impunity  of  wickedness;  the 
whole  of  eh  24  is  taken  up  with  details  of  it.  'Wis- 
dom, with  its  rigid  law  of  reward  and  punishment, 
has  failed  to  penetrate  the  secret.  A  hard  regime  of 
justice,  work  and  wage,  conduct  and  desert,  does 
not  sound  the  deep  truth  of  God's  dealings,  either 
with  righteous  or  wicked.  What  then?  Shall 
Wisdom  go,  or  shall  it  rise  to  a  higher  level  of  out- 
look and  insight  ? 

In  some  such  dim  inquiry  as  this,  it  would  seem, 

J.  goes  on  from  where  his  friends  sit  silenced  to 

figure  some  positive  solution  of  things 

3.  Man-  as  they  are.  He  begins  with  himself 
hood  in  and  his  stedfastly  held  integrity,  seal- 
the  Ore  ing  his  utterance  by  the  solemn  Heb 

oath  (27  2-6),  and  as  solemnly  dis- 
avowing all  part  or  sympathy  with  the  wicked 
(27  7;  cf  21  16).  He  has  already  found  a  meaning 
in  his  own  searching  experience;  he  is  being  tried 
for  a  sublime  assay,  in  which  all  that  is  permanent 
and  precious  in  him  shall  come  out  as  gold  (23  10). 
Hut  t  his  t  bought  of  manhood  in  the  ore  is  no  monop- 
oly of  his;  it  may  hold  for  all.  What  then  of  the 
wicked?  In  a  passage  which  some  have  deemed 
t  he  lost  third  speech  of  Zophar  (27  8-23),  and  which, 
indeed,  recounts  what  all  the  friends  have  seen  (27 
12),  he  sets  forth  the  case  of  the  wicked  in  its  true 
light.  The  gist  of  it  is  that  the  wicked  have  not 
the  joy  of  God  (27  10),  or  the  peace  of  a  permanent 
hope.  It  is  in  much  the  same  tone  as  the  friends' 
diatribes,  but  with  a  distinct  advance  from  out- 
ward disaster  toward  tendency  and  futility.  The 
ore  is  not  being  purged  for  a  noble  assay;  and  this 
will  work  their  woe.  Then  finally,  in  the  celebrated 
ch  28,  comes  up  the  summary  of  wisdom  itself. 
Thai  remains,  after  all  this  testing  of  motive,  a 
thing  intact  and  elemental;  and  man's  part  in  it 
is  just  what  J.'s  life  has  been,  to  fear  God  and  shun 
evil   (28  28). 

As   the   crowning   pronouncement   on   things   as 

they  are,  J.  in  his  final  and  longest  speech,  describes 

in  a  beautiful  retrospect  his  past  life, 

4.  Job  from  his  "autumn  days"  when  the 
Reads  His  friendship  of  God  was  over  his  tent 
Indictment    and  he  was  a  counselor  and  benefactor 

among  men  (ch  29),  through  this  con- 
trasted time  of  his  wretchedness  and  curse-betray- 
ing disease,  when  the  most  degraded  despise  him 


(ch  30),  until  now  as  he  draws  consciously  near  the 
grave,  he  recounts  in  solemn  review  the  principles 
and  virtues  that  have  guided  his  conduct — a  noble 
summary  of  the  highest  Heb  ideals  of  character 
(ch  31).  This  he  calls,  in  sublime  irony,  the  indict- 
ment which  his  Adversary  has  written;  and  like 
a  prince,  bearing  it  upon  his  shoulder  and  binding 
it  to  him  like  a  crown,  he  is  ready  to  take  it  with 
him  beyond  the  bourn  to  the  presence  of  his  Judge. 
With  this  tremendous  proposal,  sanctioned  Hebrew- 
fashion  by  a  final  curse  if  it  prove  false,  the  words  of 
J.  are  ended. 

The  friends  are  silenced,  not  enlightened.  They 
have  clung  to  their  hard  thesis  to  the  stubborn  end; 
postulating  enough  overt  crime  on  J.'s 
E)  The  part  to  kill  him  (22  5-9),  and  clinching 

Denoue-  their  hypothesis  with  their  theory  of 
ment  innate  depravity    (4  18.19;    15  14.15; 

25  4-6)  and  spiritual  hebetude  (5  2; 
15  26.27;  22  10.11);  but  toward  J.'s  higher  level 
of  honest  integrity  and  exploring  faith  they  have 
not  advanced  one  inch;  and  here  they  lie,  fossil- 
ized dogmatists,  fixed  and  inveterate  in  their 
odium,  theologicum — a  far  cry  from  the  friendship 
that  came  from  afar  to  condole  and  console.  J., 
on  the  other  hand,  staking  all  on  the  issue  of  his 
integrity,  has  held  on  his  way  in  sturdy  con- 
sistency (cf  17  9),  and  stood  his  ground  before  the 
enigma  of  things  as  they  are.  Both  parties  have 
said  their  say;  the  story  is  evidently  ready  for  its 
denouement.  J.,  too,  is  ready  for  the  determining 
word,  though  it  would  seem  he  expect  s  it  to  be  spoken 
only  in  some  unseen  tribunal;  the  friends  rather 
savagely  wish  that  God  would  speak  and  reprove 
Job  for  his  presumption  (cf  11  5.11).  But  how 
shall  the  solution  be  brought  about  in  this  land  of 
Uz  where  all  may  see?  And  above  all,  how  shall 
it  affect  the  parties  concerned?  A  skilfully  told 
story  should  not  leave  this  out. 

For  this  determining  pronouncement  the  writer 
has  chosen  to  have  both  parties  definitely  repre- 
sented, apparently  at  their  best.  So, 
1.  The  instead  of  proceeding  at  once  to  the 

Self-consti-  summons  from  the  whirlwind,  he  intro- 
tuted  In-  duces  here  a  new  character,  Elihu, 
terpreter  a  young  man,  who  has  listened  with 
growing  impatience  to  the  fruitless 
discussion,  and  now  must  set  both  parties  right  or 
burst  (32  19).  It  is  like  the  infusion  of  young 
blood  into  a  theodicy  too  arrogant  in  its  antiquity 
(cf  8  8-10;  15  10.18;  12  12  m,  or  better  as  ques- 
tion). This  character  of  Elihu  is  conceived  in  a 
spirit  of  satire,  not  without  a  dash  of  grim  humor. 
His  self-confidence,  not  to  say  conceit,  is  strongly 
accentuated  (32  11-22);  he  assumes  the  umpire 
function  for  which  J.  has  pleaded  (33  6.7;  cf  9 
33-35;  13  20-22);  and  is  sure  he  represents  the 
perfect  in  knowledge  (36  2-4;  37  16).  He  speaks 
four  times,  addressing  himself  alternately  to  J.  and 
the  friends.  His  words,  though  designedly  diffuse, 
are  not  without  wisdom  and  beauty;  he  makes  less 
of  J.'s  deep-seated  iniquity  than  do  the  friends,  but 
blames  him  for  speaking  in  the  wicked  man's  idiom 
(34  7-9.36.37),  and  warns  him  against  inclining 
more  to  iniquity  than  submission  (36  21);  but  his 
positive  contribution  to  the  discussion  is  the  view 
he  holds  of  the  chastening  influence  of  dreams  and 
visions  (33  14-18;  cf  7  13-15),  and  of  the  pains 
of  disease  (33  19-28),  esp.  if  the  sufferer  has  an 
"angel  [messenger]  interpreter"  to  reveal  its  mean- 
ing, such  a  one  perhaps  as  Elihu  feels  himself  to  be. 
As  he  proceeds  in  his  speech,  his  words  indicate  that 
a  storm  is  rising;  and  so  long  as  it  is  distant  he 
employs  it  to  descant  on  the  wonders  of  God  in 
Nature,  wonders  which  to  him  mean  little  more 
than  arbitrary  marvels  of  power;  but  as  it  ap- 
proaches nearer  and  shows  exceptional  phenomena 


1685 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA         Job,  Book  of 


as  of  a  theophany,  his  words  become  incoherent,  and 
he  breaks  off  with  an  abject  attempt  to  disclaim 
his  pretensions.  Such  is  the  effect,  with  him,  of  the 
near  presence  of  God.  It  overwhelms,  paralyzes, 
stops  the  presumptuous  currents  of  life. 

The  writer  of  the  book  has  not  committed  the 

literary  fatuity  of  describing  the  whirlwind,  except 

as  Elihu  has  seen  its  oncoming,  first 

2.  The  with  conceit  of  knowledge,  then  with 
Whirlwind  wild  access  of  terror — a  description  in 
and  the  which  his  essentially  vapid  personality 
Voice  is  reflected.  For  the  readers  the  sig- 
nificance of  the  whirlwind  is  in   the 

Voice  it  incloses,  the  thing  it  says.  And  here  the 
writer  has  undertaken  the  most  tremendous  task 
ever  attempted  by  the  human  imagination:  to 
make  the  Almighty  speak,  and  speak  in  character. 
And  one  fatuity  at  least  he  has  escaped;  he  has  not 
made  God  bandy  arguments  with  men,  or  piece 
together  the  shifting  premises  of  logic.  The  whole 
of  the  two  discourses  from  the  whirlwind  is  descrip- 
tive; a  recounting  of  observable  phenomena  of 
created  nature,  from  the  great  elemental  things, 
earth  and  sea  and  light  and  star  and  storm,  to 
the  varied  wonders  of  animal  nature — all  things  in 
which  the  questing  mind  of  man  may  share,  laying 
hold  in  his  degree  on  it s  meaning  or  mystery.  Thus, 
as  a  sheer  literary  personation,  it  fails  at  no  point 
of  the  Godlike.  It  begins  with  a  peremptory  dis- 
missal of  Elihu :  "Who  is  this  that  darkeneth  counsel 
by  words  without  knowledge?"  (38  2).  Then  J. 
is  bidden  gird  up  his  loins  like  a  strong  man,  and 
listen  and  answer.  The  fact  that  J.  alone,  of  all 
the  company,  can  stand,  as  it  were,  on  common 
terms  with  God  is  premonitory  of  the  outcome.  Of 
the  two  Divine  discourse's,  the  first  (cha  38,  39) 
emphasizes  more  especially  the  unsearchable  wis- 
dom of  creation;  and  the  lesson  it  brings  home  to 
J.  is  that  a  being  who  is  great  enough— or  presump- 
tuous enough — to  criticize  and  censure  is  great 
enough  to  resolve  his  own  criticism  (40  2).  To 
this,  of  course,  J.  has  no  answer;  he  has  presented 
his  plea,  which  Ik;  neither  adds  to  nor  takes  back 
(40  3-5).  Resuming,  then,  the  Voice  in  the  second 
discourse  (40  6 — 41  34)  goes  on  to  describe  two 
great  beasts,  as  it  were,  elemental  monsters  of  Na- 
ture: Behemoth — probably  the  hippopotamus — ■ 
vast,  in  resisting  and  overcoming  power,  yet  un- 
aware of  it,  and  easily  subduable  by  man;  and 
Leviathan — probably  the  crocodile — a  wonder  of 
beautiful  adaptedness  to  its  function  in  Nature,  yet 
utterly  malignant,  unsubduable,  untamable.  And 
the  lesson  brought  home  to  J.  by  this  strange  dis- 
tribution of  creative  power  is  that  he,  who  has 
called  in  question  God's  right  to  work  as  He  does, 
had  better  undertake  to  lower  human  pride  and 
''tread  down  the  wicked  where  they  stand"  (40  12), 
thus  demonstrating  his  ability  to  save  himself  and 
manage  mankind  (40  14).  By  this  illuminating 
thought  J.'s  trenchancy  of  demand  is  utterly  melted 
away  into  contrition  and  penitence  (42  1-6);  but 
one  inspiring  effect  is  his,  the  thing  indeed  which  he 
has  persistently  sought  (cf  23  3) :  God  is  no  more 
a  hearsay,  such  as  the  friends  have  defended  and 
his  Wisdom  has  speculated  about;  his  eye  sees 
Him  here  on  earth,  and  in  his  still  unremoved  afflic- 
tion, no  stranger,  but  a  wise  and  communable  Friend, 
just  as  his  confident  faith  had  pictured  he  would,  in 
some  embodied  sphere  beyond  suffering  (19  27). 

Two  of  the  parties  in  the  story  have  met  the 

august  theophany,  and  it  has  wrought  its  effect 

on   them  according  to    the    spirit  of 

3.  The  the  man.     The  self-constituted  inter- 
Thing  That   preter,  Elihu,  has  collapsed  as  suddenly 
Is  Right         as  he  swelled  up  and  exhibited  him- 
self.    The   man   of   integrity,   J.,   has 

reached  the  beatific  goal  of  his  quest.     What  now 


of  the  friends  who  came  from  far  to  confirm  their 
Wisdom,  and  who  were  so  sure  they  were  defend- 
ing the  mind  of  God?  They  are  not  left  without 
a  sufficing  word,  addressed  straight  to  their  spokes- 
man Eliphaz  (42  7);  but  their  way  to  light  is 
through  the  man  whose  honesty  they  outraged. 
Eliphaz'  closing  words  had  promised  mediatorial 
power  to  Job  if  he  would  return  from  iniquity  and 
acquaint  himself  with  God  (22  30);  Job  is  now 
the  mediator,  though  he  has  held  consistently  to 
the  terms  they  reprobated.  And  the  Divine  ver- 
dict on  them  is:  "Ye  have  not  spoken  of  me  the 
thing  that  is  right,  as  my  servant  J.  hath"  (42  7). 
These  are  the  words  of  the  Being  who  acknowledged 
that  in  permitting  this  whole  trial  He  was  'swallow- 
ing Job  up  causelessly'  (2  3).  J.'s  honest  and 
immensely  revelatory  words,  anger,  remonstrance, 
bold  arraignment  of  God's  way  and  all,  were  "the 
thing  that  is  right."  There  is  no  more  tremendous 
Divine  pronouncement  in  all  Scripture  than  this. 

Here  certain  myopic  students  of  the  Book  of  Job 
think  the  story  should  end.     It  offends  them,  ap- 
parently, to  see  Satan's  work  undone; 
4.  The  if   they   had   had   the   making  of   the 

Restored  story  they  would  have  left  J.  still 
Situation  suffering,  as  if  disinterest  ed  virtue  could 
not  be  its  own  reward  without  it. 
The  author,  at  least  the  final  author,  evidently 
did  not  think  so;  in  the  ideals  and  sanctions  that, 
prevailed  in  his  age  he  knew  better  what  he  was 
about.  It  is  not  my  business  to  cut  the  book  to  a 
modern  pattern,  but  to  note  what  is  there.  J.  is 
restored  to  health,  to  double  his  former  wealth,  to 
family  and  honor  and  a  ripe  old  age.  These  were 
what  the  friends  predicted  for  him  on  condition  of 
his  owning  to  guilt  and  calling  injustice  desert ;  but 
in  no  word  of  his  has  he  intimated  that  worldly 
reinstatement  was  his  wish  or  his  object,  the  con- 
trary rather.  And  what  he  sought  he  obtained,  in 
richer  measure  than  he  sought ;  obtained  it  st  ill 
in  suffering,  and  on  earth,  "in  the  place  where  all 
may  see"  (cf  34  26  m).  It  is  no  discount  to  the 
value  of  this,  nor  on  the  other  hand  is  it  an  essen- 
tial addition,  to  express  it  not  only  in  spiritual 
terms,  but  in  terms  current  among  men.  And  one 
fundamental  thing  this  restored  situation  shows,  or 
at  least  takes  for  granted,  namely,  that  the  quarrel 
has  not  been  with  Wisdom  itself,  its  essence  or  its 
sanctions,  but  only  wit  hits  encroaching  false  motive. 
Deepened,  not  invaded,  its  Newtonian  law  that  it  is 
well  with  the  righteous,  ill  with  the  wicked,  remains 
intact,  an  external  sanction  to  live  by,  in  spite  of 
temporal  exceptions.  A  spiritual  principle  of  great 
significance,  too,  seems  to  be  indicated,  as  it  were, 
furtively,  in  the  words,  "And  Jeh  turned  the  cap- 
tivity of  J.,  when  he  prayed  for  his  friends."  He 
had  stood  on  his  integrity  demanding  his  right,  and 
became  a  self-loathing  penitent;  out  of  dust  and 
ashes  he  prayed  for  his  friends,  and  became  again 
such  a  power  in  health  and  wealth  as  he  had  been 
in  his  "autumn  days." 

IV.  The  Problem  and  the  Purpose. — If  the  fore- 
going section  has  rightly  shown  that  the  main 
thrust  and  interest  of  the  Book  of  Job 
1.  Beyond  lies  not  in  its  debate  but  in  its  narra- 
the  Didactic  tive,  we  have  therein  the  best  clue  to 
Tether  its  problem  and  its  purpose.     The  sub- 

lime self-portrayal  of  a  man  who  held 
fast  his  integrity  against  God  and  man  and  death 
and  darkness  tells  its  own  story  and  teaches  its  own 
lesson,  beyond  the  power  of  didactic  propositions  or 
deductions  to  compass.  The  book  is  not  a  sermon 
but  a  vital,  throbbing  uprise  of  the  human  spirit. 
It  is  warm  with  the  life  of  sound  manhood,  the 
inner  life  with  its  hopes,  its  doubts,  its  convictions, 
its  supreme  affiance;  to  impose  on  this  any  tether 
of  didacticism  is  to  chill  its  spirit  and  make  it  dog- 


Job,  Book  of         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1686 


matic  and  academic.  The  reading  of  its  problem 
which  mainly  holds  the  held  today  is  expressed  in 
the  question,  "Why  docs  Cod  afflict  t lie  righteous  ?" 
and  so  the  hook  is  resolved  into  a  theodicy,  a  justi- 
fication of  Cod's  ways  with  man.  Well,  the  friends 
of  J.  do  their  best  to  make  their  interpretation  a 
theodicy,  even  outraging  palpable  fact  to  do  it; 
they  monopolize  the  didactic  element  of  the  poem; 
but  their  chief  contention  is  that  Cod  does  not 
afflict  the  righteous  but  the  wicked,  and  that  J.  is 
a  flagrant  case  in  point  who  adds  rebellion  to  his 
sin  (cf  34  37).  J.  does  not  know  why  Cod  afflicts 
the  righteous;  he  only  knows  that  it  is  a  grievous 
fact,  which  to  him  seems  utterly  un-Godlike.  Cod 
knows,  undoubtedly,  but  He  does  not  tell.  Yel 
all  the  while  an  answer  to  the  question  is  shaping 
itself  in  personality,  in  intrinsic  manhood,  in  the 
sturdy  truth  and  loyalty  of  J.'s  spirit.  So,  going 
beyond  the  didactic  tether,  we  may  say  that  in  a 
deeper  sense  Cod  is  justified  after  all;  if  such  a 
result  of  desperate  trial  is  possible  in  man,  it  is 
worth  all  the  rigor  of  the  experiment.  But  it  is  as 
truly  an  anthropodicy  (excuse  the  word!)  as  a 
theodicy;  it  puts  the  essential  man  on  a  plane 
above  all  that  Satan  can  prove  by  his  lying  sneers 
of  self-interest,  or  the  friends'  poisoning  of  the  wells 
by  their  theory  of  natural  depravity.  It  comes 
back  after  all  to  the  story  of  J.;  he  lives  the  answer 
to  the  problem,  his  personality  is  the  teaching. 

It  is  from  this  point  of  view  that  we  can  best  judge  of 
the  critical  attacks  that  have  been  made  on  the  structure 

and.  coherence  of  the  Book  of  Job.  The  book 
2    What  nas  suffered  its  full  share  of  negative  dis- 

_"  ,        integration    at   the   hands   of   the   critics; 

Comes  or  mostly  subjective  it  seems  to  me,  coming 
Limiting  from  a  too  restricted  view  of  its  problem  and 

fjje  purpose;,  or  from  lack  of  that  long  patient 

^  induction  which  will  not  be  content  until 

Purpose  it  sees  all  the  elements  of  its  creative  idea 

in  fitting  order  and  proportion.  To  limit 
the  purpose  to  the  issue  of  a  debated  theodicy,  is  to  put 
some  parts  in  precarious  tenure;  accordingly,  there  are 
those  to  whom  the  Epilogue  seems  a  superfluity,  the 
Prologue  an  afterthought,  ch  28  a  fugitive  poem  put 
in  to  (ill  up — not  to  go  on  to  still  more  radical  excisions. 
On  the  score  of  regularity  of  structure,  too,  this  limita- 
tion of  design  has  had  equally  grave  results.  Elihu  has 
perhaps  fared  the  worst.  He  must  go,  the  critics  almost 
universally  say.  because  forsooth  he  was  not  formally 
introduced  in  the  Prologue;  and  naturally  enough,  as 
soon  as  he  has  received  notice  to  quit,  the  language; 
which  in  one  view  fits  him  so  dramatically  to  his  part 
begins  to  bristle  with  Aramaisms  ('of  the  kindred  of 
Ram,'  32  2)  and  strange  locutions,  the  alleged  marks 
of  a  later  bungling  hand.  Then,  further,  Zophar  must 
needs  round  out  the  mechanical  three-times-three  of 
structure  by  coming  up  the  third  time;  accordingly,  J. 
is  levied  upon  to  contribute  some;  of  his  words  (27  13-23) 
to  help  him  out.  I  need  not  go  into  further  detail.  The 
foregoing  section  has  done  something,  I  hope,  to  justify 
my  conviction  that  the  book  has  a  homogeneous  design 
and  structure  just  as  it  is.  Whatever  its  vicissitudes 
since  the  first  draft  was  made,  it  may  turn  out  after  all 
that  the  last  edition  is  the  best. 

We  are  not  left  in  the  dark  as  to  the  large  purpose 
of  the  Book  of  Job,  if  we  will  follow  its  own  indi- 
cations    consistently.     Satan's     ques- 
3.  The  tion  at  the  beginning,  "Doth  Job  fear 

Book's  Own  Cod  for  nought?"  sets  us  on  the  track 
Import  of  of  it.  To  give  that  question  a  Godlike 
Purpose  and  not  a  Satanic  answer,  to  prove  in 

the  person  of  J.  that  man  has  it  in  him 
to  make  his  life  an  unbought  loyalty  to  the  Divine,  is 
a  purpose  large  enough  to  include  many  subsidiary 
purposes.  But  behind  this  appears,  on  the  part 
of  the  author,  a  purpose  which  relates  his  story 
intimately  to  the  intellectual  tendencies  of  his  day. 
The  book  embodies,  esp.  in  the  theories  of  the 
friends,  a  searching  epitome  of  the  status  to  which 
the  wisdom  philosophy  of  his  time  had  arrived. 
That  philosophy  was  a  nobly  founded  theory  of 
life;  J.  himself  had  been  and.  continued  (cf  28  28) 
thoroughly  at  one  with  it.  Soundly  identified  with 
righteousness  and  piety,  Wrisdom.had  in  religious 
idiom  defined  the  elements  of  right  and  wrong  living, 


and  had  in  no  uncertain  terms  fixed  its  sanctions  of 
reward  and  penalty.  But  from  a  warm,  pulsating 
life  it  had  become  an  orthodoxy.  Its  rigid  world 
had  room  for  only  two  classes  of  men:  the  righteous, 
bound  for  the  sure  rewards  of  life;  the  wicked, 
bound  for  sure  failure  and  destruction.  It  brooked 
no  real  exception  to  this  austere  law  of  being.  But 
two  grave  evils  were  invading  its  system.  One  was 
its  hard  blindness  to  facts,  or,  what  is  as  bad,  its 
determination  at  all  hazards  to  explain  them  away. 
From  the  psalms  of  the  period  (cf  e.g.  Pss  37,  49, 
73)  we  can  see  how  the  evident  happiness  and  pros- 
perity of  the  wicked  was  troubling  devout  minds. 
The  other  was  that  under  this  prevailing  philosophy 
life  was  becoming  too  cold-blooded  and  calculable 
a  t  hing,  a  virt  ual  feeder  of  self-interest.  The  doubt 
lay  very  near  whether  conduct  so  sanctioned  was 
a  thing  intrinsic  and  sincere  or  a  thing  bought  and 
sold.  This  equivocal  state  of  things  could  not  long 
endure.  Sooner  or  later  Satan's  question  of  mo- 
tive must  stab  it  to  the  heart;  and  we  may  be  sure 
that  to  the  aulhor  of  the  book  the  impulse  to  ask 
the  question  was  not  all  Satanic.  The  interests  of 
true  wisdom,  no  less  than  of  skepticism,  demanded 
that  the  question  of  inner  motive  be  raised  and 
solved.  Nay,  Jeh  Himself,  whom  Satan  mocked 
as  abettor  of  the  situation,  was  on  trial.  Have  we 
not  material  here,  then,  for  a  sublime  purpose,  a 
mighty  epic  of  test  and  trial  and  victory?  Out  of 
it,  not  J.  alone,  but  Wisdom  must  emerge  purified, 
enlight ened,  spirit ualized. 

So  much  for  the  purpose  of  the  book.     The  prob- 
lem corresponds  to  it.     If  we  take  it  as  the  bufiiing 

problem  of  suffering,  or  more  specifi- 
4.  Problem  cally  why  God  afflicts  the  righteous, 
of  the  the  sufficing  answer  is,  Job  is  why.     To 

Intrinsic  give  such  essential  integrity  as  his  its 
Man  ultimate  proof  and  occasion  is  worth 

the  injustice  and  the  unmerited  pain. 
In  other  words,  the  problem  is  more  deeply  con- 
cerned with  man's  intrinsic  nature  than  with  God's 
mysterious  dealings.  Wnen  God  created  man  in 
His  own  image,  did  He  endow  him  most  funda- 
mentally with  the  spirit  of  commercialism,  or  with 
the  spirit  of  unbought  loyalty  to  the  Codlike?  And 
when  created  man  was  made  fallible  and  mortal, 
did  that  mean  an  unescapable  inherent  depravity, 
or  was  the  potency  of  noblest  manhood  still  left 
at  the  center  of  his  being?  _  Here  again  J.  is  the 
embodied  answer.  The  friends,  _  veritable  Cal- 
vinists  before  Calvin,  urge  depravity;  they  would 
exalt  God  by  making  man  His  utter  contrast.  But 
J.'s  stedfast  integrity  proves  that  man,  one  man  at 
least,  is  at  heart  sound  and  true.  And  if  one  man, 
then  the  potency  of  soundness  exists  in  manhood. 
The  book  is  indeed  a  theodicy;  but  still  more  truly 
it  is  a  boldy  maintained  anthropodicy,  a  vindication 
of  the  intrinsic  worth  of  man. 

V.    Considerations   of  Age   and  Setting. — The 
questions  who  was  the  personal  author  of  the  Book 

of  Job,  and  what  was  its  age,  are  at 
1.  Shadowy  best  only  a  matter  of  conjecture;  and 
Contacts  my  revised  conjecture,  arrived  at  since 
with  1  wrote  my  Epic  of  the  Inner  Life,  must 

History  go  for  what  it  is  worth.     It  seems  to 

me  much  better  to  regard  a  story  so 
homogeneous  and  interrelated  as  in  the  main  the 
composition  of  one  mind  than  to  distribute  it,  as 
some  critics  do,  among  various  authors,  supple- 
menters,  and  editors.  As  to  its  age,  there  is  so  little 
identifiable  contact  with  political  or  ecclesiastical 
history  that  its  composition  has  been  ascribed  to 
many  periods,  from  the  time  of  Abraham  to  late  in 
post-exilic  times.  The  fact  that  its  scene  is  laid 
in  the  patriarchal  past  and  in  a  land  outside  of  Pal 
indicates  the  author's  design  to  dissociate  it  from 
contemporary  events  and  conditions;  such  contact 


1G87 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA         Job,  Book  of 


with  these  as  exist,  therefore,  must  be  read  between 
the  lines.  The  book  does  not  hold  with  full  con- 
sistency to  patriarchal  conditions.  Job's  friends 
appeal  with  the  complacency  of  wisdom-prospered 
men  to  the  ancient  tenure  of  the  land  (15  19);  and 
yet,  as  Job  complains,  the  heartless  greed  of  the 
landholding  class  in  removing  landmarks  and  op- 
pressing the  poor  (24  2-12)  connotes  the  prevalence 
of  such  outrages  as  were  denounced  by  Isaiah  and 
Micah  before  the  Assyr  crisis.  Such  evils  would 
not  decrease  under  Manasseh  and  Jehoiakim,  and 
might  well  be  portrayed  in  reminiscence  by  an 
exilic  writer.  On  the  top  of  this  consideration 
may  be  cited  the  most  definite  reference  to  a  his- 
torical event  that  the  book  contains:  the  passage 
12  17-25,  which  vividly  describes,  by  an  eye- 
witness ("Lo,  mine  eye  hath  seen  all  this,"  13  1),  a 
wholesale  deportation  and  humiliation  of  eminent 
persons,  just  like  that  told  of  Jehoiachin  and  his 
court  in  2  K  24  13-15.  To  my  mind  this  is 
illuminative  for  the  age  of  the  book.  It  seems  to 
have  been  written  by  one  who  saw  the  Chaldaean 
deportation  of  587  BC.  May  I  be  suffered  to  carry 
the  suggestion  a  step  farther?  It  will  be  remem- 
bered that  the  chief  personage  of  that  deportation 
was  for  37  years  a  state  prisoner  in  Babylon,  at  the 
end  of  which  time  lie  was  "taken  from  durance  and 
judgment"  (cf  Isa  53  8  AV)  and  lived  thenceforth 
honored  with  kings  (2  K  25  27-30  =  Jer  52  31T34). 
I  take  him  to  have  been  the  original  of  the  indi- 
vidualized Servant  of  Jeh  described  and  describing 
himself  in  Second  Isa.  In  one  of  his  self-descrip- 
tions he  says  that  Jeh  has  given  him  "the  tongue 
of  them  that  are  taught"  (Isa  50  4);  in  another 
that  Jeh  has  made  his  "mouth  like  a  sharp  sword" 
and  himself  "a  polished  shaft"  (Isa  49  2).  What 
he  said  or  wrote  is  of  course  unidentifiable;  but  it  is 
certain  that  in  some  cultural  way  he  was  a  hidden 
power  for  good  to  his  people.  What  if  this  Book  of 
Job  were  a  prison-made  book,  like  Pilgrim' s  Prog- 
ress and  Don  Quixote,  but  as  much  greater  as  the 
experience  that  underlay  it  was  more  momentous? 
I  do  not  see  but  this  suggestion  is  as  probable  as 
any  that  have  been  made;  and  some  expressions 
of  the  book  become  thereby  very  striking,  as  for 
instance,  the  reference  to  prisoners  (3  IS. 19),  to 
the  servant  longing  for  release  (7  2),  the  general 
sense  of  being  despised,  the  several  references  to 
Job  as  "my  servant  Job"  (1  8;  2  3;  42  7.8),  the 
description  of  his  restoration  as  a  turned  captivity, 
and  his  successful  intercession  for  the  friends  (42 
10;  cf  Isa  53  12).  I  would  merely  suggest  the 
idea,  however,  not  press  it. 

If  the  Book  of  Job  is  a  product  of  the  time  of  Jehoia- 
chin's  imprisonment,  it  is  in  worthy  and  congenial  lit- 
erary company.    Isaiah,  fostering  the  faith 
2.  Place  in     °t  a  new-born  spiritual   "remnant,"  had 
■Rihliral  gathered    the    elements    of    that    sublime 

Cluneal  vision  (Isa  1   1)  of  Israel's  mission  among 

Literature  the  nations  which  a  later  hand  was  even 
now,  four  generations  after,  working  to 
supplement  and  finish,  in  a  prophecy  (Isa  40-66)  which, 
as  all  recognize,  constitutes  the  closest  parallel  in 
spirited  idea  to  our  book.  Seers,  priests  and  singers 
had  long  busied  themselves  with  the  literary  treasures 
of  the  past;  drawing  out  of  dusty  archives  and  putting 
into  popular  idiom  the  ancient  laws  and  counsels  of 
Moses  (Dt;  see  under  Josiah);  collecting  and  adapting 
the  old  Davidic  psalms  and  composing  new  ones,  as 
Hezekiah's  reorganization  of  the  worship  required. 
Ezekiel  was  at  Tel  Abib  planning  for  the  reconstruction 
of  the  temple,  and  perhaps  by  his  use  of  the  name  "Job" 
veiling  a  cryptic  reference  (Ezk  14  14.20).  The  affili- 
ations of  the  Book  of  Job,  however,  were  more  specifi- 
cally with  the  wisdom  literature;  and  long  before  this 
the  "men  of  Ilezekiah"  (Prov  25  1)  had  gathered  their 
aftermath  of  the  Solomonic  proverbs,  to  supplement 
the  maxims  which  had  been  the  educative  pabulum  of 
the  people  (see  under  Proverbs,  Book  of).  It  was 
with  the  care  and  principle  of  this  diffused  instruction, 
now  the  most  popular  vein  of  literature,  that  the  Book  of 
Job  concerned  itself.  That  had  become  apparent  as 
soon  as  the  maxims  wen;  coordinated  in  an  anthology, 
and  an  introduction  to  the  collection  had  been  composed, 


extolling  Wisdom  as  the  guide  and  savior  of  life.  To 
a  spiritually-minded  thinker  with  the  Heb  genius  for 
religion  the  motivation  of  Wisdom  must  sooner  or  later 
conic.  With  its  values  should  be  apprehended  also  its 
unguarded  points  and  tendencies.  It  was  exposed  to 
the  one-sided  drift  of  all  popular  things.  In  an  age  when 
revision  and  deeper  insight  were  the  literary  order  of  the 
day,  Wisdom  would  come  in  with  the  other  strains  of 
literature  for  purification  and  maturing;  and  there  was 
not  wanting  an  experience,  the  basis  of  an  almost  unbe- 
lievable report  (cf  Isa  53  1)  to  give  depth  and  poign- 
ancy to  Job's  personal  story  of  sutfering  and  integrity. 

In  the  amazing  sureness  and  vigor  of  its  message 
the  Book  of  Job  stands  out  unique  and  alone;   but 

it  is  by  no  means  without  its  lesser 
3.  Parallels  parallels  in  faith  and  doubt,  above 
and  Echoes  which  it  rises  like  a  mountain  above 

its  retinue  of  foothills.  Mention  has 
been  made  above  of  a  number  of  Pss  (e.g.  37,  49, 
73)  which  with  different  degrees  of  assurance  wit- 
ness to  the  struggle  of  faith  with  the  problem  of  the 
rampant  and  successful  wicked.  Ps  49,  one  of  the 
pss  of  the  sons  of  Korah,  is  esp.  noteworthy,  because 
it  expressly  employs  the  popular  mashal,  that  is, 
the  Wisdom  vehicle,  to  convey  a  corrective  lesson 
about  unblest  riches,  drawing  a  conclusion  not 
unlike  that  of  Job  27  8-23,  though  in  milder  tone. 
Not  less  noteworthy  also  is  the  note  of  suffering 
and  its  mysteriousness  which  pervades  many  of  the 
pss,  esp.  of  Asaph  and  Heman;  Pss  88  and  102 
might  both  have  been  composed  with  special  refer- 
ence to  Hezekiah's  sickness  and  set  beside  his  ps 
in  Isa  38,  but  also  they  are  so  fully  in  the  tone  of 
J.'s  complaint,  esp.  88,  that  Professor  Godet,  not 
unplausibly,  conjectures  that  the  Book  of  Job  was 
written  by  its  author  Heman.  Hezekiah's  deadly 
sickness  itself  (Isa  38),  which  was  of  a  leprous 
nature,  banishing  him  from  the  house  of  God,  and 
which  was  miraculously  healed — an  experience  re- 
garding which  Hezekiah's  own  writing  (Isa  38  10- 
20)  is  strikingly  in  the  key  of  Job's  complaint — 
furnishes  the  nearest  parallel  to,  or  adumbration  of, 
Job's  affliction;  but  also  in  the  accounts  of  the 
Servant  of  Jeh  there  are  hints  of  a  similar  stroke 
of  God's  judgment  (cf  Isa  52  14;  53  3).  The  pas- 
sage Job  7  17.18  has  been  called  "a  bitter  parody" 
of  Ps  8  4;  it  may  be  so,  but  the  conditions  are  in 
utter  contrast,  and  nothing  can  be  concluded  as  to 
which  is  original  and  which  echo.  As  to  expression, 
the  most  remarkable  parallel  to  Job,  perhaps,  is  the 
passage  Jer  20  14-18,  in  which,  like  Job,  the  prophet 
Jeremiah  curses  the  day  of  his  birth.  This  curse  in 
Job  would  naturally  be  remembered  by  all  readers 
as  one  of  the  most  characteristic  features  of  the 
book;  and  in  like  manner  the  curse  in  Jer  may  have 
stood  out  in  tin;  memory  of  his  disciples,  of  whom 
the  writer  of  Job  may  have  been  one,  and  figure  in  a 
similar  literary  situation.  Ezekiel's  naming  of  Job 
along  with  Noah  and  Daniel  (Ezk  14  14.20),  as  a 
type  of  atoning  righteousness,  is  doubly  remarkable 
if  the  writer  of  Job  was  a  contemporary;  he  may 
have  taken  the  name  from  a  well-known  legend, 
and  there  may  have  underlain  it  a  double  meaning, 
known  to  an  inner  circle,  referring  cryptically  to  one 
whose  real  name  it  might  be  impolitic  to  pronounce. 
Whenever  written,  the  outline  and  meaning  of  J.'s 
momentous  experience  must,  have  won  speedily 
to  a  permanent  place  in  the  universal  Heb  memory; 
so  that  centuries  afterward  St.  James  could  write 
to  the  twelve  tribes  scattered  abroad  (5  11),  "Ye 
have  heard  of  the  patience  of  Job,  and  have  seen 
the  end  of  the  Lord." 

Literature. — A.  B.  Davidson,  "The  Book  of  Job" 
(Cambridge  Bible  for  Schools),  1884;  A.  S.  Peake,  "Job" 
(New  Century  Bible),  1905;  S.  R.  Driver,  The  Book 
of  Job  in  the  Revised  Version,  1906;  J.  T.  Marshall,  The 
Book  of  Job,  1904;  J.  F.  Genung,  Epic  of  the  Inner  Life, 
1891;  G.  G.  Bradley,  Lectures  on  Job  in  Westminster 
Abbey,  1887;  F.  C.  Cook  in  The  Speaker's  Commentary, 
1882.  Among  German  writers,  A.  Dillmann,  Iliob 
erklart,   1891;     K.   Budde,    Das   Buch   Iliob   iibersetzt  unci 


Job,  Test,  of 
Joel 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1G88 


erkliirt,  1890  (sec  Ex  pox  T,  VIII,  iii);  B.  Duhm,  Das  Buch 
Hioh  erklurl,  1X97;  (i.  Beer,  Der  Text  des  Buches  Hiob 
untersueht,  1X97;  Gibson,  "The  Book  of  .lob"  (Oxford  Com- 
mentaries), 1X99. 

John   Franklin  Genung 
JOB,    TESTAMENT     OF.       Sec    Apocalyptic 
Literature. 

JOBAB,  jo'bab  P^"1 ,  yubhabh,  perhaps  "howl- 
ing";  Twfkp,  lubdb): 

(1)  "Son"  of  Joktan  (Con  10  29;  1  Ch  1  23). 
Sec  Table  of  Nations. 

(2)  An  Edomite  king  (Gen  36  33.34;  1  Ch  1 
44.4o). 

(3)  King  of  Madon  (Josh  11    1). 

(4)  1   Ch  8  1);    and   (5)   1  Ch  8  18,  Benjamit.es. 
The  name  is  confused  with  that  of  Job  in  IX  X  of 

Job  42  17. 

JOCHEBED,  jok'e-bed  C&3V  ,  yokhebhedh,  "Jeh 
is  glory"):  Daughter  of  Levi,  wife  of  Amram  and 
mother  of  Moses  (Ex  6  20;  Nu  26  59).  Accord- 
ing to  Ex  6  20,  she  was  a  sister  of  Kohath,  Amram's 
father. 

JOD,  jod  C):  Yodh,  the  tenth  letter  of  the  Heb 
alphabet.     See  Alphabet;  Jot;  Yodh. 

JODA,    jo'da    (WH,    'Io>Sd,    Iodcl;    TR,    'IovSa, 

I  out  Id) : 

(1)  A  Levite,  whose  sons  wen;  "over  the  works  of 
the  Lord,"  corresponding  to  Sudias  (1  Esd  5  26), 
Hodaviah  (Ezr  2  40),  Judah  (Ezr  3  9),  Hodevah 
(Neh  7  43). 

(2)  An  ancestor  of  Jesus  in  Lk's  genealogy  (Lk 
3  26,  AV  "Juda"). 

JOED,  jd'ed  0?i\  yo'edh,  "Jeh  is  witness"): 
A  "son"  of  Benjamin  (Neh  11  7),  wanting  in  1  Ch 
9  7. 

JOEL,  jd'el  (5X1>1  ,  yd' el,  popularly  interpreted 
as  "Jeh  is  God";   but  see  HPN,  153;  BDB,  222a): 

(1)  The  firstborn  of  Samuel  (1  S  8  2;  1  Ch  6 
33  [Heb  18],  and  supplied  in  RV  of  1  Ch  6  28, 
correctly). 

(2)  A  Simeonite  prince  (1  Ch  4  35). 

(3)  A  Reubenite  chief  (1  Ch  5  4.8). 

(4)  A  Gadite  chief,  perhaps  the  same  as  (3) 
(1  Ch  5  12).  He  might  be  the  chief  of  "a  family 
or  clan  whose  members  might  be  reckoned  as  be- 
longing to  either  or  both  of  the  tribes"  (Curtis, 
Ch,  122). 

(5)  A  Levite  ancestor  of  Samuel  (1  Ch  6  36 
[Heb  21],  called  "Shaul"  in  ver  24  [Heb  9]). 

(6)  A  chief  of  Issachar  (1  Ch  7  3). 

(7)  One  of  David's  mighty  men  (1  Ch  11  38), 
brother  of  Nathan.  2  S  23  36  has  "Igal  son  of 
Nathan,"  and  LXX  B  has  "son"  in  1  Ch,  a  read- 
ing which  Curtis  adopts.     See  Igal. 

(8)  A  Levite  (1  Ch  15  7.11.17),  probably  the 
J.  of  1  Ch  23  8  and  26  22. 

(9)  David's  tribal  chief  over  half  of  Manasseh 
(1  Ch  27  20). 

(10)  A  Levite  of  Hezekiah's  time  (2  Ch  29  12). 

(11)  One  of  those  who  had  married  foreign  wives 
(Ezr  10  43)  =  "Juel"of  1  Esd  9  35. 

(12)  A  Ben jamite  "overseer"  in  Jerus  (Neh  11  9). 

(13)  'Iwi?\,  IdU,  the  prophet  (Joel  1  1;  Acts  2 
16).     See  following  article. 

,     .  David  Francis  Roberts 

JOEL  (bNli ,  yd' el;  'Ico^X,  I  del) : 
I.     The  Prophet 
II.     The  Book 

1.  Literary  Form 

2.  Outline  of  Contents 

3.  Interpretation 

(1)  Literal 

(2)  Allegorical 


■l.   Indications  of  Date 

( 1 )  Place  in  the  Canon 

(2)  Language  and  Style 

(3)  Quotations 

(4)  The  Situation 
(a)   Political 
(6)    Religious 
(c)    Ritualistic 

(5)  Foreign  Nations  Mentioned  or  Omitted 
((i)   Some  Notable  Expressions 

5.   View  of  Professor  Merx 
(i.   Connections  with  the  NT 
Literature 

/.  The  Prophet. — The  Book  of  Joel  stands  second 
in  the  collection  of  the  Twelve  Prophets  in  the  Heb 
Canon.  The  name  (5X"P  ,  yd' el),  meaning  "Jeh  is 
God,"  seems  to  have  been  common,  as  we  find  a 
dozen  other  persons  bearing  it  at  various  periods 
of  the  Bib.  history.  Beyond  the  fact  that  he  was 
the  son  of  Pethuel,  there  is  no  intimation  in  the  book 
as  to  his  native  place,  date,  or  personal  history;  nor 
is  he  mentioned  in  any  other  part  of  the  OT;  so 
t  hat  any  information  on  these  points  must  be  matter 
of  inference,  and  the  consideration  of  them  must 
follow  some  examination  of  the  book  itself. 

//.    The  Book. — This  takes  largely  the  form  of 

addresses,  the  occasion  and  scope  of  which  have  to 

be  gathered  from  the  contents.    There 

1.  Literary    is    no    narrative,    properly    so    called, 
Form  except  at  one  place  (2  18),  "Then  was 

Jeh  jealous  for  his  land,"  etc,  and  even 
there  the  narrative  form  is  not  continued.  Yet, 
though  the  earlier  portions  at  least  may  be  the 
transcript  of  actual  addresses  in  which  the  speaker 
had  his  audience  before  him,  this  would  not  apply 
to  the  later  portions,  in  wdiich  also  the  direct  address 
is  still  maintained  (e.g.  3  11,  "Haste  ye,  and  come, 
all  ye  nations  round  about").  This  form  of  direct 
address  is,  indeed,  characteristic  of  the  style  through- 
out (e.g.  2  21;  3  4.9.13).  There  is  this  also  to  be 
said  of  its  literary  character,  that  "the  style  of  Joel 
is  bright  and  flowing,"  his  "imagery  and  language 
are  fine"  (Driver,  LOT);  "his  book  is  a  descrip- 
tion, clear,  well  arranged,  and  carried  out  with 
taste  and  vivacity,  of  the  present  distress  and  of 
the  ideal  future.  J.  may  be  reckoned  among  the 
classics  of  Heb  lit.  The  need  of  a  commentary 
for  details,  as  is  the  case  with  Amos  and  Hosea,  is 
here  hardly  felt"  (Reuss,  Das  AT). 

The  book  in  the  original  consists  of  4  chapters, 
which,  however,  are  in  our  VS  reduced  to  3,  by 

making  the  portion  which  constitutes 

2.  Outline     ch  3  in  the  Heb  the  concluding  portion 
of  Contents   (vs  28-32)  of  ch  2.     The  book  begins 

in  gloom,  and  its  close  is  bright.  Up 
to  2  18  there  is  some  great  trouble  or  a  succession 
of  troubles  culminating  at  2  28-32  (ch  3  in  Heb). 
And  the  concluding  portion,  ch  3  (ch  4  in  Heb),  in 
which  the  prophet  projects  his  view  into  futurity, 
begins  with  judgment  but  ends  with  final  blessed- 
ness. There  is  a  progression  in  the  thought,  rising 
from  the  solid,  sorely  smitten  earth  to  a  region 
ethereal,  and  the  stages  of  advance  are  marked  by 
sudden,  sharp  calls  (1  2.14;  3  9),  or  by  the  blasts 
of  the  trumpet  which  prelude  the  shifting  scenes 
(2  1.15). 

Ch  1  begins  with  an  address,  sharp  and  peremp- 
tory, in  which  the  oldest  inhabitant  is  appealed  to 
whether  such  a  calamity  as  the  present  has  ever 
been  experienced,  and  all  are  called  to  take  note  so 
that  the  record  of  it  may  be  handed  down  to  re- 
motest posterity.  The  land  has  suffered  from  a 
succession  of  disasters,  the  greatest  that  could  befall 
an  agricultural  country,  drought  and  locusts.  The 
two  are  in  fact  inextricably  connected,  and  the  fea- 
tures of  both  are  mixed  up  in  the  description  of  their 
effects.  The  extent  of  the  disaster  is  vividly  de- 
picted by  the  singling  out  of  the  classes  on  whom  the 
calamity  has  fallen,  the  drinkers  of  wine,  the  priests, 


1689 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Job,  Test,  of 
Joel 


the  vine-dressers,  the  husbandmen;  and,  toward  the 
close  of  the  chapter,  the  lower  animals  are  patheti- 
cally introduced  as  making  their  mute  appeal  to 
heaven  for  succor  (vs  18-20).  Specially  to  he  noted 
is  the  manner  in  which  the  priests  are  introduced 
(ver  9),  and  how  with  them  is  associated  the  climax 
of  the  affliction.  The  prophet  had  just,  said  "my 
land"  (ver  6),  "my  vine"  and  "my  fig-tree"  (ver  7); 
and,  though  many  modern  expositors  take  the  pro- 
noun as  referring  to  the  nation  or  people,  it  would 
appear  more  appropriate,  since  the  people  is  ob- 
jectively addressed,  to  regard  the  prophet  as  identi- 
fying himself  with  the  God  in  whose  name  he  is 
speaking.  And  then  the  transition  to  ver  8  be- 
comes intelligible,  in  which  certainly  the  land  is  per- 
sonified as  a  female:  "Lament  like  a  virgin  girded 
with  sackcloth  for  the  husband  of  her  youth."  The 
underlying  idea  seems  to  be  the  conception  of  the 
land  as  Jeh's  and  of  Jeh  as  the  ba'ul  "lord,"  or  hus- 
band of  people  and  land.  This  is  the  idea  so  much 
in  evidence  in  the  Book  of  Hos,  and  so  much  per- 
verted by  the  people  whom  he  addressed,  who 
ascribed  their  corn  and  wine  and  oil  to  the  Can. 
ba'als.  The  idea  in  its  purer  form  is  found  in  the 
J'land  Beulah,"  "married  land"  (Isa  624.5).  If 
it  was  this  that  was  in  J.'s  mind,  the  mention  of  the 
priests  comes  naturally.  The  products  of  the  land 
were  Jeh's  gifts,  and  the  acknowledgment  of  His 
lordship  was  made  by  offerings  of  the  produce  laid 
on  His  altar.  But  if  nothing  was  given,  nothing 
could  be  offered;  the  "cutting  off"  of  the  meal  and 
drink  offerings  was  the  mark  of  the  widowhood  and 
destitution  of  the  land.  Hence  the  pathetic  long- 
ing (2  14)  that  at  least  so  much  may  be  left  as  to 
assure  the  famished  land  t  hat  the  supreme  calamity, 
the  loss  of  God,  has  not  fallen.  Thus  the  visitation 
is  set  in  a  religious  light :  the  graphic  description 
is  more  than  a  poetic  picture.  It  is  the  Lord's  land 
that  is  wasted;  hence  the  summons  (1  14)  to  "cry 
unto  Jeh,"  and  in  the  vs  that  follow  the  supplication 
by  man  and  beast  for  deliverance. 

Ch  2  up  'to  ver  17  seems  to  go  over  the  same 
ground  as  ch  1,  and  it  has  also  two  parts  respec- 
tively to  two  parts  of  that  chapter:  2  1-11  is  jj  to 
1  2-12,  and  2  12-17  to  1  13-20.  The  former  part 
in  both  cases  is  chiefly  descriptive  of  the  calamity, 
while  the  latter  part  is  more  hortatory.  Yet  there 
is  an  advance;  for,  whereas  in  1  2-12  the  attention 
is  fixed  on  the  devasf  at  ion,  in  2  1-1 1  it  is  t  he  devas- 
tator, the  locust,  that  is  particularly  described; 
also,  in  2  12-17  the  tone  is  more  intensely  religious: 
"Rend  your  heart,  and  not  your  garments"  (ver 
13] .  Finally  it  is  to  be  noted  that  it  is  at  the  close 
of  this  portion  that  we  get  the  first  reference  to 
external  nations:  "Give  not  thy  heritage  to  re- 
proach, that  t  he  nations  should  use;  a  byword  against 
them:  wherefore  should  they  say  among  the  peoples, 
Where  is  their  God?"  (ver  17  m).  If  the  view  given 
above  of  1  6-8  be  correct,  this  is  merely  an  expan- 
sion of  the  germinal  idea  there  involved.  And  so 
it  becomes  a  pivot  on  which  the  succeeding  portion 
turns:  "Then  was  Jeh  jealous  for  his  land,  and  had 
pity  on  his  people"  (2  18). 

There  is  a  sharp  turn  at  2  18,  marked  by  the 
sudden  variation  of  the  verbal  forms.  Just  as  in 
Am  7  10,  in  the  midst  of  the  prophet's  discourse, 
we  come  upon  the  narration,  "Then  Amaziah  the 
priest  of  Beth-el  sent  to  Jeroboam,"  etc,  so  here  we 
have  obviously  to  take  the  narrative  to  be  the  se- 
quence of  the  foregoing  address,  or,  more  properly 
speaking,  we  have  to  infer  that  what  J.  had  coun- 
seled had  been  done.  The  fast  had  been  sanctified, 
the  solemn  assembly  had  been  called,  all  classes  or 
their  representatives  had  been  gathered  to  the  house 
of  the  Lord,  the  supplication  had  been  made,  and 
"then  was  Jeh  jealous  for  his  land,  and  had  pity  on 
his  people."     In  point  of  fact,  as  the  Heb  student 


will  perceive,  all  the  vbs.  from  ver  15  may  be  read, 
with  a  change  of  the  points,  as  simple  perfects,  with 
the  exception  of  the  vbs.  for  "weep"  and  "say"  in 
ver  17,  which  might  be  descriptive  imperfects. 
But  no  doubt  the  imperative  forms  are  to  be  read, 
expressing  as  they  do  more  graphically  the  doing 
of  the  thing  prescribed.  And,  this  sharp  turn 
having  been  made,  it  will  be  noticed  how  the  dis- 
course proceeds  on  a  higher  gradient,  forming  a 
counterpart  to  the  preceding  context.  Step  by 
step,  in  inverse  order,  we  pass  the  former  points, 
beginning  opposite  what  was  last  the  "reproach 
among  the  nations"  (ver  19;  cf  ver  7),  passing  the 
destruction  of  the  great  army  (ver  20;  cf  vs  1-11), 
then  touching  upon  the  various  kinds  of  vegetation 
affected  (vs  21-24;  cf  1  12.10,  etc),  and  ending  with 
the  reversal  of  the  fourfold  devastation  with  which 
the  prophet  began  (ver  25;  cf  1  4).  So  that  what 
at  the  outset  was  announced  as  a  calamity  unprec- 
edented and  unparalleled,  now  becomes  a  deliv- 
erance as  enduring  as  God's  presence  with  His 
people  is  forever  assured. 

Up  to  this  point  there  has  been  an  observable 
sequence  and  connection,  so  that,  while  the  prophet 
has  steadily  progressed  upward,  we  can  look  down 
from  the  point  reached  and  see  the  whole  course 
that  has  been  traversed.  But  now  in  2  28-32 
(ch  3  in  Heb)  he  passes  abruptly  to  what,  "shall 
come  to  pass  afterward."  And  yet  no  doubt  there 
was  a  connection  of  thought  in  his  mind,  of  which 
we  obtain  suggestions  in  the  new  features  of  the 
description.  There  is  "the  sound  of  abundance  of 
rain"  (1  K  18  41)  in  this  pouring  out  of  the  Spirit 
upon  all  flesh;  in  the  sons  and  daughters,  old  men 
and  young,  servants  and  handmaidens,  we  seem  to 
recognize  the  representative  gathering  of  2  15  f, 
those  engaged  in  the  priestly  function  of  suppli- 
cation here  endued  with  prophetic  gifts,  "a  king- 
dom of  priests,  and  a  holy  nation"  (Ex  19  6),  all 
the  Lord's  people  become  prophets  (Nu  11  29). 
Again  we  see  the  sky  overcast  and  sun  and  moon 
darkened  before  the  great  and  terrible  day  of  the 
Lord,  as  if  the  prophet  had  said:  There  shall  be 
greater  things  than  these;  a  new  era  is  coming  in 
which  God's  hand  will  be  laid  more  heavily  upon 
the  world,  and  His  people  will  be  quickened  to  a 
clearer  vision  of  His  working.  The  "day  of  Jeh" 
has  yet  to  come  in  a  fuller  sense  than  the  locust 
plague  suggested,  and  there  will  be  a  more  effective 
deliverance  than  from  drought  and  dearth;  but 
then  as  now  there  will  be  found  safety  in  Alt.  Zion 
and  Jerus.  This,  however,  implies  some  danger 
with  which  Jerus  has  been  t  hreat  ened ;  a  "remnant , ' ' 
an  "escaped"  portion  involves  a  disaster  or  crisis 
out  of  which  new  life  comes.  And  so  the  prophet 
goes  on  in  ch  3  (ch  4  in  Heb),  still  speaking  of  "I  hose 
days"  and  "that  time,"  to  tell  us  of  the  greater 
deliverance  from  the  greater  trouble  to  which  he 
has  been  alluding.  There  is  nothing  in  the  ante- 
cedent chapters  to  indicate  what  "that  time"  and 
"those  days"  an;,  or  what  the  prophet  means  by 
bringing  again  the  captivity  of  Judah  and  Jerus. 
These  are  questions  of  interpretation.  In  the 
meantime,  we  may  note  the  general  features  of  the 
scene  now  set  before  us.  A  great  assize  is  to  be 
held  in  the  valley  of  Jehoshaphat,  in  which  "all 
nations"  there  assembled  by  Divine  summons  will 
be  judged  for  offences  against  God's  people  and 
heritage  (vs  1-8).  And  again,  just  as  in  chs  1,  2 
the  prophet  exhibited  the  plague  of  locusts  in  two 
pictures,  so  here  in  vs  9-21  the  picture  of  the  great- 
assize  is  transformed  into  a  bloody  picture  in  the 
same  valley,  not  so  much  of  battle  as  of  slaughter, 
a  treading  of  the  wine-press.  There  is  a  confused 
multitude  in  "the  valley  of  decision";  sun  and  moon 
are  darkened,  and  the  stars  withdraw  their  shining; 
the  "day  of  Jeh"  has  finally  come;    and,  when  the 


Joel 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1G90 


din  is  silenced  and  clear  light  again  falls  upon 
the  scene?,  all  is  peace  and  prosperity,  the  last  of 
the  enemies  destroyed,  and  the  Lord  dwelleth  in 
Zion. 

(1)  Literal.  Thus  the  book  forms  a  fairly  intelligible 
and  connected   whole  when  we  read  in  the  lit.  sense  of 

the  language.  Tiiat  is  to  say:  a  time  of 
o     Tnfpr  continued  drought  combined  with  an   1111- 

o.  unci-  pivcedented     visitation     of    locusts    gives 

pretation         occasion  to  the  prophet  to  call  his  people 

to  the  recognition  of  the  Divine  hand  and 
to  earnest  supplication  that  the  threatened  ruin  of  people 
and  land  may  be  averted.  The  removal  of  the  calamity 
is  interpreted  as  a  mark  of  restored  Divine  favor  and  an 
assurance  of  prosperity  based  on  God's  unchangeable 
purpose  of  good  to  His  people.  But  these  great  doings 
of  Nature's  ( lod  suggest  yet  greater  deeds  of  Israel's  God 
of  a  more  spiritual  kind,  the  outpouring,  like  copious 
showers,  of  Divine  blessing,  so  that  the  whole  community 
would  be  set  on  a  higher  level  of  spirit  ual  apprehension. 
And  thus  the  prophet  is  led  on  to  speak  of  the  "last 
tilings."  Judah  and  Jerus,  highly  distinguished  and  sig- 
nally protected,  are  bound  up  with  a  world-wide  purpose; 
Israel,  in  a  word,  cannot  be  conceived  apart  from  non- 
Israel.  And  as  non-Israel  had  in  the  past  been  an  oppos- 
ing power,  in  t ho  great  "day  of  .Jeh."  wrong  should  be- 
at last  righted,  the  nations  judged,  and  Israel  and  Israel's 
God  lie  glorified.  No  doubt  the  interpretation  is  not 
without  difficulties.  We  may  not  be  able  to  detect  the 
motives  of  the  sudden  transitions,  or  to  say  how  much 
of  the  purport  of  the  latter  part  was  in  the  prophet's 
mind  when  he  was  engaged  on  the  former  part.  And 
the  description  of  the  locust  is  so  highly  poetical  that 
there  is  a  temptation  to  see  in  it  a  reference  to  a  great 
invading  army. 

(2)  Allegorical. — These  considerations,  combined  with 
the  undoubted  eschatological  strain  of  the  closing  part 
of  the  book,  led  early  commentators  (and  they  have; 
had  followers  in  modern  times)  to  an  allegorical  inter- 
pretation of  the  locust,  and  to  regard  the  whole  book 
as  pointing  forward  to  future  history.  Thus,  in  Jerome's 
time,  the  4  names  of  the  locust  in  1  4  were  supposed  to 
designate  (1)  the  Assyrians  and  Babylonians,  (2)  the 
Medes  and  Persians,  ('.i)  the  Macedonians  and  Antiochus 
Epiphanes,  and  (4)  the  Romans.  But,  apart  from  the 
consideration  that  the  analogy  of  prophecy  would  lead 
us  to  look  for  some  actual  situation  or  occurrence  of 
his  time  as  the  starting-point  of  J.'s  discourse,  a  close 
observation  and  acquaintance  with  the  habits  of  the 
locust  confirm  the  prophet's  description,  albeit  highly 
figurative  and  poetical,  as  minutely  accurate  in  all  its 
details.  It  is  to  be  observed  that,  though  spoken  of  as 
an  army  (and  at  the  present  day  the  Oriental  calls  the 
locust  the  "  army  of  God  "),  there  is  no  mention  of  blood- 
shed. The  designation  "the  northern  one,"  which  has 
been  considered  inappropriate  because  the  locust  comes 
from  the  parched  plain  of  the  eastern  interior,  need  not 
cause  perplexity;  for  the  Heb,  while  it  has  names  for 
the  4  cardinal  points  of  the  compass,  has  none  for  the 
intermediate  points:  Judaea  might  be  visited  by  locusts 
coming  from  the  N.E.,  or,  coming  from  the  E.,  they 
might  strike;  the;  country  at  a  point  to  the  K.  of  Pal  anil 
travel  southward.  So  the  wind  which  destroys  the 
locust  (2  20)  would  be  a  northwesterly  wind,  driving 
the  forepart  into  the  Dead  Sea  and  the  hinder  part  into 
the  Mediterranean. 

The  Book  of  Joel  has  been  assigned  by  different 
authorities  to  very  various  dates,  ranging  over  -1  or 
5  cents.;  but,  as  will  appear  in  the 
4.  Indica-  sequel,  it  comes  to  be  a  question 
tions  of  whether  the  book  is  very  early  or  very 

Date  late,  in  fact,  whether  J.  is  perhaps  the 

very  earliest  or  tin;  very  last  or  among 
the  last  of  the  writing  prophets.  This  diversity  of 
opinion  is  due  to  the  fact  that  there  are  no  direct 
indications  of  date  in  the  book  itself,  and  that  such 
indirect  indications  as  it  affords  are  held  to  be  capa- 
ble of  explanation  on  the  one  view  or  the  other.  It 
will  he  noticed  also  that,  to  add  to  the  uncertainly, 
many  of  the  arguments  adduced  are  of  a  negative 
kind,  i.e.  consideration  of  what  the  prophet  does 
not  mention  or  refer  to,  and  the  argument  from 
silence  is  notoriously  precarious.  It  will,  therefore, 
be  convenient  to  specify  the  indications  available, 
and  to  note  the  arguments  drawn  from  them  in 
support  of  the  respective  dates. 

(1)  Place  in  the  Canon. — An  argument  for  a  very 
early  date  is  based  upon  the  place  of  the  book  in  the 
collection  of  the  "twelve"  minor  prophets. 

It  stands,  in  the  Heb  Bible,  between  Hos  and  Am, 
who  are  usually  spoken  of  as  the  earliest  "writing 
prophets."      It  is  true  that,  in  the  LXX  collection,  the 


order  is  different,   viz.    Hos,    Am,   Mic,   Joel,   Ob,   Jon; 

which  may  indicate  that  as  early  as  the  time  of  the  forma- 
tion of  the  Canon  of  the  Prophets  there  was  uncertainty 
as  to  the  place  of  Joel,  Ob,  and  Jon,  which  contain  no 
direct  indication  of  their  dates.  Hut,  seeing  that  there 
has  evidently  been  a  regard  to  some  chronological  order, 
the  books  being  arranged  according  to  the  Assyr,  Bab 
and  Pers  periods,  it  cannot  be  without  significance  that 
Joel  has  found  a  place  so  high  up  in  the  collection.  The 
A  indisputably  post-exilian  books  stand  together  at  the 
end.  If  Joel  is  late,  it  must  be  as  late  as  the  latest  of 
these,  possibly  a  great  deal  later.  But  if  that  is  so,  there 
was  the  greater  likelihood  of  its  date  being  known  to  the 
collectors.  It  would  be  a  very  hazardous  assumption 
that  prophetical  books  were  not  read  or  copied  from  the 
time  of  their  first  composition  till  the  time  they  were 
gathered  into  a  Canon.  And,  if  they  were  so  read  and 
copied,  surely  the  people  who  handled  them  took  some 
interest  in  preserving  the  knowledge  of  their  origin  and 
authorship. 

In  this  connection,  attention  is  directed  to  the 
resemblances  to  the  Book  of  Am  before  which  Joel 
stands.  These  art;  regarded  by  Reuss  as  favoring 
the  early  date.  That  large  and  beautiful  passage 
with  which  the;  Book  of  Am  opens  dwells  upon  the 
thought  that  the  threatenings,  which  had  formerly 
been  uttered  against  the  nations,  are  about  to  receive 
their  fulfilment,  and  that  Jeh  could  not  take  back 
His  word.  Now  it  is  just  such  a  threatening  that 
fills  the  last  part  of  the  Book  of  Joel.  Indeed  Amos 
begins  his  book  with  the  very  phrase  in  which  J. 
opens  his  closing  address,  ".Jeh  will  roar  from  Zion, 
and  utter  his  voice  from  Jerus"  (Am  1  2;  Joel  4 
16).  At  the  end  of  Am  also  the  happy  fertility  of 
Canaan  is  described  in  similar  terms  to  those  in 
Joel  (Am  9  13;  Joel  3  18).  Reuss,  moreover, 
draws  attention  to  the  remarkable  expression  found 
in  Joel,  and  also,  though  in  modified  terms,  in  two 
Prophets  of  the  Assyr  period:  "Beat  your  plow- 
shares into  swords,  and  your  pruning-hooks  into 
spears,"  says  J.  (3  10),  whereas  we  have  the  oracle 
in  Isa  2  4  and  Mic  4  3,  "They  shall  beat  their 
swords  into  plowshares,  and  their  spears  into 
pruning-hooks";  and  it  is  suggested  that,  if  these 
were  current  phrases,  they  were  more  likely  to 
have  been  coined  in  the  form  employed  by  J.  in 
earlier  and  less  settled  times,  when  sudden  alarms 
of  war  called  the  peaceftd  husbandman  to  the  de- 
fence of  his  fields  and  flocks.  Further,  it  is  pointed 
out  that  Amos  reproaches  the  people  of  his  day  for 
impenitence,  although  Jeh  had  given  them  "clean- 
ness of  teeth"  and  "want  of  bread"  and  had  "with- 
holden  the  rain  ....  when  there  were  yet  three 
months  to  the  harvest,"  and  smitten  them  with 
blasting  and  mildew  and  the  palmer  worm  (Am  4 
6-9);  and  all  this  is  the  more  striking  because  J. 
represents  the  distress  of  his  day  as  unprecedented 
in  magnitude. 

To  all  this,  advocates  of  the  late  date  reply  that 
wTe  cannot  determine  the  date  of  a  book  by  its  place 
in  the  Canon;  for  that  the  collectors  were  guided 
by  other  considerations.  As  to  the  resemblances 
to  Am,  it  may  have  been  on  the  strength  of  these 
very  resemblances  that  the  Book  of  Joel,  bearing 
no  date  in  itself,  was  placed  beside  that  of  Am. 
Moreover,  it  is  maintained,  as  we  shall  see  presently, 
that  J.  has  resemblances  to  other  prophets,  some  of 
them  confessedly  of  late  date,  proving  that  he  was 
acquainted  with  writings  of  a  very  late  time. 

(2)  Language  and  style. — Another  argument  for  an 
early  date  is  based  upon  the  purity  of  the  language  and 
character  of  the  style.  The  book  is  written  in  what  may 
be  described  as  classical  Heb,  and  shows  no  trace  of 
decadence  of  language.  It  is  no  doubt  true  that  "the 
style  is  the  man."  as  is  strikingly  illustrated  in  the  very 
different  styles  of  Amos  and  Hosea,  who  were  practically 
contemporaneous;  so  that  arguments  of  this  kind  are 
precarious.  Still,  it  is  to  be  noted,  that  though  there  is 
nothing  archaic  in  the  style  of  Joel,  neither  is  there  any- 
thing archaic  in  the  style  of  Amos,  who  would,  by  the 
exclusion  of  Joel,  be  our  earliest  example  of  written 
prophecy. 

The  advocates  of  the  very  late  date  reply  that  the 
style  of  J.  is  too  good  to  be  archaic;  and  that  his  ad- 
mittedly classic  style  is  to  be  explained  by  the  supposition 


1691 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Joel 


that,  living  at  a  late  time,  he  was  a  diligent  student  of 
earlier  prophetic  lit.,  and  molded  his  style  upon  the 
classical. 

(3)  Quotations. — Here,  therefore,  must  be  men- 
tioned an  argument  much  relied  on  by  the  advo- 
cates of  a  very  late  date.  It  is  said  that  there  are 
so  many  resemblances  in  thought  and  expression 
to  other  OT  books  that  it  is  incredible  that  so  many 
writers  posterior  to  the  early  date  claimed  for  Joel 
should  have  quoted  from  this  little  book  or  ex- 
panded thoughts  contained  in  it.  A  very  elaborate 
comparison  of  J.  wit  h  late  writers  has  been  made  by 
Holzinger  in  Z AT W,  1889,  89-131;  his  line  of 
argument  being  that,  while  resemblances  to  un- 
doubtedly early  writers  may  be  explained  as  the 
work  of  a  writer  in  the  Renaissance  imitating  older 
models,  the  resemblances  to  others  known  to  be 
late,  such  as  Jer,  Ezk,  II  Isa,  Pss,  Neh,  Ch,  etc, 
cannot  be  so  explained  if  Joel  is  taken  to  be  early. 
The  principal  passages  in  question  are  given  in  the 
Cambridge  Bible  for  Schools  and  Colleges,  "Book 
of  Joel,"  by  Professor  Driver,  who  also  takes  the 
view  that  Joel  is  late. 

The  list  is  not,  perhaps,  so  formidable  as  its  length 
would  imply.  Both  writers  confess  that  from 
several  of  the  passages  no  conclusion  of  any  value 
can  be  drawn,  and  that  there  is  always  a  difficulty 
in  determining  priority  when  similarities  in  diction 
are  found.  Many  of  the  expressions  quoted  look 
as  if  they  might  have  been  commonplaces  of  the 
prophetical  lit.;  and,  if  it  was  possible  for  a  very  late 
writer  to  quote  from  so  many  antecedent  writings, 
it  was  as  possible  and  much  easier  for  a  number  of 
late  writers  to  go  back  to  the  very  earliest  prophets, 
esp.  if  their  words  were  memorable  and  germinal. 
We  have  heard  of  the  man  who  objected  to  Shake- 
speare because  he  was  full  of  quotations;  and  there 
is  perhaps  not  a  line  of  Gray's  "Elegy"  that  has 
not  been  quoted  somewhere,  while  some  of  his  lines 
have  become  household  words.  But  the  strongest 
objection  to  this  argument  is  this:  if  Joel  had  the 
minute  acquaintance  with  antecedent  writers  and 
followed  them  so  closely  as  is  implied,  he  not  only 
varies  from  them  in  essential  particulars,  but  falls 
below  them,  as  we  shall  see,  in  his  anticipations  of 
the  future. 

(4)  Situation. — We  have  now  to  look  at  features 
of  a  more  concrete  and  tangible  character,  which 
promise  to  give  more  positive  results.  It  is  main- 
tained by  the  advocates  of  the  late  date  that  the 
situation  and  immediate  outlook  of  the  prophet  are 
not  only  consistent  with  the  late  date  but  preclude 
any  preexilian  date  altogether.  The  elements  of 
the  situation  are  these:  Whereas  all  the  prophets 
before  the  downfall  of  Samaria  (722  BC),  and  even 
Jeremiah  and  Ezekiel,  mention  the  Northern  King- 
dom, it  is  not  once  named  or  referred  to  in  Joel; 
for  the  occurrence  of  the  name  "Israel"  in  2  27;  3 
2.16  cannot  support  this  sense.  Judah  and  Jerus 
fill  our  prophet's  actual  horizon  (2  1.32;  3  6.16  f. 
20);  no  king  is  mentioned  or  implied,  but  the  elders 
with  the  priests  seem  to  be  the  prominent  and  ruling 
class.  Further,  the  temple  and  its  worship  are 
central  (1  14;  2  15  f)  and  so  important  that  the 
cutting  off  of  the  meal  offering  and  drink  offering 
is  tantamount  to  national  ruin  (1  9.13.16;  2  14). 
Again,  there  is  no  mention  of  the  prevailing  sins  of 
preexilian  times,  the  high  places  with  their  corrupt 
worship,  or  indeed  of  any  specific  sin  for  which  the 
people  were  to  humble  themselves,  while  fasting 
and  putting  on  sackcloth  seem  to  have  a  special 
virtue.  All  the  circumstances,  it  is  held,  conform 
exactly  to  the  time  of  the  post-exilian  temple  and 
to  no  other  time.  The  Northern  Kingdom  was  no 
more,  there  was  no  king  in  Jerus,  the  temple  was  the 
center  and  rallying-point  of  national  life,  its  ritual 
the  pledge  and  guarantee  of  God's  presence  and 


favor;  the  period  of  legalism  had  set  in.  It  is 
confidently  averred  that  at  no  period  prior  to  the 
regime  inaugurated  by  Ezra  and  Nehemiah  was 
there  such  a  conjunction  of  circumstances. 

(a)  Political:  In  reply,  it  is  urged  in  favor  of  the 
early  date  that  there  was  a  period  in  preexilian 
time  when  such  a  situation  existed,  viz.  the  early 
years  of  the  reign  of  Joash,  when  that  prince  was 
still  an  infant;  for  Jehoiada  the  priest  acted  prac- 
tically as  regent  after  the  death  of  Athaliah,  836 
BC  (2  K  11  1-17).  This  would  sufficiently  ac- 
count for  the  absence  of  mention  of  a  king  in  the 
book.  At  such  a  time  the  priesthood  must  have 
held  a  prominent  position,  and  the  temple  would 
overshadow  the  palace  in  importance.  The  omis- 
sion of  the  Northern  Kingdom  may  be  accounted 
for  by  the  fact  that  at  that  time  the  two  kingdoms 
were  on  friendly  terms;  for  the  two  royal  houses 
were  connected  by  marriage,  and  the  kingdoms  were 
in  alliance  (2  K  3  6ff;  8  28  ff).  Or  the  omission 
may  have  no  more  significance  than  the  fact  that 
J.  was  concerned  with  an  immediate  and  near 
present  distress  and  had  no  occasion  to  mention  the 
Northern  Kingdom.  To  show  how  unsafe  it  is  to 
draw  conclusions  from  such  silence,  it  may  be  ob- 
served that  throughout  the  first  5  chapters  of  Isa, 
larger  in  bulk  than  the  whole  Book  of  Joel,  only 
Judah  and  Jerus  are  mentioned;  and,  even  if  it 
should  be  maintained  that  a  part  or  the  whole  of 
these  chapters  dates  from  after  the  deportation  of 
the  ten  tribes,  still  it  is  noteworthy  that,  when  the 
prophet  could  have  made  as  good  use  of  a  reference 
to  the  event  as  Jeremiah  and  Ezekiel,  he  does  not 
do  so. 

(I>)  Religious:  The  fact  that  there  is  no  mention  of 
specific  national  sins,  and  particularly  of  the  worship 
of  the  high  places,  of  which  preexilian  prophets  have  so 
much  to  say,  is  made  much  of  by  advocates  of  the  lato 
date,  Dr.  A.  B.  Davidson,  e.g.,  declaring  it  to  be  "doubt- 
ful whether  such  a  state  of  things  existed  at  any  time 
prior  to  the  restoration  from  exile  "  (Expo*,  March,  1888) ; 
but  perhaps  this  argument  proves  too  much.  If  we 
are  to  deduce  the  state  of  religion  in  J.'s  day  from  what 
he  does  not  say  on  the  subject,  it  may  be  doubted 
whether  at  any  time,  either  before  or  after  the  exile,  such 
a  condition  prevailed.  The  post-exilian  prophets  cer- 
tainly knew  of  sins  in  their  time,  sins,  too,  which  restrained 
the  rain  and  blasted  the  wine  and  oil  and  corn  (Hag  1 
11).  For  all  that  J.  says  on  the  subject,  the  condition 
of  things  implied  is  as  consistent  with  the  time  of  Je- 
hoiada as  with  that  of  Nehemiah.  And  what  shall  we 
say  of  Isaiah's  positive  description  of  the  condition  of 
Jerus  before  his  time:  "the  faithful  city  ....  she 
that  was  full  of  justice!  righteousness  lodged  in  her" 
(Isa  1  21)?  When  was  that?  So  also  his  promise: 
"I  will  restore  thy  judges  as  at  the  first,  and  thy  coun- 
sellors as  at  the  beginning:  afterward  thou  shaft  be  called 
The  city  of  righteousness,  a  faithful  town"  (Isa  1  2(5). 
Higher  praise  could  scarcely  be  bestowed,  and  there  is 
nothing  in  the  Book  of  Joel  to  imply  that  he  assumed 
so  much. 

(c)  Ritualistic:  Too  much  has  been  made  of  the 
references  to  ritual,  as  if  they  necessarily  implied 
a  post-exilian  date.  It  is  not  legitimate  here  to 
assume  that  the  idea  of  centralization  of  worship 
originated  in  Josiah's  days,  and  that  the  priestly 
legislation  is  post-exilian.  The  mention  of  "old 
men"  or  "elders"  is  no  such  indication.  W7ell- 
hausen  himself  maintains  that  t  he  expression  every- 
where in  Joel  means  nothing  more  than  "old  men"; 
and,  even  if  it  had  an  official  connotation,  the  offi- 
cial elders  are  an  old  tribal  institution  in  Israel.  It 
may  be  noted  here  again  that  in  the  first  5  chapters 
of  Isa  elders  also  are  mentioned,  and  more  indubi- 
tably in  an  official  sense,  although  the  time  was  that 
of  the  monarchy  (Isa  3  2.14).  And  as  to  the 
sanctity  of  the  temple,  it  will  hardly  be  denied  that 
in  t  he  time  of  Jehoiada  the  Jerus  temple  was  a  place 
of  far  more  importance  than  any  supposed  local 
shrine,  and  esp.  when  there  was  a  call  to  a  united 
national  supplication  (see  2  K  11).  In  point  of 
fact  the  alleged  references  to  ritual  are  very  few 
and  in  most  general  terms.     The  "fast"  is  not  de- 


Joel 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1G92 


noted  by  the  phrases  in  the  legal  codes,  and  was 
evidently  on  the  footing  of  such  observances  as 
are  common  and  instinctive  at  all  times  and  among 
all  persons  (Jgs  20  26;  1  S  7  6;  2  S  1  12;  Jon 
3  oft').  And  where  in  any  law-code  are  priests 
enjoined  to  lie  all  night  in  sackcloth  (1  13)?  Or 
what  prescription  in  any  code  requires  young  and 
old  bridegroom  and  bride,  to  press  together  into 
the  temple  (2  16)?  And  why  should  not  any  or 
all  of  these  tilings  have  been  done  in  lace  of  a  sudden 
emergency  threatening  the  ruin  of  an  agricultural 
people?  'Moreover,  J.,  so  far  from  ascribing  virtue 
to  these  outward  marks  of  humiliation  in  a  legal- 
istic spirit,  immediately  after  mentioning  them 
says:  "Rend  your  heart,  and  not  your  garments, 
and  turn  unto  Jeh  your  God"  (2  13).  . 

The  only  ritual  references  are  to  the  meal  ottering 
and  the  drink  offering  (1  9.13;  2  14),  and  these 
were  not  characteristically  post-exilian.  Indeed, 
they  may  be  regarded  as  primitive  forms  of  offering, 
the  produce  of  the  ground  without  which,  among 
an  agricultural  people,  we  can  hardly  imagine  a 
syst em  of  offerings  to  exist .  They  are  both  ancient 
Amos  regards  the  meal  offering  as  well  known  (5  22. 
25)  and  Isaiah  uses  the  word  "vain  oblations  in 
speaking  of  its  abuse  (Isa  1  13).  And  though  the 
noun  for  drink  offering  is  not  mentioned  in  the  older 
prophets,  Hosea  knows  the  related  vb.  and  the  act 
of  pouring  out  wine  to  the  Lord  (Hos  9  4),  and 
it  may  be  asked  whether  it  is  likely  that  the  people 
performed  the  act  and  had  no  name  for  the  offering 
itself.  Moreover,  in  an  undisputed  passage  (2  K 
16  13.15),  both  offerings  are  mentioned  m  the  time 
of  Ahaz.  As  for  the  contention  that  our  prophet 
regards  these  offerings  of  so  much  importance  that 
the  cessation  of  them  would  be  fatal,  if  our  inter- 
pretation of  1  8  f  above  be  correct,  the  earlier  date 
would  be  much  more  appropriate.  It  was  not 
because  the  offering  threatened  to  cease,  but,  be- 
cause the  thing  offend  threatened  to  be  cut  off, 
that  J.  was  so  perturbed.  The  popular  view  as  to 
the  relation  of  Jeh  to  His  land  was  ancient,  and  had 
a  foundation  of  truth;  and  in  fact,  Hosea's  teaching 
would  fitlv  follow  and  complete  that  of  Joel.  Fi- 
nally it  is  to  be  said  that  J. 's  fine  forecast  of  the  out- 
pouring of  the  Spirit,  and  of  the  universal  extension 
of  prophetic  activity  is  as  far  removed  as  possible 
from  the  "legalistic"  tendency  that  set  in  after  the 
exile.  And  if  the  argument  from  silence  is  of  any 
force  at  all,  it  is  surely  a  very  remarkable  thing  that 
in  a  book  of  post-exilian  times,  there  should  be  no 
mention  of  prince  or  governor,  or  even  of  high 
priest . 

(5)  Foreign  nations  mentioned  or  omitted. — Allu- 
sions to  foreign  nations,  or  the  absence  of  allusion, 
would  obviously  promise  to  afford  indications  of  the 
time  of  the  prophet ;  and  yet  here  also  the  allusions 
have  been  adduced  in  support  of  either  of  the  di- 
vergent dates.  The  facts  here  arc  as  follows:  In 
the  first  two  chapters,  where  the  prophet,  as  is 
generally  understood,  is  speaking  of  his  own  time 
and  its  pressing  distress,  there  is  no  mention  of  any 
foreign  nation,  not  even  the  kingdom  of  the  ten 
tribes.  The  only  expression  which  has  been  taken 
to  be  significant  in  this  connection  is  the  word  tr*1 
"the  northern"  army  (2  20),  which  some  refer  to 
the  Assyrians,  while  others  explain  it  of  a  northern 
army  in  late  or  apoealypt  ic  time.  In  ch  3,  however, 
when  the  prophet  is  speaking  of  "those  days"  anil 
"that  time"  in  the  future,  when  the  Lord  "shall 
bring  back  the;  captivity  of  Judah  and  Jems,"  there 
is  to  be  a  gathering  of  "all  nations"  in  the  valley  of 
Jehoshaphat  (3  If);  and  later  on  "all  the  nations" 
are  summoned  to  appear  in  the  same  valley  for 
judgment  (3  11  f).  "Tyre,  and  Sidon,  and  all  the 
regions  of  Philistia"  are  specially  reproached  (ver  4) 
because  they  have  carried  into  their  temples  the 


sacred  treasures,  and  have  sold  the  children  of  Judah 
and  Jerus  unto  the  "sons  of  the  Grecians"  (ver  6); 
in  recompense  for  which  their  sons  and  daughters 
are  to  be  sold  into  the  hand  of  the  children  of  Judah, 
to  be  sold  by  them  to  "the  men  of  Sheba,  to  a  nation 
far  off"  (ver  8).  Finally,  at  the  close  (vs  19  f), 
"Egypt,  shall  be  a  desolation,  and  Edom  shall  be  a 
desolate  wilderness,  for  the  violence  done  to  the 
children  of  Judah,  because  they  have  shed  innocent 
blood  in  their  land." 

It  is  acknowledged  that,  on  either  hypothesis, 
there  are  difficulties  in  account ing  for  the  presence 
or  absence  of  names  of  foreign  nations  in  this 
presentation.  Those  who  advocate  the  late  (late 
point  with  confidence  to  the  silence  as  to  the  king- 
dom of  the  ten  tribes,  or  to  the  kingdom  of  Damas- 
cus, which,  on  their  hypothesis,  had  passed  away, 
and  the  equally  significant  silence  as  to  Assyria, 
which  had  long  ago  been  superseded  by  the  Bab 
and  Pers  empires  of  the  East.  As  to  the  mention 
of  Tyre  and  Sidon  and  the  coasts  of  Philist  ia  (3  4-6), 
Driver  says:  "The  particular  occasion  referred  to 
by  J.  must  remain  uncertain:  but  the  Phoenicians 
continued  to  act  as  slave-dealers  long  after  the  age 
of  Amos:  and  the  notice  of  Javan  (Greece)  suits 
better  a  later  time,  when  Syrian  slaves  were  in  re- 
quest in  Greece"  {Cambridge  Bible,  "Joel,"  17).  The 
same  writer  says  on  3  19:  "There  is  so  little  that 
is  specific  in  what  is  said  in  this  verse  with  reference 
to  either  Egypt  or  Edom,  that  both  countries  are 
probably  named  (at  a  time  when  the  Assyrians  and 
Chaldaeans  had  alike  ceased  to  be  formidable  to 
Judah)  as  typical  examples  of  countries  hostile  to 
the  Jews."  It  is  pointed  out,  moreover,  that  the 
enmity  of  Edom  was  particularly  manifest  at  a  late 
period  when  Jerus  was  destroyed  by  the  Chaldaeans, 
and  that,  this  was  remembered  and  resented  long 
afterward  (Ob  vs  10-16;  Ezk  25  12  ff;  35;  Ps 
137  7).  .    . 

On  the  hypothesis  of  the  early  date,  it  is  urged 
that  there  was  no  occasion  to  refer  to  the  Northern 
Kingdom.  If  it  was  friendly,  the  inclusive  name 
of  Israel  for  the  whole  people  was  sufficient  to  de- 
note this,  and  that  it  was  not  hostile  in  the  early 
days  of  Joash  has  already  been  pointed  out.  As 
to  Damascus,  it  was  not  till  the  last  years  of  the 
reign  of  Joash  that  Hazael  showed  hostility  to 
Jerus  (2  K  12  17  f);  and  danger  from  Assyria 
had  not  yet  emerged,  and  appears  only  faintly  in 
Am  (3  11;  6  14).  Then  it  is  pointed  out  that 
history  records  how,  in  the  reign  of  Jehoram,  the 
grandfather  of  Joash,  "Edom  revolted  from  under 
the  hand  of  Judah,  and  made  a  king  over  them- 
selves" (2  K  8  20;  2  Ch  21  8),  and  the  historian 
adds  that  the  revolt  continued  "unto  this  day." 
It  may  well  have  been  that,  in  such  a  revolt  the 
resident  Judaeans  in  the  land  of  Edom  suffered  the 
violence  referred  to  in  3  19.  Moreover,  the 
Chronicler  mentions  that,  in  the  same  reign,  "Jeh 
stirred  up  against  Jehoram  the  spirit  of  the  Philis, 
and  of  the  Arabians  that  are  beside  the  Ethiopians: 
and  they  came  up  against  Judah,  and  brake  into  it, 
and  carried  away  all  the  substance  that  was  found 
in  the  king's  house,  and  his  sons  also,  and  his  wives," 
etc  (2  Ch  21  16  f).  This  might  be  what  is  referred 
to  in  3  4-6.  If  the  royal  family  were  carried  away 
there  would  most  probably  be  a  deportation  of  other 
prisoners,  who,  taken  by  the  seaboard  Philis,  would, 
through  the  great  maritime  power  of  the  day,  be 
sold  to  the  distant  Greeks.  And  here  it  is  pointed 
out  that  Amos  singles  out  the  very  nations  men- 
tioned by  J.:  Philis,  Tyre  and  Sidon  and  Edom, 
and  reproaches  them  with  offences  such  as  J. 
specifies  (Am  1  6-12).  And  then,  it  is  added,  if 
the  book  is  as  late  as  Nehemiah,  why  is  nothing 
said  of  Samaritans,  Moabites,  and  Ammonites, 
who  showed  such  marked  hostility  in  his  days  (Neh 


1693 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Joel 


2  19;  4  7;  6  1)?  For  Ezekiel  also,  from  whom  it 
is  supposed  J.  derived  his  reference  to  the  Edomites, 
mentions  also  Moabites  and  Ammonites  as  hostile 
to  Israel  (Ezk  25  1-11).  And  so  far  were  Tyre  and 
Sidon  from  being  hostile  in  the  days  of  Nehemiah 
that  we  read  of  similar  arrangements  being  made 
with  them,  as  in  the  time  of  Solomon,  for  the  supply 
of  materials  for  the  rebuilding  of  the  temple  (Ezr 

3  7).  And  why  is  not  a  word  said  of  the  Baby- 
lonians, at  whose  hands  Israel  had  suffered  so 
much?  So  strongly,  indeed,  are  these  objections 
felt  by  Reuss,  that  he  declares  that,  should  the  view 
of  the  late  origin  come  to  be  finally  accepted  as  the 
more  probable,  he  would  decide  for  a  date  after  the 
Pers  domination,  i.e.  subsequent  to  332  BC.  For, 
he  says,  the  names  of  peoples  introduced  at  the  end 
of  the  book,  Phoenicians,  Egyptians,  Philis,  Edom- 
ites, must  surely  in  some  way  have  had  an  actual 
significance  for  the  author,  who  cannot  out  of  caprice 
have  passed  over  Syrians,  Assyrians,  Chaldaeans, 
and  Persians.  Accordingly,  if  we  are  to  have 
nothing  to  do  with  the  pre-Assyr  period,  we  must 
come  down  to  the  late  Selcucidan  and  Ptolemean 
dynasties,  by  whose  hostile  collisions  Judaea  was 
certainly  involved  in  severe  trouble.  But  then, 
how  are  we  to  account  for  the  position  of  Joel  so 
high  up  in  the  collection  of  prophetical  writers? 
For,  on  this  supposition,  we  should  expect  his  book 
to  stand  in  the  third  division  of  the  Canon. 

(G)  Some  notable  expressions. — There  remain  to 
be  noticed  some  significant  expressions  which  have 
a  bearing  on  the  question  of  date  and,  at  first  sight, 
seem  to  indicate  a  late  origin.  And  yet  there  is  a 
difficulty.  For  there  is  no  doubt  that  our  familiarity 
with  the  details  of  the  great  downfall  of  the  Jewish 
state  leads  us  to  think  of  the  destruction  of  Jerus 
when  we  read  of  the  captivity  or  scattering  of  the 
people.  There  is,  however,  a  saying  in  the  Tahn 
that  a  greater  distress  makes  a  lesser  one  forgotten; 
and  the  question  is  whether  there  may  not  have 
been  national  experiences  at  an  earlier  time  to 
which  such  expressions  might  be  applicable:  or, 
in  other  words,  how  early  such  phrases  were  coined 
and  became  current. 

(a)  "Bring  back  the  captivity":  There  is,  first 
of  all,  uncertainty  as  to  the  origin  of  the  phrase 
"bring  back  the  captivity."  Some  connect  the 
word  "captivity"  (mmp  ,  skbhuth,  mnip  ,  skbhlth) 
with  the  vb.  "to  take  captive"  (H2TIJ ,  shabhuh), 
while  others  make  it  the  cognate  noun  of  the  vb. 
"to  return"  (2W ,  shubh),  with  which  it  stands 
connected  in  the  phrase  "bring  back  the  captivity 
of  Judah  and  Jerus"  (3  1).  In  the  former  case  the 
reference  would  be  to  the  return  of  captives  taken 
in  war,  or  the  return  of  exiles  from  captivity;  and 
that  view  has  led  to  the  tr  in  our  VS.  On  the  latter 
view,  the  expression  would  mean  the  restoration  of 
prosperity,  of  which  use  we  have  an  undoubted 
example  in  the  words:  "Jeh  turned  the  captivity 
of  Job"  (Job  42  10).  We  can  conceive  either  of 
the  views  to  have  been  the  original,  and  either  to 
be  quite  early.  A  main  feature  of  early  warfare 
was  the  carrying  away  of  prisoners,  and  the  return 
of  such  captives  was  equivalent  to  a  restoration  of 
prosperity.  Or  again,  the  relief  from  any  illness 
or  trouble  might  be  expressed  by  saying  that  there 
was  a  restoration,  as  e.g.  in  Scotland  a  sick  person 
is  said  to  have  "got  the  turn."  As  to  the  signifi- 
cance of  the  phrase  in  Joel,  it  is  pointed  out  by  the 
advocates  of  the  early  date  that,  in  Nehemiah's 
time,  the  exile  was  at  an  end,  and  the  captivity 
"brought  back"  (Ps  126).  On  the  other  side  it  is 
eaid  that,  though  the  new  order  was  set  up  at  Jerus, 
there  still  remained  many  Israelites  in  foreign  lands, 
and  J.,  not  satisfied  with  the  meager  community  in 
Pal,  looked  forward  to  a  fuller  restoration;  or  other- 


wise, that  the  words  are  used  in  the  wider  and  more 
general  sense  of  restored  prosperity.  That  the 
phrase  was  in  early  use,  and  in  the  sense  of  bringing 
back  captives,  is  seen  in  Am  9  14  and  Hos  6  11. 
And  it  may  be  observed  that  the  phraseology  used 
by  Am  to  denote  going  into  captivity  (Am  1  5.15; 
6  5.27;  7  17)  is  employed  by  the  Jews  to  denote 
the  Bab  capt  ivity,  and  is  even  used  by  modern  Jews 
to  express  the  present  dispersion.  And  yet  Amos 
speaks  of  an  "entire  captivity"  of  people  in  his  day 
(Am  1  6.9  m). 

(b)  "Parted  my  land":  Then  again,  the  expres- 
sion "parted  my  land"  (3  2)  does  not  seem  verv 
applicable  to  the  breaking  up  of  the  state,  for  the 
land  was  not  parted  but  absorbed  in  the  great  east- 
ern empires;  nor  does  J.  single  out  Assyrians, 
Babylonians,  and  Persians,  by  whom,  if  by  any,  a 
post-exilian  parting  of  the  land  was  effected.  The 
expression  would  more  fitly  apply  to  such  move- 
ments as  the  revolt  of  Edom  and  Libnah  (2  K  8 
22),  and  the  successive  losses  of  territory  by  which 
the  great  dominion  of  David  and  Solomon  was 
reduced.  This  process,  described  as  "cutting 
Israel  short"  (lit.  "cutting  off  the  ends,"  2  K  10 
32  AV)  is  recorded  as  having  begun  in  the  time  of 
Jehu,  before  the  reign  of  Joash,  when  outlying  parts 
of  territory  were  smitten  by  Hazael  of  Damascus; 
and  J.,  speaking  in  God's  name,  may  have  used  the 
expression  "my  land"  as  referring  to  the  whole 
country. 

(c)  "Scattered  among  the  nations":  Whether 
the  expression  "scattered  among  the  nations"  (3  2) 
would  be  applicable  to  the  Israelite  inhabitants  of 
such  conquered  territories  or  to  those  sold  into 
slavery  (3  6)  may  be  disputed.  The  expression 
certainly  suggests  rather  the  dispersion  following 
the  downfall  of  the  state.  And  yet  it  is  noteworthy 
that,  if  so,  J.  is  the  only  prophet  who  uses  in  that 
sense  the  vb.  here  employed,  a  very  strange  thing  if 
he  followed  and  borrowed  from  them  all;  for,  both 
in  Jer  and  Ezk,  as  well  as  in  Dt,  other  vbs.  are 
used.  Jer  indeed  uses  the  vb.  in  comparing  Israel 
to  a  scattered  (or  isolated)  sheep  which  the  lions 
have  driven  away  (50  17);  but  the  only  other 
passage  in  which  the  word  is  plainly  used  of  Israel 
being  dispersed  among  the  peoples  in  all  the  prov- 
inces of  Persia  is  Est  3  8. 

(d)  "Reproach  of  the  nations":  Then  there  is 
the  passage:  "Give  not  thy  heritage  to  reproach, 
that  the  nations  should  rule  over  them"  (or  "use 
a  byword  against  them"):  "wherefore  should  they 
say  among  the  peoples.  Where  is  their  God?" 
(2  17.19;  cf  m).  Here  it  is  to  be  noted  that  the 
idea  involved  is  certainly  much  older  than  the  time 
of  t  he  exile.  In  t  he  time  of  Hezekiah,  the  ambassa- 
dors of  Sennacherib  delivered  their  taunting  mes- 
sage, which  is  described  as  reproaching  the  living 
God  (2  K  19  4).  It  was  the  method  of  ancient 
warfare,  as  is  seen  in  the  boasting  of  Goliath;  for 
it  is  the  same  word  that  is  used  in  that  narrative, 
though  rendered  in  our  VS  "defy"  (1  S  17  10.25L 
36).  And,  if  we  read  between  the  lines  of  the  his- 
torical books,  we  shall  see  how  common  was  this 
habit  of  "defying"  or  "reproaching,"  and  how  sensi- 
tive the  people  were  to  it  (e.g.  IK  20  2f.5f.13. 
28).  All  this  is  anterior  to  the  earliest  possible  date 
of  J.,  and  proves  that,  at  an  early  time,  there  was 
a  consciousness  in  Israel  that  the  fortunes  of  the 
people  were  bound  up  with  the  honor  of  the  national 
God.  It  is  not  to  be  overlooked  that  it  is  in  the 
early  part  of  the  book,  when  he  is  concerned  with 
the  drought  and  locust,  that  J.  uses  this  expression. 

(e)  "Strangers  passing  through":  Toward  the 
close  of  the  book  it  is  predicted  that,  in  the  time  of 
final  glory,  strangers  shall  no  longer  pass  through 
Jerus  (3  17).  This  again  would  certainly  be  appli- 
cable to  a  late  time,  after  the  land  had  suffered 


JOel  rj-]j 

Johannine  Theol. 


E  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1G94 


many  hostile  invasions.  Yet  it  can  well  be  under- 
stood how  a  prophet,  at  a  very  early  period,  think- 
ing of  the  glorification  of  Zion,  should  imagine  a 
state  in  which  no  "stranger"  or  foreigner  should 
have  a  fooling  on  the  sacred  soil,  and  Israel  should 
dwell  in  solitary  and  preeminent  exclusiveness. 
If  so,  the  idea  again  is  of  a  more  primitive  kind 
t han  the  late  date  wi >ul<  1  suggest ,  esp.  if  we  post  iilat e 
a  prophet  who  had  deeply  studied  earlier  prophets, 
to  whom  Jerus  of  the  future  was  the  religious  me- 
tropolis of  the  world,  and  Zion  the  place  to  which 
all  nations  would  flow  (Isa  2  3;  56  7). 

CO  "Day  of  Jeh":  A  word  must  be  said,  in  con- 
clusion, in  regard  to  the  "day  of  Jeh"  which  figures 
so  prominently  in  the  Book  of  Joel.  In  whatever 
sense  it  may  originally  have  been  employed, 
whether  betokening  weal  or  woe,  the  expression 
was  an  ancient,  one;  for  Amos  refers  to  it  as  current 
in  his  day  (6  18);  and  almost  all  the  prophets  refer 
to  it  in  one  way  or  another  (Am  5  18-20;  Isa  2 
12-  13  6.9;  34  8;  Jer  46  10;  Lam  2  22;  Ezk 
30'3;  Ob  ver  15;  Zeph  1  8.18;  2  2.3;  Zee  14  1; 
Mai  4  5).  So  far  as  it,  bears  upon  the  date  of  Joel 
the  question  is:  How  does  his  usage  compare  with 
those  of  the  other  prophets?  We  find  that  he  uses 
the  expression  twice  in  connection  with  the  visita- 
tion of  the  locust  (1  15;  2  1),  once  after  speaking  of 
the  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  (2  31),  and  once  again 
near  the  close  of  the  book  (3  14).  Now,  in  regard 
to  the  earliest  occurrences,  it  will  be  perceived  that 
J.  is  on  a  lower  plane  than  succeeding  prophets.  He 
associates  the  approach  of  the  day  of  the  Lord  with 
a  heavy  visitation  upon  material  nature,  precisely 
as  the  simple  Oriental  of  the  present  day,  on  the 
occurrence  of  an  eclipse,  or  at  a  visitation  of  locust 
or  pestilence,  begins  to  talk  of  the  end  of  the  world. 
And,  though  the  point  of  view  is  shifted,  and  the 
horizon  wider,  at  the  close,  it  is  to  be  remarked  that 
the  highest  point  attained  is  the  conception  of  the 
day  of  the  Lord  as  the  deliverance  and  glorification 
of  Israel:  there  is  not  a  hint  of  that  day  being  a 
time  of  testing  and  sifting  of  Israel  itself,  as  in  Amos 
and  elsewhere  (Am  5  18-20;  Isa  2  12).  In  fact, 
so  far  is  he  from  going  beyond  the  other  prophets 
in  his  conception,  that  we  may  say  J.  leaves  the 
matter  at  the  point  where  Amos  takes  it  up. 

In  view  of  all  those  perplexing  questions,  Professor 
Ad.   Merx  hud   some   reason   for    describing   the    Book 

of  Joel  as  the  "sorrow's  child"  (Schmer- 
5.  View  of  zenskind)  of  OT  exegesis;  and  he  published 
D'     ,  in     1ST'.)    a    work,    Die    Prophetie  des   Joel 

A-TOteSSOr         und  ihre    Ausleger  ran  den  aelteslen   Zeilen 
Merx  bis  zu  den  Reformatoren,  in  which,  besides 

giving  a  history  of  the  interpretation,  he 
combated  the  method  hitherto  employed,  and  put  forth 
a  novel  view  of  his  own.  Concluding,  on  the  grounds 
usually  maintained  by  the  advocates  of  the  late  date, 
that  Joel  is  post-exilian,  he  makes  a  comparison  of  the 
book  with  preceding  prophetical  lit.,  in  order  to  show 
that  J.  derived  his  ideas  from  a  study  of  it,  and  esp. 
that  he  followed  step  by  step  the  prophecies  of  Ezekiel. 
Now  in  Ezekiel's  outlook,  the  overflowing  of  Judaea  by 
the  northern  people,  Cog,  plays  an  important  part  (Ezk 
38  2.3.1o.lh;  39  11),  and  this  explains  J.'s  reference  in 
2  20. 

As  to  the  precise  date:  not  only  is  the  second  temple 
standing,  but  the  city  is  surrounded  by  a  wall  (2  9); 
and  this  brings  us  down  to  the  government  of  Nehemiah, 
after  445  JH';  and  the  book  of  Neh  shows  that  other 
prophets  besides  Malachi  lived  and  found  acceptance 
in  those  days  (Neh  6  7.14).  The  circumstances  were 
these.  Not' only  tile  exile,  but  the  restoration,  is  a 
thing  of  the  past.  We  are  to  think  of  Jerus  and  Judah 
in  the  narrowest  sense:  the  elders  and  all  the  inhabitants 
of  the  land  are  addressed,  a  sort  of  senatus  populusque 
Romanus,  and  with  them  are  the  priests  presiding  over 
an  orderly  ritual  service  at  the  temple.  Judah  is  un- 
alfeeted  by  political  movements;  the  conflict  with  the 
Samaritans  has  died  down;  Judah  is  leading  a  quiet  life, 
of  which  nothing  is  recorded  because  there  is  nothing  to 
record;  and  the  people  of  the  ten  tribes  have  practically 
disappeared,  being  swallowed  up  among  the  heathen. 
This  undisturbed  period  is  employed  in  literary  labor, 
as  may  be  inferred  from  the  well-known  notice  regarding 
Nehemiah's  collection  of  books  (2  Mace  2  13  f),  and 
from  the  production  of  such  works  as  Est,  Jon,  Koheleth, 


Mai,    Oh,    Ezr-Neh,   etc.     The  making  of  books   (Eccl 
12    12)  had  not  come  to  an  end. 

Hut.  now,  if  the  older  prophets  were  seriously  studied 
(ef  Dnl  9  2),  what  impression  would  they  make  on  the 
mind  of  a  man  like  J.  '.'  Was  the  daily  life  that,  followed 
the  time  of  Nehemiah  in  any  degree  a  fulfilment  of  the 
hopes  of  a  Deutero-Isaiah,  a  Jeremiah,  an  Ezekiel,  a 
Zcchariah  '.'  Could  a  member  of  the  restored  community 
contemplate  without  painful  feelings  the  lamentable 
condition  of  existence  under  the  Pers  government,  the 
limitation  of  the  people  to  a  narrow  territory,  the  sepa- 
ration from  those  still  in  the  Dispersion,  the  irritation  of 
the  worship  of  the  half-heathen  Samaritans,  the  mixed 
marriages  and  general  low  condition,  as  contrasted  with 
the  glowing  pictures  of  the  prophets  who  had  spoken  of 
the  last  davs?  Such  a  contradiction  between  prophecy 
and  event 'must  have  disturbed  the  minds  of  the  more 
thoughtful;  and  so,  while  some  said,  "It  is  vain  to  serve 
Cod"  (Mai  3  14),  "They  that  feared  Jeh  spake  one  with 
another"  (Mai  3  Hi),  waiting  in  hope,  believing  that 
the  present  restoration  could  not  be  the  true  and  final 
bringing  back  of  the  captivity. 

To  relieve  his  mind,  J.  will  write  a  book,  the  result 
of  his  study;  and  it  must  depict  the  full  and  final  con- 
summation". Living  as  he  did,  however,  in  quiet  times, 
he  had  not,  like  earlier  prophets,  a  historical  situation  to 
start  from.  Here,  according  to  Merx,  the  genius  of  J. 
comes  into  play.  Seeking  for  a  type  of  the  end  of  the 
world,  which  was  to  be  the  antitype,  he  found  one  in  tlio 
deliverance  of  Israel  from  Egypt  in  the  distant  past. 
Just  as  at  that  great  crisis  the  people  were  rescued  from 
bondage  and  brought  into  a  wide  and  fertile  land,  so  in 
the  end  Jeh  would  subdue  all  Israel's  enemies  and  place 
them  in  a  noble  land,  uncontaminated  by  strangers, 
while  lie  Himself  would  be  enthroned  in  majesty  on 
Zion  But  just  as  that  deliverance  was  ushered  in  by 
plagues,  so  also  will  be  the  "great  day  of  Jeh";  and  as  a 
signal  type  of  the  wholesale  destruction  of  Israel  s  ene- 
mies, he  seizes  upon  the  plague  of  locusts  and  models 
his  introduction  upon  Ex  10  4  ff .  J.  had,  no  doubt, 
seen  many  a  visitation  of  locusts;  but  what  we  have 
before  us  in  chs  1  and  2  is  not  actual  description  but 
idealized  picture,  the  groundwork  of  his  eschatology. 
Accordingly,  in  the  view  of  Merx,  the  whole  Book  of 
Joel  is  one  piece.  There  is  no  historical  transition  at 
2  10;  in  fact,  there  is  no  historical  element  in  it  at  all. 
The  end  of  the  book  being  apocalyptical,  the  beginning, 
which  forms  with  it  a  unity,  must  also  relate  to  no  event 
in  J.'s  days,  but  moves  likewise  in  the  period  at  the  close 
of  time.  The  people  addressed  are  not  the  men  of  J.'s 
day,  but  those  who  shall  be  alive  when  "that  day"  is 
imminent:  in  a  word,  the  reader  is  at  1  2  lifted  into  the 
air  and  placed  at  the  beginning  of  the  final  judgment,  at 
the  moment  when  the  apocalyptic  locusts  appear  as 
heralds  of  the  day. 

Merx's  view  may  be  taken  as  an  extreme  and 
somewhat  fanciful  statement  of  the  case  for  a  late 
post-exilian  date;  and  it  does  not  seem  to  have 
found  acceptance  by  the  critics  who  start  from  a 
historical  basis.  Merx  himself  is  fully  aware  that 
it  is  a  revival  of  the  allegorical  and  typical  interpre- 
tation which  had  its  vogue  in  earlier  stages  of 
exposition.  But  he  defends  himself  on  the  ground 
tiiat  it  was  not  the  ancients  who  imposed  the  alle- 
gorical interpretation  upon  Scripture,  but  the 
original  writers  who  were  the  first  typologists  and 
allegorists,  as  is  notably  seen  in  later  books  like 
Ezk  and  Dnl.  Whatever  opinion  may  be  held  on 
that,  subject ,  we  must  at  least  recognize  the  strongly 
marked  eschatology  of  the  book.  But  this  does 
not  of  necessity  imply  a  late  date.  It  is  no  doubt 
true  that  the  fully  developed  eschatology,  as  we 
see  it  in  the  apocalyptic  literature  of  the  extra- 
canonical  books,  came  in  after  the  cessation  of 
prophecy  proper.  Yet  prophecy,  in  its  earliest 
phases,  contemplated  the  distant  future,  and  had 
its  support  in  such  an  outlook.  Professor  A.  B. 
Davidson  has  said:  "Isaiah  is  the  creator  of  the 
eschatology  of  the  OT  and  of  Christianity,  and  it 
conies  from  his  hand  in  a  form  so  perfect  that  his 
successors  can  hardly  add  a  single  touch  to  it" 
(Expos  T,  V,  297).  The  ancient  oracle,  found  both 
in  Isa  and  Mic  (Isa  2  2-4;  Mic  4  1-5),  testifies 
to  the  triumphant  and  far-reaching  hope  of  the  older 
seers;  and,  before  Isaiah's  time,  both  Amos  (9  11-15) 
and  Hosea  (14  4-8)  have  their  outlook  to  the  final 
future.  The  remarkable  thing  about  J.,  which 
makes  the  determination  of  his  date  so  difficult,  is 
that  he  seems  now  to  go  beyond  and  now  to  fall 
short  of  other  prophets.     If  he  is  later  than  Eze- 


1695 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  I0?1     .     ~.     , 

Jonannine  Tneol. 


kiel  and  Jeremiah,  he  has  nothing  to  say  of  the 
inclusion  of  Gentiles  in  the  inheritance  of  Israel, 
but  contemplates  the  final  destruction  of  all  Israel's 
enemies.  If  he  is  a  contemporary  of  Malachi  or 
later,  he  is  less  legalistic  than  that  prophet;  and 
whereas  in  Mai  we  see  the  beginning  of  the  fading 
away  of  prophecy,  J.  looks  for  the  time  when  the 
Spirit  shall  be  poured  out  on  all  flesh,  and  the  sons 
and  daughters  shall  prophesy  (2  2SJ. 

It  is  this  last  element  in  the  prophecy  of  J.  that 
links  his  book  particularly  with  the  NT,  for  St. 

Peter  quoted  J.'s  words  in  this  passage 
6.  Connec-  as  fulfilled  on  the  day  of  Pentecost, 
tion  with  when  the  Spirit  was  poured  forth  on 
the  NT  the  assembled  multitude  (Acts  2  16  ff). 

Yet,  even  as  the  OT  prophets  one  after 
another  caught  up  the  idea,  unfolding  and  expand- 
ing it ,  so  the  NT  writers  see  the  approach  of  the  day 
of  the  Lord  in  their  own  time  (1  Thess  5  2;  2  Pet 
3  10);  for  that  day  is  always  coming,  always  near, 
though  still  in  the  future.  St.  Paul. saw  the  whole 
creation  groaning  and  travailing  in  pain,  as  J.  did, 
and  the  pouring  out  of  the  Spirit  at  Pentecost  was 
part  of,  and  also  more  than,  the  effusion  seen  by 
J.  What  J.  said  he  said  truly,  though  he  could  not 
say  all.  For  "that  day"  has  grown  in  significance 
as  the  ages  have  rolled  on;  men  have  seen  its  ap- 
proach in  the  various  commotions  and  upheavals 
of  the  world,  depicting  its  features  in  the  colors  of 
the  changing  times,  now  praying  for  it,  now  dread- 
ing its  approach;  and  how  far  from  precision  are  our 
thoughts  in  regard  to  it  still!  Yet,  early  or  late, 
unerring  is  the  sure  word  of  prophecy  in  its  essent  ial 
burden.  The  concrete  historical  situations  crumble 
away  and  leave  the  eternal  truth  as  fresh  as  ever: 
"Jeh  reigneth;  let  the  earth  rejoice"  (Ps  97  1); 
it  is  the  hopeful  burden  of  OT  prophecy,  for  "right- 
eousness and  justice  are  the  foundation  of  thy 
throne"  (Ps  89  14). 

Literature  (besides  that  cited  above). — Credner,  Der 
Proph.  Joel  ilberselzt  u.  erkldrt  (1831);  Wuensche,  Die 
Weissagungen  des  Proph.  Joel  ilberselzt  u.  erkldrt  (1S72); 
the  comm.  on  the  Minor  Prophets  by  Pusey,  Orelli,  Keil, 
Wellhausen,  G.  A.  Smith;  Meyrick  in  Speaker's  Com- 
mentary; Nowack,  in  Handkommenlar  zum  AT;  Marti, 
in  Kurzer  Hand-Commentar  zum  A  T. 

,     James  Robertson 
JOELAH,  jo-e'la  (715X711,   yo'e'lah,    perhaps= 

n*""P  ,  yovhlh,  "may  he  avail!"):  One  of  David's 
recruits  at  Ziklag  (1  Ch  12  7  [Heb  8]) ;  a  Benjamite 
or  perhaps  a  Judaean  (see  Curtis,  Ch,  195  f). 

JOEZER,  jfj-e'zer  Cl'SH"1 ,  yo'ezer,  "Jeh  is  help"): 
One  of  David's  Benjamite  recruits  at  Ziklag, 
though  perhaps  a  Judaean  (1  Ch  12  6  [Heb  7]). 

JOGBEHAH,  jog'be-ha  (nnSIP,  yoghfrhah):    A 

city  in  Gilead  assigned  to  Gad  and  fortified  by  that 
tribe  (Nu  32  35).  It  lay  on  the  line  along  which 
Gideon  chased  the  Midianites  (Jgs  8  11),  and  the 
indication  there  leaves  no  doubt  that  it  is  repre- 
sented today  by  Ajbeihdt.  The  name  attaches  to  3 
groups  of  ruins  which  date  from  Rom  times.  The 
position  is  about  7  miles  N.W.  of  ' Amman,  and  about 
midway  between  that  city  and  the  town  of  es-Salt. 
It  stands  3,468  ft.  above  the  level  of  the  Mediter- 
ranean. 

Literature. — Oliphant,  Land  of  Gilead,  232;  Baede- 
ker-Socin,  J'ai. 

JOGLI,  jog'll  Pr??  ,  yoghll,  perhaps="led  into 
exile"):  Father  of  Bukki,  a  Danite  chief  (Nu  34  22). 

JOHA,  jd'ha  (Sni"1 ,  yoha',  meaning  unknown, 
but  perhaps =nS!T1,  yo'ah,  "Joah";  see  HI'S,  2S3, 
n.  4): 

(1)  A  Benjamite  (1  Ch  8  16). 

(2)  One  of  David's  mighty  men  (1  Ch  11  45). 


JOHANAN,  j5-ha'nan  CjjnT1 ,  yohanan,  "Jeh 
has  been  gracious";  'Iwavdv,  I  datum;  cf  Jehohanan)  : 

(1)  Son  of  Kareah,  and  one  of  "the  captains  of 
the  forces  who  were  in  the  fields"  (i.e.  probably 
guerilla  bands),  who  allied  with  Gedaliah,  governor 
of  Judah,  after  the  fall  of  Jems,  586  BC  (2  K  25  23; 
Jer  40  7—43  7).  He  warned  Gedaliah  of  the  plot 
of  Ishmael  ben  Nethaniah,  who  was  instigated  by 
the  Ammonite  king  Baalis,  to  murder  the  governor; 
but  the  latter  refused  to  believe  him  nor  would  he 
grant  J.  permission  to  slay  Ishmael  (40  8-16) .  Af t  er 
Ishmael  had  murdered  Gedaliah  and  also  70  northern 
pilgrims,  J.  went  in  pursuit.  He  was  joined  by  the 
unwilling  followers  of  Ishmael,  but  the  murderer 
escaped.  Thereupon  J.  settled  at  Geruth-Chimham 
near  Bethlehem  (ch  41).  As  Ishmael's  plan  was  to 
take  the  remnant  to  the  land  of  Amnion,  so  that  of 
J.  and  his  fellow-chiefs  was  to  go  to  Egypt.  They 
consulted  the  Divine  oracle  through  Jeremiah,  and 
received  the  answer  that  t  hey  should  remain  in  Judah 
(ch  42).  But  the  prophet  was  accused  of  giving 
false  counsel  and  of  being  influenced  by  Baruch.  The 
chiefs  then  resolved  to  go  to  Egypt,  and  forced  Jere- 
miah and  Baruch  to  accompany  them  (ch  43). 

(2)  The  eldest  son  of  King  Josiah  (1  Ch  3  15), 
apparently  ="Jehoahaz"  (2  K  23  30-33). 

(3)  Son  of  Elioenai,  and  a  Davidic  post-exilic 
prince  (1  Ch  3  24). 

(4)  Father  of  the  Azariah  who  was  priest  in 
Solomon's  time  (1  Ch  6  9.10  [Heb  5  35.36]). 

(5)  A  Benjamite  recruit  of  David  at  Ziklag,  but 
perhaps  a  Judaean  (1  Ch  12  4  [Heb  5]). 

(0)  A  Gadite  recruit  of  David  at  Ziklag  (1  Ch 
12  12  [Heb  13]). 

(7)  Heb  has  "Jehohanan,"  an  Ephraimite  chief 
(2  Ch  28  12). 

(8)  A  returned  exile  (Ezr  8  12)  =  "Joannes" (1  Esd 
8  38,  AV  "Johannes"). 

(9)  Neh  12  22.23  =  Jehohanan,  (3). 

David  Francis  Roberts 
JOHANNES,  jo-han'es,  jo-han'ez.    See  Joannes. 

JOHANNINE,  j6-han'In,-in,  THEOLOGY,  THE: 

I.     The   Antecedents 

1.  Personality  of  Writer 

2.  Earlier  NT  Writings 

3.  Christian  Experience  and  Teaching  of  History 

4.  Widening  Contact  with  Gentile  World 

5.  The  Odes  of  Solomon 

6.  Antagonism  to  Onostic  Speculation 
II.     The   Divine   Nature 

1.  Cod  Is  Spirit 

2.  God  Is  Life 

3.  God  Is  Light 

4.  Ethical  Attributes — Cod  Is  Righteous 

5.  Cod  Is  Love 

(1)  The  Love  of  God^ 

(a)  Primarily  a  Disposition 

(b)  Embodied  in  Christ's  Self-Sacrifice 

(c)  Love  in  Redemption 

(2)  Love  Is  God's  Nature 

III.  The   Incarnation 

1.  Historical  Antecedents  of  the  Logos-Doctrine 

2.  The  Logos-Doctrine  in  St.  John 

3.  The  Incarnation  as  Delineated  in  the  Fourth 
Cospel 

4.  The  Incarnation  in  the  First  Epistle 

5.  Practical  Implications  of  the  Incarnation 

IV.  The   Holy   Spirit 

1.  The  Work  of  the  Spirit — in  the  Fourth  Cospel 
Perpetuates,  but  also  Intensities  the  Con- 
sciousness of  Christ 

2.  In  the  First  Epistle 

(1)  A  Divine  Teacher 

(2)  Other  Aspects 

3.  The  Person  of  the  Spirit 
His  Deity  Implied 

V.     Doctrine  of  Sin  and  Propitiation 

1.  Sin 

2.  Propitiation 

(1)  In  the  Gospel 

(2)  In  the  Epistle 

(3)  One  with  NT  Teaching 
VI.     Eternal  Life 

1.  Ethical  Rather  than  Eschatological 

2.  Metaphysical  Aspect 
Reply  to  Criticism 


Johannine 


Theol.  THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1696 


3.  Development  of  Doctrine 

(1)  Source  in  God 

(2)  Mediated  by  Christ 

(3)  Through  the  Spirit 

(4)  The  Divine  "  Begetting 

(5)  The  "  Children  of  ( iod 

(6)  The  Divine  Abiding 

VII      Human  Nature  and  Its  Regeneration 

1.  The  World 

2.  Two  Classes  in  the  Human  Race 
VIII      The  CiirncH  and  Sacraments 

1.   The  Church 

2  The  Sacraments 

(1)  Baptism 

(2)  The  Lord's  Supper 

IX.       EsCHATOLOGY 

1     Type  of  Thought  Idealistic 
2."  Yet   History  Not  Ignored 

3  Nor  Ksehatology 

4  Eschatological  Ideas 

(1)  Eternal  Life 

(2)  Antichrist 

(3)  Resurrection 

(4)  Judgment 

(5)  The  Parousia 

(„)     \  "Manifestation 
(I,)    Relation  to  Believers 
Literature 

The  materials  for  the  following  sketch  of  the 
Johannine  theology  are  necessarily  drawn  from  the 
Fourth  Gospel  and  the  Epp.,  chiefly  the  First  Ep., 
of  St  John.  The  question  of  ;ui!  horship  is  not  here 
considered  (see  articles  on  the  Gospel  and  on  the 
Epp  of  St.  John).  Those  writings,  whether  by  the 
same  or  by  different  authors,  are  equally  saturated 
with  that  spiritual  and  theological  atmosphere, 
equally  characterized  by  that,  type  of  thought  which 
we  call  Johannine,  and  which  presents  an  interpreta- 
tion of  Christianity  scarcely  less  distinctive  and 
original  than  Paulinism.  Where  t  here  are  differences 
in  The  point  of  view,  these  will  be  indicated. 

/.  The  Antecedents  of  the  Theology.— To  attempt 
a  full  account  of  the  historical  sources  and  ante- 
cedents of  the  Johannine  theology  is 

1.  Person-    beyond  the  scope  of  the  present  article; 
aiity  of  but   they   may   be   briefly   indicated. 
Writer  Much  must  be  attributed  to  the  per- 
sonality    of     the     great     anonymous 

writer  to  whom  we  directly  owe  this  latest  develop- 
ment of  NT  thought.  Only  a  thinker  of  first  rank 
among  the  idealists  and  mystics,  a  mind  of  the 
Platonic  order,  moving  instinctively  in  the  world 
of  supersensuous  realities,  absorbed  in  the  passion 
for  the  infinite,  possessing  in  a  superlative  degree  the 
gift  of  spirit  ual  intuition,  could  under  any  condil  ions 
have  evolved  a  system  of  thought  having  the  special 
characteristics  of  this  theology. 

Yet  with  all  his  originality  the  builder  has  raised 

his  structure  upon  the  foundation  already  laid  in 

the  teaching  represented  by  the  earlier 

2.  Earlier  NT  writings.  The  synoptic  tradition, 
NT  though  freshly  interpreted,  is  pre- 
WritingS        supposed.     At  certain  points  there  is 

a  strong  affinity  with  the  Ep.  to  the 
He.  In  the  main,  however, "the  Johannine  doctrine 
may  be  said  to  be  a  natural  and  inevitable  devel- 
opment of  Paulinism — the  conclusion  to  which  the 
earlier  writer's  mind  is  visibly  moving  in  e.g.  the 
Ep.  to  the  Col. 

Among  the  influences  which  have  stimulated  and 
guided  this  development,  the  first  place  belongs  to 

the  natural   growth  of   Christian   ex- 

3.  Christian  perience  and  the  teaching  of  history. 
Experience  In  the  closing  decades  of  the  1st  cent., 
and  Teach-  Christianity  was  compelled  by  the 
ing  of  force  of  events  to  liberate  itself  more 
History  completely  from  the  husk  of  Jewish 

Messianism  in  which  its  Divine  seed 
had  first  been  deposited.  The  faith  of  the  first 
Christian  generation  in  the  Messiahship  of  Jesus 
and  the  triumph  of  His  cause  had  expressed  itself 
(necessarily  so,  under  the  historical  conditions)  in 
vivid  expectation  of  His  Second  Coming.     He  was 


only  waiting  behind  the  clouds,  and  would  speedily 
return  to  the  earth  for  the  restitution  of  all  things 
(Acts  3  21).  Hut  after  the  fall  of  Jems  this  primitive 
apocalypl  icism  became,  wit  h  the  passing  years,  more 
and  more  discredited;  and  the  Christian  faith  had 
cither  to  interpret  itself  afresh,  both  to  its  own  con- 
sciousness and  to  the  world,  or  confess  itself  "such 
stuff  as  dreams  are  made  of."  It  would  be  diffi- 
cult to  overestimate  the  service  which  the  Johan- 
nine theology  must  have  rendered  in  this  hazard- 
ous transition  bv  transferring  the  emphasis  of 
Christian  faith  from  the  apocalyptic  to  the  spirit- 
ual, and  leading  the  church  to  a  profounder  reali- 
zation of  its  essential  and  inalienable  resources  in 
the  new  spiritual  life  it  possessed  through  the  ever- 
living  Christ.  Eternal  life  was  not  merely  a  future 
felicity,  but  a  present  possession;  the  most  real 
coming  of  Christ,  His  coming  in  the  Spirit.  The 
Kingdom  of  God  is  here:  the  eternal  is  now.  Such 
was  the  great  message  of  St.  John  to  his  age,  and  to 
all  ages. 

In  another  direction,  the  widening  contact  of 
Christianity  with  the  gentile  world  had  stimulated 
the  development  of  doctrine._  A  dis- 
4.  Widen-  entanglement  from  Jewish  nationalism, 
ing  Contact  more  complete  than  even  St.  Paul  had 
with  Gentile  accomplished,  had  become  a  necessity. 
World  If  Christianity  was  to  find  a  home  and 

a  sphere  of  conquest  in  the  Gr-Rom 
world — to  recreate  European  thought  and  civili- 
zation—the person  of  Christ  must  be  interpreted 
as  having  a  vastly  larger  significance  than  that  of 
the  Jewish  Messiah.  That  this  necessity  hastened 
the  process  of  thought  which  reached  its  goal  in  the 
Logos-doctrine  of  St.  John  cannot  well  be  doubted. 
The  way  had  so  far  boon  prepared  by  Philo  and  the 
Jewish- Alexandrian  school.  And  while  it  is  prob- 
ably mere  coincidence  that  Ephesus,  with  w;hich  the 
activity  of  St.  John's  later  years  is  associated  by 
universal  tradition,  was  also  the  citv  of  Heraclitus, 
who,  500  years  earlier,  had  used  the  term  Logos  to 
express  the  idea  of  an  eternal  and  universal  Reason, 
immanent  in  the  world,  there  is  as  little  room  as 
there  can  be  motive  for  questioning  that  in  the 
Johannine  theology  Christian  thought  has  been  in- 
fluenced and  fertilized  at  certain  points  by  contact 
with  Hellenism. 

On  the  other  hand  it  is  possible  that  this  influence 
has  been  overrated.     Fresh  material  for  the  investigation 
of  the  sources  and  connections  of  the  Jo- 
K    The  hannine    theology    is    furnished    by    the 

^  ,         ,  recent  discovery  of  the  Odes  of  Solomon 

UdeS  01  (j    Rendel  Harris,  M.A.,  Odes  and  Psalms 

Solomon  of  Solomon,  Cambridge,  1909;   Adolf  Har- 

nack,  Ein  judisch-christliehes  I'salmbuch 
aus  dem  ersten  Jahrhundert,  Leipzig,  1910).  This  col- 
lection of  religious  poems  is  regarded  by  its  dis- 
coverer, Rendel  Harris,  as  the  work  of  a  writer  who,  while 
not  a  Jew,  was  a  member  of  a  community  of  Chris- 
tians who  were  for  the  most  part  of  Jewish  extraction 
and  beliefs.  But  though  the  Odes  in  their  present  form 
contain  distinctly  Christian  elements  (references,  e.g. 
to  the  Son,  the  Incarnation,  the  Virgin  Birth,  the  Pas- 
sion the  Descensus  ad  inferos),  Harnack's  closer  analysis 
tends  to  the  conclusion  that  in  their  original  form  they 
were  purely  Jewish,  and  that  they  have  been  adapted  to 
Christian  use  bv  a  process  of  interpolation.  For  the 
original  work  Harnack  gives  as  a  possible  date  the  be- 
ginning of  the  Christian  era,  the  Christian  redaction  fall- 
ing within  the  1st  cent.  Harnack  recognizes  a  possibility 
that  the  redactor  may  have  been  acquainted  with  the 
Fourth  Gospel.  The  religious  feeling  of  the  writer  is 
throughout  individual  and  mystical,  rather  than  national- 
istic and  Messianic.  The  characteristic  atmosphere  is 
strongly  Johannine  (we  may  quote  in  illustration  only  the 
noble  sentence  from  the  12th  ode:  "The  dwelling-place 
of  the  Word  is  man;  and  its  truth  is  Love").  T.  he  Odes 
have,  in  common  with  the  Johannine  writings,  such  lead- 
ing conceptions  as  "grace,"  "believing,"  "knowledge 
"truth."  "light,"  "living  water,"  "life  (for  a  full 
exhibition  of  the  parallelisms,  see  article  by  K.  H. 
Strachan,  Expos  T,  October,  1910).  Harnack  asserts 
deliberately  (p.  99)  that  in  the  Odes  we  possess  'the 
presuppositions  of  the  Johannine  theology,  apart  from 
the  historical  Jesus  Christ,  and  without  any  Messianic 
doctrine."     More  recent  criticism  of  the  Odes,  however, 


1697 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Johannine  Theol. 


has  resulted  In  groat  diversity  of  view  regarding  their 
origin.  They  have  beon  assigned  to  Gnosticism,  and  on 
the  contrary  to  Montanism;  and  again  are  described 
(Bernard)  as  Christian  baptismal  hymns.  In  view  of 
this  division  of  critical  opinion ,  all  that  can  be  said  in  the 
meantime  is  that  the  Odes  testify  to  a  collateral  mystical 
development,  the  recognition  of  which  necessitates  a  re- 
vision of  the  estimates  which  have  been  made  regarding 
the  extent  to  which  the  Johannine  theology  is  indebted 
to  Hellenistic  philosophy. 

One  other  factor  in  this  theological  development 
remains  to  be  mentioned — antagonism  to  gnostic 
speculation.     In  the   Gospel  this  has 
6.  Antago-    left  not  a  few  traces,  in  the  way  both 
nism  to  of  statement  and  omission;   in  the  1st 

Gnostic  Ep.  scarcely  any  other  danger  to  the 

Speculation  faith  and  life  of  the  church  is  appre- 
hended than  the  spreading  influence 
of  gnostic  tenets  (see  Johx,  Epistlks  of).  St. 
John  himself  has  been  charged  with  gnostic  tend- 
encies; but  the  truth  rather  is  that  to  him  Gnosti- 
cism must  have  been  the  more  hateful  and  have 
seemed  the  more  dangerous  because  its  conceptions 
were  at  some  points  the  caricature  of  his  own.  In 
it  he  saw  the  real  Antichrist,  the  "spirit  of  error," 
giving  fatally  misleading  solutions  of  those  prob- 
lems which  the  human  mind  can  never  leave  alone, 
but  regarding  which  the  one  true  light  is  t  he  historic 
Christ.  Gnosticism  had  lost  all  historical  sense, 
all  touch  with  reality.  It  moved  in  a  world  of 
sheer  mythology  and  speculation;  history  became 
allegory;  the  incarnate  Christ  a  phantasm.  St. 
John  took  his  stand  only  the  more  firmly  upon  his- 
torical fact,  insisted  the  more  strenuously  upon  the 
verified  physical  reality  of  the  Incarnation.  In 
many  of  its  adherents  Gnosticism  had  lost  almost 
completely  the  moral  sense;  St.  John  the  more 
vehement  ly  assert  s  t  he  inviolable  moral  purity  of  the 
Divine  nature  and  of  the  regenerate  life  which  is 
derived  from  it.  Gnostic  dualism  had  set  God 
infinitely  far  from  men  as  transcendent  Being;  St. 
John  brings  God  infinitely  near  to  men  as  Love; 
and  sweeps  away  the  whole  complicated  mythology 
of  gnostic  emanations,  aeons  and  archons,  by  his 
doctrine  of  the  Logos,  coeternal  and  coequal  with 
the  Father,  incarnate  in  Jesus,  through  whom 
humanity  is  made  to  participate  in  the  very  life  of 
God — the  life  of  all  love,  purity  and  truth. 

//.    The  Divine  Nature. — One  of  the  glories  of  the 
Johannine  theology  is  its  doctrine  of  God,  its  de- 
lineation of  the  Divine  nature.     This 
1.  God  Is      is    given    in    a    series    of    intuitional 
Spirit  affirmations  which,  though  the  manner 

of  statement  indicates  no  attempt  at 
correlation,  unite  to  form  a  complete  organic  con- 
ception. The  first  of  these  affirmations  defines  what 
is  the  Divine  order  of  being:  God  is  Spirit  (Jn  4 
24).  The  central  significance  of  this  inexhaustible 
saying  is  defined  by  the  context.  The  old  local 
worships,  whether  at  Jerus  or  Samaria,  had  implied 
some  special  local  mode  of  Divine  presence^  and 
this  naturally  suggested,  if  it  did  not  necessitate, 
the  idea  of  some  kind  of  materiality  in  the  Divine 
nature.  But  God  is  spirit;  and  true  worship  must 
be  an  intercourse  of  spirit  with  spirit,  having  rela- 
tion to  no  local  or  material,  but  only  to  moral  con- 
ditions. Thus  the  concept  of  the  Divine  spiritual- 
ity is  both  moral  and  metaphysical.  _  The  religious 
relation  to  God,  as  it  exists  for  Christian  faith,  rests 
upon  the  fact  that  the  Supreme  Being  is  essentially 
moral,  but  also  omnipresent  and  omniscient — the 
Divine  Spirit  whose  will  and  percipiency  act  imme- 
diately and  simultaneously  at  every  point  of  exist- 
ence. Such  a  Being  we  utterly  lack  the  power  to 
comprehend.  But  only  such  a  Being  can  be  God, 
can  satisfy  our  religious  need — a  Being  of  whom  we 
are  assured  that  nothing  that  is  in  us,  good  or  evil, 
true  or  false,  and  nothing  that  concerns  us,  past, 
present  or  future,  is  hid  from  His  immediate  vision 


or  barred  against  the  all-pervading  operation  of  His 
will.  To  realize  that  God  is  such  a  Being  is  to  be 
assured  that  He  can  be  worshipped  with  no  mechani- 
cal ritual  or  formal  observance:  they  that  worship 
Him  must  worship  Him  "in  spirit  and  in  truth." 

God,  who  is  spirit,  is  further  conceived  as  Life, 

Light,    Righteousness    and     Love.     Righteousness 

and  Love  are  the  primary  ethical  quali- 

2.  God  Is  ties  of  the  Divine  nature;  Life  the 
Life  energy  by  which  they  act;    Light  the 

self-revelation  in  which  they  are  mani- 
fested throughout  the  spiritual  universe.  God  is 
Life.  He  is  the  ultimate  eternal  Reality.  He  was 
"in  the  beginning"  (Jn  1  1),  or  "from  the  begin- 
ning" (1  Jn  1  1;  2  13).  These  statements  are 
made  of  the  Logos,  therefore  a  fortiori  of  God.  But 
the  Divine  nature  is  not  mere  abstract  being,  infi- 
nite and  eternal;  it  is  being  filled  with  that  inscru- 
table elemental  energy  which  we  call  Life.  In 
God  this  energy  of  life  is  self-originating  and  self- 
sustaining  ("The  Father  hath  life  in  himself," 
Jn  5  2(5),  and  is  the  source  of  all  life  (Jn  1  3.4,  RV 
m).  For  every  finite  being  life  is  union  with  God 
according  to  its  capacity. 

But  the  lower  potencies  of  the  creative  Life  do 
not  come  within  the  scope  of  the  Johannine  the- 
ology. The  term  is  restricted  in  usage  to  its  high- 
est ethical  significance,  as  denoting  that  life  of  per- 
fect, holy  love  which  is  "the  eternal  life,"  the  pos- 
session of  which  in  fellowship  with  God  is  the  chief 
end  for  which  every  spiritual  nature  exists.  The 
elements  present  in  the  conception  of  the  Divine 
life  are  these:  (1)  The  ethical:  the  life  God  lives 
is  one  of  absolute  righteousness  (1  Jn  2  29),  and 
perfect  love  (1  Jn  4  9).  (2)  The  metaphysical: 
the  Divine  life  is  nothing  else  than  the  Divine 
nature  itself  regarded  dynamically,  as  the  ground 
and  source  of  all  its  own  activities,  the  animating 
principle  or  energy  which  makes  Divine  righteous- 
ness and  love  to  be  not  mere  abstractions  but  active 
realities.  (3)  In  Johannine  thought  the  Divine 
life  is  esp.  an  energy  of  self-reproduction.  It  is 
this  by  inherent  moral  necessity.  Love  cannot 
but  seek  to  beget  love,  and  righteousness  to  beget 
righteousness,  in  all  beings  capable  of  them.  With 
St.  John  this  generative  activity  of  the  Divine 
nature  holds  a  place  of  unique  prominence.  It  is 
this  that  constitutes  the  Fatherhood  of  God. 
Eternally  the  Father  imparts  Himself  to  the  Son 
(Jn  5  26),  the  Word  whose  life  from  the  begin- 
ning consisted  in  His  relation  to  the  Father  (1  Jn 

1  2).  To  men  eternal  life  is  communicated  as  the 
result  of  a  Divine  begetting  (Jn  1  13;    3  5;    1  Jn 

2  29;  3  9;  4  7,  etc)  by  which  they  become  "chil- 
dren of  God"  (Jn  1  12;  1  Jn  3  1,  etc).  (4)  But 
Ciod  is  not  only  the  transcendent  final  source,  He 
is  also  the  immanent  source  of  life.  This  is  clearly 
implied  in  all  those  passages,  too  numerous  to  be 
quoted,  which  speak  of  God's  abiding  in  us  and  our 
abiding  in  Him.  Life  is  maintained  only  through 
a  continuous  vitalizing  union  with  Him,  as  of  the 
branches  with  the  vine  (Jn  15  1-6).  It  must  be 
observed,  however,  that  St.  John  nowhere  merges  the 
idea  of  God  in  that  of  life.  God  is  personal;  life  is 
impersonal.  The  eternal  life  is  the  element  common 
to  the  personality  of  Got!,  of  the  Logos,  and  of  those 
who  are  the  "children  of  God."  Any  pantheistic 
manner  of  thinking  is  as  foreign  to  St.  John  as  to 
every  other  Bib.  writer. 

God  is  not  life  only;  He  is  light  also  (1  Jn  1  5). 
That  God  is  life  means  that  He  is  and  is  self-impart- 
ing;   that  He  is  light  means  that  the 

3.  God  Is  Divine  nature  is  by  inward  necessity 
Light  self-revealing.     (1)    As    the    essential 

property  of  light  is  to  shine,  so  God 
by  His  very  nature  of  righteousness  and  love  is 
necessitated  to  reveal  Himself  as  being  what  He  is, 


JohannineTheol.  THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1698 


so  as  to  become  the  Truth  (v  d\v6eia,  he  alitheia), 
the  object  of  spiritual  perception  (yivdxxKeiv,  gino- 
skein),  and  the  source  of  spiritual  illumination  to 
every  being  capable  of  receiving  the  revelation. 
"God  is  light,  and  in  him  is  no  darkness  at  all." 
In  God  there  is  nothing  that  hides,  nothing  that  is 
hidden.  The  Divine  character  is  utterly  trans- 
parent— goodness  without  a  shadow  of  evil.  (2) 
This  self-revelation  of  God  is  given  in  its  perfect 
form  in  Jesus,  the  incarnate  Word,  who  is  the  light 
of  men  (Jn  1  4),  the  light  of  the  world  (Jn  8  12; 
9  5),  the  true  light  (Jn  1  9;  1  Jn  2  8).  (3)  It  is 
in  their  illumination  by  this  Divine  light  that  there 
exists,  even  for  the  sinful,  a  medium  of  moral  fellow- 
ship with  God.  We  can  "come  to  the  light"  (Jn 
3  19-21)  and  "walk  in  the  light"  (1  Jn  1  7).  In 
the  translucent  atmosphere  of  the  truelight,  we,  even 
while  morally  imperfect  and  impure,  may  come  to 
have  a  common  view  of  spiritual  facts  with  God 
(1  Jn  1  8-10;  2  9.10).  This  is  the  basis  of  a 
spiritual  religion,  and  distinguishes  Christianity  from 
all  irrational  superstitions  and  unethical  ritualisms. 

In  gnostic  speculation  the  Divine  nature  was 
conceived  as  the  ultimate  spiritual  essence,  in  eternal 
separation  from  all  that  is  material 
4.  Ethical  and  mutable.  But  while  St.  John 
Attributes  also,  as  we  have  seen,  conceives  it  in 
this  way,  with  him  the  conception  is 
primarily  and  intensely  ethical.  The  Divine  nature, 
the  communication  of  which  is  life  and  the  revela- 
tion of  which  is  light,  has,  as  its  two  great  attributes, 
Righteousness  and  Love;  and  with  his  whole  soul 
St.  John  labors  to  stamp  on  the  minds  of  men  that 
only  in  righteousness  and  love  can  they  walk  in  the 
light  and  have  fellowship  in  the  life  of  God.  _  It  is 
characteristic  of  St.  John's  intuitional  fashion  of 
thought  that  there  is  no  effort  to  correlate  these  two 
aspects  of  the  ethical  perfection  of  God ;  but,  broadly, 
it  may  be  said  that  they  are  respectively  the  nega- 
tive and  the  positive.  Love  is  the  sum  of  all  that 
is  positively  right;  righteousness  the  antithesis  of 
all  that  is  wrong,  in  character  and  conduct. 

God  is  righteous. — (1)  That  such  righteousness — 
antagonism  to  all  sin — belongs  to,  or  rather  is,  the 
moral  nature  of  God,  and  that  this  lies  at  the  basis 
of  Christian  ethics  is  categorically  affirmed.  "If 
ye  know  that  he  is  righteous,  ye  know  that  every 
one  also  that  doeth  righteousness  is  begotten  of 
him"  (1  Jn  2  29).  (2)  This  righteousness  which 
belongs  to  the  inward  character  of  God  extends 
necessarily  to  all  His  actions:  "If  we  confess  our 
sins,  he  is  faithful  and  righteous  to  forgive  us  our 
sins"  (1  Jn  1  9).  When  on  the  ground  of  Christ's 
propitiation  God  forgives  those  who  by  confessing 
their  sins  make  forgiveness  possible,  He  acts  right- 
eously;  and  because  He  acts  righteously,  He  acts 
also  faithfully,  that  is,  self-consistently.  He  does 
not  "deny  himself"  (2  Tim  2  13),  but  does  what 
is  in  accordance  with  His  own  unchangeable  char- 
acter. (3)  God's  righteousness  is  related  impera- 
tively to  the  whole  moral  activity  of  His  creatures, 
rendering  sin  inadmissible  in  them — inadmissible 
de  jure  in  all,  de  facto  in  all  who  are  "begotten  of 
him."  This  St.  John  maintains  with  unexampled 
vigor  (cf  1  Jn  2  29;  3  6.8-10;  5  18).  It  is  true, 
however,  that  in  its  doctrine  of  Divine  righteous- 
ness the  Johannine  theology  makes  no  notable  con- 
tribution to  the  sum  of  NT  thought,  but  simply 
restates  in  peculiarly  forceful  fashion  the  conception 
of  it  which  pervades  the  whole  Bib.  revelation. 

(1)   The  love  of    Cod. — It  is    far  otherwise   with 
the  next  of  the  great  affirmations  which  constitute 
its    doctrine   of    God:     God   is    Love. 
6.  God  Is      Here  Gospel   and   Epistle  rise  to  the 
Love  summit  of  all  revelation,  and  for  the 

first  time  clearly  and  fully  enunciate 
that  truth  which  is  the  innermost  secret  of  existence. 


(a)  Primarily  a  disposition:  Love  is  primarily 
a  disposition,  a  moral  quality  of  the  will.  What 
this  quality  is  is  indicated  by  the  fact  that  the  typi- 
cal object  of  love  in  human  relation  is  invariably 
our  "brother."  It  is  the  disposition  to  act  toward 
others  as  it  is  natural  for  those  to  do  who  have  all 
interests  in  common  and  who  realize  that  the  full 
self-existence  of  each  can  be  attained  only  in  a 
larger  corporate  existence.  It  is  the  mysterious 
power  by  which  egoism  and  altruism  meet  and 
coalesce,  the  power  to  live  not  only  for  another  but 
in  another,  to  realize  one's  own  fullest  life  in  the 
fulfilment  of  other  lives.  It  is  self-communication 
which  is  also  self-assertion. 

(6)  Embodied  in  Christ's  self-sacrifice:  In  history 
love  has  its  one  perfect  embodiment  in  the  self- 
sacrifice  of  Christ.  "Hereby  know  we  love  [i.e. 
perceive  what  love  is],  because  he  laid  down  his 
life  for  us"  (1  Jn  3  16).  The  world  had  never 
been  without  love;  but  till  Jesus  Christ  came  and 
laid  down  His  life  for  the  men  that  hated  and  mocked 
and  slew  him,  it  had  not  known  what  love  in  its 
greatness  and  purity  could  be. 

(c)  Love  in  redemption:  But  here  history  is  the 
invisible  translated  into  the  visible.  The  self- 
sacrifice  of  Christ  in  laying  down  His  life  for  us  is 
the  manifestation  (1  Jn  4  9),  under  the  conditions 
of  time  and  sense,  of  the  love  of  God,  eternal  and 
invisible.  In  the  closely  related  ||  passages  (Jn  3 
16;  1  Jn  4  9.10)  this  is  declared  with  matchless 
simplicity  of  statement.  The  Divine  love  is  mani- 
fested in  the  magnitude  of  Us  gift— "his  Son,  his  only 
begotten"  (elsewhere  the  title  is  only  "the  Son"  or 
"his  Son"  or  "the  Son  of  God").  Other  gifts  are 
only  tokens  of  God's  love;  in  Christ  its  all  is  be- 
stowed (cf  Rom  8  32;  Gen  22  12).  The  love  of 
God  is  manifested  further  in  the  purpose  of  its  gift — 
"that  whosoever  believeth  on  him  should  not  perish, 
but  have  eternal  life."  It  is  the  self-determination 
of  God,  not  only  to  rescue  men  from  what  is  the 
sum  and  finality  of  all  evils,  but  to  impart  the 
supreme  and  eternal  good.  But  again,  the  love  of 
God  is  manifested  in  the  means  by  which  this  pur- 
pose is  achieved.  His  son  is  sent  as  "the  propitia- 
tion for  our  sins."  God  shrinks  not  from  the  ut  t  er- 
most  cost  of  redemption;  but  in  the  person  of  His 
Son  humbles  Himself  and  suffers  unto  blood  that 
He  may  take  upon  Himself  the  load  of  human 
guilt  and  shame.  And  the  last  element  in  the  full 
conception  of  Divine  love  is  its  objects:  "God  so 
loved  the  world";  "Herein  is  love,  not  that  we 
loved  God,  but  that  he  loved  us."  Its  ineffable 
mystery  reveals  itself  in  its  absolute  spontaneity, 
its  self-origination.  Its  fires  are  self-kindled;  it 
shines  forth  in  its  purest  splendors  upon  the  un- 
attractive and  unworthy.  Such  is  the  conception 
St.  John  sets  before  us.  In  this  entirely  sponta- 
neous, self-determined  devotion  of  God  to  sinful 
men;  this  Divine  passion  to  rescue  them  from  sin, 
the  supreme  evil,  and  to  impart  to  them  eternal  life, 
the  supreme  good;  in  this,  which  is  evoked  not  by 
their  worthiness  but  by  their  need,  and  goes  to  the 
uttermost  length  of  sacrifice  in  bearing  the  utter- 
most burden  of  their  sin  and  its  inevitable  conse- 
quences; in  this,  which  is  forever  revealed  in  the 
mission  of  Jesus  Christ,  God's  only  begotten  Son, 
is  love. 

(2)  Love  is  God's  nature. — And  God  is  love 
(1  Jn  4  8.16).  (a)  God  is  love  essenlially.  Love 
is  not  one  of  God's  moral  attributes,  but  that  from 
which  they  all  proceed,  and  in  which  they  all  unite. 
The  spring  of  all  His  actions  is  love,  (b)  Therefore 
also  His  love  is  universal.  In  a  special  sense  He 
loves  those  who  are  spiritually  His  children  (Jn  14 
23);  but  His  undivided  and  essential  love  is  given 
also  to  the  whole  world  (Jn  3  16;  1  Jn  2  2).  That 
is  St.  John's  great  truth.     He  does  not  attempt  to 


1699 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Johannine  Theol. 


reconcile  with  it  other  apparently  conflicting  truths 
in  his  theological  scheme;  possibly  he  was  not 
conscious  of  any  need  to  do  so.  But  of  this  he  is 
sure — God  is  love.  That  fact  must,  in  ways  we 
cannot  yet  discern,  include  all  other  facts,  (c) 
The  love  of  God  is  eternal  and  unchangeable;  for  it 
does  not  depend  on  any  merit  or  reciprocation  in 
its  object,  but  overflows  from  its  own  infinite  ful- 
ness. We  may  refuse  to  it  the  inlet  into  our  life 
which  it  seeks  (Jn  3  19;  5  40);  we  may  so  identify 
ourselves  with  evil  as  to  turn  it  into  an  antagonistic 
force.  But  as  our  goodness  did  not  call  it  forth, 
neither  can  our  evil  cause  it  to  cease,  (d)  If  love 
is  an  essential,  the  essential  attribute  of  God,  it 
follows  that  we  cannot  ultimately  conceive  of  God 
as  a  single  simple  personality.  It  is  at  this  point 
that  the  fuller  Johannine  conception  of  multiple 
personality  in  the  Godhead  becomes  most  helpful, 
enabling  us  to  think  of  the  Divine  life  in  itself  not 
as  an  eternal  solitude  of  self-contempl;ition  and  self- 
love,  but  as  a  life  of  fellowship  (Jn  1  1;  1  Jn  1  2). 
The  Godhead  is  filled  with  love.  "The  Father 
loveth  the  Hon"  (Jn  3  35);  and  the  prayer  of  the 
Son  for  His  followers  is  "that  the  love  wherewith 
thou  lovedst  me  may  be  in  them"  (Jn  17  20).  The 
eternal  giving  and  receiving  of  Divine  love  between 
the  Father  and  the  Son  is,  in  the  Johannine  theology, 
an  essential  element  of  the  Divine  nature. 

///.  The  Incarnation. —The  2d  great  contribu- 
tion of  the  Johannine  writings  to  the  development 
of  Christian  theology  is  their  doctrine  of  Christ  — 
the  latest  and  most  deliberate  effort  within  NT 
times  to  relate  intellectually  the  church's  faith  in 
Jesus  to  its  faith  in  God.  In  these  writings  the 
superhuman  personality  of  Jesus  is  expressed  by 
three  titles  which  are  used  as  practically  synony- 
mous— "the  Christ,"  "the  Son"  ("Son  of  God," 
"only  begotten  Son  of  God"),  the  "Word"  (Logos). 
The  last  alone  is  distinctively  Johannine. 

Historically,  the  Logos-doctrine  of  St.  John  has 
undoubted  links  of  connection  with  certain  specu- 
lative developments  both  of  Gr  and 
1.  Histor-  Heb  thought.  The  Heraclitean  use 
ical  Ante-  of  the  term  "Logos"  (see  above,  I)  to 
cedents  of  express  the  idea  of  an  eternal  and  all- 
the  Logos-  embracing  Reason  immanent  in  the 
Doctrine  world  was  continued,  while  the  con- 
ception was  further  elaborated,  by  the 
Stoics.  On  the  other  hand,  the  later  developments 
of  Heb  thought  show  an  increasing  tendency  to 
personify  the  self-revealing  activity  of  God  under 
such  conceptions  as  the  Angel,  Glory,  or  Name  of 
Jeh,  to  attach  a  peculiar  significance  to  the  "Word" 
(me'm'rd')  by  which  He  created  the  heaven  and  the 
earth,  and  to  describe  "Wisdom"  (Job,  Prov)  in 
something  more  than  a  figurative  sense  as  His  agent 
and  coworker.  These  approximations  of  Gr  pan- 
theism and  Heb  monotheism  were  more  verbal  than 
real;  and,  naturally,  Philo's  attempt  in  his  doctrine 
of  the  Logos  to  combine  philosophies  so  radically 
divergent  was  less  successful  than  it  was  courageous. 
How  far,  and  whether  directly  or  indirectly,  St. 
John  is  indebted  to  Philo  and  his  school,  are  ques- 
tions to  which  widely  different  answers  have  been 
given;  but  some  obligation,  probably  indirect, 
cannot  reasonably  be  denied.  It  is  evident,  indeed, 
that  both  the  idea  and  the  term  "Logos"  were 
current  in  the  Christian  circles  for  which  his  Gospel 
and  First  Ep.  were  immediately  written;  in  both 
its  familiarity  is  assumed.  Yet  the  _  Johannine 
doctrine  has  little  in  common  with  Philo's  except 
the  name;  and  it  is  just  in  its  most  essential  fea- 
tures that  it  is  most  original  and  distinct. 

As  the  OT  begins  with  the  affirmation,  "In  the 
beginning  God  created  the  heaven  and  the  earth," 
so  the  Fourth  Gospel  begins  with  the  similar  affirma- 
tion, "In  the  beginning  was  the  Word,  and  the  Word 


was  with  God,  and  the  Word  was  God"  (Jn  1  1). 
The  Word  was  the  medium  of  Divine  action  in  crea- 
tion   (Jn    13).      In    the    Word    was 

2.  The  life,  not  merely  self-existing  but  self- 
Logos-  imparting,  so  that  it  became  the  light 
Doctrine  in  of  men  (Jn  1  4) — the  true  light,  which, 
St.  John         coining  into  the  world,  lighteth  every 

man  (Jn  1  9).  And  finally  it  is  de- 
clared that  this  Divine  Word  became  flesh  and 
tabernacled  among  us,  so  that  "we  beheld  his  glory, 
glory  as  of  the  only  begotten  from  the  Father,  full 
of  grace  and  truth"  (Jn  1  14).  Here  faith  in  Jesus 
as  Divine  has  been  traced  back  to,  and  grounded 
in,  a  duality  within  the  Godhead  itself.  In  the 
twofold  mode  of  the  Divine  existence,  it  is  seen  that 
there  is  God  who  is  just  God  (so  to  say),  God  in 
Himself;  and  there  is  God-with-God,  God  who  is 
God's  other  self,  God  going  forth  from  Himself  in 
thought  and  action.  The  first  without  the  second 
would  be  essence  without  manifestation,  mind 
without  utterance,  light  without  effulgence,  life 
without  life-giving,  fatherhood  without  sonship. 
It  is  seen  that  within  the  Divine  Being  there  is  one 
through  whom,  as  there  is  also  one  from  whom,  all 
Divine  energy  goes  forth.  Above  all  it  is  seen  that 
there  is  a  Divine  mode  of  existence  in  which  it  is 
inherently  possible  and  natural  for  God  to  be  imme- 
diately related  to  created  being  and  even  to  become 
incarnate  in  humanity,  as  there  is  also  a  mode  of 
Divine  existence  which  cannot  be  immediately 
communicated  or  revealed  to  created  life.  Thus 
the  Johannine  doctrine  is:  first,  that  the  Logos  is 
personal  and  Divine,  having  a  ground  of  personal 
being  within  the  Divine  nature  (pros  ton  theon,  "in 
relation  to  God");  and,  second,  that  the  Logos 
became  flesh,  was  and  is  incarnate  in  the  historical 
Jesus. 

In  the  Gospel  the  term  "Logos"  does  not  recur  after 
the  opening  verses;   yet  the  thesis  of  the  Prologue, 

so   far   from   being   irrelevant,    domi- 

3.  The  In-  nates  the  entire  biographical  presen- 
carnation  tat  ion.  The  creative  and  cosmic  sig- 
as  Delin-  nificance  of  the  Logos-Christ  is  natu- 
eated  in  the  rally  in  the  background;  but  it  may 
Fourth  be  said  of  the  Gospel  that  "the  Word 
Gospel  became  flesh"  is  its  text,  and  all  the 

rest — miracle,  incident,  discourse — is 
comment.  On  the  one  hand,  the  reality  of  the 
"becoming  flesh"  is  emphasized  (e.g.  Jn  4  0;  11  35; 
19  1.2.3.17.28.34.38-40;  20  20.27).  On  the  other 
hand,  the  human  vesture  only  reveals  the  Divine 
glory  within.  Onearth,Jesusisstill  "the  Son  of  man, 
who  is  in  heaven"  (3  13);  the  perfect  revelation  of 
the  Father  (14  9);  the  light  of  the  world  (8  12); 
the  way,  the  truth  and  the  life  (14  6);  the  resur- 
rection (11  26);  the  final  judge  (5  22)  and  Saviour 
(4  42;  6  40)  of  men;  the  supreme  moral  author- 
ity (13  34;  14  15.21);  the  hearer  of  prayer  (14 
13.14);  the  giver  of  the  Spirit  (7  38.39;  16  7;  20 
22) ;  endowed  with  all  the  prerogatives  of  God  (5  23; 
10  30.36-.3S). 

In  the  First  Ep.  the  central  thesis  is  the  complete, 

personal,  and  permanent  identity  of  the  historical 

Jesus  with  the   Divine   Being  who  is 

4.  The  the  Word  of  Life  (1  1),  the  Christ 
Incarnation  (4  2),  the  Son  of  God  (5  5).  This 
in  the  First  is  maintained  in  a  vigorous  polemic 
Epistle            against  certain  heretical  teachers  whom 

the  writer  calls  "antichrists,"  who  in 
docetic  fashion  denied  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ 
(2  22),  or,  more  definitely,  the;  "Christ  come  in  the 
flesh"  (4  3),  and  who  asserted  that  He  "came"  by 
water  only  ami  not  by  blood  also  (5  6;  see  John, 
Epistles  ok).  Against  this  doctrine  of  a  merely 
apparent  or  temporary  association  of  Jesus  with 
the  Christ  St.  John  bears  vehement  testimony. 
"Who  is  1  lie  liar  but  he  that  denieth  that,  Jesus  is 


JohannineTheol.  THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1700 


the  Christ?"  (2  22).  'Every  spirit  that  confesseth 
Jesus  as  Christ  come  in  the  flesh  is  of  God:  and 
every  spirit  that  confesseth  not  Jesus  is  Tint  of  Cod' 
(4  2.3).  "Who  is  he  that  overcometh  the  world, 
but  lie  that  helieveth  that  Jesus  is  the  Son  of  Cod? 
This  is  he  that  came  by  water  and  blood,  even  Jesus 
Christ;  not  with  the  water  only,  but,  with  the  water 
and  with  the  blood"  (5  5.6).  These  passages  all 
promulgate  the  same  truth  in  substantially  the 
same  way.  Without  ceasing  to  he  what  He  is,  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  Cod,  has  become  Jesus;  and 
Jesus,  without  censing  to  be  truly  human,  is  the  Son 
of  Cod.  As  to  the  maimer  of  the  incarnation — by 
what  process  of  self-emptying  or  by  what  eon- 
junction  of  Divine-human  attributes  the  eternal 
Son  became  Jesus — the  Johannine  writings,  like  the 
NT  everywhere,  are  silent.  They  proclaim  Jesus 
Christ  as  human  ami  Divine;  but  the  distinguish- 
ing of  what  in  Him  was  human  and  what  Divine, 
or  whether  the  one  is  distinct  from  the  other,  this 
they  do  not  even  consider.  Gnosticism  drew  such 
a  distinction;  St.  John  does  not.  His  one  truth  is 
that  Jesus  is  the  Son  of  God  and  the  Son  of  (Jod  is 
Jesus,  and  that  in  Him  the  life  of  God  was  mani- 
fested (1  2)  and  is  given  (5   11)  to  men. 

In  this  truth,  viewed  in  its  practical  consequences, 
St.  John  sees  the  core  of  the  church's  faith  and  the 

root  and  safeguard  of  its  life,  (a) 
5.  Practical  This  alone  secures  and  guarantees  the 
Implications  Christian  revelation  of  God;  with  its 
of  the  In-  denial  that  revelation  is  canceled, 
carnation        "Whosoever  denieth  the  Son,  the  same 

hath  not  the  Father"  (2  23).  (h) 
Above  all,  it  is  only  in  the  life  and  death  of  Jesus, 
the  incarnate  Son,  that  we  possess  a  valid  revelation 
of  God's  self-sacrificing  love.  "Herein  was  the  love 
of  God  manifested  in  us,  that.  God  hath  sent  his 
....  Son  into  the  world  that  we  might  live  through 
him"  (4  0).  With  the  denial  of  this  the  Christian 
ethic  is  drained  of  its  very  life-blood.  There  was 
no  merely  external  and  accidental  connection  be- 
tween Docetism  and  the  moral  indifferentism  of 
the  Gnostic.  The  natural  result  of  making  man's 
salvation  easy,  so  to  say,  for  God,  was  to  make  it- 
easy  for  man  also — salvation  by  creed  without  con- 
duct (2  4.6;  3  7),  knowledge  without  love  (4  8), 
or  love  that  paid  its  debts  with  goodly  phrases  and 
empty  words  (3  17.18).  A  docetic  Christ  meant 
docetic  Christianity,  (c)  Finally,  St.  John  sees  in 
the  incarnation  the  only  possibility  of  a  Divine 
redemption.  It  was  not  for  a  word  or  a  formula  he 
was  concerned,  but  for  the  raising  of  humanity  to 
Divine  life  through  the  God-man.  The  ultimate 
significance  of  the  incarnation  of  the  Son  is  that  in 
Him  the  eternal  life  of  God  has  flowed  into  our 
humanity  and  become  a  fountain  of  regenerative 
power  to  as  many  as  receive  Him  (Jn  1  12).  "He 
that  hath  the  Son  hath  the  life;  he  that  hath  not  the 
Son  of  God  hath  not  the  life"  (1  Jn  5  12).  This 
is  the  center  of  the  Johannine  Gospel — a  Divine- 
human  Christ,  who  stands  in  a  unique,  vital  rela- 
tion to  men,  reproducing  in  them  His  own  character 
and  experiences  as  the  vine  reproduces  itself  in  the 
branches,  doing  that,  the  mysterious  reality  of  which 
is  onlv  expressed,  not  explained,  when  it  is  said 
that  He  is  our  "life"  (Jn  14  19.20;  15  5). 

IV.    The  Holy  Spirit. — In  one  direction  the  doe- 
trine  of  the  Holy  Spirit  is  uniquely  developed  in 

the  Johannine  writings.  The  concep- 
1.  The  lion    cf    the    Spirit    as    the    agent    of 

Work  of  the  Christ's  presence  with  and  activity 
Spirit — in  in  the  church  is  presented  with  a  ful- 
the  Fourth  ness  and  clearness  unequaled  in  the 
Gospel  NT.     The  departing  Christ  promises 

to  His  friends  a  new  presence,  different 
from  His  own  in  that  it  was  to  be  not  a  bodily  but 
a  spiritual  presence,   and  yet   really   His    own — a 


presence  in  which  all  and  more  than  all  the  effects 
of  His  bodily  presence  would  be  perpetuated  (Jn 
14  IS;  16  22).  In  truth,  it  was  expedient  for 
them  that  lb;  should  go  away,  in  order  that  this 
other  Paraclete  should  come  (16  7).  In  the  body 
His  presence  with  His  followers  had  been  local  and 
intermittent;  in  the  Spirit  He  would  come  to  take 
up  His  abode  with  them  forever  (14  16).  Formerly 
He  had  been  still  external  to  them,  but  now  was 
not  only  to  dwell  with  them,  but  to  be  in  them  (14 
17).  Instead  of  tin;  external  voice  of  their  Teacher 
addressing  to  them  the  words  of  eternal  life,  they 
should  possess  the  very  Spirit  of  truth  (14  17),  a  well- 
spring  of  illumination  from  within,  giving  them  an 
"understanding"  to  know  Him  that  is  true  (1  Jn 
6  20);  and  instead  of  His  visible  example  before 
their  eyes,  an  inward  community  of  life  with  Him 
like  that  of  the  vine  and  the  branches.  The  com- 
plete, vital,  permanent  union  of  Christ  and  His 
people,  which  had  been  prevented  by  the  necessary 
limitations  of  a  local,  corporeal  state  of  existence, 
would  be  attained,  when  for  this  there  was  sub- 
stituted the  direct  action  of  spirit  upon  spirit. 

Perpetuates,  but  also  intensifies  the  consciousness 
of  Christ. — Thus  the  function  of  the  Spirit  which  is 
chiefly  emphasized  in  the  Johannine  writings  is  that 
by  which  He  perpetuates  but  also  intensifies,  en- 
lightens, and  educates  the  consciousness  of  Christ 
in  the  church  and  in  the  Christ  ian  life.  In  this 
respect  His  nature;  is  the  opposite  of  that  of  the 
Logos,  the  self-revealing  God.  The  Holy  Spirit 
never  reveals  Himself  to  human  consciousness;  He 
reveals  the  Son  and  the  Father  through  the  Son. 
His  operations  are  wholly  secret  and  inscrutable, 
known  only  by  their  result  (Jn  3  8).  He  is  the 
silent  inward  monitor  and  remembrancer  of  the 
disciples  (Jn  14  20);  the  illuminator,  the  revealer 
of  Christ  (16  14) ;  a  spirit  of  witness  who  both  Him- 
self bears  witness  concerning  Christ  to  His  people 
and  makes  of  them  ready  and  joyful  witness-bearers 
(15  26.27);  a  guide  by  whom  a  steady  growth  in 
knowledge  is  secured,  leading  gradually  on  to  the 
full  truth  of  Christ  (16  12.13);  a  spirit  of  con- 
viction working  in  men  an  immediate  certainty  of 
the  truth  regarding  sin  and  righteousness,  and  the 
Divine  judgment  which  marks  their  eternal  antag- 
onism (16  8-11). 

In  the  Ep.  we  find  the  promise  of  the  Gospel 
accomplished  in  actual  experience.  There  is  no 
reference  to  the  manifold  charismata  of 
2.  In  the  the  first  age,  the  prophetic  afflatus 
First  excepted     (1  Jn  4  1).     But     whether 

Epistle  through  the  prophetic   "medium"   or 

the  normal  Christian  consciousness, 
the  function  of  the  Spirit  is  always  to  "teach"  or 
to  "witness"  concerning  Christ.  This  is  finely 
brought  out  in  the  parallelism  of  1  Jn  5  6:  "This 
[Jesus  Christ]  is  he  that  came"  (once  for  all  fulfilling 
the  Messiah's  mission);  "It  is  the  Spirit  that 
bearelh  witiiess"  (ever  authenticating  its  Divine 
origin,  interpreting  its  purpose  and  applying  its 
results).  The  specific  testimony  the  Spirit  bears 
to  Christ  is  defined  (1  Jn  4  2.3).  "Hereby  know 
ye  the  Spirit  of  God :  every  spirit  that  conf esset  h 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  come  in  the  flesh  is  of  God: 
and  everv  spirit  that  confesseth  not  Jesus  is  not 
of  God.'r 

(1)  A  Divine  Teacher. — The  gift  of  the  Spirit  is 
an  "anointing  from  the  Holy  One"  (1  Jn  2  20); 
and  the  result  of  this  "anointing"  is  that  "ye 
know  all  things"  (or  that  "ye  all  have  knowledge"; 
the  reading  is  doubtful),  and  "need  not  that  any 
one  teach  you"  (2  27).  The  apostle's  comfort 
concerning  his  readers,  encompassed  as  they  are  by 
the  snares  of  Antichrist,  is  that  they  have  a  Divine 
Teacher,  who  continually  enlightens  their  under- 
standing, strengthens  their  convictions  and  minis- 


1701 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Johannine  Theol. 


ters  to  thom  an  invincible  assurance  of  the  truth  of 
the  Gospel.  "The  anointing  abideth  in  you  .... 
and  teacheth  you  concerning  all  things."  The 
spirit  is  not  a  source  of  independent  revelation,  but 
makes  the  revelation  of  Christ  effectual.  The 
truth  is  placed  beyond  all  reach  of  controversy  and 
passes  into  absolute  knowledge:  "Ye  know  all 
things."  It  may  be  added  that  the  history  of  Chris- 
tianity furnishes  an  always  growing  verification  of 
this  Johannine  doctrine  of  a  living  power  of  witness 
and  enlightenment  present  in  the  church,  by  which, 
notwithstanding  the  constant  hindrance  of  human 
imperfection,  the  development  of  the  Christian 
faith  has  been  steadily  advanced,  its  forgotten 
or  neglected  factors  brought  to  remembrance. 
Old  truths  have  been  presented  in  new  aspects 
and  filled  with  fresh  life,  and  all  has  been  brought 
to  pass  with  marvelous  adaptation  to  the  church's 
needs  and  in  proportion  to  its  receptivity. 

(2)  Other  aspects. — In  other  directions  the  doctrine 
of  the  Spirit  is  less  developed.  The  agency  of  the  Spirit 
in  regeneration  is  repeatedly  and  emphatically  declared 
in  a  single  passage  (Jn  3  .r)~S),  but  is  nowhere  else  re- 
ferred to  either  in  the  Gospel  or  the  First  Ep.  More 
remarkable  still,  neither  in  Gospel  nor  Ep.  is  the  Holy 
Spirit  once  spoken  of  as  the  Divine  agent  in  sanetification. 
There  is  no  passage  resembling  that  in  which  St.  Paul 
speaks  of  the  ethical  "fruit  of  the  Spirit"  (Gal  5  22.2:5). 
The  Spirit  is  the  Spirit  of  truth,  the  revealer,  the  Inspirer 
of  faith,  but  is  never  spoken  of  as  the  Spirit  of  love  or 
holiness.  If  those  who  are  begotten  of  God  cannot  sin, 
it  is  not  because  God's  Spirit,  but  because  "his  seed," 
abideth  in  them  (1  Jn  3  9).  The  explanation  of  this 
peculiarity  (which  has  been  little  observed)  in  the  Jo- 
hannine theology  may  be  that  the  Spirit's  work  of  reveal- 
ing Christ  is  regarded  as  all-inclusive.  Thus  enabling 
Christ's  disciples  to  abide  in  Him  as  the  branch  in  the 
vine,  He  secures  also  their  bringing  forth  "much  fruit" 
in  all  Christlikeness  of  character  and  conduct. 

Passing  now  from  the  work  to  the  Person,  we 
observe  that  in  the  Fourth  Gospel  the  attribution 

of  personality  to  the  Spirit  reaches 
3.  The  the     acme     of     distinctness.     He     is 

Person  of  "another  Paraclete"  (Jn  14  16m),  per- 
the  Spirit       sonal   as   Christ   Himself  is   personal; 

and  all  the  functions  ascribed  to  Him — 
to  remind,  to  teach,  to  testify,  to  guide,  to  convict — ■ 
are  such  as  are  possible  only  to  a  personal  agent. 
Nor  is  it.  otherwise  in  the  First  Ep.  The  expressions 
in  it  which  have  been  alleged  (Pfleiderer  and  others) 
as  inconsistent  with  personality  (the  "anointing," 
2  20;  "He  hath  given  us  of  his  Spirit,'1  4  13)  require 
no  such  interpretation.  The  "anointing"  denotes 
the  Spirit,  not  in  His  essence  or  agency,  but  as  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  One  with  which  He  anoints  believers 
(cf  Jn  7  38.39);  and  the  expression  "He  hath  given 
us  of  his  Spirit"  (as  if  the  Spirit  were  a  divisible 
entity)  is  no  more  incompatible  with  personality 
than  is  the  saying  "to  Him  whom  he  hath  sent 
.  .  .  .  ,  God  giveth  not  the  Spirit  by  measure" 
(Jn  3  34),  or  than  our  speaking  of  Christians  as 
having  more  or  less  of  the  Spirit. 

His  Deity  implied. — The  essential  Deity  of  the 
Spirit  is  nowhere  explicitly  asserted,  but  is  neces- 
sarily implied  in  His  relation  both  to  Christ  and 
to  the  church  as  the  "other  Paraclete."  There  is 
not,  however,  the  same  theological  development  as 
is  achieved  regarding  the  Logos.  The  Divinity  of 
Christ  is  grounded  in  an  essential  duality  of  being 
within  the  Godhead  itself;  but  there  is  no  similar 
effort  to  trace  back  the  threefold ness  in  the  revela- 
tion of  God,  as  Father,  Son  and  Spirit,  to  an  essen- 
tial threefoldncss  in  the  Divine  nature.  The  fact 
is  that  both  historically  and  logically  the  doctrine 
of  the  Spirit  as  the  third  person  in  the  Godhead 
depends  upon  that  of  the  Divine  Son  as  the  second. 
It  was  through  its  living  experience  of  the  Divine 
in  Christ  that  the  church  first  developed  its  thought 
of  God  beyond  the  simple  monotheism  of  the  OT; 
but  having  advanced  to  the  conception  of  a  twofold 
Godhead,  in  which  there  is  Fatherhood  and  Sonship, 


it  was  bound  to  enlarge  it  still  further  to  that  of  a 
threefold  Godhead — Father,  Son  and  Spirit.  The 
Son  and  the  Spirit  were  equally  manifestations  of 
God  in  redemption,  and  must  equally  stand  in 
essential  relation  to  the  Divine  existence. 

V.  Doctrine  of  Sin  and  Propitiation. — This  theme 
is  not  elaborated.  It  is  characteristic  of  the  Johan- 
nine writings  that  salvation  is  looked  at  from  the 
terminus  ad  quern  rather  than  from  the  terminus 
a  quo.  The  infinite  good,  eternal  life,  is  more  in 
view  than  the  infinite  evil,  sin.  It  seems  safe  to 
say  that  the  author  of  these  writings  at  no  time  had 
that  intense  experience  of  bondage  to  the  law  of 
sin  and  of  death  which  so  colors  St.  Paul's  presen- 
tation of  the  gospel.  It  was,  moreover,  no  part  of 
his  plan  to  expound  the  doctrine  of  propitiation; 
nor  had  he  any  original  contribution  to  make  on  this 
head  to  the  sum  of  NT  thought.  But  it  is  a  quite 
unwarrantable  criticism  which  denies  that  the  saving 
work  of  Christ,  in  the  Johannine  conception,  con- 
sists in  deliverance  from  sin. 

It  is  true  that  Christ  not  only  takes  away  the  sin 

of  the  world  (Jn  1  29),  but  also  draws  it  forth  in 

its  utmost  intensity  and  guilt.     All  sin 

1.  Sin  culminates  in  the  rejection  of  Christ 

(15  22);  the  Spirit  convicts  men  of 
sin  because  they  "believe  not"  on  Him  (16  9). 
"Every  one  that  committeth  sin  is  the  bondservant 
of  sin"  (8  34);  but  what  reveals  the  true  character 
of  this  bondage  is  that  in  the  presence  of  the  light, 
men  "loved  the  darkness"  (3  19).  That  the  malign 
quality  and  power  of  evil  are  fully  revealed  only  in 
the  presence  of  perfect  goodness,  that  the  brighter  is 
the  light,  the  darker  is  the  shade  of  guilt  created  by 
its  rejection — all  this  St.  John  teaches;  but  such 
teaching  is  by  no  means  peculiar  to  him,  and  to 
infer  from  it  that  "to  his  mind  sin  in  itself  involves 
no  moral  culpability"  is  nothing  more  than  a  way- 
ward paradox. 

In  the  Ep.  the  guilt  of  sin  as  constituting  an  ob- 
jective disability  to  fellowship  with  God  is  strongly 
emphasized.  "If  we  say  that  we  have  no  sin,  we 
deceive  ourselves"  (1  Jn  1  <S).  The  phrase  "to 
have  sin"  is  peculiar  to  St.  John,  and  specifically 
denotes  the  culpability  of  the  agent  (cf  Jn  9  41; 
15  22.24;  19  11).  Sin  is  essentially  that  which 
needs  God's  forgiveness  (1  Jn  1  9;  2  1.2);  and  to 
this  end  an  intercessor  and  a  propitiation  have  been 
provided.  Such  culpability  is  universal :  "If  we  say 
that  we  have  not  sinned,  we" — not  only  deceive  our- 
selves— "we  make  him  a  liar"  (1  Jn  1  10). 

A  second  passage  (1  Jn  3  4-9)  emphasizes  the 
ethical  quality  of  sin — its  antagonism  to  the  nature 
of  God  and  of  the  children  of  God.  The  word 
which  defines  the  constitutive  principle  of  sin  is 
"lawlessness"  (1  Jn  3  4).  Sin  is  fundamentally 
the  denial  of  the  absoluteness  of  moral  obligation, 
the  repudiation  of  the  eternal  law  upon  which  all 
moral  life  is  based.  In  other  words,  to  sin  is  to 
assert  one's  own  will  as  the  rule  of  action  against 
the  absolutely  good  will  of  God.  But  again,  the 
Ep.  gives  the  warning  that  "all  unrighteousness  is 
sin"  (5  17).  Everything  that  is  not  right  is  wrong, 
Every  morally  inferior  course  of  action,  however 
venial  it  may  appear,  is  sin  and  contains  the  ele- 
ments of  positive  guilt.  The  perplexing  topic  of 
"sin  unto  death"  demands  too  special  treatment  to 
be  dealt  with  here. 

(1)  In  the  Gospel. — The  paucity  of  reference  in 

the   Fourth  Gospel  to   the  propitiating  aspect  of 

Christ's    redemptive    work    has    been 

2.  Propi-  seized  upon  as  proof  that,  though  the 
tiation  writer  did  not  consciously  reject  the 

orthodox  doctrine,  it  was  really  alien 
to  his  system.  But  such  a  criticism  might  be  di- 
rected with  almost  equal  force  against  the  Synop- 
tics.    It  was  no  part  of  St.  John's  plan,  as  has  been 


Johannine  Theol.  THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1702 


said,  to  expound  a  doctrine  of  propitiation;  yet  his 
frontispiece  to  the  ministry  of  Jesus  is  "the  Lamb  of 
God  that  taketh  away  the  sin  of  the  world";  and, 
as  Dr.  Inge  has  pointed  out,  the  same  type  of  the 
Paschal  Lamb  underlies  the  whole  narrative  of  the 
Passion.  In  the  high-priestly  prayer  Our  Lord 
expressly  represents  Himself  as  the  covenant-sac- 
rifice which  consecrates  His  disciples  as  the  people 
of  (iod  (17  19);  while  the  Synoptic  "ransom  for 
many"  is  paralleled  by  the  interpretation  of  Christ's 
death  as  effectual  "for  the  nation;  and  not  for  the 
nation  only,  but  that  he  might  also  gather  together 
into  one  the  children  of  God  that  are  scattered 
abroad"  (11  51.52;  cf  1  Jn  2  2). 

(2)  In  the  Epistle. — In  the  Ep.  the  doctrinal 
statement  is  much  more  explicit.  The  fact  of  pro- 
pitiation is  placed  in  the  forefront.  The  passage 
which  immediately  follows  the  Prologue  (1  6 — 2  2) 
introduces  a  group  of  ideas — propitiation,  blood, 
forgiveness,  cleansing— which  are  taken  directly 
from  the  sacrificial  system  of  the  OT,  and  are  ex- 
pressed, indeed,  in  technical  Levitical  terms.  The 
mode  of  action  by  which  Christ  accomplished  and 
still  accomplishes  His  mission  as  the  Saviour  of  the 
world  is:  "He  is  the  propitiation  for  our  sins;  and 
not  for  ours  only,  but  also  for  the  whole  world" 
(2  2).  Propitiation  has  its  ultimate  source  in  the 
moral  nature  of  God.  It  is  no  device  for  inducing 
a  reluctant  Deity  to  forgive;  it  is  the  way  by  which 
the  Father  brings  back  His  sinning  children  to  Him- 
self. In  St.  John's  conception  it  is  the  supreme 
act  of  God's  supreme  attribute,  love.  "Herein  is 
love"  (4  10).  Yet  it  is  a  real  work  of  propitiation 
in  which  this  love  goes  forth  for  man's  salvation — 
a  work,  that  is,  which  expiates  the  guilt  of  sin, 
which  restores  sinful  offenders  to  God  by  rendering 
their  sin  null  and  inoperative  as  a  barrier  to  fellow- 
ship with  Him.  This  propitiatory  virtue  is  regarded 
as  concentrated  in  the  "blood  of  Jesus  his  Son" 
(1  7),  that  is  to  say,  in  the  Divine-human  life 
offered  to  God  in  the  sacrifice  of  the  cross.  This, 
if  we  walk  in  the  light  as  He  is  in  the  light,  "cleanseth 
us  from  all  sin" — removes  from  us  the  stain  of  our 
guilt,  and  makes  us  clean  in  God's  sight.  In  virtue 
of  this,  Christ  is  the  penitent  sinner's  advocate 
(paraclete-helper)  with  the  Father  (2  1).  The 
words  "with  the  Father"  are  highly  significant. 
Even  the  Father's  love  can  urge  nothing  in  apology 
for  sin,  nothing  that  avails  to  absolve  from  its  guilt. 
But  there  is  one  who  can  urge  on  our  behalf  what  is 
at  once  the  strongest  condemnation  of  our  sin  and 
plea  for  its  remission — Himself,  "Jesus  Christ  the 
righteous"  (2  1).  "And  he  [Himself]  is  the  pro- 
pitiation for  our  sins."  St.  John  does  not  speak  of 
Christ  as  "making  propitiation";  He,  Himself,  in 
virtue  of  all  He  is — Jesus  Christ,  in  whom  the  Divine 
ideal  of  humanity  is  consummated,  in  whom  the 
Father  sees  His  own  essential  righteousness  re- 
vealed, Jesus  Christ  the  Righteous — is  both  pro- 
pitiation and  intercession.  The  two  acts  are  not 
only  united  in  one  person,  but  constitute  the  one 
reconciling  work  by  which  there  is  abiding  fellow- 
ship between  God  and  His  sinning  people. 

(3)  One  with  NT  teaching. — In  this  statement  of 
the  doctrine  of  propitiation,  memorable  as  it  is, 
there  is  nothing  notably  original.  It  tacitly  pre- 
supposes, as  NT  teaching  everywhere  does,  that 
God,  in  bestowing  the  sovereign  grace  of  pardon  and 
sonship,  must  deal  truthfully  and  adequately  with 
sin  as  a  violation  of  the  moral  order;  and  with  St. 
John,  as  with  other  NT  writers,  the  necessity  and 
efficacy  of  sacrifice  as  the  means  by  which  this  is 
accomplished  are  simply  axiomatic.  His  great 
contribution  to  Christian  thought  is  the  vision  of 
the  cross  in  the  heart  of  the  eternal  love.  How 
suggestive  are  these  two  statements  when  placed 
side  by  side!     "Herein  is  love  ....  that  he  loved 


us,  and  sent  his  Son  to  be  the  propitiation  for 
our  sins"  (1  Jn  4  10);  and  "Hereby  know  we  love 
[recognize  what  it  is],  because  he  laid  down  his  life 
for  us"  (3  16).  God's  sending  His  Son  and  Christ's 
laying  down  His  life  are  moral  equivalents.  The 
sacrifice  of  Christ  is  the  sacrifice  of  God.  St.  John's 
doctrine  of  propitiation  follows  as  a  moral  neces- 
sity from  his  doctrine  of  God.  If  God  is  love, 
nothing  is  more  inevitably  true  than  that  He  suffers 
on  account  of  human  sin;  and  to  deny  Him  the 
power  to  help  and  save  men  by  bearing  their  burden 
would  be  to  deny  to  Him  love's  highest  prerogative. 
VI.  Eternal  Life. — The  development  of  the  con- 
ception of  eternal  life  must  be  set  along  with  the 
doctrine  of  the  moral  nature  of  God  and  the  doc- 
trine of  the  incarnation  as  one  of  the  greatest  con- 
tributions of  the  Johannine  theology  to  NT  thought. 
With  this  conception  the  Gospel  begins  (1  4)  and 
ends  (20  31);  and,  in  like  manner,  the  Ep.  (1  2;  6 
20).  The  designation  most  frequently  employed 
is  simply  "the  life"  (he  zoe) ;  17  t  in  the  Gospel  and 
6  t  in  the  First  Ep.  it  is  described  qualitatively  as 
"eternal";  but  the  adj.  brings  out  only  what  is 
implicit  in  the  noun.  In  harmony  with  the  uni- 
versal Bib.  conception,  St.  John  regards  life  as  the 
surnmum  bonum,  in  which  the  reality  of  fellowship 
with  God  consists,  which  therefore  fulfils  the  highest 
idea  of  being — "perfect  truth  in  perfect  action" 
(Westcott).  Christ  Himself  is  "the life"  (Jn  14  0), 
its  only  bestower  and  unfailing  source  (14  19).  He 
came  that  we  might  have  it  abundantly  (10  10). 

But  this  conception  is  uniquely  developed  in  two 
directions.     While  the  eschatological  element  is  not 

lost,  it  is  absorbed  in  the  ethical.  The 
1.  Ethical  ideas  of  duration  and  futurity,  which 
Rather  than  are  properly  and  originally  expressed 
Eschato-  by  the  adj.  "eternal"  (aidnios  =  \w- 
logical  longing    to    an    aeon — specifically    to 

"the  coming  aeon"),  become  secondary 
to  that  of  timeless  moral  quality.  Always  life  is 
regarded  as  a  present  possession  rather  than  as 
future  felicity  (e.g.  Jn  3  36;  20  31;  1  Jn  3  14. 
15;  5  12).  For  St.  John  the  question  whether  it 
is  possible  to  make  the  best  of  both  worlds  is  mean- 
ingless. Eternal  life  is  the  best,  the  Divine,  kind 
of  life,  whether  in  this  world  or  another.  It  is  the 
kind  of  life  that  has  its  perfect  manifestation  in 
Christ  (1  Jn  1  2;  6  11).  To  possess  that  nature 
which  produces  thoughts  and  motives  and  desires, 
words  and  deeds  like  His,  is  to  have  eternal  life. 

Metaphysically  the  conception  undergoes  a  develop- 
ment which  is  equally  remarkable,  though  in  the  judg- 
ment of  many,  of  more  questionable  value. 
2    Meta-        It  has  already  been  seen  (see  above,  II) 
nVnrciral  that  life   is   conceived   as   the   animating 

pnysicai  principle  or  essence  of  the  Divine  nature, 

Aspect  the  inward  energy  of  which  all  its  activities 

are  the  manifold  outgoing.  And  this 
conception  is  carried  through  with  strict  consistency. 
The  spiritual  life  in  men,  which  is  "begotten  of  God," 
is  the  vital  essence,  the  mystic  principle  which  is 
manifested  in  all  the  capacities  and  activities  of  Chris- 
tian personality.  It  does  not  consist  in,  and  still  less 
is  it  a  result  following,  repentance,  faith,  obedience  or 
love;  it  is  that  of  which  they  are  the  fruits  and  the  evi- 
dences. Thus  instead  of  "This  do,  and  thou  shalt  live" 
(Lk  10  2H),  St.  John  says,  conversely,  "Every  one  also 
that  doeth  righteousness  is  [=has  been]  begotten  of" 
Cod  (1  .Jn  2  20);  instead  of  "The  just  shall  live  by 
faith"  (Rom  1  17  A V),  "Whosoever  believeth  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ  is  (  =has  been]  begotten  of  God"  (1  Jn 
5  1).  The  human  activity  Is  the  result  and  proof 
of  Divine  life  already  imparted,  not  the  condition  or 
means  of  its  attainment.  In  the  Johannine  concep- 
tion life  is  cause,  not  effect;  not  phenomenon,  but 
essence;  not  the  complex  whole  of  the  qualities,  activi- 
ties and  experiences  of  the  spiritual  man,  but  that  which 
makes  them  possible — the  inscrutable,  Divinely  com- 
municated principle  (Ji\  3  8)  in  which  the  capacity 
for  them  is  given  and  by  which  also  it  is  realized. 

Reply  to  criticism. — This  Johannine  conception  of  life 
is  vigorously  criticized  as  importing  into  the  interpreta- 
tion of  Christian  experience  principles  and  modes  of 
thought  borrowed  from  (ir  philosophy.  But  the  tend- 
ency  to  infer  causes  from  effects    and  to  reason  from 


1703 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Johannine  Theol. 


phenomena  to  essence  is  not  peculiar  to  Or  philosophy; 
it  is  native  to  the  human  intellect.  The  Johannine 
conception  of  spiritual  life  is  closely  analogous  to  the 
common  conception  of  physical  life.  We  do  not  con- 
ceive that  a  man  lives  because  ho  breathes  and  feels 
and  acts;  we  think  and  we  say  that  he  does  these  things 
because  he  lives,  because  there  is  in  him  that  mystic 
principle  we  call  life.  Only  to  the  thinker  trained  in  the 
logic  of  empiricism  is  it  possible  to  define  life  solely  by 
its  phenomena,  as  e.g.  "the  continuous  adjustment  of 
internal  to  external  relations"  (Spencer).  The  ordinary 
mind  instinctively  passes  behind  the  phenomena  to  an 
entity  of  which  they  are  the  manifestation.  The  Jo- 
hannine conception,  moreover,  lies  in  the  natural  lino 
of  development  for  NT  thought.  It  is  implicit  in  that 
whole  strain  of  Our  Lord's  synoptic  teaching  which 
regards  doing  as  only  the  outcome  of  being,  and  which 
is  emphasized  in  such  utterances  as  "Either  make  the 
tree  good,  and  its  fruit  good;  or  make  the  tree  corrupt, 
and  its  fruit  corrupt:  for  the  tree  is  known  by  its  fruit" 
(Mt  12  3IS);  as  also  in  the  whole  Pauline  doctrine  of 
the  new  creation  and  the  mystical  indwelling  of  Christ 
in  the  members  of  His  body.  And  while  it  is  no  doubt 
true  that  the  Johannine  conception  of  life  was  imme- 
diately influenced  by  contact  with  Hellenism,  it  is  one 
which  was  sure,  sooner  or  later,  to  emerge  in  Christian 
theology. 

(1)  Source  in  God. — In  the  development  of  the 
doctrine  we  note  the  following  points,     (a)  The  sole 

and  absolute  source  of  life  is  God,  the 
3.  Develop-  Father,  revealed  in  Christ.  "The 
ment  of  Father  hath  life  in  himself"  (Jn  5  26). 

Doctrine        He  is  the  "living  Father"  by  whom 

the  Son  lives  (Jn  6  57);  the  "true 
God,  and  eternal  life"  (1  Jn  5  20).  Eternal  life 
is  nothing  else  than  the  immanence  of  God  in  moral 
beings  created  after  His  likeness;  the  Divine  nature 
reproducing  itself  in  human  nature;  the  energy  of 
the  Spirit  of  God  in  the  spiritual  nature  of  man. 
This  is  its  ultimate  definition. 

(2)  Mediated  by  Christ. — Of  this  life  Christ  is  the 
sole  mediator  (Jn  6  33.57;  11  25;  14  0).  The 
witness  is  that  "God  gave  unto  us  eternal  life,  and 
this  life  is  in  his  Son"  (1  Jn  5  11).  This  mediation 
is  grounded  in  the  relation,  eternally  subsisting 
within  the  Godhead,  of  the  Logos  to  the  Father. 
The  life  manifested  and  seen  in  the  historic  Christ 
(1  Jn  1  1)  is  "the  life,  the  eternal  life,"  which 
existed  in  relation  to  the  Father  (1  Jn  1  2).  By 
the  incarnation  of  the  Son  the  eternal  life  in  its 
Divine  fulness  has  become  incorporate  with  human- 
ity, a  permanent  source  of  regenerative  power  to 
"as  many  as  received  him"  (.In  1  12).  It  is  His 
own  relation  to  the  Father  that  He  reproduces  in 
men  (Jn  17  23). 

(:})  Through  the  Spirit. — In  the  communication 
of  this  life  the  Spirit  is  the  one  direct  agent  (Jn  3 
5-<S;  see  above,  under  IV). 

(4)  The  Divine  "begetting." — The  act  of  Divine 
self-communication  is  constantly  and  exclusively 
expressed  by  the  word  "beget"  (genndn — Jn  1  13; 
3  3.5-8;  1  Jn  2  29;  3  9,  etc).  The  word  is  of 
far-reaching  significance.  It  implies  not  oidy  that 
life  has  its  ultimate  origin  in  God,  but  that  its  com- 
munication is  directly  and  solely  His  act.  In  how 
literal  a  sense  the  Divine  begetting  is  to  be  under- 
stood appears  very  strikingly  in  1  Jn  3  9:  "Who- 
soever is  begotten  of  God  doeth  no  sin;  because 
his  seed  abideth  in  him."  The  unique  expression 
"his  seed"  signifies  the  new  life-principle  which  is 
the  formative  element  of  the  "children  of  God." 
This  abides  in  him  who  has  received  it.  It  stamps 
its  own  character  upon  his  life  and  determines  its 
whole  development. 

(5)  The  "children  of  God." — Those  who  are 
"begotten  of  God"  are  ipso  facto  "children  of  God" 
(tekna  theou,  Jn  1  12;  11  52;  1  Jn  3  1.2.10;  5  2). 
The  term  connotes  primarily  the  direct  communi- 
cation of  the  Father's  own  nature;  and  secondarily 
the  fact  that  the  nature  thus  communicated  has 
not  as  yet  reached  its  full  stature,  but  contains  the 
promise  of  a  future  glorious  development.  We  are 
now  children  of  God,  but  what  it  fully  is  to  be 


children  of  God  is  not  yet  made  manifest  (1  Jn  3 
2).  Participation  in  this  life  creates  a  family  fel- 
lowship (koino/da)  at  once  human  and  Divine. 
Those  who  are  begotten  of  God  and  walk  in  the 
light  have  "fellowship  one  with  another"  (1  Jn  1 
7).  They  are  "brethren"  and  are  knit  together 
by  the  instincts  (1  Jn  5  1)  and  the  duties  of  mu- 
tual love  (Jn  13  34;  15  12;  1  Jn  3  16;  4  11)  and 
of  mutual  watchfulness  and  intercession  (1  Jn  6  16). 

On  the  Divine  side  they  have  fellowship  "with  the 
Father,  and  with  his  Son  Jesus  Christ"  (1  Jn  1  3). 
In  this  Divine  fellowship  the  life  "begotten"  is 
nourished  and  sustained;  and  no  term  is  more 
characteristic  of  the  Johannine  vocabulary,  alike 
in  Gospel  and  Epp.,  than  the  word  "abide"  (tnenein), 
by  which  this  is  expressed.  There  is,  however,  a 
noticeable  difference  in  the  modes  of  statement.  In 
the  Ep.,  the  formulae  almost  exclusively  employed 
are  these:  "God  abides  in  us,"  "We  abide  in  God," 
"God  abides  in  us  and  we  in  him."  In  the  Gospel 
the  reciprocal  indwelling  is  that  of  Christ  and  His 
disciples  (Jn  15  4-10),  which  has  its  Divine  coun- 
terpart in  that  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  (Jn  14  10; 
17  23;  15  10).  This  diversity  is  consistent  with 
the  different  points  of  view  occupied  in  the  two 
documents.  The  Gospel  is  christocentric;  the 
Ep.,  theocentric.  In  the  one  is  given  the  concrete 
presentment  of  the  incarnate  Son ;  in  the  other  the 
immediate  intuition  of  the  Divine  nature  revealed 
in  Him.  While  the  theme  common  to  both  is  the 
"Word  of  life,"  the  special  theme  of  the  Gospel  is 
the  Word  who  reveals  and  imparts  the  life;  in  the 
Ep.  it  is  the  life  revealed  and  imparted  by  the 
Word,  and  the  thought  of  the  indwelling  Christ 
is  naturally  carried  up  to  the  ultimate  truth  of  the 
indwelling  God. 

(6)  The  Divine  abiding. — The  vitalizing  union  by 
which  the  Divine  life  is  sustained  in  those  who  are 
begotten  of  God  consists  in  two  reciprocal  activities, 
not  separable  and  not  identical — God's  (or  Christ's) 
abiding  in  us  and  our  abiding  in  Him.  As  in  the 
similitude  of  the  vine  and  the  branches  (Jn  15 
1-10),  the  life  impart  ed  is  dependent  for  its  suste- 
nance and  growth  upon  a  continuous  influx  from 
the  parent  source:  as  it  is  the  sap  of  the  vine  that 
vitalizes  the  branches,  producing  leaf  and  blossom 
and  fruit,  so  does  the  life  of  God  support  and  foster 
in  His  children  its  own  energies  of  love  and  truth 
and  purity.  But  to  this  end  the  abiding  of  God  in 
us  has  as  its  necessary  count erpart  our  abiding  in 
Him.  We  can  respond  to  the  Divine  influence  or 
reject  it;  open  or  obstruct  the  channels  through 
which  the  Divine  life  flows  into  ours  (Jn  15  6.7.10; 
8  31).  Hence  abiding  in  God  is  a  subject  of  in- 
struction and  exhortation  (Jn  15  4;  1  Jn  2  27  f); 
and  here  the  idea  of  persistent  and  stedfast  pur- 
pose which  belongs  to  the  word  menein  comes 
clearly  into  view.  As  the  abiding  of  God  in  us  is 
the  persistent  and  purposeful  action  by  which  the 
Divine  nature  influences  ours,  so  our  abiding  in  God 
is  the  persistent  and  purposeful  submission  of  our- 
selves to  that  influence.  The  means  of  doing  this 
are  stedfast  loyalty  to  the  truth  as  it  is  revealed  in 
Christ  and  announced  in  the  apostolic  Gospel  (Jn 
8  31;  15  7;  1  Jn  2  27),  keeping  God's  command- 
ments (Jn  14  23;  15  10;  1  Jn  3  24),  and  loving 
one  another  (1  Jn  4  12.16).  Thus  only  is  the 
channel  of  communication  kept  clear  between  the 
source  and  the  receptacle  of  life. 

VII.  Human  Nature  and  Its  Regeneration. — The 
necessity  of  regeneration  is  fundamental  to  the 
whole  theological  scheme  (Jn  3  3.5.7).  Life  which 
consists  in  union  with  God  does  not  belong  to 
man  as  he  is  naturally  constituted:  those  who 
know  that  they  have  eternal  life  know  that  it  is 
theirs  because  they  have  "passed  out  of  death  into 
life"  (1  Jn  3  14;  Jn  5  24). 


Johannine  Theol.  THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1704 


The    unregenerate    state    of    human    nature    is 

specially  connected  with  the  Johannine  conception 

of  the    "world"   {kosmos).     This  term 

1.  The  has  a  peculiar  elasticity  of  application; 
World             and  West  cot  t's  definition — "the  order 

of  finite  being,  regarded  as  apart  from 
God" — maybe  taken  as  expressing  the  widest  idea 
that  underlies  St.  John's  use  of  the  word.  When 
the  kosmos  is  niaterial.it  signifies  (1)  the  existing 
terrestrial  creation  (Jn  1  10;  13  1;  16  28),  esp.  as 
contrasted  with  the  sphereof  the  heavenly  and  eter- 
nal. When  it  refers  to  humanity,  it  is  either  (2)  the 
totality  of  mankind  as  needing  redemption  and  as 
the  object  of  God's  redeeming  love  (Jn  3  16;  1  Jn 
2  2;  4  14),  or  (3)  the  mass  of  unbelieving  men, 
hostile  to  Christ,  and  resisting  salvation  (e.g.  Jn  15 
18).  Of  the  world  in  this  sense  it  is  said  that  it  has 
no  perception  of  the  true  nature  of  God  and  the 
Divine  glory  of  Christ  (Jn  1  10;  17  25;  1  Jn  3  1); 
that  it,  hates  the  children  of  God  (Jn  15  18.19;  17 
14;  1  Jn  3  13);  that  the  spirit  of  Antichrist  dwells 
in  it  (1  Jn  4  3.4);  that  to  it  belong  the  false  proph- 
ets and  their  adherents  (Un  4  1.5);  that  it  is  under 
the  dominion  of  the  wicked  one  (Jn  12  31;  14  30; 
16  11;  1  Jn  5  19);  that  the  constituents  of  its  life 
are  "the  lust  of  the  flesh  and  the  lust  of  the  eyes 
and  the  vainglory  of  life"  (1  Jn  2  16);  that  it  pass- 
eth  away  (1  Jn  2  17);  that  Christ  has  conquered 
it  (Jn  16  33),  and  that  "whatsoever  is  begotten  of 
God"  conquers  it  (1  Jn  5  4)  by  the  power  of  faith 
in  Him  (1  Jn  5  5).  Tims  the  "world"  (in  this 
darker  significance)  is  composed  of  those  who  still 
love  the  darkness  rather  than  the  light  (Jn  3  19), 
who,  when  Christ  is  presented  to  them^obstinately 
retain  their  blindness  and  enmity.  Nevertheless, 
the  "world"  is  not  beyond  the  possibility  of  salva- 
tion. The  Holy  Spirit,  acting  in  the  Christian 
community,  will  convince  the  world  with  regard 
to  sin  and  righteousness  and  judgment  (Jn  16  8); 
and  the  evidence  of  the  unity  of  Divine  fellowship 
among  Christ's  disciples  will  lead  it  to  believe  in 
His  Divine  mission  (Jn  17  23). 

Thus  it  is  true  that  St.  John  teaches  "a  distinc- 
tion of  two  great  classes  in  the  human  race — those 

who  are  from  above  and  those  who  are 

2.  Two  from  beneath — children  of  light  and 
Classes  in  children  of  darkness."  But  that  he 
the  Human  teaches  this  in  any  gnostic  or  semi- 
Race  gnostic    fashion    is    an    assertion    for 

which  there  is  no  real  basis.  _  He  dis- 
tinguishes between  those  who  love  the  light  and 
those  who  love  the  darkness  rather  than  the  light, 
between  those  who  "receive"  Christ  and  those  who 
"will  not"  come  unto  Him  that  they  may  have  life. 
This  distinction,  however,  he  traces  to  nothing  in 
the  natural  constitution  of  the  two  classes,  but 
solely  to  the  regenerating  act  of  God  (Jn  1  13;  6 
44).  His  doctrine  of  regeneration  is,  in  fact,  his 
solution  of  the  problem  created  by  the  actual 
existence  of  those  two  classes  among  men — a 
problem  which  is  forced  upon  every  thoughtful 
Christian  mind  by  the  diverse  and  opposite  results 
of  evangelism.  It  is  this  that  lies  behind  such 
utterances  as  these:  "Every  one  that  is  of  the  truth 
heareth  my  voice"  (Jn  18  37);  "Ye  believe  not, 
because  ye  are  not  of  my  sheep.  My  sheep  hear  my 
voice  ....  and  they  follow  me"  (Jn  10  26.27); 
"Every  one  that  hath  heard  from  the  Father, 
cometh  unto  me.  No  man  can  come  unto  me  except 
it  be  given  unto  him  of  the  Father"  (Jn  6  45.(55). 
In  these  and  all  similar  passages,  belief  or  unbelief 
in  Christ,  when  He  is  presented,  depends  upon  ante- 
cedent spiritual  predisposition  (St.  John's  equiva- 
lent to  the  Pauline  predestination).  There  exists  in 
certain  persons  what  is  lacking  in  others,  a  power  of 
spiritual  vision  by  which  Christ  is  recognized,  a 
capacity  and  a  predisposition  to  receive  Him.     But 


this  predisposition  is  not  (any  more  than  St.  Paul's 
predestination)  theirs  by  gift  of  nature.  St.  John 
refuses  to  find  its  source  in  human  personality  (Jn 
1  13;  1  Jn  5  1).  The  children  of  God  are  not  a 
superior  species  of  the  genus  homo.  They  are  men 
who  have  passed  from  death  into  life,  and  who  have 
done  so  because  they  are  begotten  of  God.  St. 
John's  doctrine  is  thus  the  antithesis  of  Gnosticism. 
The  gnostic  distinction  of  two  classes  in  the  human 
race  glorified  men;  its  proper  and  inevitable  fruit 
was  spiritual  pride.  The  effect  of  St.  John's  doc- 
trine is  to  humble  man  and  glorify  God,  to  satisfy 
the  innermost  Christian  consciousness  that  not 
even  for  their  appropriation  of  God's  gift  in  Christ 
can  believers  take  credit  to  themselves;  that  in 
nothing  can  the  human  spirit  do  more  than  respond 
to  the  Divine,  and  that,  in  the  last  analysis,  this 
power  itself  is  of  God.  Regeneration  in  the  Johan- 
nine sense  is  not  to  be  identified  with  conversion. 
It  is  the  communication  of  that  vision  of  truth  and 
that  capacity  for  new  moral  activity  which  issue 
in  conversion.  The  doctrine  of  regeneration  con- 
tained in  t  he  Johannine  writings  is  the  fullest  recog- 
nition  in  the  NT  that  all  the  conscious  experiences 
and  activities  of  the  Christian  life  are  the  result  of 
God's  own  inscrutable  work  of  begetting  in  the 
depths  of  human  personality,  and  of  renewing  and 
replenishing  there,  the  energies  of  the  Divine. 

VIII.    The  Church  and  Sacraments. — "While  tho  word 
"church"  is  not  found,  the  idea  lies  near  the  base  of  the 
Johannine     theology.     The     Divine     life 
1    The  communicated   to  men  creates  a   Divine 

r\         ,  brotherhood,     a    "fellowship"     which    is 

Churcn  with  the  Father  and  "with  his  Son  Jesus 

Christ"  (1  Jn  1  3)  and  also  "one  with 
another"  (1  Jn  1  7) — a  fellowship  which  is  consecrated 
by  the  self-consecration  of  Jesus  (Jn  17  19).  in  which 
men  are  cleansed  from  all  sin  by  His  blood  (1  Jn  1  7), 
and  which  is  maintained  by  His  intercessory  action  as 
the  Paraclete  with  the  Father  (1  Jn  2  1).  This  fellow- 
ship is  realized  in  the  actual  Christian  community  and 
then;  only;  but  it  is  essentially  inward  and  spiritual,  not 
mechanically  ecclesiastical.  In  the  visible  community 
spurious  elements  may  intrude  themselves,  as  is  proved 
when  schism  unmasks  those  who,  though  they  have  be- 
longed to  the  external  organization,  have  never  been 
partakers  of  its  real  life  (1  J  2  19).  Only  among  those 
who  walk  in  the  light  of  God  does  true  fellowship  exist 
(1  Jn  1   7). 

From  the  doctrine  of   the  Divine  nature  as  life  and 
light  one  might  a  priori  infer  the  possibilities  of  a  Jo- 
hannine view    of    the   sacraments.     It    is 
2.  The  evident  that  there  is  room  in  the  Johan- 

n'  nine  system  of   thought   for  a  genuinely 

aacra-  sacramental  mode  of  Divine   action — the 

ments  employment  of  definite  external  acts,  not 

as  symbols  only,  but  as  real  media  of 
Divine  communication.  On  the  other  hand,  the  truth 
that  God  is  not  life  only  but  light  also — self-revealing  as 
well  as  self-imparting — would  necessarily  exclude  any 
magical  ex  opere  uperato  theory  by  which  spiritual  efficacy 
is  attributed  either  to  the  physical  elements  in  themselves 
or  to  the  physical  act  of  participation.  And  (though 
there  is  little  or  no  explicit  statement)  such  is  the  type 
of  doctrine  we  actually  find.  With  regard  to  all  sacra- 
mental rites  the  universal  principle  applies:  'It  is  the 
spirit  that  quickeneth,  the  flesh  profiteth  nothing'  (Jn 
6  03). 

(1)  Baptism. — Yet  baptism  is  the  physical  counter- 
part of  the  Spirit's  work  in  regeneration,  and  great  im- 
portance is  attached  to  it  as  the  means  of  admission  to 
the  new  life  of  the  kingdom  (Jn  3  5). 

(2)  The  Lord's  Supper. — The  omission  of  all  reference 
to  the  institution  of  the  Lord's  Supper  (the  incident  of 
the  feet-washing  and  the  proclamation  of  the  new  com- 
mandment taking  its  place  in  the  Gospel-narrative)  is 
thought  to  indicate  that  St.  John  was  conscious  of  a 
tendency  to  attach  a  superstitious  value  to  the  outward 
observance,  and  desired  emphatically  to  subordinate 
this  to  what  was  spiritual  and  essential.  The  omission, 
to  whatever  motive  it  may  have  been  due,  is  counter- 
balanced by  the  sacramental  discourse  (Jn  6).  "While 
the  language  of  this  discourse  is  not  to  be  interpreted 
in  a  technically  eucharistic  sense,  its  purpose,  or  one  of 
its  purposes,  undoubtedly,  is  to  set  forth  the  signifi- 
cance of  the  Lord's  Supper  in  the  largest  light.  Christ 
gives  to  men  the  bread  of  life,  which  is  His  own  flesh 
and  of  which  men  must  eat  that  they  may  live  (Jn  6  50- 
55).  "He  that  eateth  my  flesh  and  drinketh  my  blood 
abideth  in  me  and  I  in  him."  This  eating  and  drinking 
is  essentially  of  the  Spirit.  It  signifies  a  derivation  of 
life  analogous  to  that  of  the  Son  Himself  from  the  Father. 


1705 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Johannine  Theol. 


"As  the  living  Father  sent  me,  and  I  live  because  of 
the  Father;  so  he  that  eateth  me,  he  also  shall  live  be- 
cause of  me"  (ver  57).  To  "eat  the  flesh"  of  the  Son  of 
Man  is  to  receive  spiritual  nourishment  from  Him,  to 
live  by  His  life.  Yet  there  is  nothing  in  St.  John's  way 
of  thinking  to  exclude  a  real  sacramental  efficiency. 
"The  act  which  is  nothing  when  it  is  performed  igno- 
rantly  and  mechanically  is  of  sovereign  value  to  those 
who  have  apprehended  its  true  meaning.  The  material 
elements  represent  the  flesh  and  blood  of  Christ — His 
Divine  Person  given  for  the  life  of  the  world.  He  is 
present  in  them,  not  merely  by  way  of  symbol,  but 
actually;  but  there  must  be  something  in  the  recipient 
corresponding  to  the  spiritual  reality  which  is  conveyed 
through  the  gift.  The  outward  act  of  participation  must 
be  accompanied  with  belief  in  Christ  and  a  true  insight 
into  the  nature  of  His  work  and  a  will  to  know  and 
serve  Him.  The  sacrament  becomes  operative  as  the 
bread  of  life  through  this  receptive  spirit  on  the  part  of 
those  who  observe  it"  (Scott,  The  Fourth  Gospel,  127-28). 

IX.  Eschatology. — The  type  of  mind  revealed 

in  the  Johannine  writings  is  one  that  instinctively 

leans  to  the  ideal  and  the  spiritual  in 

1.  Type  of  its  contemplation  of  life,  grasping 
Thought  what  is  of  universal  significance  and 
Idealistic       dwelling  upon  events  only  as  they  are 

the  embodiment  of  eternal  principles. 
Where  this  fashion  of  thought  is  so  strongly  devel- 
oped, the  eschatological,  like  the  historical,  becomes 
secondary. 

In  St.  John  there  is  but  one  life — the  eternal; 
and  there  is  but  one  world — the  world  of  the  ideal, 

which  is  also  the  only  real.     Yet  he 

2.  Yet  is  not  an  idealist,  pure  and  simple. 
History  Not  For  him  events  are  not  merely  sym- 
Ignored         bols;     history    is   not    allegory.     The 

incarnation  is  a  historical  fact,  the 
Parousia  a  future  event.  His  thought  does  not 
move  in  a  world  of  mere  abstractions,  a  world  in 
which  nothing  ever  happens.  His  true  distinction 
as  a  thinker  lies  in  the  success  with  which  he  unites 
the  two  strains  of  thought,  the  historical  and 
the  ideal.  The  word  which  may  be  said  to  express 
his  conception  of  history  is  "manifestation"  (cf 
Jn  2  11;  9  3;  but  esp.  1  Jn  1  2;  2  19.28;  3 
2.5.8;  4  9).  The  incarnation  is  only  the  mani- 
festation of  'what  was  from  the  beginning'  (1  Jn 
1  1.2);  the  mission  of  Christ,  the  manifestation  of 
the  love  eternally  latent  in  the  depths  of  the  Divine 
nature  (1  Jn  4  9).  The  successive  events  of  his- 
tory are  the  emergence  into  visibility  of  what  already 
exists.     In  them  the  potential  becomes  actual. 

Thus  St.  John  has  an  eschatology,  as  well  as  a 
history.     He  profoundly  spiritualizes.     He  reaches 

down  through  the  pictorial  represen- 

3.  Nor  Es-  tationsof  the  traditional  apocalyptic, 
chatology       and  inquires  what  essential  principle 

each  of  these  embodies.  Then  he 
discovers  that  this  principle  is  already  universally 
and  inevitably  in  operation;  and  this,  the  present 
spiritual  reality,  becomes  for  him  the  primary 
1  bought.  Judgment  means  essentially  the  sifting 
and  separation,  the  classification  of  men  according 
to  their  spiritual  affinities.  But  every  day  men 
are  thus  classifying  themselves  by  their  attitude 
toward  Christ ;  this,  the  true  judgment  of  the  world, 
is  already  present  fact.  So  also  the  coming  and 
presence  of  Christ  must  always  be  essentially  a 
spiritual  fact,  and  as  such  it  is  already  a  present 
fact.  There  is,  in  the  deepest  significance  of  the 
word,  a  perpetual  coming  of  Christ  in  Christian 
experience.  This,  however,  does  not  prevent  St. 
John  from  firmly  holding  the  certainty  of  a  fuller 
manifestation  of  these  facts  in  the  future,  when 
tendencies  shall  have  reached  a  final  culmination, 
and  principles  which  are  now  apprehended  only  by 
faith  will  be  revealed  in  all  the  visible  magnitude  of 
their  consequences. 

We  shall  now  briefly  survey  the  Johannine  pres- 
entation of  the  chief  eschatological  ideas. 

(1)  Eternal  life. — It  has  already  been  said  that 


the  most  distinctive  feature  in  the  conception  of 
eternal  life  is  that  it  is  not  a  future  immortal 
felicity  so  much  as  a  present  spiritual 
4.  Escha-  state.  The  category  of  duration  re- 
tological  cedes  before  that  of  moral  quality. 
Ideas  Yet  it  has  its  own  stupendous  impor- 

tance. In  triumphant  contrast  with 
the  poor  ephemeralit  ies  of  the  worldly  life,  he  that 
doeth  the  will  of  God  "abideth  for  ever"  (1  Jn  2 
17);  and  the  complete  realization  of  the  life  eternal 
is  still  in  the  future  (Jn  4  36;  6  27;  12  25). 

(2)  Antichrist. — The  view  of  Antichrist  is  strik- 
ingly characteristic.  Tacitly  setting  aside  the 
lurid  figure  of  popular  traditions,  St.  John  grasps 
the  essential  fact  that  is  expressed  by  the  name  and 
idea  of  Antichrist  (  =  one  who  in  the  guise  of  Christ 
opposes  Christ),  and  finds  its  fulfilment  in  the  false 
teaching  which  substituted  for  the  Christ  of  the 
gospel  the  fantastic  product  of  gnostic  imagination 
(1  Jn  4  3).  But  in  this  he  reads  the  sign  that  the 
world's  day  has  reached  its  last  hour  (1  Jn  2  18). 

(3)  Resurrection. — While  the  Fourth  Gospel  so 
carefully  records  the  proofs  of  Christ's  resurrection, 
noticeably  little  (in  the  Ep.,  nothing)  is  made  of  the 
thought  of  a  future  resurrection  from  the  dead. 
For  the  Christian,  the  death  of  the  body  is  a  mere 
incident.  "Whosoever  liveth  and  believeth  on  me 
shall  never  die"  (Jn  11  26;  cf  8  51).  Regenera- 
tion— union  with  Christ — is  the  true  resurrection 
(Jn  6  50.51.5S).  And  yet,  again,  the  eschatolog- 
ical idea  is  not  lost.  Side  by  side  with  the  essen- 
tial truth  the  supplementary  and  interpretative 
truth  is  given  its  right  place.  "Whoso  eateth  my 
flesh  and  drinketh  my  blood  hath  eternal  life;  and 
I  will  raise  him  up  at  the  last  day"  (Jn  6  5-4  AV). 
If  Christ  says  "I  am  the  life:  whosoever  liveth  and 
believeth  on  me  shall  never  die,"  He  also  says  "I 
am  the  resurrection:  he  that  believeth  on  me, 
though  he  die,  yet  shall  he  live"  (Jn  11  25). 

(4)  Judgment. — As  has  already  been  said,  St. 
John  regards  judgment  as  essentially  a  present  fact 
of  life.  Christ  does  not  pass  judgment  upon  men — - 
that  is  not  the  purpose  of  His  coming  (Jn  3  17; 
12  47).  Yet  Christ  is  always  of  necessity  judging 
men — compelling  them  to  pass  judgment  upon 
themselves.  For  judgment  He  is  come  into  the 
world  (Jn  9  39).  By  their  attitude  toward  Him 
men  involuntarily  but  inevitably  classify  them- 
selves, reveal  what  spirit  they  are  of,  and  auto- 
matically register  themselves  as  being  or  as  not 
being  "of  the  truth"  (Jn  18  37).  Judgment  is  not 
the  assigning  of  a  character  from  without,  but  the 
revelation  of  a  character  from  within.  And  this  is 
not  future,  but  present.  "He  that  believeth  not 
hath  been  judged  ....  because  he  hath  not 
believed  on  the  name  of  the  only  begotten  Son  of 
of  God"  (Jn  3  18).  Yet  the  apostle  indubitably 
looks  forward  to  a  future  Day  of  Judgment  (Jn 
12  48;  1  Jn  4  17).  Nor  is  this  simply  an  "un- 
conscious concession  to  orthodoxy."  The  judg- 
ment to  come  will  be  the  full  manifestation  of 
the  judgment  that  now  is,  that  is  to  say,  of  the 
principles  according  to  which  men  are  in  reality  ap- 
proved or  condemned  already.  What  this  present 
judgment,  the  classification  of  men  by  their  rela- 
tion to  Christ,  ultimately  signifies,  is  not  at  all 
realized  by  the  "world,"  is  not  fully  realized  even 
in  Christian  faith.  There  must  be  a  day  when  all 
self-deception  shall  cease  and  all  reality  shall  be 
manifested. 

(5)  The  Parousia. — In  like  manner  the  concep- 
tion of  the  Parousia  is  primarily  spiritual.  The 
substitution  in  the  Fourth  Gospel  of  the  Supper 
Discourse  (Jn  14-16)  for  the  apocalyptic  chapters 
in  the  Synoptics  is  of  the  utmost  significance.  It  is 
not  a  Christ  coming  on  the  clouds  of  heaven  that 
is  presented,  but  a  Christ  who  has  come  and  is 


Johannine  Theol.  TnE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 
John,  the  Apostle 


1706 


ever  coming  to  dwell  in  closest  fellowship  with  His 
people  (see  above  under  IV).  Yet  St.  John  by  no 
means  discards  belief  in  the  Parousia  as  a  historical 
event  of  the  future.  If  Christ's  abiding-place  is 
in  those  that  love  Him  and  keep  His  word,  there  is 
also  a  Father's  House  in  which  there  are  many 
abiding-places,  whither  He  goes  to  prepare  a  place 
for  them  ami  whence  He  will  come  again  to  receive 
them  mnto  Himself  (Jn  14  2.3).  Still  more  is  this 
emphasized  in  the  Ep.  The  command  "Love  not 
the  world"  is  sharpened  by  the  assurance  that  the 
world  is  on  the  verge,  aye,  in  the  process  of  dissolu- 
tion (1  Jn  2  17).  The  exhortation  to  "abide  in 
him"  is  enforced  by  the  dread  of  being  put  to  shame 
at  His  impending  advent  (2  28).  The  hope  of 
being  made  partakers  in  His  manifested  glory  is  the 
consummation  of  all  that  is  implied  in  our  being 
now  children  of  God  (1  Jn  3  2.3). 

(a)  A  "manifestation":  But  this  future  crisis  will 
be  only  the  manifestation  of  the  existing  reality  (3  2). 
The  Parousia  will,  no  more  than  the  incarnation,  be 
the  advent  of  a  strange  Presence  in  the  world.  It 
will  be,  as  on  the  Mount  of  Transfiguration,  the 
outshining  of  a  latent  glory;  not  the  arrival  of  one 
who  is  absent,  but  the  self-revealing  of  one  who  is 
present.  As  to  the  manner  of  Christ's  appearing, 
the  Ep.  is  silent.  As  to  its  significance,  we  are  left 
in  no  doubt.  It  is  a  historical  event;  occurring 
once  for  all;  the  consummation  of  all  Divine  pur- 
pose that  has  governed  human  existence;  the  final 
crisis  in  the  history  of  the  church,  of  the  world,  and 
of  every  man. 

(b)  Relation  to  believers:  Especially  for  the  chil- 
dren of  God,  it  will  be  a  coming  unto  salvation. 
"Beloved,  now  are  we  children  of  God,  and  it  is  not 
yet  made  manifest  what  we  shall  be.  We  know  that, 
if  he  shall  be  manifested,  we  shall  be  like  him;  for 
we  shall  see  him  as  he  is"  (1  Jn  3  2).  Here  the 
Johannine  idea  of  "manifestation"  is  strikingly 
employed.  "What  we  shall  be"  will  be  essentially 
what  we  are — children  of  God.  No  new  element 
will  be  added  to  the  regenerat  e  nature.  All  is  there 
that  ever  will  be  there.  But  the  epoch  of  full 
development  is  not  yet.  Only  when  Christ — the 
Christ  who  is  already  in  the  world — shall  be  mani- 
fested, then  also  the  children  of  God  who  are  in  the 
world  will  be  manifested  as  being  what  they  are. 
They  also  will  have  come  to  their  Mount  of  Trans- 
figuration. As  eternal  life  here  is  mediated  through 
this  first  manifestation  (1  Jn  1  2),  so  eternal  life 
hereafter  will  be  mediated  through  this  second  and 
final  manifestation.  "We  know  that  we  shall  be  like 
him,  because  we  shall  see  him  as  he  is."  It  is  true 
that  here  according  to  our  capacity  we  behold  Him 
as  He  is  (Jn  1  14);  but  perception,  now  dim  and 
wavering,  will  then  be  intense  and  vivid.  The 
vision  of  the  future  is  in  some  sense  corporeal  as  well 
as  spiritual.  Sense  and  faith  will  coincide.  It  will 
then  have  ceased  to  be  expedient  that  Christ  should 
go  away  in  order  that  the  Spirit  of  truth  may  come. 
We  shall  possess  in  the  same  experience  the  privi- 
lege of  the  original  eyewitnesses  of  the  incarnate 
life  and  the  inward  ministry  of  the  Spirit.  And 
seeing  Him  as  He  is,  we  shall  be  like  Him.  Vision 
will  beget  likeness,  and  likeness  again  give  clearness 
to  vision.  And  as  the  vision  is  in  some  unconjec- 
turablo  fashion  corporeal  as  well  as  spiritual,  so  also 
is  the  assimilation  (cf  Phil  3  21).  The  very  idea 
of  the  spiritual  body  is  that  it  perfectly  corresponds 
to  the  character  to  which  it  belongs.  The  outward 
man  will  take  the  mold  of  the  inward  man,  and 
will  share  with  it  its  perfected  likeness  to  the  glori- 
fied manhood  of  Jesus  Christ.  Such  is  the  farthest 
view  opened  to  our  hope  by  the  Johannine  escha- 
tology;  and  it  is  that  which,  of  all  others,  has  been 
most  entrancing  to  the  imagination  and  stimulating 
to  the  aspiration  of  the  children  of  God. 


Literature. — -The  following  works  may  be  men- 
tioned as  treating  specially  of  the  Theology:  B.  Weiss, 
Der  Johannische  Lehrbeuriff,  Berlin,  18G2;  O.  Holtz- 
mann,  Das  J ohannes-Etangelium  untersucht  und  erkldrt, 
Darmstadt,  1887;  Beyschlag,  N eutestamentliche  Theo- 
logie,  Halle,  1896;  Pfleiderer,  Das  Urchristentum, 
Berlin,  1902,  ET,  Williams  and  Norgate,  London; 
E.  Haupt,  Der  erste  Brief  den  Johannes,  Colberg,  18<>9, 
ET,  T.  &  T.  Clark,  Edinburgh;  drill,  Untersuchungen 
iiber  die  Entstetiung  des  vierten  Evangeliums,  Tubingen, 
1902;  O.  B.  Stevens,  The  Johannine  Theology,  New 
York,  1894;  id,  The  Theology  of  the  NT,  1899,  also  The 
Christian  Doctrine  of  Salvation,  1905,  T.  &  T.  Clark, 
Edinburgh;  O.  Cone,  The  Gospel  and  Its  Earliest  Inter- 
pretations, New  York,  1893;  Scott,  The  Fourth  Gospel, 
Its  Purpose  and  Theology,  T.  &  T.  Clark,  1900;  Law, 
The  Tests  of  Life:  A  Study  of  the  First  Ep.  of  St.  John 
((hulling  specially  with  the  Theology),  Edinburgh  and 
New  York,  1909;  Denney,  Jesus  and  the  Gospel,  New 
York,  1909;  Judge,  Cambridge  Bib.  Essays,  Macmillan, 
1910. 

R.  Law 
JOHN,   jon    ('Ia>dwr|s,  Iodnnes):    The  name  of 
several  persons  mentioned  in  the  Apoc: 

(1)  Father  of  Mattathias,  grandfather  of  Judas 
Maccabaeus  and  his  brothers  (1   Mace  2   1). 

(2)  Eldest  son  of  Mattathias,  surnamed  Gaddis 
(q.v.). 

(3)  Father  of  Eupolemus,  one  of  the  envoys  sent 
to  Rome  by  Judas  Maccabaeus  (1  Mace  8  17; 
2  Mace  4  11). 

(4)  John  Hyrcanus,  "a  valiant  man,"  son  of 
Simon,  and  nephew  of  Judas  Maccabaeus  (1  Mace 
13  53;  16  1).     See  Asmoneans;   Maccabees. 

(5)  One  of  the  envoys  sent  to  treat  with  Lysias 
(2  Mace  11  17).  J.  Hutchison 

JOHN  ('IudvvT|s,  Iodnnes) :  The  name  of  4  per- 
sons: 

(1)  John  the  Baptist  (q.v.). 

(2)  The  apostle,  the  son  of  Zebedee,  and  brother 
of  James  (see  John,  the  Apostle). 

(3)  A  relative  of  Annas  the  high  priest,  who  sat 
in  the  Sanhedrin  when  Peter  and  John  were  tried 
(Acts  4  6).  Light  foot  supposes  him  to  be  the 
Jochanan  ben  Zacchai  of  the  Talm,  who,  however, 
did  not  belong  to  the  family  of  the  high  priest. 
Nothing  is  really  known  of  him. 

(4)  John  Mark  (q.v.). 

(5)  Father  of  Simon  Peter  (Jn  1  42;  21  15.17, 
m  "Gr  Joanes:  called  in  Mt  16  17,  Jonah"). 

S.  F.  Hunter 
JOHN,  THE  APOSTLE:  The  sources  for  the 
life  of  the  apostle  John  are  of  various  kinds,  and  of 
different  degrees  of  trustworthiness. 
Sources  of  There  are  the  references  in  the  Synop- 
the  Life  of  tic  Gospels,  wdiich  may  be  used  simply 
St.  John  and  easily  without  any  preliminary 
critical  inquiry  into  their  worth  as 
sources;  for  these  Gospels  contain  the  common 
tradition  of  the  early  church,  and  for  the  present 
purpose  may  be  accepted  as  trustworthy.  Further, 
there  are  the  statements  in  Acts  and  in  Gal,  which 
we  may  use  without  discussion  as  a  source  for  the 
life  of  St.  John.  There  is  next  the  universal  tradi- 
tion of  the  2d  cent.,  which  we  may  use,  if  we  can 
show  that  the  John  of  Ephesus,  who  bulks  so  largely 
in  the  Christian  literature  of  the  2d  and  3d  cents., 
is  identical  with  the  son  of  Zebedee.  Further,  on 
the  supposition  that  the  son  of  Zebedee  is  the  author 
of  the  Johannine  writings  of  the  NT,  there  is  anot  her 
source  of  unequaled  value  for  the  estimate  of  the 
life  and  character  of  the  son  of  Zebedee  in  these 
writings.  Finally,  there  is  the  considerable  volume 
of  tradition  which  gathered  around  the  name  of 
John  of  Ephesus,  of  which,  picturesque  and  inter- 
esting though  the  traditions  be,  only  sparing  use 
can  be  made. 

/.  Witness  of  the  NT. — Addressing  ourselves 
first  to  the  Synoptic  Gospels,  to  Acts  and  to  Gal, 
we  ask,  What,  from  these  sources,  can  we  know 
of  the  apostle  John?     A  glance  only  need  be  taken 


1707 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  l0£an?1ineAThe2L 

John,  the  Apostle 


at    the   Johannine   writings,    more   fully   discussed 
elsewhere  in  relation  to  their  author. 

That  John  was  one  of  the  two  sons  of  Zebedee, 
that  he  became  one  of  the  disciples  of  Jesus,  that 

at  His  call  he  forsook  all  and  followed 
1.  The  Jesus,  and  was  thereafter  continuously 

Synoptic         with  Jesus  to  the  end,  are  facts  familiar 
Gospels  to  every  reader  of  the  Synoptic  Cospels. 

The  call  was  given  to  John  and  to  his 
brother  James  at  the  Sea  of  Galilee,  while  in  a  boat 
with  their  father  Zebedee,  "mending  their  nets" 
(Mt  4  21.22,  and  I  passages).  "Come  ye  after 
me,"  said  Jesus,  "and  I  will  make  you  to  become 
fishers  of  men"  (Mk  1  17;  on  the  earlier  call  in 
Judaea,  Jn  1  35  ff,  see  below).  That  Zebedee  was 
a  man  of  considerable  wealth  may  be  inferred  from 
the  fact  that  he  had  "hired  servants"  with  him 
(Mk  1  20),  and  that  his  wife  was  one  of  those 
women  who  ministered  of  their  substance  to  Jesus 
and  His  disciples  (Mt  27  5"). 56).  Comparison  of 
the  latter  passage  with  Mk  15  40.41  identifies  the 
wife  of  Zebedee,  John's  mother,  with  Salome,  and 
it  seems  a  fair  inference  from  Jn  19  25,  though  all 
do  not  accept  it,  that  Mary,  the  mother  of  Jesus, 
and  Salome,  the  wife  of  Zebedee,  were  sisters.  On 
this  view,  James  and  John  were  cousins  of  Jesus,  and 
were  also  related  to  the  family  of  John  the  Baptist. 
The  name  of  John  appears  in  all  the  lists  of  the  apos- 
tles given  in  the  Synoptic  Gospels  (Mt  10  2and|js). 
While  his  name;  appears  rarely  in  a  position  by  itself, 
he  is  still  one  of  the  most  prominent  of  the  disciples. 
With  Peter  and  James  he  is  present  at  the  raising 
of  the  daughter  of  Jairus  (Mk  5  37;  Lk  8  51  ff). 
These  three  were  also  present  at  the  transfiguration 
(Mt  17;  Mk  9;  Lk  9).  They  were  nearest  to 
tli<^  Lord  at  the  agony  of  Gethsemane.  In  all 
these  cases  nothing  characteristic  of  John  is  to  be 
noted.  He  is  simply  present  as  one  of  the  three, 
anil  therefore  one  of  the  most  intimate  of  the  dis- 
ciples. But  there  is  something  characteristic  in  an 
incident  recorded  by  Luke  (9  54),  in  which  James 
and  John  are  represented  as  wishing  to  call  down  fire 
on  a  Sam  village,  which  had  refused  them  hospital- 
ity. From  this  can  be  inferred  something  of  the 
earnestness,  zeal,  and  enthusiasm  of  the  brothers, 
and  of  their  high  sense  of  what  was  due  to  their 
Master.  Peter,  James,  John,  and  Andrew  are  the 
four  who  asked  Jesus  about  the  prophecies  He  had 
uttered:  "Tell  us,  when  shall  these  things  be?  and 
what  shall  be  the  sign  when  these  things  are  all 
about  to  be  accomplished?"  (Mk  13  4).  Then 
there  is  the  request  of  their  mother  as  to  the  place 
she  desired  for  her  sons  in  the  coming  kingdom  (Mk 
10  35  ff).  To  Peter  and  John  was  entrusted  the 
task  of  preparation  for  the  keeping  of  the  Passover 
(I.k  22  8).  Once  John  stands  alone,  and  asks 
what  we  may  consider  a  characteristic  question: 
"Teacher,  we  saw  one  casting  out  demons  in  thy 
name;  and  we  forbade  him,  because  he  followed  not 
us"  (Mk  9  38;  Lk  9  49).  From  these  notices 
we  see  that  John  was  in  the  front  rank  of  the  dis- 
ciples, and  we  see  also  that  he  was  so  far  conscious 
of  the  position  he  held,  and  of  the  intimate  connec- 
tion he  had  with  the  Master.  We  note  further  that 
John  was  a  young  man  of  fiery  zeal,  and  of  a  tend- 
ency toward  intolerance  and  exclusiveness.  The 
zeal  and  the  intolerance  are  in  evidence  in  the  desire 
to  call  down  fire  upon  the  Sam  village,  and  the 
tendency  toward  exclusiveness  is  manifested  in  the 
request  of  his  mother  as  to  the  place  her  sons  were 
to  occupy  in  the  kingdom.  They  desire  to  have  the 
highest  positions.  These  tendencies  were  not 
encouraged  by  Jesus.  They  were  rebuked  by  Him 
once  and  again,  but  the  tendencies  reveal  the  men. 
In  harmony  with  these  notices  of  character  and 
temperament  is  the  name  given  to  the  brothers  by 
Jesus,  "Boanerges,"  "Sons  of  thunder"  (Mk  3  17), 


which,  whatever  else  may  be  meant  by  it,  means 
strength,  unexpectedness,  and  zeal  approaching  to 
methods  of  violence. 

John  is  found  in  company  with  Pet  er  in  1  he  opening 

scenes  in  Acts.     He  is  with  Peter  while  t lie  man  at 

the   gate  was   healed   (3  Iff).     He   is 

2.  Acts  and  with  Peter  on  the  mission  to  Samaria 
Gal  (8  14  ff).     Hois  with  Peter  and  James, 

the  Lord's  brother,  at  the  interview 
with  St.  Paul  recorded  in  Gal  2,  and  the  three  are 
described  by  St.  Paul  as  the  pillar  apostles  (2  9). 
This  interview  is  of  importance  because  it  proves 
that  John  had  survived  his  brother  James,  whose 
death  is  recorded  in  Acts  12;  at  all  events  that 
John  and  James  were  not  killed  by  the  Jews  at  the 
same  time,  as  some  now  contend  that  they  were. 
This  contention  is  considered  below. 

Much  is  to  be  learned  of  the  apostle  John  from 
the  Fourth  Gospel,  assuming  the  Gospel  to  have 

been  written  by  him.     We  learn  from 

3.  The  it  that  he  was  a  disciple  of  John  the 
Johannine  Baptist  (1  35),  that  he  was  one  of  the 
Writings:  first  six  disciples  called  by  Jesus  in  His 
Gospel  early  ministry  in  Judaea  (vs  37-51), 
and  Rev        and  that  he  was  present  at  all   the 

scenes  which  he  describes  in  the  Gospel. 
We  find  later  that  he  had  a  home  in  Jerus,  and  was 
acquainted  with  many  there.  To  that  home  he 
took  Mary,  the  mother  of  Jesus,  whom  the  dying 
Saviour  entrusted  to  his  care  (19  2G.27).  Much 
more  also  we  learn  of  him  and  of  his  history,  for 
the  Gospel  is  a  spiritual  biography,  a  record  of  the 
growl  h  of  faith  on  the  part  of  the  writer,  and  of  the 
way  in  which  his  eyes  were  opened  to  see  the  glory 
of  the  Lord,  unt  il  faith  seems  to  have  become  vision. 
He  was  in  the  inner  circle  of  the  disciples,  indeed, 
nearest  of  all  to  Jesus,  "the  disciple  whom  Jesus 
loved"  (13  23;  19  20;  20  2;  21  7.20),  and,  be- 
cause of  that  love,  became  the  apostle  of  love;  (see, 
further,  John,  Gospel  of;  John,  Epistles  of; 
Johannine  Theology). 

The  Book  of  Rev,  likewise  traditionally  ascribed 
to  John,  bears  important  witness  to  the  apostle's 
banishment  in  later  life  to  the  isle  of  Patmos  in  the 
Aegean  (1  9).  There  he  received  the  visions  re- 
corded in  the  book.  The  banishment  probably 
took  place  in  the  reign  of  Domitian  (see  Revela- 
tion), with  whose  practice  it  was  entirely  in  con- 
sonance (on  the  severity  of  such  exile,  cf  Sir  W.  M. 
Ramsay,  Letters  to  the  Seven  Churches  of  Asia,  ch 
viii).  The  testimony  is  of  high  importance  in  its 
bearing  on  the  disputed  question  of  John's  residence 
in  Asia,  a  point  now  to  be  discussed. 

//.  Alleged  Early  Martyrdom  of  John:  Criticism 
of  Evidence. — The  consentient  testimony  of  the 
church  of  the  2d  cent,  is  that  the  later 
1.  Recent  years  of  St.  John  were  spent  at  Ephe- 
Denial  of  bus,  where  he  wrote  his  Gospel,  and 
St.  John's  gathered  round  him  many  disciples 
Residence  (sec;  the  evidence  drawn  out  in  detail 
in  Ephesus  in  Godet,  Comm.  on  (lospel  of  St.  John, 
43  ff;  cf  also  Lightfoot,  "The  School 
of  Ephesus,"  in  Essays  on  the  Work  Entitled  "Super- 
natural Religion").  Before,  however,  we  can  use 
the  traditions  connected  with  this  residence  at 
Ephesus,  it  is  needful  to  inquire  into  the  statement 
alleged  to  be  made  by  Papias  that  John,  the  son  of 
Zebedee,  was  killed  by  the  Jews  at  an  early  date. 
It  is  plain,  that,  if  this  statement  is  correct,  the 
apostle  could  not  be  the  author  of  the  Johannine 
writings  in  the  NT,  universally  dated  near  the  end 
of  the  1st  cent. 

The  evidence  for  the  statement  that  St.  John 
was  early  killed  by  the  Jews  is  thus  summed  up 
by  Dr.  Moffatt:  "The  evidence  for  the  early 
martyrdom  of  John  the  son  of  Zebedee  is,  in 
fact,    threefold:     (a)    a    prophecy  of    Jesus    pre- 


John,  the  Apostle  Tm,;  ixTEHNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 
John  the  Baptist 


1708 


served  in  Mk  10  39  =  Mt  20  23,  (6)  the  witness 
of  Papias,  and  (c)  the  calendars  of  the  church" 
{Intro  to  Lit.  of  NT,  602).  Our  liin- 
2.  Grounds  its  do  not,  admit  of  an  exhaustive 
of  Denial  examination  of  this  so-called  evi- 
dence, but,  happily,  an  exhaustive 
examination  is  not  needed. 

(a)  The  first  head  proceeds  on  an  assumption  which  is 
not  warranted,  viz.  that  a  prophecy  of  Jesus  would  not 
be  allowed  to  stand,  if  it  were  not  evidently  fulfilled.  In 
the  present  instance,  a  literal  fulfilment  of  the  prophecy 
("The  cup  that  I  drink  ye  shall  drink."  etc-)  is  out  of  the 
question,  for  there  is  no  hint  that  either  James  or  John 
was  crucified.  We  must  therefore  fall  back  on  the 
primary  meaning  of  martyrdom,  and  recognize  a  ful- 
filment of  the  prophecy  in  the  sufferings  John  endured 
and  the  testimony  he  bore  for  the  Master's  sake  (thus 
Origen,  etc  . 

(/))  Dr.  Moflatt  lays  great  stress  on  what  he  calls  the 
testimony  of  Papias.  But  the  alleged  testimony  of 
Papias  is  not  found  in  any  early  authority,  and  then 
occurs  in  writers  not  of  any  great  value  from  the  point 
of  view  of  critical  investigation.  It  is  found  in  a  passage 
of  Georgius  Hamartolus  0>th  cent.),  and  is  held  to  be 
corroborated  by  a  fragment  of  an  epitome  (7th  or  8th 
cent.)  of  the  Chronicle  of  Philip  Sidetes  (5th  cent.),  a 
thoroughly  untrustworthy  writer.  The  passage  from 
Georgius  mav  bo  seen  in  convenient  form  in  Lightfoot's 
Apostolic  Fathers,  513-19.  It  tells  that  John  survived 
to  the  time  of  Nerva,  quotes  a  saying  of  Papias  that  ho 
was  killed  by  tho  Jews,  states  that  this  was  in  fulfilment 
of  the  prophecy  of  Jesus  above  referred  to,  and  goes  on 
to  say,  "So  tho  learned  Origen  affirms  in  his  interpreta- 
tion of  St.  Matthew's  Gospel,  that  John  was  martyred, 
declaring  that  ho  had  learnt  tho  last  from  the  successors 
of  the  apostles"  (Lightfoot,  op.  cit.,  531).  Fortunately, 
the  statement  of  Origen  can  bo  tested,  and  it  by  no 
means,  as  Moffat t  admits  (op.  cit.,  004),  bears  out  tho 
meaning  attached  to  it.  Origen  is  of  opinion  that  tho 
prophecy  of  Jesus  was  sufficiently  fulfilled  by  the  fact 
of  John's  banishment  to  I'atmos  and  his  sulferings  there. 
This,  according  to  him.  is  what  tradition  taught  and 
what  the  prophecy  meant.  From  the  whole  statement 
of  Georgius,  which  expressly  declares  that  John  survived 
till  tho  time  of  Nerva,  nothing  can  bo  inferred  in  support 
of  the  so-called  quotation  from  Papias.  It  is  to  be 
remembered  that  the  writings  of  Papias  were  known  to 
Irenaeus  and  to  Eusebius,  and  it  is  inconceivable  that, 
if  such  a  statement  was  to  be  found  in  these,  they 
would  have  ignored  it,  and  have  given  currency  to  a 
statement  contradictory  to  it.  Mo  stress,  therefore,  can 
bo  laid  on  the  alleged  quotation.  AVe  do  not  know  its 
context,  nor  is  there  anything  in  tho  lit.  of  the  first  3 
centuries  confirmatory  of  it.  In  the  citation  in  the 
epitome  of  Philip.  Papias  is  made;  to  speak  of  "John  tho 
divine"  (ho  theologos).  This  title  is  not  applied  to  John 
till  the  close  of  tho  4th  cent. 

(c)  As  regards  the  3d  line  of  evidence  instanced  by 
Dr.  Moflatt — church  calendars,  in  which  James  and 
John  are  commemorated  together  as  martyrs — it  is  even 
more  worthless  than  tho  other  two.  On  the  nature  and 
origin  of  these  martyrologies,  Dr.  J.  Drummond  may  bo 
quoted:  "They  were  constructed  in  process  of  time 
out  of  local  calendars.  At  some  period  in  the  2d  half  of 
the  5th  cent.,  a  martyrology  was  formed  by  welding 
together  a  number  of  provincial  calendars,  Rom,  Italian, 
Spanish,  and  Gallic,  into  what  was  in  effect  a  general 
martyrology  of  Western  Europe.  At  Nicomedia,  about 
tho  year  3t>0,  a  similar  eastern  martyrology  was  formed 
out  of  tho  local  calendars,  and  this  was  trd  with  curtail- 
ments into  Syr  at  Fdessa  about  the  year  400.  It  is  a 
copy  of  this,  made  in  411,  which  is  now  in  the  British 
Museum"  (Inquiry  into  Character  and  Authorship  of  tlie 
Fourth  Gospel,  232).  If  this  is  a  true  account  of  the  rise 
and  origin  of  martyrologies  we  need  not  be  surprised 
that  Sir  W.  M.  Ramsay  speaks  as  follows:  "That  James 
and  John,  who  were  not  slain  at  the  stone  time,  should 
be  commemorated  together,  is  tho  flimsiest  conceivable 
evidence  that  John  was  killed  early  in  .Terns.  The 
bracketing  together  of  the  memory  of  apostles  who  had 
some  historical  connection  in  life,  but  none  in  death, 
must  bo  regarded  as  the  worst  side,  historically  speaking, 
of  the  martyrologies"  {The  First  Christian  Century,  49, 
note). 

///.  The  Ephesian  Traditions. — Thus  the  early  tra- 
ditions of  the  churches  are  available  for  the  lift;  of  John 
tin;  sou  of  Zebedee.  But  there  still  remain 
1  Tnhn  th*»  many  blank  spaces  in  that  life.  After 
*•  J   ,.  ~.  the  reference  to  the  pillar  apostles  in  Gai, 

ApOStle,  and  silence  falls  on  tho  life  of  John,  and  we 
know  nothing  of  his  life  and  activity  until 
we  read  of  his  banishment  to  Patmos,  and 
meet  with  those  references  to  tho  old  man 
at  Ephesus,  which  occur  in  tho  Christian 
lit.  of  the  2d  cent.  One  point  of  interest  relates  to  the 
(genuine)  quotation  from  Papias,  preserved  by  Eus. 
(HE,  III,  3'J),  regarding  a  "Presbyter  John,"  a  disciple 
of  the  Lord,  who  was  one  of  his  living  authorities.  Were 
there  two  Johns  at  Ephesus  ?    Or  was  there  only  one  ? 


John  the 
Presbyter 


Or,  if  then;  was  only  one,  was  ho  John  tho  Evangelist, 
or  only  John  the  Presbyter?  Here  there  is  every  pos- 
sible variety  of  opinion.  Many  hold  that  there  were 
two,  and  many  that  there  was  only  one.  Many  who 
hold  that  there  was  only  one,  hold  that  the  one  was 
John  the  son  of  Zebedee;  others  hold,  with  equal  assur- 
ance, that  he  was  a  distinct  person.  Obviously,  it  is 
impossible  to  discuss  the  question  adequately  here. 
After  due  consideration,  we  lean  to  the  conclusion  that 
there  was  only  one  John  at  Ephesus,  and  he  the  son  of 
Zebedee.  For  the  proof  of  this,  impossible  within  our 
limits,  we  refer  to  the  learned  argument  of  John  Chap- 
man, O.S.B.,  in  his  work  John  the  Presbyter  and  the 
Fourth  Gospel  (1911). 

Into  the  traditions  which  cluster  round  John  in  Ephe- 
sus it  is  not  necessary  to  enter  in  detail  (of  Godet,  op.  cit., 

57  If).  According  to  tho  tradition  uni- 
2  Charac-  versally  accepted  in  the  church,  John  sur- 
tprictir-  vived   till  the  time  of  Trajan   (98  AD), 

tensile  Striking    and    characteristic    things    are 

Traditions      told  of  him  in  harmony  with  tho   touches 

we  find  in  tho  Synoptic  Gospels.  Tho 
story  of  his  rushing  forth  from  the  bath  when  Cerinthus, 
the  heretic,  entered  it  (Iron.,  Adv.  liner.,  iii. 3,  4)  recalls 
tho  characteristics  of  him  whom  Jesus  called  "son  of 
thunder."  Tho  same  tone  of  exelusiveness,  modified  by 
larger  experience,  is  found  in  the  1st  Ep.,  which  so  fre- 
quently and  so  decisively  discriminates  between  those 
who  believe  in  Jesus  and  those  who  do  not. 

IV.  The  Character  of  St.  John.— The  general 
character  of  this  great  apostle  is  already  sufficiently 
apparent.  While  we  recall  the  illustrative  facts 
found  in  the  Synoptics,  that  James  and  John  were 
the  two  who  wished  to  call  down  fire  from  heaven 
on  the  inhospitable  village,  that  John  was  one  of 
those  who  desiredone  of  the  chief  places  in  the 
kingdom,  that  he  it  was  who  forbade  the  man  to 
cast  otit  demons  in  the  name  of  Jesus  because  he 
followed  not  with  them,  we  do  not  forget  that  on 
each  of  these  occasions  he  was  corrected  and  rebuked 
by  the  Master,  and  he  was  not  the  kind  of  man  who 
cotdd  not  profit  by  the  rebuke  of  Jesus.  So  that 
vehemence  of  disposition  was  held  in  check,  and, 
while  still  in  existence,  was  under  control,  and 
allowed  to  have  vent  only  on  occasions  when  it  was 
permissible,  and  even  necessary.  So  in  his  writings, 
and  in  the  reflections  in  the  Gospel,  we  note  the 
vehemence  displayed,  but  now  directed  only  against 
those  who  refused  to  believe  in,  and  to  acknowledge, 
Jesus. 

"  A  quiet  and  thoughtful  temperament  is  by  no  means 
inconsistent  with  a  certain  vehemence,  when,  on  occa- 
sions, tho  pent-up  fire  flashes  forth;  indeed,  the  very 
violence  of  feeling  may  help  to  foster  an  habitual  quie- 
tude, lest  word  or  deed  should  betray  too  deep  an  emo- 
tion. Then  it  is  not  without  significance  that,  in  tho 
three  narratives  which  are  cited  from  the  Gospels  to 
prove  tho  overbearing  temper  of  John,  we  are  expressly 
told  that  Jesus  corrected  him.  Are  we  to  suppose  that 
those  rebukes  made  no  impression  ?  Is  it  not  more 
likely  that  they  sank  deep  into  his  heart,  and  that  the 
agony  of  beholding  his  Master's  crucifixion  made  them 
ineffaceable?  Then,  if  not  before,  began  that  long 
development  which  changed  the  youthful  son  of  thunder 
into  the  aged  apostle  of  love"  (Drummond,  op.  cit., 
410,  411). 

But  love  itself  has  its  side  of  vehemence,  and  the 
intensity  of  love  toward  a  person  or  a  cause  may  be 
measured  by  the  intensity  of  aversion  and  of  hatred 
toward  their  contradictories.  There  are  many  re- 
flections in  the  Gospel  and  in  the  Epp.  which  dis- 
play this  energy  of  hatred  toward  the  work  of  the 
devil,  and  toward  those  dispositions  which  are  under 
the  influence  of  the  father  of  lies.  We  simply 
notice  these,  for  they  prove  that  the  fervent  youth 
who  was  devoted  to  his  Master  carried  with  him 
to  the  end  the  same  disposition  which  was  charac- 
teristic of  him  from  the  beginning. 

Literature. — In  addition  to  books  mentioned  in  art., 
see  the  list  of  works  appended  to  art.  on  John,  Gospel  or. 

James  Ivekach 

JOHN  THE  BAPTIST  ('Iwdv^s,  Iodnes) : 

I.  Sources 

II.  Parentage 

III.  Early  Life 

IV.  Ministry 

1.  The  Scene 

2.  His  First  Appearance 


1700 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  J°hn  t*he  B^pS? 


3.  His  Uresis  and  Manner 

4.  His  Message 

5.  His  Severity 
V.     Baptism 

1.  Significance 

(1)  Lustrations  Required  by  the  Levitical  Law 

(2)  Anticipation     of     Messianic     Lustrations 
Foretold  by  the  Prophets 

(3)  Proselyte  Baptism 

2.  Baptism  of  Jesus 

VI.     Imprisonment  and   Death 

1.  The  Time 

2.  The  Occasion 

VII.     John  and  His  Disciples 

1.  The  Inner  Circle 

2.  Their  Training 

3.  Their  Fidelity 
VIII.     John   and  Jesus 

1.  John's  Relation  to  Jesus 

2.  Jesus'  Estimate  of  John 
Literature 

/.  Sources. — The  sources  of  first-hand  informal  ion 
concerning  the  life  and  work  of  John  the  Baptist 
are  limited  to  the  NT  and  Jos.  Lk  and  Mt  give 
the  fuller  notices,  and  these  are  in  substantial 
agreement.  The  Fourth  Gospel  deals  chiefly  with 
the  witness  after  the  baptism.  In  his  single  notice 
(Ant,  XVIII,  v,  2),  Jos  makes  an  interesting  ref- 
erence to  the  cause  of  John's  imprisonment.  See 
VI.  2,  below. 

//.  Parentage. — John  was  of  priestly  descent. 
His  mother,  Elisabeth,  was  of  the  daughters  of 
Aaron,  while  his  father,  Zacharias,  was  a  priest  of 
the  course  of  Abija,  and  did  service  in  the  temple  at 
Jerus.  It  is  said  of  them  that  "they  were  both 
righteous  before  God,  walking  in  all  the  command- 
ments and  ordinances  of  the  Lord  blameless"  (Lk 

1  0).  This  priestly  ancestry  is  in  interesting  con- 
trast with  his  prophetic  mission. 

///.  Early  Life. — We  infer  from  Luke's  account 
that  John  was  born  about  six  months  before  the 
birth  of  Jesus.  Of  the  place  we  know  only  that  it 
was  a  city  of  the  hill  country  of  Judah.  Our  defi- 
nite information  concerning  his  youth  is  summed 
up  in  the  angelic  prophecy,  ''Many  shall  rejoice 
at  his  birth.  For  he  shall  be  great  in  the  sight  of  the 
Lord,  and  he  shall  drink  no  wine  nor  strong  drink; 
and  he  shall  be  filled  with  the  Holy  Spirit,  even  from 
his  mother's  womb"  (Lk  1  14-16),  and  in  Luke's 
brief  statement,  "And  the  child  grew,  and  waxed 
strong  in  spirit,  and  was  in  the  deserts  till  the  day 
of  his  showing  unto  Israel"  (1  80).  The  character 
and  spiritual  insight  of  the  parents  shown  in  the 
incidents  recorded  are  ample  evidence  that  his  train- 
ing was  a  fitting  preparation  for  his  great  mission. 

IV.  Ministry. — The  scene  of  the  Baptist's  min- 
istry was  partly  in  the  wilderness  of  Southern  Judaea 
and  partly  in  the  Jordan  valley.    Two 

1.  The  locations  are  mentioned,  Bethany  or 
Scene  Bethabara  (Jn  1  28),  and  Aenon  near 

Salim  (Jn  3  23).  Neither  of  these 
places  can  be  positively  identified.  We  may  infer 
from  Jn  3  2  that  he  also  spent  some  time  in  Peraea 
beyond  the  Jordan. 

The  unusual  array  of  dates  with  which  Luke  marks 
the  beginning  of  John's  ministry  (Lk  3  1.2)  reveals 

his  sense  of  the  importance  of  the  event 

2.  His  First  as  at  once  the  beginning  of  his  pro- 
Appearance  phetic  work  and  of  the  new  dispen- 
sation.    His   first    public    appearance 

is  assigned  to  the  15th  year  of  Tiberius,  probably 
26  or  27  AD,  for  the  first  Passover  attended  by 
Jesus  can  hardly  have  been  later  than  27  AD  (Jn 

2  20). 

John's  dress  and  habits  were  strikingly  suggestive 

of  Elijah,  the  old  prophet  of  national  judgment. 

His  desert  habits  have  led  some  to 

3.  His  Dress  connect  him  with  that  strange  com- 
and  Manner  pany  of  Jews  known  as  the  Essenes. 

There  is,  however,  little  foundation 
for  such  a  connection  other  than  his  ascetic  habits 
and  the  fact  that  the  chief  settlement  of  this  sect 


was  near  the  home  of  his  youth.  It  was  natural 
that  he  should  continue  the  manner  of  his  youthful 
life  in  the  desert,  ami  it  is  not  improbable  that  he 
intentionally  copied  his  great  prophetic  model.  It 
was  fitting  that  the  one  who  called  men  to  repentance 
and  the  beginning  of  a  self-denying  life  should  show 
renunciation  and  self-denial  in  his  own  life.  But 
there  is  no  evidence  in  his  teaching  that  he  required 
such  asceticism  of  those  who  accepted  his  baptism. 
The  fundamental  note  in  the  message  of  John 
was  the  announcement  of  the  near  approach  of  the 
Messianic    age.     But    while    he    an- 

4.  His  nounced  himself  as  the  herald  voice 
Message       preparing  the  way  of  the  Lord,  and 

because  of  this  the  expectant  multi- 
tudes crowded  to  hear  his  word,  his  view  of  the  na- 
ture of  the  kingdom  was  probably  quite  at  variance 
with  that  of  his  hearers.  Instead  of  the  expected 
day  of  deliverance  from  the  foreign  oppressor,  it  was 
to  be  a  day  of  judgment  for  Israel.  It  meant  good 
for  the  penitent,  but  destruction  for  the  ungodly. 
"He  will  gather  his  wheat  into  the  garner,  but  the 
chaff  he  will  burn  up  with  ....  fire"  (Mt  3  12). 
"The  axe  also  lieth  at  the  root  of  the  trees:  every 
tree  therefore  that  bringeth  not  forth  good  fruit  is 
hewn  down,  and  cast  into  the  fire"  (Lk  3  9).  Yet 
tliis  idea  was  perhaps  not  entirely  unfamiliar.  That 
the  delay  in  the  Messiah's  coming  was  due  to  the 
sinfulness  of  the  people  and  their  lack  of  repentance, 
was  a  commonplace  in  the  message  of  their  teachers 
(Elersheim,  Life  and  Times  of  Jesus  the  Messiali,  I, 
169). 

The  call  to  repentance  wTas  then  a  natural  message 
of  preparation  for  such  a  time  of  judgment.  But 
to  John  repentance  was  a  very  real  and  radical 
thing.  It  meant  a  complete  change  of  heart  and 
life.  "Bring  forth  ....  fruits  worthy  of  repent- 
ance" (Lk  3  8).  What  these  fruits  were  he  made 
clear  in  his  answers  to  the  inquiring  multitudes  and 
the  publicans  and  soldiers  (3  10-14).  It  is  notice- 
able that  there  is  no  reference  to  the  usual  cere- 
monies of  the  law  or  to  a  change  of  occupation.  Do 
good;  be  honest;  refrain  from  extortion;  be  con- 
tent with  wages. 

John  used  such  violence  in  addressing  the  Phari- 
sees and  Sadducees  doubtless  to  startle  them  from 
their    self-complacency.     How    hope- 

5.  His  lessly  they  were  blinded  by  their  sense 
Severity         of  securit  y  as  the  children  of  Abraham, 

and  by  their  confidence  in  the  merits 
of  the  law,  is  attested  by  the  fact  that  these  par- 
ties resisted  the  teachings  of  both  John  and  Jesus 
to  the  very  end. 

With  what  vigor  and  fearlessness  the  Baptist 
pressed  his  demand  for  righteousness  is  shown  by 
his  stern  reproof  of  the  sin  of  Herod  and  Ilerodias, 
which  led  to  his  imprisonment  and  finally  to  his 
death. 

V.  Baptism. — The  symbolic  rite  of  baptism  was 
such  an  essent  ial  part  of  the  work  of  John  that  it 

not  only  gave  him  his  distinctive  title 
1.  Signifi-  of  "the  Baptist,"  (6  Pawriarris,  ho 
cance  bapt isles),  but  also  caused  his  message 

to  be  styled  "preaching  the  baptism 
of  repentance."  That  a  special  virtue  was  ascribed 
to  this  rite,  and  that  it  was  regarded  as  a  neces- 
sary part  of  the  preparation  for  the  coming  of  the 
Messiah,  are  shown  by  its  important  place  in  John's 
preaching,  and  by  the  eagerness  with  which  it  was 
sought  by  the  multit  udes.  Its  significance  may  best 
be  understood  by  giving  attention  to  its  historical 
antecedents,  for  while  John  gave  the  rite  new  sig- 
nificance, it  certainly  appealed  to  ideas  already 
familiar  to  the  Jews. 

(1)  Lustrations  required  by  the  Levitical  law. — 
The  divers  washings  required  by  the  law  (Lev  11- 
15)  have,  without  doubt,  a  religious  import.     This  is 


John  the  Baptist  TF|],;  ixtERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 

John,  Epistles  of  '  


1710 


shown  by  the  requirement  of  sacrifices  in  connec- 
tion with  the  cleansing,  esp.  the  sin  offering  (Lev 
14  8.9.19.20;  cf  Mk  1  11;  Lk  2  22).  The  desig- 
nation of  John's  baptism  by  the  word  ^airT^eiv, 
baptizein,  winch  by  NT  times  was  used  of  cere- 
monial purification,  also  indicates  some  historical 
connection  (cf  Sir  34  25). 

(2)  Anticipation  of  Messianic  lustrations  foretold 
In/  prophets. — John  understood  that  his  baptism  was 
a  preparation  for  the  Messianic  baptism  antici- 
pated by  the  prophets,  who  saw  that  for  a  true 
cleansing  the  nation  must  wait  until  Cod  should 
open  in  Israel  a  fountain  for  cleansing  (Zee  13  1), 
and  should  sprinkle  His  people  with  clean  water 
and  give  them  a  new  heart  and  a  new  spirit  (Ezk 
36  2"). 26;  Jer  33  8).  His  baptism  was  at  once 
a  preparation  and  a  promise  of  the  spiritual  cleans- 
ing which  the  Messiah  would  bestow.  "I  indeed 
baptize  you  with  water  unto  repentance:  but  he 
that  cometh  after  me  ....  shall  baptize  you  with 
the  Holy  Spirit  and  with  fire"  (Mt  3  11  m). 

(3)  Proselyte  baptism. — According  to  the  teaching 
of  later  Judaism,  a  stranger  who  desired  to  be 
adopted  into  the  family  of  Israel  was  required,  along 
with  circumcision,  'y  irn'P''v  t>w'-t'ile  pP^ptism  as 
a  means  of  cleansing  from  the  ceremonial  unclean- 
ness  attributed  to  him  as  a  Gentile.  While  it  is 
not  possible  to  prove  the  priority  of  this  practice 
of  proselyte  baptism  to  the  baptism  of  John,  there 
can  be  no  doubt  of  the  fact,  for  it  is  inconceivable, 
in  view  of  Jewish  prejudice,  that  it  would  be  bor- 
rowed from  John  or  after  this  time. 

While  it  seems  clear  that  in  the  use  of  the  rite  of 
baptism  John  was  influenced  by  the  Jewish  customs 
of  ceremonial  washings  and  proselyte  baptism,  his 
baptism  differed  very  essentially  from  these.  The 
Levitical  washings  restored  an  unclean  person  to 
his  former  condition,  but  baptism  was  a  preparation 
for  a  new  condition.  On  the  other  hand,  proselyte 
baptism  was  administered  only  to  Gentiles,  while 
John  required  baptism  of  all  Jews.  At  the  same 
time  his  baptism  was  very  different  from  Christian 
baptism,  as  he  himself  declared  (Lk  3  16).  His  was 
a  baptism  of  water  only;  a  preparation  for  the  bap- 
tism "in  the  Spirit"  which  was  to  follow.  It  is  also  to 
be  observed  that  it  was  a  rite  complete  in  itself ,  and 
that  it  was  offered  to  the  nation  as  a  preparation 
for  a  specific  event,  the  advent  of  the  Messiah. 

We  may  say,  then,  that  as  a  "baptism  of  repent- 
ance" it  meant  a  renunciation  of  the  past  life;  as  a 
cleansing  it  symbolized  the  forgiveness  of  sins  (Mk  1 
4),  and  as  preparation  it  implied  a  promise  of  loyalty 
to  the  kingdom  of  the  Messiah.  We  have  no  reason 
to  believe  that  Jesus  experienced  any  sense  of  sin  or 
felt  any  need  of  repentance  or  forgiveness;  but  as  a 
Divinely  appointed  preparation  for  the  Messianic 
kingdom  His  submission  to  it  was  appropriate. 

While  the  multitudes  flocked  to  the  Jordan,  Jesus 
came  also  to  be  baptized  with  the  rest.     "John 

would  have  hindered  him,  saying,  I 
2.  Baptism  have  need  to  be  baptized  of  thee,  and 
of  Jesus        comest     thou     to     me?     But     Jesus 

answering  said  unto  him,  Suffer  it  now : 
for  thus  it  becometh  us  to  fulfil  all  righteousness'' 
(Mt  3  13-15).  Wherein  was  this  act  a  fulfilment 
of  righteousness?  We  cannot  believe  that  Jesus  felt 
any  need  of  repentance  or  change  of  life.  May  we 
not  regard  it,  rather  as  an  identification  of  Himself 
with  His  people  in  the  formal  consecration  of  His 
life  to  the  work  of  the  kingdom? 

VI.  Imprisonment  and  Death. — Neither  the  exact 
time  of  John's  imprisonment  nor  the  period  of  time 

between  his  imprisonment  and  his 
1.  The  death    can    be    determined.     On    the 

Time  occasion  of  the  unnamed  feast  of  Jn 

5  i,  Jesus  refers  to  John's  witness  as 
already  past.     At  least,  then,  his  arrest,  if  not  his 


death,  must  have  taken  place  prior  to  that  inci- 
dent, i.e.  before  the  second  Passover  of  Jesus'  min- 
istry. 

According  to  the  Gospel  accounts,  John  was  im- 
prisoned because  of  his  reproof  of  Herod's  marriage 

with  Herodias,  the  wife  of  his  brother 
2.  The  Philip    (Lk  3  19.20;     cf    Mt  14  3.4; 

Occasion        Mk  6  17.18).     Jos  says  {Ant,  XVIII, 

v,  2)  that  Herod  was  influenced  to  put 
John  to  death  by  the  "fear  lest  his  great  influence 
over  the  people  might  put  it  in  his  power  or  inclina- 
tion to  raise  a  rebellion.  Accordingly,  he  was  sent 
a  prisoner,  out  of  Herod's  suspicious  temper,  to 
Machaerus,  anil  was  there  put  to  death.'  This 
account  of  Jos  does  not  necessarily  conflict  with  the 
tragic  story  of  the  Gospels.  If  Herod  desired  to 
punish  or  destroy  him  for  the  reasons  assigned  by 
the  evangelists,  lie  would  doubtless  wish  to  offer  as 
the  public  reason  some  political  charge,  and  the  one 
named  by  Jos  would  be  near  at  hand. 

VII.  John  and  His  Disciples. — Frequent  refer- 
ence is  made  in  the  Gospel  narrative  to  the  disciples 

of  John.     As  the  multitude's  crowded 

1.  The  to  his  baptism,  it  was  natural  that  he 
Inner  should  gather  about  him  an  inner  circle 
Circle  of    men    who    should    receive    special 

instruction  in  the  meaning  of  his  work, 
and  should  aid  him  in  the  work  of  baptism,  which 
must  have  soon  increased  beyond  his  power  to  per- 
form alone.  It  was  in  the  formation  of  this  inner 
circle  of  immediate  followers  that  he  prepared  a 
sure  foundation  for  the  work  of  the  Messiah;  for 
it  was  from  this  inner  group  that  the  disciples  of 
Jesus  were  mainly  drawn,  and  that  with  his  consent 
and  through  his  witness  to  the  superior  worth  of  the 
latter,  and  the  temporary  character  of  his  own 
mission  (Jn  1  29-44).  .  .   . 

Concerning  the  substance  of  their  training,  we 

know  from  the  disciples  of  Jesus  (Lk  11  1)  that  it 

included  forms  of  prayer,  and  from  his 

2.  Their  own  disciples  (Mt  9  14)  we  learn  that 
Training        frequent  fastings  were  observed.     We 

may  be  sure  also  that  he  taught  them 
much  concerning  the  Messiah  and  His  work. 

There  is  abundant  evidence  of  the  great  fidelity 
of  these  disciples  to  their  master.     This  may  be 

observed  in  their  concern  at  the  over- 

3.  Their  shadowing  popularity  of  Jesus  (Jn  3 
Fidelity  26);  in  their  loyalty  to  him  in  his  im- 
prisonment and  in  their  reverent  treat- 
ment of  his  body  after  his  death  (Mk  6  29).  That 
John's  work  was  extensive  and  his  influence  lasting 
is  shown  by  the  fact  that  20  years  afterward  Paul 
found  in  far-off  Ephesus  certain  disciples,  including 
Apollos,  the  learned  Alexandrian  Jew,  who  knew 
no  other  baptism  than  that  of  John  (Acts  19  1-7). 

VIII.  John  and  Jesus. — John  assumed  from  the 
first  the  role  of  a  herald  preparing  the  way  for  the 

approaching  Messianic  age.  He  clear- 
ly regarded  his  work  as  Divinely  ap- 
pointed (Jn  1  33),  but  was  well  aware 
of  his  subordinate  relation  to  the  Mes- 
siah (Mk  1  7)  and  of  the  temporary 
character  of  his  mission  (Jn  3  30).  The  Baptist's 
work  was  twofold.  In  his  preaching  he  warned  the 
nation  of  the  true  character  of  the  new  kingdom  as 
a  reign  of  righteousness,  and  by  his  call  to  repent- 
ance and  baptism  he  prepared  at  least  a  few  hearts 
for  a  sympathetic  response  to  the  call  and  teaching 
of  Jesus.  He  also  formally  announced  and  bore 
frequent  personal  testimony  to  Jesus  as  the  Messiah. 
There  is  no  necessary  discrepancy  between  the 
synoptic  account  and  that  of  the  Fourth  Gospel 
in  reference  to  the  progress  of  John's  knowledge  of 
the  Messianic  character  of  Jesus.  According  to 
Mt  3  14,  John  is  represented  as  declining  at  first 
to  baptize  Jesus  because  he  was  conscious  of  His 


1.  John's 
Relation 
to  Jesus 


1711 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


John  the  Baptist 
John,  Epistles  of 


superiority,  while  in  Jn  1  29-34  he  is  represented 
as  claiming  not  to  have  known  Jesus  until  He  was 
manifested  by  the  heavenly  sign.  The  latter  may 
mean  only  that  He  was  not  known  to  him  definitely 
as  the  Messiah  until  the  promised  sign  was  given. 

The  message  which  John  sent  to  Jesus  from  prison 
seems  strange  to  some  in  view  of  the  signal  testi- 
monies which  he  had  previously  borne  to  His  charac- 
ter. This  need  not  indicate  t  hat  he  had  lost  faith  in 
the  Messiahship  of  Jesus,  but  rather  a  perplexity  at 
1  he  course  of  events.  The  inquiry  may  have  been  in 
the  interest  of  the  faith  of  his  disciples  or  his  own  re- 
lief from  misgivings  due  to  Jesus'  delay  in  assuming 
the  expected  Messianic  authority.  John  evidently 
held  1  he  prophet  ic  view  of  a  temporal  Messianic;  king- 
dom, and  some  readjustment  of  view  was  necessary. 

Jesus  was  no  less  frank  in  His  appreciation  of 
John.  If  praise  may  be  measured  by  the  worth 
of  the  one  by  whose  lips  it  is  spoken, 
2.  Jesus'  then  no  man  ever  received  such  praise 
Estimate  as  he  who  was  called  by  Jesus  a  shining 
of  John  light  (Jn  5  35),  more  than  a  prophet 

(Mt  11  9),  and  of  whom  He  said, 
"Among  them  that  are  born  of  women  there  hath 
not  arisen  a  greater  than  John  the  Baptist"  (Mt  11 
11).  If,  on  the  other  hand,  He  rated  him  as  less  than 
the  least  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  this  was  a 
limitation  of  circumstances,  not  of  worth. 

Jesus  paid  high  tribute  to  the  Divine  character 
and  worth  of  John's  baptism;  first,  by  submitting 
to  it  Himself  as  a  step  in  the  fulfilment  of  all  right- 
eousness; later,  by  repeated  utterance,  esp.  in  asso- 
ciating it  with  the  birth  of  the  Spirit  as  a  necessary 
condition  of  inheriting  eternal  life;  (Jn  3  5);  and, 
finally,  in  adopting  baptism  as  a  symbol  of  Chris- 
tian discipleship. 

Literature. — The  relative  sections  in  the  Gospel 
Comm.,  in  the  Lives  of  Christ,  and  the  arts,  on  John  the 
Baptist  in  the  several  Bible  diets.  There  are  a  number 
of  monographs  which  treat  more  minutely  of  details:  W. 
C.  Duncan,  The  Life,  Character  and  Acts  of  John  the 
Baptist,  New  York,  1853;  Erich  Haupt,  Johannes  der 
Taufer,  Giitersloh,  1874;  II.  Kohler,  Johannes  der 
Tdufer,  Halle,  1884;  R.  C.  Houghton,  John  the  Baptist: 
His  Life  and  Work,  New  York,  1889;  H.  It.  Reynolds, 
John  the  Baptist,  London,  1890;  J.  Feather,  John  the 
Baptist,  Edinburgh,  1804;  George  Matheson  in  Repre- 
sentative Men  of  the  NT,  24-66,  Edinburgh,  1905;  T. 
Innitzer,  Johannes  der  Tdufer,  Vienna,  1908;  A.  T. 
Robertson,  John  the  Loyal,  New  York,  1911. 

Russell  Benjamin  Miller 
JOHN,  THE  EPISTLES  OF: 


l 

3 

4 
II.     1' 

1. 
2, 

3.' 
4. 

III.      S 
1 

2 


eneral  Character 

.   A  True  Letter 

.  Subject-Matter 

.   Characteristics  of  the  Writer 

.   Style  and  Diction 

'OLE  mica  l   Aim 

Gnosticism 
i  >ocetism 

Antinomianism 
Cerinthus 

TRUCTURE     AND    SuMMART 

The  Prologue,  1    1-4 
First  Cycle,  1   5—2  28 
Tin?   Christian    Life   as    Fellowship    with    God 
(Walking  in  the  Light)  Tested   by  Righteous- 
ness. Love  and  Belief 


(a) 


(r) 


Paragraph  A.  1 
Paragraph  B.  2 
(i)    Positively 
(ii)   Negatively 
Paragraph  C,  2 


-2  6 
17 


18-28 
Second  Cycle,  2  29 — 4  0 
I M vine  Sonship  Tested  by  Righteousness,  Love 
and  Belief 

(a)  Paragraph  A,  2  29 — 3   i()a 
(6)    Paragraph  B.  3    106-246 
(c)    Paragraph  C,  3   246 — 4  6 
Third  Cycle,  4  7—5   21 

Closer  Correlation  of  Righteousness,  Love  and 
Belief 
(a)   Section  I,  4  7 — 5  3a 

(i)    Paragraph  A,  4  7-12 

(ii)    Paragraph  B,  4   13-16 

(iii)   Paragraph  C,  4  17 — 5 

Section  II,  5  36-21 

(i)    Paragraph  A,  5  36-12 

(ii)   Paragraph  B,  5   13-21 


IV. 


(6) 


3  a 


Canonicity  and  Authorship 

1.  Traditional  View 

2.  Critical  Views 

3.  Internal  Evidence 

V.     Relationship  to  the  Fourth  Gospel 

1.  Common  Characteristics 

2.  Coincidences  of  Vocabulary 

3.  Divergences  of  Vocabulary 

4.  Arguments  against  Unity  of  Authorship 

5.  Conclusion 

6.  Question  of  Priority 

LlTERATriiE 

Among  the  7  NT  epp.  which  from  ancient  times 
have  been  called  "catholic,"  there  is  a  smaller  group 
of  three  in  which  the  style  alike  of  thought  and  lan- 
guage points  to  a  common  authorship,  and  which  are 
traditionally  associated  with  the  name  of  the 
apostle  John.  Of  these,  again,  the  first  differs 
widely  from  the  other  two  in  respect  not  only  of 
intrinsic  importance,  but  of  its  early  reception  in  the 
church  and  unquestioned  canonicity. 

The  First  Epistle 

/.    General  Character. — Not  only  is  the  Ep.  an 
anonymous   writing;     one   of   its   unique   features 
among  the  books  of  the  NT  is  that  it 
1.  A  True      does    not     contain     a    single    proper 
Letter  name  (except  Our  Lord's),  or  a  single 

definite  allusion,  personal,  historical, 
or  geographical.  It  is  a  composition,  however, 
which  a  person  calling  himself  "I"  sends  to  certain 
other  persons  whom  he  calls  "you,"  and  is,  in  form 
at  least,  a  letter.  The  criticism  which  has  denied 
that  it  is  more  than  formally  so  is  unwarranted.  It 
does  not  fall  under  either  of  Deissmann's  categories 
— the  true  letter,  intended  only  for  the  perusal  of 
the  person  or  persons  to  whom  it  is  addressed,  and 
the  ep.,  written  with  literary  art  and  with  an  eye 
to  the  public.  But  it  does  possess  that  character 
of  the  NT  epp.  in  general  which  is  well  described  by 
Sir  William  Ramsay  (Letters  to  the  Seven  Churches 
of  Asia,  24):  "They  spring  from  the  heart  of  the 
writer  and  speak  direct  to  the  heart  of  the  readers. 
They  were  often  called  forth  by  some  special  crisis 
in  the  history  of  the  persons  addressed,  so  that  they 
rise  out  of  the  actual  situation  in  which  the  writer 
conceives  the  readers  to  be  placed;  they  express  the 
writer's  keen  and  living  sympathy  with  and  partici- 
pation in  the  fortunes  of  the  whole  class  addressed, 
and  are  not  affected  by  any  thought  of  a  wider 

public On   the  other  hand,    the  letters  of 

this  class  express  general  principles  of  life  and  con- 
duct, religion  and  ethics,  applicable  to  a  wider  range 
of  circumstances  than  those  which  called  them 
forth;  and  they  appeal  as  emphatically  and  inti- 
mately to  all  Christians  in  all  time  as  they  did  to 
those  addressed  in  the  first  instance."  The  1st 
Ep.  of  St.  John  could  not  be  more  exactly  character- 
ized than  by  these  words.  Though  its  main  features 
are  didactic  and  controversial,  the  personal  note  is 
frequently  struck,  and  with  much  tenderness  and 
depth  of  feeling.  Under  special  stress  of  emotion, 
the  writer's  paternal  love,  sympathy  and  solicitude 
break  out  in  the  affectionate  appellation,  "little 
children,"  or,  yet  more  endearingly,  "my  little 
children."  Elsewhere  the  prefatory  "beloved" 
shows  how  deeply  he  is  stirred  by  the  sublimity  of 
his  theme  and  the  sense  of  its  supreme  importance 
to  his  readers.  He  shows  himself  intimately  ac- 
quainted with  their  religious  environment  (2  19; 
4  1),  dangers  (2  26;  3  7;  5  21),  attainments 
(2  12-14.21),  achievements  (4  4)  and  needs  (3  19; 
6  13).  Further,  the  Ep.  is  addressed  primarily 
to  the  circle  of  those  among  whom  the  author  has 
habitually  exercised  his  ministry  as  evangelist  and 
teacher.  He  has  been  wont  to  announce  to  them 
the  things  concerning  the  Word  of  Life  (1  1.2), 
that  they  might  have  fellowship  with  him  (1  3), 
and  now,  that  his  (or  their)  joy  may  be  full,  he 


John,  Epistles  of  THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1712 


writes  these  things  unto  them  (1  4).  He  writes  as 
light  shines.  Love  makes  the  task  a  necessity,  but 
also  a  delight. 

There  is  no  NT  writing  which  is  throughout  more 
vigorously    controversial:    for   the   satisfactory    in- 
terpretation  of   the   Ep.   as   a   whole, 

2.  Subject-  recognition  of  the  polemical  aim  that, 
Matter  pervades  it  is  indispensable.     But  it  is 

true  also  that  there  is  no  such  writing 
in  which  the  presentation  of  the  truth  more  widely 
overflows  the  limits  of  the  immediate  occasion. 
The  writer  so  constantly  lifts  up  against  the  error 
he  combats,  the  simple,  sublime  and  satisfying 
facts  and  principles  of  the  Christian  revelation,  so 
lifts  up  every  question  at  issue  into  the  light  of 
eternal  truth,  that  the  Ep.  pursues  its  course  through 
the  ages,  bringing  to  the  church  of  Cod  the;  vision 
and  the  inspiration  of  the  Divine.  The  influence 
of  the  immediate  polemical  purpose,  however,  is 
manifest,  not  only  in  the  contents  of  the -Ep.,  but 
in  its  limitations  as  well.  In  a  sense  it  may  be  said 
that  the  field  of  thought  is  a  narrow  one.  Cod  is 
seen  exclusively  as  tin;  Lather  of  Spirits,  the  Light 
and  Life  of  the  universe  of  souls,  ilis  creatorship 
and  government  of  the  world,  the  providential 
aspects  and  agencies  of  salvation,  the  joys  and 
sorrows,  hopes  and  fears  that  spring  from  the  ter- 
restrial conditions  and  changes  of  human  life,  their 
disciplinary  purpose  and  effect — to  all  this  the 
Ep.  contains  no  reference.  The  themes  are  exclu- 
sively theological  and  ethical.  The  writer's  imme- 
diate interest  is  confined  to  that  region  in  which  the 
Divine  and  human  vitally  and  directly  meet — to 
that  in  Cod  which  is  communicable  to  man,  to  that 
in  man  by  which  he  is  capax  Dei.  The  Divine 
nature  as  life  and  light,  and  love  and  righteousness; 
the  Incarnation  of  this  Divine  nature  in  Jesus,  with 
its  presuppositions  and  consequences,  metaphysical 
and  ethical;  the  imparting  of  this  Divine  nature 
to  men  by  regeneration;  the  antithesis  to  it — sin — 
and  its  removal  by  propitiation;  the  work  of  the 
Holy  Spirit;  the  Christian  life,  the  mutual  indwell- 
ing of  Cod  and  man,  as  tested  by  its  beliefs,  its 
antagonism  to  sin,  its  inevitable  debt  of  love — 
such  are  the  fundamental  themes  to  which  every 
idea  in  the  Ep.  is  directly  related.  The  topics,  if 
few,  are  supremely  great;  and  the  limitations  of  the 
field  of  vision  are  more  than  compensated  by  the 
profundity  and  intensity  of  spiritual  perception. 

The  Ep.  is  in  a  sense  impersonal  to  the   last  de- 
gree, offering  a  strange  contrast  to  that  frankness 
of    self-revelation    which    gives    such 

3.  Charac-  charm  to  St.  Paul's  letters;  yet  few 
teristics  of  writings  so  clearly  reveal  the  deepest 
the  Writer     characteristics  of  the  writer.     We  feel 

in  it  the  high  serenity  of  a  mind  that 
lives  in  constant  fellowship  with  the  greatest 
thoughts  and  is  nourished  at  the  eternal  fountain- 
head;  but  also  the  fervent  indignation  and  vehe- 
ment recoil  of  such  a  mind  in  contact  with  what  is 
false  and  evil.  It  has  been  truly  called  "the  most 
passionate"  book  in  the  NT.  Popular  instinct  has 
not  erred  in  giving  to  its  author  the  title,  "Apostle 
of  Love."  Of  the  various  themes  which  are  so 
wonderfully  intertwined  in  it,  that  to  which  it  most 
of  all  owes  its  unfading  charm  and  imperishable 
value  is  love.  It  rises  to  its  sublimest  height,  to  the 
apex  of  all  revelation,  in  those  passages  in  which 
its  author  is  so  divinely  inspired  to  write  of  the 
eternal  life,  in  Cod  and  man,  as  love. 

But  it  is  an  inveterate  misconception  which  re- 
gards him  solely  as  the  exponent  of  love.  Equally 
he  reveals  himself  as  one  whose  mind  is  dominated 
by  the  sense  of  truth.  There  are  no  words  more 
characteristic  of  him  than  "true"  {alelhinos,  de- 
noting that  which  both  ideally  and  really  corre- 
sponds  to    the   name   it   bears)    and    "the   truth" 


(aletheia,  the  reality  of  things  sub  specie  aeternitatis). 
To  him  Christianity  is  not  only  a  principle  of  ethics, 
or  even  a  way  of  salvation;  it  is  both  of  them,  be- 
cause it  is  primarily  the  truth,  the  one  true  dis- 
closure of  the  realities  of  the  spiritual  and  eternal 
world.  Thus  it  is  that  his  thought  so  constantly 
develops  itself  by  antithesis.  Each  conception  has 
its  fundamental  opposite:  light,  darkness;  life, 
death;  love,  hate;  truth,  falsehood;  the  Father, 
the  world;  God,  the  devil.  There  is  no  shading, 
no  gradation  in  the  picture.  No  sentence  is  more 
characteristic  of  the  writer  than  this:  "Ye  know 
that  no  lie  is  of  the  truth"  (2  21m).  But  again, 
Ins  sense  of  these  radical  antagonisms  is  essentially 
moral,  rather  than  intellectual.  It  seems  impos- 
sible that  any  writing  could  display  a  more  impas- 
sioned sense,  than  this  Ep,  does,  of  the  tremendous 
imperative  of  righteousness,  a  more  rigorous  intol- 
erance of  all  sin  (2  4;  3  4.8.9.10).  The  absolute 
antagonism  and  incompatibility  between  the  Chris- 
tian life  and  sin  of  whatsoever  kind  or  degree  is 
maintained  with  a  vehemence  of  utterance  that 
verges  at  times  upon  the  paradoxical  (3  9;  5  18). 
So  long  as  the  church  lays  up  this  Ep.  in  its  heart, 
it  can  never  lack  a  moral  tonic  of  wholesome 
severity. 

The  style  is  closely,  though  perhaps  unconscious- 
ly, molded  upon  the  Heb  model,  and  esp.  upon  the 
parallelistic  forms  of  the  Wisdom  lit. 
4.  Style  and  One  has  only  to  read  the  Ep.  with  an 
Diction  attentive  ear  to  perceive  that,  though 

using  another  language,  the  writer 
had  in  his  own  ear,  all  the  time,  the  swing  and  ca- 
dences of  Heb  verse.  The  diction  is  inartificial 
and  unadorned.  Not  a  simile,  not  a  metaphor 
(except  the  most  fundamental,  like  "walking  in  the 
light")  occurs.  The  limitations  in  the  range  of 
ideas  are  matched  by  those  of  vocabulary  and  by 
the  unvarying  simplicity  of  syntactical  form.  Yet 
limited  and  austere  as  the  literary  medium  is,  the 
writer  handles  its  resources  often  with  consummate 
skill.  The  crystalline  simplicity  of  the  style  per- 
fectly expresses  the  simple  profundity  of  the  thought. 
Great  spiritual  intuitions  shine  like  stars  in  sen- 
tences of  clear-cut  gnomic  terseness.  Historical 
(1  1)  and  theological  (1  2;  4  2)  statements  are 
made  with  exquisite  precision.  The  frequent 
reiteration  of  nearly  the  same  thoughts  in  nearly  the 
same  language,  though  always  with  variation  and 
enrichment,  gives  a  cumulative  effect  which  is 
singularly  impressive.  Such  passages  as  2  14-17, 
with  its  calm  challenge  to  the  arrogant  materialism 
of  the  world — "And  the  world  passeth  away,  and 
the  lust  thereof:  but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  God 
abideth  for  ever" — or  the  closing  vs  of  the  Ep.,  with 
their  thrice-repeated  triumphant  "we  know"  and 
their  last  word  of  tender,  urgent  admonition,  have 
a  solemn  magnificence  of  effect  which  nothing  but 
such  simplicity  of  language,  carrying  such  weight 
of  thought,  could  produce.  If  it  has  been  true  of 
any  writer  that  "le  style  est  1'homme,"  it  is  true  of 
the  author  of  this  Ep. 

//.  Polemical  Aim. — The  polemical  intention  of 
the  Ep.  has  been  universally  recognized;  but  there 
has  been  diversity  of  opinion  as  to  its  actual  object. 
By  the  older  commentators,  generally,  this  was 
found  in  the  perilous  state  of  the  church  or  churches 
addressed,  which  had  left  their  first  love  and  lapsed 
into  Laodicean  lukewarmness.  But  the  Ep.  gives 
no  sign  of  this,  and  it  contains  many  passages  that 
are  inconsistent  with  it  (2  13.14.20.21.27;  4  4; 
5  18-20).  The  danger  which  immediately  threat- 
ens the  church  is  from  without,  not  from  within. 
There  is  a  "spirit  of  error"  (4  6)  abroad  in  the  world. 
From  the  church  itself  (2  18),  many  "false  prophets" 
have  gone  forth  (4  1),  corrupters  of  the  gospel, 
veritable  antichrists  (2  18).     And  it  may  be  as- 


1713 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  John,  Epistles  of 


serted  as  beyond  question  that  the  peril  against 
which  the  Ep.  was  intended  to  arm  the  church  was 
the  spreading  influence  of  some  form  of  Gnosticism. 
The  pretensions  of  Gnosticism  to  a  higher  esoteric 
knowledge  of  Divine  things  seems  to  be  clearly 
referred    to    in    several    passages.     In 

1.  Gnosti-     2  4.6.9,  e.g.  one  might  suppose  that 
cism  they  are  almost  verbally  quoted  ("He 

that  saith";  "I  know  Him";  "I 
abide  in  Him";  "I  am  in  the  light").  When  we 
observe,  moreover,  t  lie  prominence  given  through- 
out to  the  idea  of  knowledge  and  the  special  sig- 
nificance of  some  of  these  passages,  the  conviction 
grows  that  the  writer's  purpose  is  not  only  to  refute 
the  false,  but  to  exhibit  apostolic  Christianity,  be- 
lieved and  lived,  as  the  true  Gnosis — the  Divine 
reality  of  which  Gnosticism  was  but  a  fantastic 
caricature.  The  confidence  he  has  concerning  his 
readers  is  that  they  "know  him  who  is  from  the  be- 
ginning," that  they  "know  the  Father"  (2  13). 
"Every  one  that  loveth  is  begotten  of  God,  and 
knoweth  God"  (4  7);  and  the  final  note  upon  which 
the  Ep.  closes  is:  "We  know  him  that  is  true,  and  wo 
are  in  him  that  is  true"  (5  20).  The  knowledge  of 
the  ultimate  Reality,  the  Being  who  is  the  eternal 
life,  is  for  Christian  and  Gnostic  alike  the  goal  of 
aspiration. 

But  it  is  against  two  closely  related  developments 
of  gnostic  tendency,  a  docetic  view  of  the  incarna- 
tion, and  an  antinomian  view  of  morals,  that  the  Ep. 
is  specifically  directed.  Both  of  these  sprang  nat- 
urally from  the  dualism  which  was  the  fundamental 
and  formative  principle  of  Gnosticism  in  all  its 
many  forms.  According  to  the  dualist  ic  conception 
of  existence,  the  moral  schism  of  which  we  are 
conscious  in  experience  is  original,  eternal,  inherent 
in  the  nature  of  beings.  There  are  two  independent 
and  antagonistic  principles  of  being  from  which 
severally  come  all  the  good  and  all  the  evil  that 
exist.  The  source  and  the  seat  of  evil  were  found 
in  the  material  element,  in  the  body  with  its  senses 
and  appetites,  and  in  its  sensuous  earthly  environ- 
ment; and  it  was  held  inconceivable  that  the  Di- 
vine nature  should  have  immediate  contact  with  the 
material  side  of  existence,  or  influence  upon  it. 

To  such  a  view  of  the  universe  Christianity  could 

be  adjusted  only  by  a  docetic  interpretation  of  the 

Person  of  Christ.     A  real  incarnation 

2.  Docetism  was  unthinkable.     The   Divine   could 

enter  into  no  actual  union  with  a  cor- 
poreal organism.  The  human  nature  of  Christ 
and  the  incidents  of  His  earthly  career  were  more 
or  less  an  illusion.  And  it  is  with  this  docetic  sub- 
version of  the  truth  of  the  incarnation  that  the 
"antichrists"  are  specially  identified  (2  22.23;  4  2.3), 
and  against  it  that  St.  John  directs  with  whole- 
hearted fervor  his  central  thesis — the  complete,  per- 
manent, personal  identification  of  (lie  historical  Jesus 
with  the  Divine  Being  who  is  the  Word  of  Life  (1  1), 
the  Christ  (4  2)  and  the  Son  of  God  (5  5):  "Jesus  is 
the  Christ  come  in  the  flesh."  In  Jn  6  6  there  is  a 
still  more  definite  reference  to  the  special  form  which 
gnostic  Christology  assumed  in  the  teaching  of 
Cerinthus  and  his  school.  According  to  Irenaeus 
(Adv.  Hacr.,  i.26,  1)  this  Cerinthus,  who  was  St. 
John's  prime  antagonist  in  Ephesus,  taught  that 
Jesus  was  the  son  of  Joseph  and  Mary,  and  was  dis- 
tinguished from  other  men  only  by  superiority  in 
justice,  prudence  and  wisdom;  that  at  His  baptism 
the  heavenly  Christ  descended  upon  Him  in  the 
form  of  a  dove;  that  on  the  eve  of  His  Passion,  the 
Christ  again  left  Jesus,  so  that  Jesus  died  and  rose 
again,  but  the  Christ,  being  spiritual,  did  not  suffer. 
That  is  to  say,  that,  in  the  language  of  the  Ep.,  the 
Christ  "came  by  water,"  but  not,  as  St.  John 
strenuously  affirms,  "by  water  and  blood  .... 
not  with  the  water  only,  but  with  the  water  and 


with  the  blood"  (5  6).  He  who  was  baptized  of 
John  in  Jordan,  and  He  whose  life-blood  was  shed 
on  Calvary,  is  the  same  .Jesus  and  the  same  Christ, 
the  same  Son  of  God  eternally. 

A  further  consequence  of  the  dualistic  interpre- 
tation of  existence  is  that  sin,  in  the  Christian  mean- 
ing of  sin,  disappears.  It  is  no  longer 
3.  Anti-  a  moral  opposition  (anomia),  in  the 
nomianism  human  personality,  to  good;  it  is  a 
physical  principle  inherent  in  all  non- 
spiritual  being.  Not  the  soul,  but  the  flesh  is  its 
organ;  and  redemption  consists,  not  in  the  renewal 
of  the  moral  nature,  but  in  its  emancipation  from 
the  flesh.  Thus  it  is  no  mere  general  contingency, 
but  a  definite  tendency  that  is  contemplated  in  the 
repeated  warning:  "If  we  say  that  we  have  no  sin, 
we  deceive  ourselves,  and  the  truth  is  not  in  us. 
....  If  we  say  that  we  have  not  sinned,  we  make 
him  a  liar,  and  his  word  is  not  in  us"  (1  8.10). 

With  the  nobler  and  more  earnest  spirits  the  prac- 
tical corollary  of  this  irreconcilable  dualism  in 
human  nature  was  the  ascetic  life;  but  to  others 
the  same  principle  readily  suggested  an  opposite 
method  of  achieving  the  soul's  deliverance  from  the 
yoke  of  the  material — an  attitude  of  moral  indiffer- 
ence toward  the  deeds  of  the  body.  Let  the  duality 
of  nature  be  boldly  reduced  to  practice.  Let  body 
and  spirit  be  regarded  as  separate  entities,  each 
obeying  its  own  laws  and  acting  according  to  its 
own  nature,  without  mutual  interference;  the 
spiritual  nature  could  not  be  involved  in,  nor  affected 
by,  the  deeds  of  the  flesh.  Vehement  opposition 
to  this  deadly  doctrine  is  prominent  in  the  Ep.— 
in  such  utterances  as  "Sin  is  lawlessness"  (3  4) 
and  its  converse  "All  unrighteousness  is  sin"  (5  17), 
but  esp.  in  the  stringent  emphasis  laid  upon  actual 
conduct,  "doing"  righteousness  or  "doing"  sin. 
The  false  spiritualism  which  regards  the  contempla- 
tion of  heavenly  things  as  of  far  superior  importance 
to  the  requirements  of  commonplace  morality  is 
sternly  reprobated:  "Little  children,  let  no  man 
lead  you  astray:  he  that  doeth  righteousness  is 
righteous,  even  as  he  is  righteous"  (3  7);  and  the 
converse  application  of  the  same  doctrine,  that  the 
mere  "doing"  of  sin  is  of  little  or  no  moment  to  the 
"spiritual"  man,  is  met  with  the  trenchant  declara- 
tion, "He  that  doeth  sin  is  of  t  he  devil"  (3  8) .  The 
whole  passage  (2  29 — 3  10)  presupposes,  as  familiar 
to  its  readers,  a  doctrine  of  moral  indifferentism 
according  to  which  the  status  of  the  spiritual  man  is 
not  to  be  tested  by  the  commonplace  facts  of  moral 
conduct.  It  is  only  as  a  passionate  contradiction 
of  this  hateful  tenet  that  the  paradoxical  language  of 
3  6.9  and  5   18  can  be  understood. 

To  the  same  polemical  necessity  is  due  the  unique- 
ly reiterated  emphasis  which  the  Ep.  lays  upon 
brotherly  love,  and  the  almost  fierce  tone  in  which 
the  new  commandment  is  promulgated.  To  the 
Gnostic,  knowledge  was  the  sum  of  attainment. 
"They  give  no  heed  to  love,"  says  Ignatius,  "caring 
not  for  the  widow,  the  orphan  or  the  afflicted, 
neither  for  those  who  are  in  bonds  nor  for  those 
who  are  released  from  bonds,  neither  for  the  hungry 
nor  the  thirsty."  That  a  religion  which  banished 
or  neglected  love  should  call  itself  Christian  or 
claim  affinity  with  Christianity  excites  St.  John's 
hottest  indignation;  against  it  he  lifts  up  his  su- 
preme truth,  God  is  love,  with  its  immediate  conse- 
quence that  to  be  without  love  is  to  be  without 
capacity  for  knowing  God  (4  7.8).  The  assumption 
of  a  lofty  mystical  piety  apart  from  dutiful  conduct 
in  the  ordinary  relations  of  life  is  ruthlessly  under- 
lined as  the  vaunt  of  a  self-deceiver  (4  20);  and 
the  crucial  test  by  wdiich  we  may  assure  our  self- 
accusing  hearts  that  we  are  "of  the  truth"  is  love 
"not  in  word,  neither  with  the  tongue;  but  in  deed 
and  truth"  (3  18). 


John, Epistles  of  THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1714 


The  question  is  raised  whether  the  polemic  of  the 
Ep.  is  directed  against  the  same  persons  throughout 
or  whether  in  its  two  branches,  the  Christological 
and  the  ethical,  it  has  different  objects  of  attack. 
The  latter  view  is  maintained  on  the  ground  that 
no  charge  of  libertine  teaching  or  conduct  is  brought 
against  the  "antichrists,"  and  there  is  no  proof 
that  docetism  in  Asia  Minor  lay  open  to  such  a 
charge.  Butt  he  ot  her  view  has  great  er  probability. 
The  Ep.  suggests  nothing  else  than  that  the  same 
spirit  of  error  which  is  assailing  the  faith  of  the 
church  (4  6)  is  also  a  peril  to  the  moral  integrity 
of  its  life  (3  7).  And  if  there  is  no  proof  that 
docetism  in  Asia  Minor  was  also  antinoniian.  there 
is  no  proof  that  it  was  not.  The  probability  is  that 
it  was.  Docetism  and  the  emancipation  of  the 
flesh  were  both  natural  fruits  of  the  dualistic  theory 
of  life. 

The  name  which  unvarying  tradition  associates 
with  the  Ep.,  as  St.  John's  chief  antagonist  in 
Ephcsus,  is  that  of  Cerinthus.  LTn- 
4.  Cerinthus  fortunately  the  accounts  which  have 
come  down  to  us  of  Cerinthus  and  his 
teaching  are  fragmentary  and  confused,  and  those 
of  his  character,  though  unambiguous,  come  only 
from  his  opponents.  But  it  is  certain  that  he  held 
a  docetic  view  of  the  incarnation,  and,  according  to 
the  only  accounts  we  possess,  his  character  was  that 
of  a  voluptuary.  So  far  as  they  go,  the  historical 
data  harmonize  with  the  internal  evidence  of  the 
Ep.  itself  in  giving  the  impression  that  the  different 
tendencies  it  combats  are  such  as  would  be  naturally 
evolved  in  the  thought  and  practice  of  those  who 
held,  as  Cerinthus  did,  that  the  material  creation, 
and  even  the  moral  law,  had  its  origin,  not  in  the 
Supreme  God,  but  in  an  inferior  power. 

///.  Structure  and  Summary. — In  the  judgment 
of  many  critics,  the  Ep.  possesses  nothing  that  can 
be  called  an  articulate  structure  of  thought,  its 
aphoristic  method  admitting  of  no  logical  develop- 
ment; and  this  estimate  has  a  large  measure  of 
support  in  the  fact  that  there  is  no  NT  writing  regard- 
ing the  plan  of  which  there  has  been  greater  variety 
of  opinion.  The  present  writer  believes,  neverthe- 
less, that  it  is  erroneous,  and  that,  in  its  own  unique 
way,  the  Ep.  is  a  finely  articulated  composition. 
The  word  that  best  describes  the  author's  mode  of 
thinking  is  "spiral."  The  course  of  thought  does 
not  move  from  point  to  point  in  a  straight  line.  It 
is  like  a  winding  staircase — always  revolving  around 
the  same  center,  always  recurring  to  the  same  topics, 
but  at  a  higher  level. 

Carefully  following  the  topical  order,  one  finds, 
e.g.,  a  paragraph  (2  3-0)  insisting  upon  practical 
righteousness  as  a  guaranty  of  the  Christian  life; 
then  one  finds  this  treated  a  second  time  in  2  29 — 
3  10a;  and  yet  again  in  5  3  and  5  18.  Similarly, 
we  find  a  paragraph  on  the  necessity  of  love  in  2 
7-11,  and  again  in  3  106-20,  and  yet  again  in  4  7-13, 
and  also  in  4  17 — 5  2.  So  also,  a  paragraph  con- 
cerning the  necessity  of  holding  the  true  belief  in 
the  incarnate  Son  of  God  in  2  18-28,  in  4  1-0,  and 
the  same  subject  recurring  in  4  13-10  and  5  4-12. 
And  we  shall  observe  that  everywhere  these  indis- 
pensable characteristics  of  the  Christian  life  are 
applied  as  tests;  that  in  effect  the  Ep.  is  an  ap- 
paratus of  tests,  its  definite  object  being  to  furnish 
its  readers  with  the  necessary  criteria  by  which  they 
may  sift  the  false  from  the  true,  and  satisfy  them- 
selves of  their  being  "begotten  of  God."  "These 
things  have  I  written  unto  you,  that  ye  may 
know  that  ye  have  eternal  life"  (5  13).  These 
fundamental  tests  of  the  Christian  life — doing  right- 
eousness, loving  one  another,  believing  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ  come  in  the  flesh — are  the  connecting 
themes  that  bind  together  the  whole  structure  of 
the  Ep.     Thus  if  we  divide  the  Ep.  into  3  main 


sections,  the  first  ending  at  2  28,  the  second  at  4  6, 
the  result  is  that  in  the  first  and  second  of  these  sec- 
tions we  find  precisely  the  same  topics  coming  in 
precisely  tlte  same  order;  while  in  the  third  section 
(4  7—5  21),  though  the  sequence  is  somewhat 
different,  the  thought-material  is  exactly  the  same. 
The  leading  themes,  the  tests  of  righteousness,  love, 
and  belief,  are  all  present;  and  they  alone  are 
present.  _  There  is,  therefore,  a  natural  division  of 
the  Ep.  into  these  three  main  sections,  or,  as  they 
might  be  descriptively  called,  "cycles,"  in  each  of 
which  the  same  fundamental  themes  appear.  On 
this  basis  we  shall  now  give  a  brief  analysis  of  its 
structure  and  summary  of  its  contents. 


1.  The 

Prologue, 

1:1-4 


2.  First 

Cycle, 

1:5—2:28 


The  writer  announces  the  source  of  the  Christian  reve- 
lation— the  historical  manifestation  of  the  eternal  Di- 
vine life  in  Jesus  Christ — and  declares 
himself  a  personal  witness  of  the  facts  in 
which  this  manifestation  has  been  given. 
Here,  at  the  outset,  he  hoists  the  flag 
under  which  he  fights.  The  incarnation 
is  not  seeming  or  temporary,  but  real. 
That  which  was  from  the  beginning — "the  eternal 
life,  which  was  with  the  Father" — is  identical  with 
"that  which  we  have  heard,  that  which  we  have  seen 
with  our  eyes,  that  which  we  beheld,  and  our  hands 
handled." 

The  Christian  life,  as  fellowship  with  God  (walking  in  the 
Light)  tested  by  righteousness,  love  and  belief. — The  basis  of 
the  whole  section  is  the  announcement: 
"  God  is  light,  and  in  him  is  no  darkness  at 
all"  (ver  5).  What  God  is  at  once  deter- 
mines the  condition  of  fellowship  with 
Him;  and  this,  therefore,  is  set  forth:  first, 
negatively  (1  6) :  "  if  we  say  that  we  have 
fellowship  with  him  and  walk  in  the  darkness";  then, 
positively  (1  7):  "if  we  walk  in  the  light,  as  he  is  in  the 
light."  What,  then,  is  it  to  walk  in  the  light,  and  what 
to  walk  in  darkness  ?  The  answer  is  given  in  what 
follows. 

(a)  Paragraph  A,  1  8 — 2  6  (walking  in  the  Light  tested 
by  righteousness) :  First,  in  confession  of  sin  (1  8 — 2  2), 
then  in  actual  obedience  (2  3-6).  The  first  fact  upon 
which  the  light  of  God  impinges  in  human  life  is  sin; 
and  the  first  test  of  walking  in  the  light  is  the  recognition 
and  confession  of  this  fact.  Such  confession  is  the  first 
step  into  fellowship  with  God,  because  it  brings  us  under 
the  cleansing  power  of  the  blood  of  Jesus,  His  Son 
(1  7),  and  makes  His  intercession  available  for  us  (2  1). 
But  the  light  not  only  reveals  sin;  its  greater  function 
is  to  reveal  duty;  and  to  walk  in  the  light  is  to  keep  God's 
commandments  (2  3),  His  word  (2  5),  and  to  walk 
even  as  Christ  walked  (2  6). 

(6)  Paragraph  B,  2  7-17  (walking  in  the  Light  tested 
by  love):  (i)  Positively:  The  old-new  commandment 
(2  7-11).  Love  is  the  commandment  which  is  "old," 
because  familiar  to  the  readers  of  the  Ep.  from  their  first 
acquaintance  with  the  rudiments  of  Christianity  (2  7) ; 
but  also  "new,"  because  ever  fresh  and  living  to  those 
who  have  fellowship  with  Christ  in  the  true  light  which  is 
now  shining  for  them  (2  8).  On  the  contrary,  "He  that 
saith  he  is  in  the  light  and  hateth  his  brother,  is  in  the 
darkness"  (2  9).  The  antithesis  is  then  repeated  with 
variation  and  enrichment  of  thought  (vs  10.11).  (Then 
follows  a  parenthetical  address  to  the  readers  [vs  12-14]. 
This  being  treated  as  a  parenthesis,  the  unity  of  the 
paragraph  at  once  becomes  apparent.) 

(ii)  Negatively:  If  walking  in  the  light  has  its  guar- 
anty in  loving  one's  "brother,"  it  is  tested  no  less  by 
not  loving  "the  world."  One  cannot  at  the  same  time 
participate  in  the  life  of  God  and  in  a  moral  life  which 
is  governed  by  the  lust  of  the  flesh,  the  lust  of  the  eyes, 
and  the  vain-glory  of  the  world. 

(c)  Paragraph  C,  2  18-28  (walking  in  the  Light 
tested  by  belief) :  The  light  of  God  not  only  reveals 
sin  and  duty,  the  children  of  God  (our  "brother")  and 
"the  world"  in  their  true  character;  it  also  reveals 
Jesus  in  His  true  character,  as  the  Christ,  the  incarnate 
Son  of  God.  And  all  that  calls  itself  Christianity  is  to 
be  tested  by  its  reception  or  rejection  of  that  truth. 
In  this  paragraph  light  and  darkness  are  not  expressly 
referred  to;  but  the  continuity  of  thought  with  the  pre- 
ceding paragraphs  is  unmistakable.  Throughout  this 
first  division  of  the  Ep.  the  point  of  view  is  that  of 
fellowship  with  God,  through  receiving  and  acting  accord- 
ing to  the  light  which  His  self-revelation  sheds  upon  all 
things  in  the  spiritual  realm.  Unreal  Christianity  in 
every  form  is  comprehensively  a  "lie."  It  may  be  the 
antinoniian  "lie"  of  him  who  says  he  has  no  sin  (1  8)  yet 
is  indifferent  to  keeping  God's  commandments  (2  4) ,  the 
lie  of  lovelessness  (2  '■>),  or  the  lie  of  Antichrist,  who, 
claiming  spiritual  enlightenment,  yet  denies  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ  (2  22). 

Divine  soriship  tested  by  righteousness,  love  and  belief. 
— The  first  main  division  of  the  Ep.  began  with  the 
assertion  of   what  God  is  as  self-revealing — light.     He 


1715 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  John, Epistles  of 


becomes  to  us   the  light  in  which  we  behold  our  sin, 

our  duty,  our  brother,  the  world,  Jesus  the  Christ;  and 

only  in  acknowledging  and  loyally  acting 

3.  Second  out  t'ie  truth  thus  revealed  can  we  have 
r'vHp  fellowship  with  God.  This  second  division, 
i^ycie,  on  tne  0tuer  hand,  begins  with  the  asser- 
2  :29 — 4:6       tion  of  what  the  Divine  nature  is  in  itself, 

and  thence  deduces  the  essential  char- 
acteristics of  those  who  are  "  begotten  of  God." 

(a)  Paragraph  A,  2  29 — 3  10a  (Divine  sonship  tested 
by  righteousness):  This  test  is  inevitable.  "If  ye 
know  that  he  is  righteous,  ye  know  that  every  one  also 
that  doeth  righteousness  is  begotten  of  him"  (2  29). 
But  this  new  idea,  "  begotten  of  God,"  arrests  for  a  time 
its  orderly  development.  The  writer  is  carried  away 
by  wonder  and  thanksgiving  at  the  thought  that  sinful 
man  should  be  brought  into  such  a  relation  as  this  to  God. 
"Behold  what  manner  of  love!"  he  exclaims.  This 
leads  him  to  contemplate,  further,  the  present  conceal- 
ment of  the  glory  of  God's  children,  and  the  splendor 
of  its  future  manifestation  (3  1.2).  Then  the  thought 
that  the  fulfilment  of  this  hope  is  necessarily  conditioned 
by  present  endeavor  after  moral  likeness  to  Christ  (ver 
3)  leads  back  to  the  main  theme,  that  the  life  of  Divine 
sonship  is  by  necessity  of  nat  tire  one  of  absolute  antago- 
nism to  all  sin.  This  necessity  is  exhibited  (1)  in  the 
light  of  the  moral  authority  of  God — sin  is  lawlessness 
(ver  4);  (2)  in  the  light  of  Christ's  character,  in  which 
there  is  no  sin,  and  of  the  purpose  of  liis  mission,  which 
is  to  take  away  sin  (vs  5-7);  (3)  in  the;  light  of  the 
diabolic  origin  of  sin  (ver  Si;  (4)  in  the  light  of  the  God- 
begotten  quality  of  the  Christian  life  (ver  9).  Finally, 
in  this  is  declared  to  be  the  manifest  distinction  be- 
tween the  children  of  God  and  the  children  of  the  devil 
(ver  10). 

(b)  Paragraph  B,  3  106-24a  (Divine  sonship  tested  by 
love):  This  test  is  inevitable  (vs  106.11).  The  thought 
is  then  developed  pietorially  instead  of  dialect  ically. 
Cain  is  the  prototype  of  hate  (ver  12).  Cain's  spirit  is 
reproduced  in  the  world  (ver  13).  Love  is  the  sign  of 
having  passed  from  death  into  life  (ver  14a);  the  ab- 
sence of  it,  the  sign  of  abiding  in  death  (vs  146.15). 
In  glorious  contrast  to  the  sinister  figure  of  Cain,  who 
sacrifices  his  brother's  life  to  his  morbid  self-love,  is  the 
figure  of  Christ,  who  sacrificed  His  own  life  in  love  to  us 
His  brethren  (ver  16a);  whence  the  inevitable  inference 
that  our  life,  if  one  with  His,  must  obey  the  same  law 
(ver  166).  Genuine  love  consists  not  in  words,  but  in 
deeds  (vs  17.18);  and  from  the  evidence  of  such  love 
alone  can  we  rightly  possess  confidence  toward  God 
(vs  19.20)  in  prayer  (ver  22).  Then  follows  recapitu- 
lation (vs  23.246),  combining,  under  the  category  of 
"commandment."  love  and  also  belief  on  His  Son  Jesus 
Christ.     Thus  a  transition  is  made  to  Paragraph  C. 

(<•)  Paragraph  C,  3  246 — 4  6  (Divine  sonship  tested 
by  belief):  This  test  is  inevitable  (3  246).  "  We  know 
that  he  abideth  in  us,  by  the  Spirit  which  he  gave  us"; 
and  the  Spirit  "which  he  gave  us"  is  the  Spirit  that 
"confesseth  that  Jesus  Christ  is  come  in  the  flesh" 
(4  2).  On  the  contrary,  the  Spirit  that  confesseth  not 
Jesus  is  the  spirit  of  Antichrist  (ver  3).  Then  follows 
a  characterization  of  those  who  receive  the  true  and  of 
those  who  receive  the  false  teaching  (vs  4-0). 

Closer  correlation    of   righteousness,  lore    and    belief. — 

In  this  closing  part,  the  Ep.  rises  to  its  loftiest  heights; 

but  the  logical  analysis  of  it  is  more  difH- 

4.  Third  cult.  It  may  be  divided  into  two  main 
r>",r^i^  a  .n  sections  dealing  respectively  with  love  and 
cycle,  4./—  belief. 

5:21  (o)   Section  I,  4  7 — 5  3a,    on    love.— 

(i)  Paragraph  A,  4  7-12:  This  paragraph 
grounds  more  deeply  than  before  the  test  of  love.  Love 
is  indispensable,  because  God  is  love  ( vs  7.8).  The  proof 
that  God  is  love  is  the  mission  of  Christ  (ver  9) ;  which 
is  also  the  absolute  revelation  of  what  love,  truly  so 
called,  is  (ver  10).  But  this  love  of  God  imposes  upon  us 
an  uneseapable  obligation  to  love  one  another  (ver  11); 
and  only  from  the  fulfilment  of  this  can  we  obtain  the 
assurance  that  "  God  abideth  in  us"  (ver  12). 

(ii)  Paragraph  B,  4  13-10:  This  paragraph  strives 
to  show  the  inner  relation  between  Christian  belief  and 
Christian  love.  The  true  belief  is  indispensable  as  a 
guaranty  of  Christian  life,  because  the  Spirit  of  God  is 
its  author  (ver  13).  The  true  belief  is  that  "Jesus  is 
the  Son  of  God"  (vs  14.15).  In  this  is  found  the  vital 
ground  of  Christian  love  (ver  16). 

(iii)  Paragraph  C,  4  17 — 5  3a:  Here  the  subject  is 
the  effect,  motives  and  manifestations  of  brotherly  love. 
The  etfectis  confidence  toward  God  (vs  17.18);  the  mo- 
tives: (1)  God's  love  to  us  (ver  19);  (2)  that  the  only 
possible  response  to  this  is  to  love  our  brother  (ver  20); 
(3)  that  this  is  Christ's  commandment  (ver  21);  (4)  that 
it  is  the  natural  instinct  of  spiritual  kinship  (5  1). 
But  true  love  is  inseparable  from  righteousness.  "VVo 
truly  love  the  children  of  Cod  only  when  we  love  God, 
and  wo  love  God  only  when  we  keep  His  command- 
ments (vs  2.3a). 

(/<)  Section  IT,  5  36-21,  on  belief. — (i)  Paragraph  A, 
5  36-12:  Righteousness  is  possible  only  through  belief. 
It  is  our  faith  that  makes  the  commandments  "not 
grievous"  because  it  overcomes  the  world  (vs  36.4). 
Then  follows  a  restatement  of  the  contents  of  the  true 


belief,  specially  directed  against  the  Corinthian  heresy 
(vs  5.6) ;  then  an  exposition  of  the  "witness"  upon  which 
this  belief  rests  (vs  7-10);  then  a  reiterated  declaration 
of  its  being  the  test  and  guaranty  of  possessing  eternal 
life  (vs  11.12). 

(ii)  Paragraph  B,  5  13-21:  This  closing  paragraph 
sets  forth  the  great  triumphant  certainties  of  Christian 
belief:  its  certainty  of  eternal  life  (ver  13),  and  of  pre- 
vailing in  prayer  (vs  14.15).  Then  the  writer  guards 
himself  by  citing  an  instance  in  which  such  certainty 
is  unattainable — prayer  for  those  that  sin  unto  death — 
and  reminds  his  readers  that  all  unrighteousness,  though 
not  sin  unto  death,  is  sin  (vs  16.17).  He  then  resumes 
the  great  certainties  of  Christian  belief:  the  certainty 
that  the  Christian  life  stands  alwavs  and  everywhere 
for  righteousness,  absolute  antagonism  to  all  sin  (ver  18) ; 
the  certainty  of  the  moral  gulf  between  it  and  the  life 
of  the  world  (ver  19);  its  certainty  of  itself,  of  the  facts 
on  which  it  rests,  and  the  supernatural  power  which  has 
given  perception  of  these  facts  (ver  20).  With  an 
abrupt,  affectionate  call  to  those  who  know  the  true  God 
to  beware  of  yielding  their  trust  and  dependence  to 
"idols,"  the  Ep.  ends. 

IV.    Canonicity    and    Authorship. — As     to     the 

reception  of  the  Ep.  in  the  church,  it  is  needless  to 
cite  any  later  witness  than  Eusebius 
1.  Tradi-  (c  325),  who  classes  it,  among  the  books 
tional  View  (homologoumena)  whose  canonical  rank 
was  undisputed.  It  is  quoted  by 
Dionysius,  bishop  of  Alexandria  (247-65),  by  the 
Muratorian  Canon,  _  Cyprian,  Origen,  Terttillian, 
Clement  of  Alexandria,  and  Irenaeus.  Papias  (who 
is  described  by  Irenaeus  as  a  "hearer  of  John  and  a 
companion  of  Polycarp")  is  stated  by  Eusebius  to 
have  "used  some  testimonies  from  John's  former 
ep.";  and  Polycarp's  Ep.  to  the  Philippians  (c  115) 
contains  an  almost  verbal  reproduction  of  1  Jn  4 
3.  Reminiscences  of  it  are  traced  in  Athenagoras 
(c  180),  the  Ep.  to  Diognetus,  the  Ep.  of  Barnabas, 
more  distinctly  in  Justin  (Dial.  123)  and  in  the 
Didache;  but  it  is  possible  that  the  earliest  of  these 
indicate  the  currency  of  Johannine  expressions  in 
certain  Christian  circles  rather  than  acquaintance 
with  the  Ep.  itself.  The  evidence,  however,  is 
indisputable  that  ^  this  Ep.,  one  of  the  latest  of  the 
NT  books,  took  immediately  and  permanently  an 
unchallenged  position  as  a  writing  of  inspired  author- 
ity. It  is  no  material  qualification  of  this  state- 
ment to  add  that,  in  common  with  the  other  Jo- 
hannine writings,  it  was  reject ed,  for  dogmatic 
reasons,  by  Marcion  and  the  so-called  Alogi;  and 
that,  like  all  the  catholic;  epp.,  it  was  unknown  to 
the  Canon  of  the  ancient  Syrian  church,  and  is 
stated  to  have  been  "abrogated"  by  Theodore 
(bishop  of  Mopsuestia,  393-428  AD). 

The  verdict  of  tradition  is  equally  unanimous  that 
the  Fourth  Gospel  and  the  First  Ep.  are  both  the  legacy 

of  the  apostle  John  in  his  old  ago  to  the 
2  Critical  church.  All  the  Fathers  already  men- 
v';  tioned  as  quoting  the  Ep.  (excepting  Poly- 

ViewS  carp,  but  including  Irenaeus)  quote  it  as 

the  work  of  St.  John;  and,  until  the  end 
of  the  16th  cent.,  this  opinion  was  held  as  unquestion- 
able. The  first  of  modern  scholars  to  challenge  it  was 
Joseph  Scaliger  (1540-1609),  who  rejected  the  entire  trio 
of  Johannine  Epp.  as  unapostolic;  and  in  later  times  a 
dual  authorship  of  the  Gospel  and  the  First  Ep.  has  been 
maintained  by  Baur,  H.  J.  Holtzmann,  Pflciderer,  von 
Soden,  and  others;  although  on  this  particular  point 
other  adherents  of  the  critical  school,  like  Jiilicher, 
Wrede  and  Wernle,  accept  the  traditional  view. 

Thus  two  questions  are  raised:  first,  what  light 
does  the  Ep.  shed  upon  the  personality  of  its  own 

author?  And  second,  whether  or  not 
3.  Internal  the  Gospel  and  the  Ep.  are  from  the 
Evidence       same    hand.     Now,    while    the    Ep. 

furnishes  no  clue  by  which  we  can 
identify  the  writer,  it  enables  us  very  distinctly  to 
class  him.  His  relation  to  his  readers,  as  we  have 
seen,  is  intimate.  The  absence  of  explicit  reference 
to  either  writer  or  readers  only  shows  how  intimate 
it  was.  For  the  writer  to  declare  his  identity  was 
superfluous.  Thought,  language,  tone — all  were 
too  familiar  to  be  mistaken.  The  Ep.  bore  its 
author's    signature    in    every    line.     His    position 


John, Epistles  of  THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1716 


toward  his  readers  was,  moreover,  authoritative.  As 
lias  already  been  said,  the  natural  interpretation  of 
1  2.3  is  that  the  relation  between  them  was  that  of 
teacher  and  taught.  (By  this  fact  we  may  account 
for  the  enigmatic  brevity  of  such  a  passage  as  that 
on  the  "three  witnesses."  The  writer  intended 
only  to  recall  fuller  oral  expositions  formerly  given 
of  the  same  topics.)  The  writer  is  at  any  rate  a 
person  of  so  distinctive  eminence  and  recognized 
authority  that  it  is  not  necessary  to  remind  the 
readers  either  who  he  is  or  by  what  circumstances 
he  is  compelled  now  to  address  them  through  the 
medium  of  writing;  their  knowledge  of  both  facts  is 
taken  for  granted.  And  all  tins  agrees  with  the 
traditional  account  of  St.  John's  relation  to  the 
churches  of  Asia  Minor  in  the  last  decades  of  the 
1st  cent. 

Further,  the  writer  claims  to  be  one  of  the  original 
witnesses  of  the  facts  of  the  incarnate  life:  "That 
which  was  from  the  beginning,  that  which  we  have 
heard,  that  which  we  have  seen  with  our  eyes,  that 
which  we  beheld,  and  our  hands  handled,  concerning 
the  Word  of  life  (and  the  life  was  manifested,  and 
we  have  seen,  and  bear  witness,  and  declare  unto 
you  the  life,  tin;  eternal  life,  which  was  with  the 
Father,  and  was  manifested  unto  us);  that  which 
we  have  seen  and  heard  declare  we  unto  you  also, 
that  ye  also  may  have  fellowship  with  us"  (1  1-3). 
To  understand  the  "Word  of  life"  here  as  the  gospel 
(Westcott,  Rothe,  Haupt)  seems  to  the  present 
writer  frankly  impossible;  and  not  less  so  the 
theories  by  which  the  words  "what  we  have  heard, 
what  we  have  seen  with  our  eyes,"  etc,  are  regarded 
as  utterances  of  the  "faith-mysticism"  or  the  "col- 
lective testimony"  of  the  early  church.  It  is  diffi- 
cult to  imagine  words  more  studiously  adapted  to 
convey  the  impression  that  the  writer  is  one  of  the 
original,  first-hand  witnesses  of  Christ's  life  and  res- 
urrection ("that  what  we  beheld,  and  our  hands 
handled";  cf  Lk  24  39).  At  furthest,  the  use  of 
such  language  is  otherwise  compatible  with  veracity 
only  on  the  supposition  that  the  writer  was  recog- 
nized by  the  church  as  so  closely  identified  with 
the  original  witnesses  that  he  could  speak  of  their 
testimony  as  virtually  his  own.  But,  apart  from 
the  presumption  that  he  cannot  have  been  one  of 
the  actual  disciples  of  Jesus,  there  is  really  nothing 
to  be  said  for  this  supposit  ion.  So  far  as  the  internal 
evidence  is  concerned,  the  ancient  and  unbroken 
tradition  which  assigns  it  to  the  apostle  John  must 
be  regarded  as  holding  the  field,  unless,  indeed,  the 
traditional  authorship  is  disproved  by  arguments 
of  the  most  convincing  kind.  Whether  the  argu- 
ments brought  against  the  apostolic  authorship  of 
the  Johannine  writings  as  a  whole  possess  this 
character  is  too  large  a  question  to  be  investigated 
here.  Yet  the  kernel  of  it  lies  in  small  compass. 
It  is  whether  room  can  be  found  within  the  1st  cent, 
for  so  advanced  a  stage  of  theological  development 
as  is  reached  in  the  Johannine  writings,  and  whether 
this  development  can  be  conceivably  attributed  to 
one  of  Our  Lord's  original  disciples.  To  neither 
of  these  questions,  as  it  appears  to  the  present  writer, 
is  a  dogmatically  negative  answer  warranted.  If 
within  a  period  comparatively  so  brief,  Christian 
thought  had  already  passed  through  the  earlier  and 
later  Pauline  developments,  and  through  such  a 
development  as  we  find  in  the  Ep.  to  the  He,  there 
is  no  obvious  reason  why  it  may  not  have  attained 
to  the  Johannine,  within  the  lifetime  of  the  last 
survivor  of  the  apostles.  Nor,  when  we  consider 
the  nature  of  the  intellectual  influences,  within  and 
without  the  church,  by  which  the  apostle  John  was 
surrounded,  if,  as  tradition  says,  he  lived  on  to  a 
green  old  age  in  Ephesus,  is  there  any  obvious 
reason  why  lie  may  not  have  been  the  chief  instru- 
ment of  that  development. 


V.   Relationship     to     the    Fourth    Gospel. — The 

further  question  remains  as  to  the  internal  evidence 
the  Ep.  supplies  regarding  its  relation 

1.  Common  to  the  Fourth  Gospel.  Prima  facie, 
Character-  the  case  for  identity  of  authorship  is 
istics  overwhelmingly     strong.       The     two 

writings  are  equally  saturated  with 
that  spiritual  and  theological  atmosphere;  they  are 
equally  characterized  by  that  type  of  thought 
which  we  call  Johannine  and  which  presents  an 
interpretation  of  Christianity  not  less  original  and 
distinctive  than  Paulinism.  Both  exhibit  the  same 
mental  and  moral  habit  of  viewing  every  subject 
with  an  eye  that  stedfastly  beholds  radical  antago- 
nisms and  is  blind  to  approximations.  There  is  in 
both  the  same  strongly  Heb  style  of  composition; 
the  same  development  of  ideas  by  parallelism  or 
antithesis;  the  same  repetition  of  keywords  like 
"begotten  of  God,"  "abiding,"  "keeping  his  com- 
mandments"; the  same  monotonous  simplicity  in 
the  construction  of  sentences,  with  avoidance  of 
relative  clauses  and  singular  parsimony  in  the  use 
of  connecting  particles;  the  same  apparently  tauto- 
logical habit  of  resuming  consideration  of  a  subject 
from  a  slightly  different  point  of  view;  the  same 
restricted  range;  of  vocabulary,  which,  moreover,  is 
identical  to  an  extent  unparalleled  in  two  independ- 
ent writings. 

The  evidence  for  these  statements  cannot  be  pre- 
sented here  in  full;  but  the  following  arc  some  of  the, 
words    and    phrases    characteristic    of 

2.  Coinci-  both  and  not  found  elsewhere  in  the 
dences  of  NT — the  Word,  joy  fulfilled,  to  see 
Vocabulary    (or  behold)   and  bear  witness,  to  do 

the  truth,  to  have  sin,  Paraclete,  to  keep 
the  wTord  (of  God  or  Christ),  to  abide  (in  God  or 
in  Christ),  the  true  light,  new  commandment,  little 
children  (teknla),  children  (paidia),  to  abide  for 
ever,  begotten  of  God,  to  purify  one's  self,  to  do  sin, 
to  take  away  sins,  works  of  the  devil,  to  pass  from 
death  into  life,  murderer,  to  lay  down  one's  life,  to 
be  of  the  truth,  to  give  commandment,  to  hear 
(  =  to  hear  approvingly),  no  man  hath  beheld  God 
at  any  time,  knowing  and  believing,  Saviour  of  the 
world,  water  and  blood,  to  overcome  the  world,  to 
receive  witness,  to  give  eternal  life,  to  have  eternal 
life  (in  present  sense),  to  believe  in  the  name. 
The  following  are  some  of  the  terms  common  to  both, 
which  are  found  very  rarely  elsewhere  in  the  NT: 
Beginning  (  =  past  eternity),  to  be  manifested  (9  t 
in  each),  to  bear  witness  (6  t  in  the  Ep.,  33  t  in  the 
Gospel,  once  only  in  Mt,  once  in  Lk,  not  at  all  in 
Mk),  light  (metaphorical),  walk  (metaphorical),  to 
lead  astray,  to  know  (God,  Christ,  or  Spirit,  8  t  in 
the  Ep.,  10 1  in  the  Gospel),  true  [alethinos) ,  to  confess 
Jesus  (elsewhere  only  in  Rom  10  9),  children  of  God, 
to  destroy  (luein,  elsewhere  only  in  2  Pet),  the 
spirit  of  truth,  to  send  (aposiellein,  of  mission  of 
Christ),  only  begotten  son,  to  have  the  witness  (else- 
where only  in  Apoc),  to  hear  (  =  to  answer  prayer). 
On  the  other  hand,  the  divergences  of  vocabulary 
are  not  more  numerous  than  might  be  expected  in 

two  writings  by  the  same  author  but 

3.  Diver-  of  different  literary  form.  The  rather 
gences  of  notable  difference  in  the  choice  and 
Vocabulary    use  of  particles  is  accounted  for  by 

the  fact  that  dialogue  and  narrative, 
of  which  the  Gospel  is  largely  composed,  are  foreign 
to  the  Ep.  The  discrepancy,  when  closely  exam- 
ined, sometimes  turns  out  to  be  a  point  of  real  simi- 
larity. Thus  the  particle  oun  occurs  nearly  200  t 
in  the  Gospel,  not  at  all  in  the  Ep.  But  in  the 
Gospel  it  is  used  only  in  narrative,  no  occurrence  of 
it  being  found,  e.g.  in  chs  14-16. 

Of  the  words  and  phrases  contained  in  the  Ep., 
but  not  in  the  Gospel,  the  great  majority  are  ac- 
counted for  by  the  fact  that  they  are  used  in  con- 


1717 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  John,  Epistles  of 


nection  with  topics  which  are  not  dealt  with  in  the 
Gospel.  Apart  from  these,  the  following  may  be 
noted,  the  most  important  being  italicized:  Word 
of  life,  fellowship,  to  confess  sins  (nowhere  else  in 
the  NT),  to  cleanse  from  sin,  propitiation  {hilasmos, 
nowhere  else  in  the  NT),  perfected  or  perfect  love, 
last  hour,  Antichrist,  anointing,  to  give  of  the  spirit, 
to  have  (Father,  Son)  boldness  (Godward),  Pa- 
ronsia,  lawlessness,  seed  (of  God),  come  in  the  flesh, 
God  is  love,  Day  of  Judgment,  belief  (p'istis),  to 
make  God  a  liar,  understanding.  As  regards  style 
and  diction,  therefore,  it  seems  impossible  to  con- 
ceive of  two  independent  literary  productions  having 
a  more  intimate  affinity.  The  relation  between 
them  in  this  respect  is  far  closer  than  that  between 
the  Acts  of  the  Apostles  and  the  Third  Gospel,  or 
even  any  two  of  St.  Paul's  Epp.,  except  those  to  the 
Eph  and  the  Col. 

Arguments    for    a    dual    authorship    are    based 
chiefly  on  certain  theological  emphasis  and  develop- 
ments in   the   Ep.,  which   are   absent 
4.  Argu-        from  the  Gospel;  and  invariably  these 
ments  arguments    have    been    pressed    with 

against  complete  disregard  of  the  fact  that  the 

Unity  of  one  writing  purports,  at  least,  to  be  a 
Authorship  Gospel,  the  other,  an  utterance  of  the 
writer  in  propria  persona.  If,  for 
example,  it  is  urged  that  the  words  "He  is  faithful 
and  righteous  to  forgive  us  our  sins''  have  a  more 
Pauline  ring  than  any  utterance  of  the  Fourth 
Gospel,  or  that  the  conceptions  in  the  Ep.  of  pro- 
pitiation, intercession,  and  cleansing,  are  presented 
in  a  more  explicit  and  technical  form  than  in  the 
Gospel,  it  is  a  fair  reply  to  ask,  Why  not?  Is  it  to 
be  accepted  as  a  canon  of  criticism  that  the  writer 
of  that  Gospel  must  necessarily  have  put  all  his  own 
theological  expressions  into  the  mouth  of  Him  whose 
teaching  he  proposed  to  report?  Much  is  made 
of  the  assertion  that  in  the  matter  of  the  last 
things  the  Ep.  recedes  from  the  idealism  of  the 
Gospel,  placing  itself  more  nearly  in  line  with 
the  traditional  apocalyptic  eschatology.  Whereas 
the  Gospel  speaks  of  Christ's  bodily  departure  as  the 
necessary  condition  of  His  coming  again  in  the 
Spirit  to  make  His  permanent  abode  with  His  dis- 
ciples (Jn  16  7),  the  writer  of  the  Ep.  thinks  of  a 
visible  Parousia  as  nigh  at  hand  (2  28);  and  where- 
as the  Gospel  conceives  of  judgment  as  a  present 
spiritual  fact  (.Jn  3  IS. 19),  the  Ep.  clings  to  the 
"popular"  idea  of  a  Judgment  Day.  But  it  ought 
to  be  noted  that  in  the  Ep.,  as  compared  with  the 
Gospel,  the  eschatological  perspective  is  foreshort- 
ened. The  author  writes  under  the  conviction  that 
"the  world  is  passing  away"  and  that  the  "last 
hour"  of  its  day  has  come  (2  17. IS).  And  it  is  an 
unwarrantable  assumption  that  he  must,  if  he  wrote 
the  Gospel,  have  been  guilty  of  the  manifest 
anachronism  of  importing  this  conviction  into  it 
also.  Apart  from  this  the  fundamental  similarities 
between  the  eschatology  of  the  Ep.  and  that  of  the 
Gospel  are  far  more  striking  than  the  differences. 
In  both,  eternal  life  is  conceived  of  as  a  present  and 
not  merely  a  future  possession.  In  both,  Christ's 
presence  is  an  abiding  reality — "Our  fellowship  is 
with  the  Father,  and  with  his  Son  Jesus  Christ" 
(1  3).  If  the  Gospel  speaks  of  the  revelation  of 
Christ  as  bringing  present  and  inevitable  "judg- 
ment" into  the  world,  the  Ep.  is  saturated  with  the 
same  thought.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  Ep. 
speaks  of  a  visible  future  Parousia,  this  is  plainly 
implied  in  Jn  5  28.29.  If  the  Ep.  makes  a  single 
reference  to  the  Day  of  Judgment  (4  17),  the  Gospel 
has  6  passages  which  speak  of  the  "last  day,"  and 
in  these  the  "last  day"  is  explicitly  the  day  of 
resurrection  (11  24)  and  of  judgment  (12  48).  In 
the  two  writings  different  features  of  the  escha- 
tological picture  may  be  made  more  or  less  con- 


spicuous; but  there  is  no  such  diversity  as  to  war- 
rant the  hypothesis  of  a  separate  authorship. 
Again,  it  is  urged  that  in  the  Ep.  the  conception  of 
the  Logos  is  modified  in  the  direction  of  conformity 
to  traditional  doctrine.  The  conception  of  the 
personal,  preexistent  Logos,  who  "in  the  beginning 
was,"  and  "was  with  God,"  and  "was  God"  (1  1) 
was  new,  it  is  said,  and,  because  of  its  gnostic  tinge, 
suspect;  and  was  therefore  avoided  and  becomes 
in  the  Ep.  the  depersonalized  "Word  of  life"  (1  1). 
But  why  should  the  "Word  of  life"  necessarily 
signify  anything  less  personal  than  the  phraseology 
of  the  Gospel?  The  phraseology  in  both  cases  is 
exactly  adapted  to  its  purpose.  In  the  Gospel,  "in 
the  beginning  was  the  Word  ....  and  the  Word 
became  flesh"  is  right,  because  it  sums  up  the  con- 
tents of  the  Gospel,  announces  its  subject,  the  his- 
tory of  the  Incarnate  Logos.  In  the  Ep.,  the  "Word 
of  life"  is  right,  because  the  theme  is  to  be  the  life, 
not  as  to  its  historical  manifestation  in  Jesus,  but 
as  to  its  essential  characteristics,  whether  in  God 
or  in  man. 

Other  arguments  of  a  similar  kind  which  have 
been  put  forward  need  not  be  considered.     On  the 

whole,  it  seems  clear  that,  while  there 
5.  Conclu-  are  between  the  Gospel  and  the  Ep. 
sion  differences     of     emphasis,   perspective 

and  point  of  view,  these  cannot  be 
held  as  at  all  counterbalancing,  on  the  question  of 
authorship,  the  unique  similarity  of  the  two  w7ritings 
in  style  and  vocabulary  and  in  the  whole  matter 
and  manner  of  thought,  together  with  the  testi- 
mony of  a  tradition  which  is  ancient,  unanimous 
and  unbroken. 

Regarding  the  question  of  priority  as  between  the 
two  writings,  the  only  certainty  is  that  the  Ep.  presup- 
poses its  readers'  acquaintance  with  the 
6  Ouestion  su^slance  of  the  Gospel  (otherwise  such 
'.  Jj  .      .  expressions    as     "Word    of     life,"     "new 

01  Priority  commandment"  would  have  been  unin- 
telligible); but  that  does  not  imply  its 
posteriority  to  the  composition  of  the  Gospel  in  literary 
form.  By  Lightfoot  and  others  it  is  supposed  to  have 
been  written  simultaneously  with  the  Gospel,  and  dis- 
patched along  with  it  as  a  covering  letter  to  its  original 
readers.  In  view,  however,  of  the  independence  and  first- 
rate  importance  of  the  Ep.,  it  is  difficult  to  think  of  it  as 
having  originated  in  this  way;  and  by  the  majority  of 
scholars  it  is  regarded  as  later  than  the  Gospel  and  sep- 
arated from  it  by  an  appreciable  interval.  That  it  was 
written  with  a  "mediating"  purpose  (Pfleiderer),  to 
"popularize"  the  ideas  of  tho  Gospel  (Weizsiicker),  or 
to  correct  and  tone  down  what  in  it  was  obnoxious  to 
the  feeling  of  tho  church,  and  at  the  same  time  to  add 
certain  links  of  connection  (such  as  propitiation.  Para- 
clete, Parousia)  with  the  traditional  type  of  doctrine,  or 
to  emphasize  these  where  they  existed  (Holtzmann),  is  a 
theory  which  rests  on  an  extremely  slender  basis;  the 
theory  that  it  was  written  as  a  protest  against  gnostic 
appropriation  of  the  Eourth  Gospel  itself  (Julicher)  has 
no  tangible  basis  at  all. 

That  there  was  an  appreciable  interval  between  the 
two  writings  is  probable  enough.  Gnostic  tendencies 
have  meanwhile  hardened  into  more  definite  form. 
Many  false  prophets  have  gone  out  into  the  world. 
The  "antichrists"  have  declared  themselves.  The 
time  has  come  for  the  evangelist  to  focus  the  rays  of  his 
Gospel  upon  the  malignant  growth  which  is  acutely 
endangering  the  life  of  the  church. 

Literature. — Commentaries  are  numerous  and  ex- 
cellent. The  most  important  are  those  by  Calvin, 
Liicke,  Ebrard,  Hatipt  (of  fine  insight  but  grievous 
verbosity),  Huther  (specially  valuable  for  its  conspectus 
of  all  earlier  exegesis),  Westcott  (a  magazine  of  materials 
for  the  student  of  the  Ep.),  Alexander  (in  the  Speaker's 
Comm.),  Rothe  (original,  beautiful,  profound),  B.  Weiss, 
H.  J.  Holtzmann,  Plummer  (in  Cambridge  Gr  NT — 
scholarly  and  very  serviceable) ;  Brooke  (in  ICC,  excel- 
lent). Among  the  numerous  expositions  of  the  Ep.  are 
those  by  Neander,  Candlish,  Maurice,  Alexander  (Ex- 
positor's Bible),  Watson,  J.  M.  Gibbon  (Eternal  Life), 
Findlay  (Fellowship  iii  the  Life  Eternal),  Law  (The  Tests 
of  Life — combined  exposition  and  commentary) ;  among 
books  on  Introduction,  those  by  Weiss,  Bleek,  Hilgenfeld, 
Holtzmann,  Julicher,  Zahn,  Salmon,  Gloag,  Peake;  and. 
among  books  of  other  kinds,  the  relevant  sections  in  Bey- 
schlag,  AT  Theology;  Pfleiderer,  Urchristenthum;  Har- 
nack,  Geschichte  der  altchristl.  Litteratur;  Earrar,  Early 
Days  of  Christianity;  McGiffert,  History  of  Christianity 
in  the  Apostolic  Age;  Stevens,  Johannine-  Theology  and 


John, Epistles  of  THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1718 


Theology  of  the  NT;  articles  by  Salmond  in  llDli;  by 
Schmiedel  in  EB,  and  by  Hiiring  in  Theoloi/ische  Al>- 
handlunyen,  Carl  von  U'eizsaeker  ....  gewiilmet.  In 
Gorman,  the  fullest,  investigation  of  the  relationship  of 
the  ftp.  to  the  Fourth  Gospel  will  he  found  in  a  series 
of  arts,  by  II.  J.  Holtzmann  in  the  Jahrbiichcr  filr  pro- 
testantische  Theologie  (1882-83);  in  English,  in  Brooke's 
eonim.,  in  Law,  Tests  of  Life,  339-63.  See  also  Druni- 
mond,  Character  and  Authorship  of  the  Fourth  Gospel, 
ch  iii. 

The  Second  and  Third  Epistles 

It  is  not  surprising  that  these  brief  and  fugitive 

Epp.  are  among  the  NT  writings  which  have  had 

the  hardest  struggle  for  canonical  rcc- 

1.  Canon-      ognition.     One  is  probably,  the  other 
icity  and         certainly,  a  private  letter;  and  neither 
Authorship    the  same  reason  nor  the  same  oppor- 
tunity   for    their     circulation    existed, 

as  in  the  ease  of  church  letters.  The  2d  Ep.  con- 
tains lit  tie  that  is  distinctive;  the  3d  Ep.  is  occupied 
with  a  vexatious  episode  in  the  internal  history  of  a 
single  congregation.  Both  are  written  by  a  person 
who  designates  himself  simply  as  "the  Presbyter"; 
and  the  names  of  the  person  (or  church)  to  which 
the  one  is  addressed  and  of  the  church  with  whose 
affairs  the  other  is  concerned  are  alike  unknown. 
The  fact,  therefore,  that,  in  spite  of  such  obstacles, 
these  letters  did  become  widely  known  and  event- 
ually attained  to  canonical  rank  is  proof  of  a  gen- 
eral conviction  of  the  soundness  of  the  tradition 
which  assigned  them  to  the  apostle  John. 

Like  all  the  catholic  epp.,  they  were  unknown 
to  the  early  Syrian  church;  when  1  Jn,  1  Pet  and 
Jas  were  received  into  its  Canon,  they  were  still 
excluded,  nor  are  they  found  even  in  printed  edi- 
tions of  the  Syr  NT  till  1G30.  They  were  not 
acknowledged  by  the  school  of  Antioch.  Jerome 
distinguishes  their  authorship  from  that  of  the  1st 
Ep.  They  are  classed  among  the  disputed  books 
by  Eusebius,  who  indicates  that  it  was  questioned 
whether  they  belonged  to  the  evangelist  or  "possi- 
bly to  another  of  the  same  name  as  he."  Origen 
remarks  that  "not  all  affirm  them  to  be  genuine"; 
and,  as  late  as  the  middle  of  the  4th  cent.,  the  effort 
to  introduce  them  in  the  Latin  church  met  with 
opposition  in  Africa  (Zalm). 

On  the  other  hand,  we  find  recognition  of  their 
Johannine  authorship  at  an  early  date,  in  Gaul 
(Ircnaeus);  Pome  (Muratorian  Canon,  where, 
however,  the  reading  is  corrupt,  and  it  is  doubtful 
whether  their  authorship  is  ascribed  or  denied  to 
the  apostle  John);  Alexandria  (Clement,  who  is 
reputed  by  Eusebius  to  have  commented  upon 
them,  and  who  in  his  extant  works  speaks  of  John's 
"larger  epistle,"  implying  the  existence  of  one  or 
more  minor  epp.);  Africa  (Cyprian  reports  that 
2  Jn  was  appealed  to  at  the  Synod  of  Carthage, 
256  AD).  Dionysius,  Origen's  disciple  and  suc- 
cessor, speaks  of  John's  calling  himself  in  them 
"the  Presbyter."  Eusebius,  though  conscientiously 
placing  them  among  the  antilegomena,  elsewhere 
writes  in  a  way  which  indicates  that  he  himself  did 
not  share  the  doubt  of  their  authenticity. 

The  internal  evidence  confirms  the  ultimate 
decision  of  the  early  church  regarding  these  letters. 
Quite  evidently  the  2d  Ep.  must  have  been  written 
by  the  author  of  the  1st,  or  was  an  arrant  and 
apparently  purposeless  piece  of  plagiarism.  The 
3d  Ep.  is  inevitably  associated  with  the  2d  by  the 
superscription,  "the  Presbyter,"  and  by  other 
links  of  thought  and  phraseology. 

The  mention  of  this  title  opens  up  a  wide  ques- 
tion. The  famous  extract  from  Papias  (Euseb., 
HE,  III,  39)  vouches  for  the  existence, 

2.  The  among  those  who  were  or  had  been  his 
Presbyter      contemporaries,  of  a  certain  "Presby- 
ter" John  (see  John,  Gospel  of,  II, 

5).  Jerome,  moreover,  speaks  of  the  two  smaller 
Epp.  as,  in  contrast  with  the  1st,  ascribed  to  the 


Presbyter  (I)e  Vir.  Illustr.,  ix);  Eusebius  inclines 
to  ascribe  to  him  the  Book  of  Rev;  and  modern 
critics,  likeWeizsiicker  and  Harnack,  have  improved 
upon  the  hint  byfinding  in  this  shadowy  personage 
the  author  of  the  Fourth  Gospel.  Into  this  far- 
reaching  cont  roversy,  we  cannot  here  enter.  It  may 
be  noted,  however,  that  whether,  in  the  confusedly 
written  passage  referred  to,  Papias  really  intends 
to  distinguish  between  John  the  Apostle  and  John 
the  Presbyter  is  a  point  still  in  debate;  and  that 
Eusebius  {Erangelica  Demonstratio,  III,  5)  does  not 
regard  the  title  "Presbyter"  as  inapplicable  to  St. 
John,  but  observes  that  in  his  Epp.  he  "either  makes 
no  mention  of  himself  or  calls  himself  presbyter, 
nowhere  apostle  or  evangelist."  Dionysius,  too, 
remarks  that  "in  the  2d  and  3d  Epp.  ascribed  to 
him,  he  writes  anonymously,  as  the  Presbyter." 
These  Fathers,  both  exceptionally  learned  men  and 
presumably  well  acquainted  with  primitive  usage, 
saw  nothing  anomalous,  although  they  did  see 
something  characteristic,  in  the  fact,  or  supposed 
fact,  that  an  apostle  should  designate  himself  by 
the  lowlier  and  vaguer  title.  In  the  very  sentence 
from  Papias  already  referred  to,  the  apostles  are 
called  "presbyters";  not  to  say  that  in  the  NT  it- 
self we  have  an  instance  of  an  apostle's  so  styling 
himself  (1  Pet  5  1). 

To  sum  up,  it  is  evident  that  no  one  desiring 
falsely  to  secure  apostolic  prestige  for  his  produc- 
tions would  have  written  under  so  indistinctive  a 
title;  also,  that  these  brief  and  very  occasional 
letters  could  never  have  won  their  way  to  general 
recognition  and  canonical  rank  unless  through 
general  conviction  of  their  Johannine  authorship — - 
the  very  history  of  these  Epp.  proving  that  the 
early  church  did  not  arrive  at  a  decision  upon  such 
matters  without  satisfying  itself  of  the  trustworthi- 
ness of  the  tradition  upon  which  a  claim  to  canon- 
icity  was  founded;  finally,  the  internal  evidence 
testifies  to  an  authorship  identical  with  that  of  the 
1st  Ep.,  so  that  the  evidence  cited  regarding  this 
is  available  also  for  those.  These  letters,  along  with 
St.  Paul's  to  Philemon,  are  the  only  extant  remains 
of  a  private  apostolic  correspondence  which  must 
have  included  many  such,  and  for  this  reason,  apart 
from  their  intrinsic  worth,  possess  an  interest, 
material  and  biographical,  peculiar  to  themselves. 
We  proceed  to  consider  the  two  Epp.  separately, 
and  since  an  interesting  question  arises  as  to 
whether  the  2d  is  that  referred  to  in  ver  9  of  the  3d, 
it  will  be  convenient  to  reverse  the  canonical  order 
in  dealing  with  them. 

The  Third  Epistle. — This  brief  note  gives  a 
uniquely  authentic  and  intimate  glimpse  of  some 
aspects  of  church  life  as  it  existed  in  Asia  Minor 
(this  may  be  taken  as  certain)  somewhere  about  the 
end  of  the  1st  cent.  It  concerns  a  certain  episode 
in  the  history  of  one  of  the  churches  under  the 
writer's  supervision,  and  incidentally  furnishes 
character-sketches  of  two  of  its  members,  the  large- 
hearted  and  hospitable  Gains,  to  whom  it  is  written 
(and  whom  it  is  merely  fanciful  to  identify  with 
any  other  Gains  mentioned  in  the  NT),  and  the 
loquacious,  overbearing  Diotrephes;  also  of  the 
faithful  Demetrius,  by  whose  hand  probably  the 
letter  is  sent.  The  story  which  may  be  gathered 
from  the  Ep.  seems  to  be  as  follows.  A  band  of 
itinerant  teachers  had  been  sent  out,  by  the  Pres- 
byter's authority,  no  doubt,  and  furnished  by  him 
with  letters  of  commendation  to  the  various  churches, 
and  among  others  to  that  of  which  Gaius  and 
Diotrephes  were  members.  Diotrephes,  however, 
whether  through  jealousy  for  the  rights  of  the  local 
community  or  for  some  personal  reason,  not  only 
declined  to  receive  the  itinerant  teachers,  but 
exert ed  his  authority  to  impose  the  same  course  of 
action  upon  the  church  as  a  whole,  even   to  the 


1719 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  John,  Epistles  of 


length  of  threatening  with  excommunication   (ver 

10)  those  who  took  a  different  view  of  their  duty. 
Gaius  alone  had  not  been  intimidated,  but  had  wel- 
comed to  his  home  the  repulsed  and  disheartened 
teachers,  who  when  they  returned  (to  Ephesus, 
probably)  had  testified  to  the  church  of  his  cour- 
ageous and  large-hearted  behavior  (ver  6).  A  2d 
time,  apparently,  the  teachers  are  now  sent  forth 
(ver  6),  with  Demetrius  as  their  leader,  who  brings 
this  letter  to  Gaius,  commending  his  past  conduct 
(ver  5)  and  encouraging  him  to  persevere  in  it 
(ver  G) .  The  Presbyter  adds  that  he  has  dispatched 
a  letter  to  the  church  also  (ver  9);  but  evidently 
he  has  little  hope  that  it  will  be  effectual  in  over- 
coming the  headstrong  opposition  of  Diotrephes; 
for  he  promises  that  he  will  speedily  pay  a  personal 
visit  to  the  church,  when  he  will  depose  Diotrephes 
from  his  pride  of  place  and  bring  him  to  account  for 
his  scornful  "prating"  and  overbearing  conduct 
(ver  10).  So  far  as  appears,  the  cause  of  friction 
was  purely  personal  or  administrative.  There  is 
no  hint  of  heretical  tendency  in  Diotrephes  and  his 
party.  Pride  of  place  is  his  sin,  an  inflated  sense 
of  his  own  importance  and  a  violent  jealousy  for 
what  he  regarded  as  his  own  prerogative,  which  no 
doubt  he  identified  with  the  autonomy  of  the  local 
church. 

The  Second  Epistle. — The  letter  is  addressed  to 
"the  elect  lady"  (better,  to  "the  lady  Electa"). 
Its  tone  throughout  is  peculiarly  affectionate;  there 
is  a  warmer  rush  of  emotion,  esp.  in  the  opening 
verses,  than  is  characteristic  of  St.  John's  usual 
reserve.  But  in  these  verses  the  keynote  of  the 
Ep.  is  struck — truth.  The  writer  testifies  his  love 
for  his  correspondent  and  her  children  "in  truth"; 
this  love  is  shared  by  all  who  "know  the  truth" 
(ver  1),  and  it  is  ''for  the  truth's  sake  which  abideth 
in  us,  and  it  shall  be  with  us  for  ever"  (ver  2). 
What  follows  (vs  4-9)  is  in  effect  an  epitome  of  the 
1st  Ep.  After  declaring  his  joy  at  finding  certain 
of  her  children  "walking  in  truth."  he  proceeds  to 
expound,  quite  in  the  style  of  the  1st  Ep.,  what 
"walking  in  truth"  is.  It  is  to  love  one  another 
(ver  5;  cf  1  Jn  2  7-11);  but  this  love  is  mani- 
fested in  keeping  God's  commandments  (ver  6a; 
cf  1  Jn  5  2.3);  and  no  less  in  stcdfast  adherence 
to  the  genuine  doctrine  of  the  Gospel  (cf  1  Jn  3 
23).  "For  many  deceivers  are  gone  forth  into  the 
world,  even  they  that  confess  not  that  Jesus  Christ 
cometh  in  the  flesh"  (ver  7;  cf  1  Jn  4  1-3).  Then 
follows  an  exhortation  to  stedfastness  (ver  8),  and 
a  warning  that  whoever  in  the  name  of  progress 
departs  from  this  teaching  "hath  not  God,"  while 
he  who  abides  in  it  "hath  both  the  Father  and  the 
Son"  (ver  9;  cf  1  Jn  2  23.24).  This  leads  up  to 
the  immediately  practical  point,  a  warning  to  ex- 
tend no  hospitality  and  show  no  friendliness  to  the 
false  teachers  (vs  10.11);  and  the  Ep.  closes  with 
the  hope  of  a  speedy  and  joyful  meeting  "face  to 
face"  of  the  writer  and  his  correspondent,  to  whom 
he  conveys  greetings  from  the  children  of  her  "elect 
sister." 

Whether  the  "elect  lady,"  or  "lady  Electa"  of 
his  letter  is  a  real  person  or  the  personification  of 
a  church  is  a  point  which  has  been  debated  from 
ancient  times  and  is  still  unsolved.  The  solution 
has  been  found,  it  is  true,  if  we  can  accept  the 
hypothesis  (put  forward  by  Zahn  and  Schmiedel 
and  adopted  by  Findlay)  that  this  is  the  letter 
referred  to  in  3  Jn  ver  9.  It  is  urged  on  behalf  of 
this  supposition  that  the  two  Epp.  are  curiously 
identical  in  phraseology.  In  both  the  writer  begins 
by  describing  his  correspondent  as  one  whom  "I 
love  in  truth" ;  in  both  he  uses  a  distinctive  phrase 
(echdren  lian),  2  Jn  ver  4,  "I  rejoice  greatly,"  not 
found  elsewhere  in  the  NT  to  declare  his  joy  at 
finding  "thy  [my]  children  walking  in  the  truth"; 


and  in  both  he  concludes  by  saying  that  he  has 
"many  things  to  write,"  but  that,  looking  forward 
to  an  early  interview  "face  to  face,"  he  will  not 
commit  these  further  thoughts  to  "paper  and  ink." 
It  is  argued  that  "none  but  a  chancery  clerk  could 
have  clung  so  closely  to  his  epistolary  formulae" 
in  two  private  letters  written  at  different  periods. 
But  the  force  of  this  argument  largely  vanishes 
when  we  look  at  the  formulae  in  question.  If  a 
modern  writer  may  conclude  hundreds  of  friendly 
letters  by  subscribing  himself  "yours  sincerely,"  or 
something  equivalent,  why  may  not  the  Presbyter 
have  commenced  these  two  and  many  similar  letters 
by  assuring  his  correspondents  that  he  sincerely 
loved  them?  And  again,  one  in  his  official  position 
must  often  have  had  occasion  to  say  that  he  hoped 
soon  to  pay  a  personal  visit,  in  view  of  which,  writing 
at  greater  length  was  unnecessary.  Even  if  the 
likeness  in  phraseology  makes  it  probable  that  the 
two  letters  were  written  simultaneously,  this  by 
no  means  proves  that  the  one  was  written  to  Gains, 
the  other  to  the  church  of  which  Gaius  and  Dio- 
trephes were  members.  Zahn  calculates  that  2  Jn 
would  occupy  32  lines,  and  3  Jn  not  quite  31  lines 
of  ancient  writing,  and  infers  that  the  author  used 
two  pages  of  papyrus  of  the  same  size  for  both 
letters;  but  why  we  are  to  identify  2  Jn  with  the 
letter  mentioned  in  3  Jn  because  both  happen  to 
fill  the  same  size  of  note  paper  is  not  quite  clear. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  difficulties  in  the  way  of 
this  attractive  hypothesis  are  too  substantial  to 
be  set  aside.  The  two  Epp.  belong  to  entirely 
different  situations.  Both  deal  with  the  subject 
of  hospitality;  but  the  one  forbids  hospitality  to 
the  wrong  kind  of  guests,  and  says  nothing  about  the 
right  kind,  the  other  enjoins  hospitality  to  the  right 
kind  and  says  nothing  about  the  wrong  kind.  In 
the  one  the  writer  shows  himself  alarmed  about  the 
spread  of  heresy,  in  the  other,  about  the  insubor- 
dination of  a  self-important  official.  Is  it  conceiv- 
able that  the  Presbyter  should  send  at  the  same  time 
a  letter  to  Gaius  in  which  he  promises  that  he 
will  speedily  come  with  a  rod  for  Diotrephes  (who 
had  carried  the  church  along  with  him),  and  another 
to  the  church  in  which  f  hat  recalcitrant  person  was 
the  leading  spirit,  in  which  he  expresses  the  hope 
that  when  he  comes  and  speaks  face  to  face  their 
"joy  may  be  made  full" — a  letter,  moreover,  in 
which  the  real  point  at  issue  is  not  once  touched 
upon?     Such  a  procedure  is  scarcely   imaginable. 

We  are  still  left,  then,  with  the  question  What 
kind  of  entity,  church  or  individual,  is  entitled  "the 
lady  Electa"  ?  (See  Elect  Lady,  where  reasons  are 
given  for  preferring  this  tr.)  The  address  of  the 
letter  is  certainly  much  more  suggestive  of  an  indi- 
vidual than  of  a  church.  After  all  that  has  been 
so  persuasively  argued,  notably  by  Dr.  Findlay 
{Fellowship  in  the  Life  Eternal,  ch  iii),  from  the 
symbolizing  of  the  church  as  the  Bride  of  Christ, 
it  remains  very  hard  for  the  present  writer  to  sup- 
pose that,  in  the  superscription  of  a  letter  and  with- 
out any  hint  of  symbolism,  anyone  could  address 
a  particular  Christian  community  as  "the  elect 
lady"  or  the  "lady  elect."  On  the  other  hand,  the 
difficulties  urged  against  the  personal  interpretation 
are  not  so  grave  as  sometimes  represented.  The 
statement,  "1  have  found  certain  of  thy  children 
walking  in  truth,"  does  not  imply  that  others  of 
them  were  not  doing  so,  but  emphasizes  what  had 
come  under  the  writer's  personal  observation. 
Nor  can  we  pronounce  the  elevated  and  didactic 
love  of  the  letter  more  suitable  to  a  church  than 
to  an  individual  without  taking  into  account  the 
character,  position  and  mutual  relations  of  the 
correspondents.  The  person  (if  it  was  a  person) 
addressed  was  evidently  a  Christian  matron  of  high 
social  standing — one  able  in  a  special   degree  to 


John,  Gospel  of    THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1720 


dispense  hospitality,  and  of  wide  influence,  one 
beloved  of  "all  them  that  know  the  truth,"  whose 
words  would  be  listened  to  and  whose  example 
would  be  imitated.  And,  in  view  of  the  ominous 
spreading  of  the  leaven  of  Antichrist,  it  is  not  diffi- 
cult to  suppose  that  the  Presbyter  should  write 
to  such  a  person  in  such  a  strain.  Nor  docs  there 
seem  to  be  anything  esp.  odd  in  the  fact  of  the 
children  of  a  private  family  sending  their  respects 
to  their  aunt  through  the  apostle  John  (Findlay). 
If  he  was  intimate  with  that  family,  and  in  their 
immediate  vicinity  at  the  time  of  writing,  it  appears 
a  natural  thing  for  them  to  have  done.  Possibly 
Dr.  Harris'  "exploded"  "prehistoric  countess  of 
Huntington"  is  not  so  far  astray  as  a  modern  equiva- 
lent of  the  lady  Electa. 

Literature. — On  the  2d  and  3d  Epp.  soo  Comms.: 
Lticko,  Huther,  Ebrard,  Holtzmann,'  Baumgarten, 
Westcotfr,  Plummer,  Bennett,  Brooke;  Expositions: 
Findlay,  Fellowship  in  the  Life  Eternal;  S.  Cox,  The 
Private  Letters  of  St.  Paul  and  St.  John;  J.  M.  Gibbon, 
Th*  Eternal  Life. 

R.  Law 
JOHN,  GOSPEL  OF: 

I.     Introductory 

1 .  Scope  of  <  iospel 

2.  State  of  Opinion  as  to  Date  of  Appearance,  etc 
II.     External  Evidence  for  the  Fourth  Gospel 

1.  At  End  of  2d  Cent. 

2.  Irenaeus — Theophilus 

3.  Middle  of  2d  Cent. 

4.  Ignatius,  etc 

5.  John  the  Presbyter 
G.  Summary 

III.  Characteristics    of    the    Gospel:      Internal 
E  v  I  d  e  n  c  E 

1.  General  Lines  of  Attack  and  Defence 

2.  Unwarrantable  Critical  Presuppositions 

3.  Real  Aim  of  Gospel — Results 

(1)  Relation  to  Synoptics 

(2)  Time  Occupied  in  the  Gospel 

(3)  A  Personal  Record 

(4)  Reminiscences  of  an  Eyewitness 

(5)  Reminiscence  Illustrated 

(6)  Conclusions 

IV.  Progress  and  Development  in  the  Gospel 

1.  The  Presentation  of  Jesus  in  the  Gospel 

(1)  Alleged  Absence  of  Development  in  Char- 
acter of  Jesus 

(2)  Alleged  "Autonomy"  of  Jesus 

(3)  "Inconceivability"    of    Logos-Presentation 

2.  The  Logos- Doctrine  of  the  Prologue 

3.  Growth  of  Faith  and  Development  of  Unbelief 

(1)  Early  Confessions 

(2)  Growth  of  Faith  in  the  Disciples 

(3)  Gradual  Disclosure  of  Messiahship :  Growth 
of  Unbelief 

Literature 

/.  Introductory. — The  Fourth  Gospel  has  a  form 
peculiar  to  itself,  as  well  as  a  characteristic  style 

and  attitude,  which  mark  it  as  a  unique 
1.  Scope  document  among  the  books  of  the  NT. 
of  Gospel       (1)  There  is  a  prologue,  consisting  of 

1  1—18,  of  which  something  will  be 
said  later  on.  (2)  There  is  a  series  of  scenes  and 
discourses  from  the  life  of  Jesus,  descriptive  of 
Himself  and  His  work,  and  marking  the  gradual 
development  of  faith  and  unbelief  in  His  hearers 
and  in  the  nation  (1  19—12  50).  (3)  There  is  a 
more  detailed  account  of  the  closing  events  of  the 
Passion  Week — of  His  farewell  intercourse  with  His 
disciples  (chs  13-17),  of  His  arrest,  trials,  cruci- 
fixion, death,  and  burial  (chs  18-19).  (4)  There  are 
the  resurrection,  and  the  manifestations  of  the  risen 
Lord  to  His  disciples  on  the  resurrection  day,  and 
on  another  occasion  eight  days  after  (20  1-29). 
This  is  followed  by  a  paragraph  which  describes 
the  purpose  of  the  Gospel,  and  the  reason  why  it 
was  written  (vs  30.31).  (5)  Finally,  there  is  a  sup- 
plementary ch  (21),  which  has  all  the  characteristic 
marks  of  the  Gospel  as  a  whole,  and  which  probably, 
therefore,  proceeds  from  the  same  pen  (thus  Light- 
foot,  Meyer,  Alford,  etc;  some,  as  Zahn,  prefer  to 
take  the  ch  as  the  work  of  a  disciple  of  St.  John). 
The  concluding  vs  (24.25)  of  this  ch  read:  "This  is 
the  disciple  that  beareth  witness  of  these  things,  and 


wrote  these  things:  and  we  know  that  his  witness  is 
true.  And  there  are  also  many  other  things  which 
Jesus  did,"  etc.  "We  know  that  his  witness  is  true" 
seems  to  be  a  testimony  on  the  part  of  those  who 
knew  as  to  the  identity  of  the  disciple,  and  the  trust- 
worthiness of  his  witness.  Nor  has  this  earliest  testi- 
mony been  discredited  by  the  attacks  made  on  it,  and 
the  natural  meaning  has  been  vindicated  by  many 
competent  writers.  The  present  tense,  "beareth 
wit  ness,"  indical  es  t  hat  t  he  "disciple"  who  wrol  e  t  he 
Gospel  was  still  alive  when  the  testimony  was  given. 

As  to  the  1  ime  of  t  he  appearance  of  the  Johannine 
literature,  apart  from  the  question  as  to  the  author- 
ship of  these  writings,  there  is  now  a 
2.  State  of  growing  consensus  of  opinion  that  it 
Opinion  as  arose  at  the  end  of  the  1st  cent.,  or  at 
to  Date  of  the  beginning  of  the  2d.  This  is  held 
Appearance  by  those  who  assign  the  authorship, 
not  to  any  individual  writer,  but  to  a 
school  at  Ephesus,  who  partly  worked  up  traditional 
material,  and  elaborated  it  into  the  form  which  the 
Johannine  writings  now  have;  by  those  also,  as 
Spitta,  who  disintegrate  the  Gospel  into  a  Grund- 
schrift  and  a  Bearbeitung  (cf  his  Das  Johannes- 
Evangelium  als  Quelle  der  Geschichte  Jesu,  1910). 
Whether  the  Gospel  is  looked  on  as  a  compilation 
of  a  school  of  theologians,  or  as  the  outcome  of  an 
editor  who  utilizes  traditional  material,  or  as  the 
final  outcome  of  theological  evolution  of  certain 
Pauline  conceptions,  with  few  exceptions  the  ap- 
pearance of  the  Johannine  writings  is  dated  early 
in  the  2d  cent.  One  of  the  most  distinguished  of 
these  exceptions  is  Schmiedel;  another  is  the  late 
Professor  Pfleiderer.  One  may  respect  Pfleiderer 
in  the  region  of  philosophical  inquiry,  but  in  criti- 
cism he  is  a  negligible  quantity.  And  the  writings 
of  Schmiedel  on  the  Johannine  question  are  rapidly 
passing  into  the  same  category. 

Thus  the  appearance  of  the  Johannine  writings 
at  the  end  of  the  1st  cent,  may  safely  be  accepted 
as  a  sound  historical  conclusion.  Slowly  the  critics 
who  assigned  their  appearance  to  the  middle  of  the 
2d  cent.,  or  later,  have  retraced  their  steps,  and 
assign  the  emergence  of  the  Johannine  writings  to 
the  time  mentioned.  This  does  not,  of  course, 
settle  the  questions  of  the  authorship,  composition 
and  trustworthiness  of  the  Gospel,  which  must  be 
determined  on  their  merits,  on  the  grounds  of  ex- 
ternal, and  still  more  of  internal,  evidence,  but  it 
does  clear  the  way  for  a  proper  discussion  of  them, 
and  gives  us  a  terminus  which  must  set  a  limit  to  all 
further  speculation  on  matters  of  this  kind. 

//.  External  Evidence  for  the  Fourth  Gospel. — 
Only  an  outline  of  the  external  evidence  for  the 
Fourth  Gospel,  which  concerns  both  date  and 
authorship,  can  be  given  in  this  article.  Fuller 
information  may  be  sought  in  the  Intros  to  the 
Commentaries  on  the  Gospel,  by  Godet,  Westcott, 
Luthardt,  Meyer;  in  Ezra  Abbot's  The  Fourth 
Gospel  and  Its  Authorship;  in  Zahn's  Intro  to  the 
NT,  III;  in  Sanday's  The  Criticism  of  the  Fourth 
Gospel;  in  Drummond's  The  Character  and  Author- 
ship of  the  Fourth  Gospel.  All  these  and  many 
others  defend  the  Johannine  authorship.  On  the 
other  side,  reference  may  be  made  to  the  author  of 
Supernatural  Religion,  of  which  many  editions  have 
appeared.  Among  recent  works,  Moffatt's  Intro 
to  the  NT,  and  B.  W.  Bacon's  Fourth  Gospel  in 
Research  and  Debate,  may  be  mentioned  as  denying 
the  Johannine  authorship. 

The  external  evidence  is  as  follows.  At  the  end 
of  the  2d  cent.,  the  Christian  church  was  in  pos- 
session of  four  Gospels,  which  were 
1.  At  End  used  as  sacred  books,  read  in  churches 
of  2d  Cent,  in  public  worship,  held  in  honor  as 
authoritative,  and  treated  as  part  of 
a  Canon  of  Scripture  (see  Gospels).     One  of  these 


1721 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA    John,  Gospel  of 


was  the  Fourth  Gospel,  universally  ascribed  to  the 
apostle  John  as  its  author.  We  have  the  evidence 
on  this  point  of  Irenaeus,  of  Tertullian,  of  Clement 
of  Alexandria,  a  little  later  of  Origen.  Clement  is 
witness  for  the  belief  and  practice  of  the  church  in 
Egypt  and  its  neighborhood;  Tertullian  for  the 
church  in  Africa;  and  Irenaeus,  who  was  brought 
up  in  Asia  Minor,  was  a  teacher  at  Rome,  and  was 
bishop  of  Lyons  in  Gaul,  for  the  churches  in  these 
lands.  The  belief  was  so  unquestioned,  that  Ire- 
naeus could  give  reasons  for  it  which  would  of  them- 
selves have  convinced  no  one  who  had  not  already 
had  the  conviction  which  the  reasons  were  meant  to 
sustain.  To  discount  the  evidence  of  Irenaeus, 
Tertullian  and  Clement  on  the  ground  of  the  desire 
to  find  apostolic  authorship  for  their  sacred  books, 
is  not  argument  but  mere  assertion.  There  may 
have  been  such  a  tendency,  but  in  the  case  of  the 
four  Gospels  there  is  no  proof  that  there  was  neces- 
sity for  this  at  the  end  of  the  2d  cent.  For  there  is 
evidence  of  the  belief  in  the  apostolic  authorship 
of  two  Gospels  by  apostles,  and  of  two  by  compan- 
ions of  the  apostles,  as  an  existing  fact  in  the 
churches  long  before  the  end  of  the  2d  cent. 

The  importance  of  the  testimony  of  Irenaeus  is 
measured  by  the  efforts  which  have  been  made  to 
invalidate  his  witness.  But  these  at- 
2.  Irenaeus  tempts  fail  in  the  presence  of  his  his- 
— Theophi-  torical  position,  and  of  the  means  at 
lus  his  command  to  ascertain  the  belief 

of  the  churches.  There  arc  many 
links  of  connection  between  Irenaeus  and  the  apos- 
tolic age.  There  is  specially  his  connection  with 
Polycarp.  He  himself  describes  that  relationship 
in  his  letter  to  Florinus,  a  fellow-disciple  of  Poly- 
carp, who  had  lapsed  into  Gnosticism,  in  which  he 
says,  "I  remember  the  events  of  that  time  more 
clearly  than  those  of  recent  years.  For  what  boys 
learn,  growing  with  their  mind,  becomes  joined  wit  h 
it;  so  that  I  am  able  to  describe  the  very  place  in 
which  the  blessed  Polycarp  sat  as  he  discoursed, 
and  his  goings  out  and  comings  in,  and  the  manner 
of  his  life,  and  his  physical  appearance  and  his  dis- 
courses to  the  people,  and  the  accounts  which  he 
gave  of  his  intercourse  with  John  and  the  others 
who  had  seen  the  Lord"  (Euseb.,  HE,  V,  20:  Mc- 
Giffert's  tr).  We  cannot  say  what  was  the  age  of 
Irenaeus  at  that  time,  but  he  was  of  sufficient  age 
to  receive  the  impressions  which,  aft  er  many  years, 
he  recorded.  Polycarp  was  martyred  in  155  AD, 
and  he  had  been  a  Christian  for  80  years  when  he 
was  martyred.  Thus  there  was  only  one  link  be- 
tween Irenaeus  and  the  apostolic  age.  Another  link 
was  constituted  by  his  association  with  Pothinus, 
his  predecessor  in  Lyons.  Pothinus  was  a  very  old 
man  when  he  was  martyred,  and  had  in  his  posses- 
sion the  traditions  of  the  church  of  Gaul.  Thus, 
Irenaeus,  through  these  and  others,  had  the  oppor- 
tunity of  knowing  the  belief  of  the  churches,  and 
what  he  records  is  not  only  his  own  personal  testi- 
mony, but  the  universal  tradition  of  the  church. 

With  Irenaeus  should  be  adduced  the  apologist 
Theophilus  (c  170),  the  earliest  writer  to  mention 
St.  John  by  name  as  the  author  of  the  Gospel.  In 
prefacing  a  quotation  from  the  commencement  of 
the  prologue,  he  says,  "This  is  what  we  learn  from 
the  sacred  writings,  and  from  all  men  animated  by 
the  Spirit,  amongst  whom  John  says"  (Ad  Autol., 
ii.22).  Theophilus  is  further  stated  by  Jerome  to 
have  composed  a  Harmony  of  the  four  Gospels 
(De  Viris  Illustr.,  25). 

From  Irenaeus  and  Theophilus  we  ascend  nearer 
to  the  middle  of  the  2d  cent.,  and  here  we  encounter 
the  Diatessaron  of  Tatian,  on  which  much  need 
not  be  said.  The  Diatessaron  is  likewise  a  Har- 
mony of  the  four  Gospels,  and  this  Harmony  dates 
not  later  than  170.     It  begins  with  the  1st  ver  of 


the  Fourth  Gospel,  and  ends  with  the  last  ver  of 

the  appendix  to  the  Gospel.     Tatian  was  a  pupil 

of  Justin  Martyr,  and  that  fact  alone 

3.  Middle     renders  it  probable  that  the  "Memoirs 
of  2d  Cent,  of  the  Apostles,"  which  Justin  (motes 

so  often,  were  those  which  his  pupil 
afterward  combined  in  the  Diatessaron.  That 
Justin  knew  the  Fourth  Gospel  seems  clear,  though 
we  cannot  argue  the  question  here.  If  he  did,  it 
follows  that  it  was  in  existence  about  the  year  130. 
But  there  is  evidence  that  helps  us  to  trace  the 
influence  of  the  Fourth  Gospel  back  to  the  year  1 10. 

"The  first  clear  traces  of  the  Fourth 

4.  Ignatius,  Gospel  upon  the  thought  and  language 
etc  of  the  church  are  found  in  the  Epp.  of 

Ignatius  (c  110  AD).  How  unmis- 
takable these  traces  are  is  shown  by  the  fact  that 
not  infrequently  this  dependence  of  Ignatius  upon 
John  has  been  used  as  an  argument  against  the  gen- 
uineness of  the  Ignatian  letters"  (Zahn,  Intro,  III, 
176).  This  argument  may  now  be  safely  used  since 
the  Epp.  have  been  vindicated  as  historical  docu- 
ments by  Lightfoot  and  by  Zahn.  If  the  Ignatian 
Epp.  are  saturated  with  the  tone  and  spirit  of  the 
Johannine  writings,  that  goes  to  show  that  this 
mode  of  thought  and  expression  was  prevalent  in 
the  church  of  the  time  of  Ignatius.  Thus  at  the 
beginning  of  the  2d  cent.,  that  distinctive  mode  of 
thought  and  speech  which  we  call  Johannine  had  an 
existence. 

A  further  line  of  evidence  in  favor  of  the  Gospel, 
which  need  only  be  referred  to,  lies  in  the  use  made 
of  it  by  the  Gnostics.  That  the  Gospel  was  used 
by  the  Valentinians  and  Basilides  has  been  shown 
by  Dr.  Drummond  (op.  cit.,  205-343). 

To  estimate  aright  the  force  of  the  above  evi- 
dence, it  is  to  be  remembered  that,  as  already  ob- 
served, there  were  many  disciples  of 

5.  John  the  the  John  of  Ephesus,  to  whom  the  Jo- 
Presbyter      hannine  writings  were  ascribed,  living 

far  on  in  the  2d  cent. — bishops  like 
Papias  and  Polycarp,  the  "presbyters"  so  often  men- 
tioned by  Irenaeus — forming  a  chain  connecting  the 
time  of  the  origin  of  the  Gospel  with  the  latter  half 
of  the  century.  Here  arises  the  question,  recently 
so  largely  canvassed,  as  to  the  identity  of  "the 
presbyter  John"  in  the  well-known  fragment  of 
Papias  preserved  by  Euseb.  (HE,  III,  39).  Were 
t  here,  as  most,  with  Euseb., understand,  two  Johns — 
apostle  and  presbyter  (cf  e.g.  Godet) — or  was  there 
only  one?  If  only  one,  was  he  the  son  of  Zebedee? 
On  these  points  wide  difference  of  opinion  prevails. 
Harnack  holds  that  the  presbyter  was  not  the  son 
of  Zebedee;  Sanday  is  doubtful;  Moffatt  believes 
that  the  presbyter  was  the  only  John  at  Ephesus. 
Zahn  and  Dom  J.  Chapman  (John  the  Presbyter 
and  the  Fourth  Gospel,  1911)  think  also  that  there 
was  only  one  John  at  Ephesus,  but  he  was  the  son 
of  Zebedee.  It  is  hardly  necessary  to  discuss  the 
question  here,  for  the  tradition  is  explicit  which 
connected  the  Gospel  with  the  apostle  John  during 
the  latter  part  of  his  residence  in  Ephesus — a  resi- 
dence which  there  is  no  sufficient  ground  for  dis- 
puting (see  John,  the  Apostle). 

On  a  fair  consideration  of  the  external  evidence, 

therefore,  we  find  that  it  is  unusually  strong.     It  is 

very  seldom  the  case  that  conclusive 

6.  Summary  proof  of  the  existence  and  influence  of 

a  writ  ing  can  be  brought  so  near  to  the 
time  of  its  publication  as  in  the  case  of  the  Fourth 
Gospel.  The  date  of  its  publication  is  at  the  end 
of  the  1st  cent.,  or  at  the  latest  in  the  beginning  of 
the  2d.  Traces  of  it  s  influence  are  found  in  the  Epp. 
of  Ignatius.  The  1st  Ep.  of  Jn  is  quoted  in  the 
Ep.  of  Polycarp  (ch  7).  The  thought  and  style  of 
the  Gospel  had  influenced  Justin  Martyr.  It  is 
one  of  the  four  interwoven  in  the  Diatessaron  of 


John,  Gospel  of    THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1722 


Tatian.  I'  whs  quoted,  commented  on,  :m<l  inter- 
preted by  the  Gnostics.  In  truth  the  external  evi- 
dence for  the  early  date  and  Johannine  authorship 
of  the  Fourth  Gospel  is  as  greal  both  in  extent  and 
variety  as  it  is  for  any  book  of  the  XT,  and  far 
greater  than  any  that  we  possess  for  any  work  of 
classical  ant  iquity. 

The  history  of  t  tic  controversy  on  the  Johannine 
authorship  is'  not  here  entered  into.  Apart  from  the 
obscure  sect  of  the  Alogi  (who  attributed  the  Gospel  to 
Cerinthus!)  in  the  I'd  cent.,  no  voice  was  heard  in  chal- 
lenge of  the  authorship  of  St.  John  till  the  close  of  the 
17th  cent.,  and  serious  assault  did  not  begin  till  the  19th 
cent  (Brctschneider,  1820,  Strauss,  1835,  Weisse,  1838, 
Baur  and  his  school,  1844  and  after,  Kcim,  1805,  etc). 
The  attacks  were  vigorously  repelled  by  other  scholars 
(Olshausen,  Tholuck,  Neander,  Ebrard,  Bleek,  etc). 
Some  adopted,  in  various  forms  and  degrees,  the  hypothe- 
sis of  an  apostolic  basis  for  the  (iospel,  regarded  as  the 
work  of  a  later  hand  (Weizsiicker,  Kenan,  etc).  From 
this  point  t  lie  controversy  has  proceeded  with  an  in- 
creasing dogmatism  on  the  side  of  the  opponents  of  the 
genuineness  and  trustworthiness  of  tin-  (Iospel,  but 
not  less  firmness  on  the  part  of  its  defenders.  The 
present  state  of  opinion  is  indicated  in  the  text. 

///.  Characteristics  of  the  Gospel:  Internal  Evi- 
dence.— The  external  evidence  for  the  Fourth  Gos- 
pel is  criticized,  but  it  is  chiefly  on 
1.  General  internal  grounds  that  the  opposition 
Lines  of  to  the  Johannine  authorship  and  his- 
Attack  and  torical  trustworthiness  of  the  Gospel 
Defence  is  based.  Stress  is  laid  on  the  broad 
contrast  which  admittedly  exists  in 
style,  character  and  plan,  between  the  Fourth  Gos- 
pel and  the  Synoplics;  on  its  supposed  philosophi- 
cal dress  (the  Logos-doctrine);  on  alleged  errors 
and  contradictions;  on  the  absence  of  progress  in 
the  narrative,  etc.  The  defence  of  the  Gospel  is 
usually  conducted  by  pointing  out  the  different  aims 
of  the  Gospel,  rebutting  exaggerations  in  the  above 
objections,  and  showing  that  in  a  multitude  of  ways 
tin;  author  of  the  (iospel  reveals  his  identity  with 
the  apostle  John.  He  was,  e.g.,  a  Jew,  a  Palestinian 
Jew,  one  familiar  with  the  topography  of  Jems,  etc, 
an  apostle,  an  eyewitness,  the  disciple  whom  Jesus 
loved  (13  23;  20  2;  21  7.20).  The  attestation 
in  21  24  of  those  who  knew  the  author  in  his  life- 
time is  of  the  greatest  weight  in  this  connection. 
Instead  of  following  these  familiar  lines  of  argument 
(for  which  see  Godet,  Luthardt,  Westcott,  Ez. 
Abbot,  Drummond,  etc,  in  works  cited),  a  confir- 
mation is  here  sought  on  the  lines  of  a  fresh  compre- 
hensive study. 

The  study  of  the  Johannine  writings  in  general,  and 
of  the  Fourth  (iospel  in  particular,  has  been  approached 
in   many   ways   and  from    various    points 
2    Unwar-      °*   view-     One   of   the   most   common   of 
"        ,  .      "       these  ways,  in  recent  works,  is  that  which 
rantable  assumes   that   here   we    have    the   product 

Critical  of    Christian    reflection   on    the    facts    dis- 

Presunnosi-  closed  in  the  other  Gospels,  and  that  these 
rieiuppua  facts  have  been  modified  by  the  experience 
tions  0f  the  church,  and  reflect  the  conscious- 

ness of  the  church  at  the  end  of  the  1st 
cent,  or  the  beginning  of  the  2d.  By  this  time,  it  is 
assumed  that  the  church,  now  mainly  a  gentile  church, 
has  been  greatly  influenced  by  Gr-Jiom  culture,  that 
she  has  been  reflecting  on  the  wonder  of  her  own  history, 
and  has  so  modified  the  original  tradition  as  to  assimi- 
late it  to  the  new  environment.  In  the  Fourth  Gospel, 
it  is  said,  we  have  the  highest  and  most  elaborate  pres- 
entation of  the  outcome  of  the  process.  Starting  with 
St.  Paul  and  his  influence,  Professor  B.  W.  Bacon 
traces  for  us  the  whole  process  until  a  school  of  theolo- 
gians at  Ephesus  produced  the  Johannine  writings,  and 
the  consciousness  of  the  church  was  satisfied  with  the 
completeness  of  the  new  presentation  of  Christianity 
(cf  his  Fourth  Gospel  in  Research  and  Debate).  Hellen- 
istic ideas  in  Heb  form,  the  facts  of  the  Gospel  so  trans- 
formed as  to  be  acceptable  to  the  Hellenistic  mind — this 
is  what  scholars  of  this  class  find  in  the  Fourth  Gospel. 
Others  again  come  to  the  Gospel  with  the  presupposi- 
tion that  it  is  intended  to  present  to  the  reader  a  com- 
plete view  of  the  life  of  Jesus,  that  it  is  intended  to 
supplement  and  to  correct  the  statements  of  the  Synoptics 
and  to  present  Christ  in  such  a  form  as  to  meet  the  new 
needs  of  the  church  at  the  beginning  of  the  2d  cent. 
Others  find  a  polemical  aim  in  the  Gospel.  Weizsiicker 
e.g.  finds  a  strong  polemic  aim  against  the  Jews.     He 


says,  "There  are  the  objections  raised  by  the  Jews 
against  the  church  after  its  secession  has  been  consum- 
mated, and  after  the;  development  of  the  person  of  its 
Christ  has  passed  through  its  most  essential  stages. 
It  is  not  a  controversy  of  the  lifetime,  but  that  of  the 
school  carried  back  into  the  history  of  the  life"  {Apos- 
tolic A  si<-,  II,  222).  One  would  have  expected  that  a 
statement  so  forcibly  put  would  have  been  supported 
by  some  evidence;  that  we  might  have  some  historical 
evidence  regarding  a  controversy  between  Jew  and 
church  beyond  what  we  have  in  the  Fourth  Gospel  itself. 
But  nothing  is  offered  by  Weizsiicker  except  the  dictum 
that  these  are  controversial  topics  carried  on  in  the 
school,  and  that  they  are  anachronisms  as  they  stand. 
As  it  happens,  we  know  from  the  Dial,  between  Justin 
Martyr  and  Trypho  what  were  the  topics  discussed  be- 
tween Jew  and  Christian  in  the  middle  of  the  2d  cent., 
and  it  is  sufficient  to  say  that  these  topics,  as  reported 
by  Justin,  mainly  regarded  the  interpretation  of  the  OT, 
and  are  not  those  which  are  discussed  in  the  Fourth 
Gospel. 

Perhaps  the  most  surprising  of  all  the  presupposi- 
tions with  regard  to  the  Fourth  Gospel  is  that  which 
lays  great  stress  on  the  supposition  that  the  book  was 
largely  intended  to  vindicate  a  Christian  doctrine  of  the 
sacraments  which  flourished  at  the  beginning  of  the  2d 
cent.  According  to  this  presupposition,  the  Fourth 
(iospel  set  forth  a  doctrine  of  the  sacraments  which 
placed  them  in  a  unique  position  as  a  means  of  salvation. 
While  scarcely  contending  that  the  doctrine  of  the  sacra- 
ments held  by  the  church  of  the  2d  cent,  had  reached 
that  stage  of  development  which  meets  us  in  the  mediae- 
val church,  it  is,  according  to  this  view,  far  on  the  way 
toward  that  goal  afterward  reached.  We  do  not  dwell 
on  this  view,  for  the  exegesis  that  finds  sacramentarian- 
ism  in  the  Fourth  Gospel  is  hopeless.  That  Gospel  does 
not  put  the  sacraments  in  the  place  of  Christ.  Finally, 
we  do  not  find  the  contention  of  those  who  affirm  that 
the  Fourth  Gospel  was  written  with  a  view  of  making 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  more  acceptable  to  the  Gentiles  any 
more  satisfactory.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  Gospel  which 
was  most  acceptable  to  the  Gentiles  was  the  Gospel 
according  to  Alt.  It  is  more  frequently  quoted  than 
any  other.  In  the  writings  of  the  early  church,  it  is 
quoted  as  often  as  all  the  other  Gospels  put  together. 
The  Fourth  (iospel  did  not  come  into  prominence  in  the 
Christian  church  until  the  rise  of  the  Christological  con- 
troversies in  the  3d  cent. 

When,  after  dwelling  on  these  ways  of  approach- 
ing tin;  Fourth  Gospel,  and  reading  the  demands 

made  on  the  Gospel  by  those  who 
3.  Real  Aim  approach  it  with  these  presuppositions 
of  Gospel —  atid  demands,  we  turn  to  the  Gospel 
Results  itself,  and  ask  regarding  its  aim  and 

purpose,  we  find  a  simple  answer.  The 
writer  of  it  expressly  says:  "Many  other  signs 
therefore  did  Jesus  in  the  presence  of  his  disciples, 
which  are  not  written  in  this  book:  but  these  are 
written,  that  ye  may  believe  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  God;  and  that  believing  ye  may 
have  life  in  his  name"  (20  30.31).  Pursuing  this 
clue,  and  putting  away  all  the  presuppositions  which 
bulk  so  largely  in  introductions,  exegeses,  histories 
of  the  apostolic  and  sub-apostolic  ages,  one  meets 
with  many  surprises. 

(1)  Relation  to  Synoptics. — In  relation  to  the 
Synoptics,  the  differences  are  great,  but  more  sur- 
prising is  the  fact  that  the  points  of  contact  between 
these  Gospels  and  the  Fourth  Gospel  are  so  few. 
The  critics  to  whom  reference  has  been  made  are 
unanimous  that  the  wTriter  or  the  school  who  com- 
piled the  Johannine  writings  was  indebted  to  the 
Synoptics  for  almost  all  the  facts  embodied  in  the 
Fourth  Gospel.  Apart,  however,  from  the  Passion 
Week,  only  two  points  of  contact  are  found  so  ob- 
vious that  they  cannot  be  doubted,  viz.  the  feeding 
of  the  5,000,  and  the  walking  on  the  sea  (6  4-21). 
The  healing  of  the  child  of  the  royal  officer  (4  40- 
53)  can  scarcely  be  identified  with  the  healing  of  the 
centurion's  servant  (Alt ,  Lk) ;  but  even  if  the  ident  i- 
fication  were  allowed,  this  is  all  we  have  in  the 
Fourth  Gospel  of  the  events  of  the  ministry  in 
Galilee.  There  is  a  ministry  in  Galilee,  but  the 
earlier  ministry  in  Judaea  and  in  Galilee  began 
before  John  was  cast  into  prison  (3  24),  and  it  has 
no  parallel  in  the  Synoptics.  In  fact,  the  Fourth 
Gospel  assumes  the  existence  of  the  other  three,  and 
does  not  anew  convey  the  knowledge  which  can  be 


1723 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA    John,  Gospel  of 


gathered  from  them.  It  takes  its  own  way,  makes 
its  own  selections,  and  sets  these  forth  from  its  own 
point  of  view.  It  has  its  own  principle  of  selection: 
that  plainly  indicated  in  the  passage  already  quoted. 
The  scenes  depicted,  the  works  done,  the  words 
spoken,  and  the  reflections  made  by  the  writer,  are 
all  directed  toward  the  aim  of  enabling  the  readers 
to  believe  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  God. 
In  the  writer's  view  this  would  issue  in  their  ob- 
taining life  in  His  name. 

(2)  Time  occupied  in  the  Gospel. — Accepting  this 
principle  for  our  guidance,  we  turn  to  the  Gospel, 
and  the  first  thing  that  strikes  the  reader  is  the  small 
amount  of  the  real  time  filled  up,  or  occupied,  by 
the  scenes  described  in  the  Gospel.  We  take  the 
night  of  the  betrayal,  and  t  lie  day  of  the  crucifixion. 
The  things  done  and  the  words  spoken  on  that  day, 
from  one  sunset  to  another,  occupy  no  fewer  than 
7  chs  of  the  Gospel  (chs  13-19).  Apart  from  the 
supplementary  ch  (21),  there  are  20  chs  in  the  Gos- 
pel, containing  697  vs,  and  these  7  chs  have  257  vs. 
More  than  one-third  of  the  whole  given  to  the  min- 
istry is  thus  occupied  with  the  events  of  one  day. 

Again,  according  to  Acts  1  3,  there  was  a  min- 
istry of  the  risen  Lord  which  lasted  for  40  days,  and 
of  all  that  happened  during  those  days  John  records 
only  what  happened  on  the  day  of  the  resurrection, 
and  on  another  day  8  days  after  (ch  20).  The  in- 
cidents recorded  in  the  other  Gospels  fall  into  the 
background,  are  taken  for  granted,  and  only  the 
signs  done  on  these  two  days  are  recorded  here. 
They  are  recorded  because  they  are  of  significance 
for  the  purpose  he  has  in  hand,  of  inducing  belief 
in  the  truth  that  Jesus  is  1  lie  Christ,  the  Son  of  God. 
If  we  continue  to  follow  the  clue  thus  afforded,  we 
shall  be  surprised  at  the  fewness  of  the  days  on 
which  anything  was  transacted.  As  we  read  the 
story  of  the  Fourth  Gospel,  there  are  many  indi- 
cations of  the  passing  of  time,  and  many  precise 
statements  of  date.  We  learn  from  the  (iospel  that 
the  ministry  of  Jesus  probably  lasted  for  3  years. 
We  gather  this  from  the  number  of  the  feasts  which 
He  attended  at  Jerus.  We  have  notes  of  time 
spent  in  journeys,  but  no  account  of  anything  that 
happened  during  them.  The  days  on  which  any- 
thing was  done  or  anything  said  are  very  few.  We 
are  told  precisely  that  "six  days  before  the  passover 
Jesus  came  to  Bethany,  where  Lazarus  was"  (12 
1  f'f),  and  with  regard  to  these  G  days  we  are  told 
only  of  the  supper  and  the  anointing  of  the  feet  of 
Jesus  by  Alary,  of  the  entry  into  Jerus,  the  visit  of 
the  Greeks,  and  of  the  impression  which  that  visit 
made  on  Jesus.  We  have  also  the  reflections  of  the 
evangelist  on  the  unbelief  of  the  Jews,  but  nothing 
further.  We  know  that  many  other  things  did 
happen  on  these  days,  but  they  are  not  recorded  in 
this  Gospel.  Apart  from  the  two  days  during  which 
Jesus  dwelt  in  the  place  where  he  was,  of  which  days 
nothing  is  recorded,  the  time  occupied  with  the 
raising  of  Lazarus  is  the  story  of  one  day  (ch  11). 
So  it  is  also  with  the  healing  of  the  blind  man.  The 
healing  is  done  one  day,  and  the  controversy  regard- 
ing the  significance  of  that  healing  is  all  that  is  re- 
corded of  another  day  (ch  9).  What  is  recorded 
in  ch  10  is  the  story  of  two  days.  The  story  of  the 
7th  and  8th  chs,  interrupted  by  the  episode  of  the 
woman  taken  in  adultery,  which  does  not  belong 
to  the  Gospel,  is  the  story  of  not  more  than  two 
days.  The  story  of  the  feeding  of  the  5,000  and  of 
the  subsequent  discourse  (ch  6)  is  the  story  of  two 
days.  It  is  not  necessary  to  enter  into  fuller  detail. 
Yet  the  writer,  as  remarked,  is  very  exact  in  his 
notes  of  time.  He  notes  the  days,  the  number  of 
days  on  which  anything  was  done,  or  when  anything 
was  said.  We  make  these  remarks,  which  will  be 
obvious  to  every  reader  who  attends  to  them,  mainly 
for  the  purpose  of  showing  that  the  Gospel  on  the 


face  of  it  does  not  intend  to,  at  least  does  not,  set 
forth  a  complete  account  of  the  life  and  work  of 
Jesus.  It  gives  at  the  utmost  an  account  of  20 
days  out  of  the  1,000  days  of  Our  Lord's  ministry. 
This  is  of  itself  sufficient  to  set  aside  the  idea  of 
those  who  deal  with  the  Fourth  Gospel  as  if  it  were 
meant  to  set  aside,  to  supplement,  or  to  correct, 
the  accounts  in  the  Synoptics.  Plainly  it  was  not 
written  with  that  purpose. 

(3)  A  personal  record. — Obviously  the  book  pro- 
fesses to  be  reminiscences  of  one  who  had  personal 
experience  of  the  ministry  which  he  describes.  The 
personal  note  is  in  evidence  all  through  the  book. 
It  is  present  even  in  the  prologue,  for  in  that  ver 
in  which  he  describes  the  great  fact  of  the  incarna- 
tion he  uses  the  personal  note,  "We  beheld  his 
glory"  (1  14).  This  might  be  taken  as  the  keynote 
of  the  Gospel.  In  all  the  scenes  set  forth  in  the 
Gospel  the  writer  believes  that  in  them  Jesus  mani- 
fested forth  His  glory  and  deepened  the  faith  of  His 
disciples.  If  we  were  to  ask  him,  when  did  he 
behold  the  glory  of  the  incarnate  Word,  the  answer 
would  be,  in  all  these  scenes  which  are  described 
in  the  Gospel.  If  we  read  the  Gospel  from  this 
point  of  view,  we  find  that  the  writer  had  a  different 
conception  of  the  glory  of  the  incarnate  Word  from 
that  which  his  critics  ascribe  to  him.  He  sees  a 
glory  of  the  Word  in  the  fact  that  He  was  wearied 
with  His  journey  (4  0),  that  He  made  clay  of  the 
spittle  and  anointed  the  eyes  of  the  blind  man  with 
the  clay  (9  6),  that  He  wept  at  the  grave  of  Lazarus 
(11  35),  that  He  groaned  in  the  spirit  and  was 
troubled  (ver  38),  and  that  He  could  sorrow  with 
a  sorrow  unspeakable,  as  He  did  after  the  interview 
with  the  Greeks  (12  27).  For  he  records  all  these 
things,  and  evidently  thinks  them  quite  consistent 
with  the  glory  of  the  incarnate  Word.  A  fair  exe- 
gesis does  not  explain  these  things  away,  but  must 
take  them  as  of  the  essence  of  the  manifested  glory 
of  the  Word. 

The  Gospel  then  is  professedly  reminiscences  of 
an  eyewitness,  of  one  who  was  personally  present 
at  all  the  scenes  which  he  describes.  No  doubt  the 
reminiscences  often  pass  into  reflections  on  the 
meaning  and  significance  of  what  he  describes.  He 
often  pauses  to  remark  that  the  disciples,  and  he 
himself  among  them,  did  not  understand  at  the 
time  the  meaning  of  some  saying,  or  the  significance 
of  some  deed,  of  Jesus  (2  22;  12  1G,  etc).  At 
other  times  we  can  hardly  distinguish  between  the 
words  of  the  Master  and  the  reflections  of  the  dis- 
ciple. But  in  other  writings  we  often  meet  with 
the  same  phenomenon.  In  the  Ep.  to  the  Gal,  e.g., 
Paul  writes  what  he  had  said  to  Peter  at  Antioch: 
"If  thou,  being  a  Jew,  livest  as  do  the  Gentiles,  and 
not  as  do  the  Jews,  how  compellest  thou  the  Gentiles 
to  live  as  do  _  the  Jews?"  (Gal  2  14).  Shortly 
after,  he  passes  into  reflections  on  the  situation,  and 
it  is  impossible  to  ascertain  where  the  direct  speech 
ends  and  the  reflections  begin.  So  it  is  in  the 
Fourth  Gospel.  It  is  impossible  in  many  instances 
to  say  where  the  words  of  Jesus  end  and  the  reflec- 
tions of  the  writer  begin.  So  it  is,  e.g.,  with  his 
record  of  the  witness  of  the  Baptist  in  ch  3.  The 
record  of  the  Baptist's  words  may  end  with  the 
sentence,  "He  must  increase,  but  I  must  decrease" 
(ver  30),  and  the  rest  may  be  the  reflections  of  the 
writer  on  the  situation. 

(4)  Reminiscences  of  an  eyewitness. —  The  phe- 
nomena of  the  Gospel  are  thus,  apparently  at  least, 
reminiscences  of  an  eyewitness,  with  his  reflections 
on  the  meaning  of  what  he  has  experienced.  He 
was  present  at  the  scenes  which  he  describes.  He 
was  present  on  the  night  on  which  the  Master  was 
betrayed;  he  was  present  in  the  hall  of  the  high 
priest;  he  was  present  at  the  cross,  and  bears  testi- 
mony to  the  reality  of  the  death  of  Jesus  (18  15; 


John,  Gospel  of    THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1724 


19  3">).  As  we  read  the  Gospel  wo  note  the  stress 
he  lays  on  "witness."  The  term  frequently  occurs 
(1  7.8.19;    3   11.2(5.33;    5  31;    12   17;    21  21,   etc), 

and  is  used  to  set  forth  the  verified  facts  of  expe- 
rience. In  these  testimonies  we  have  an  unusual 
combination  of  elevated  thought  and  minute  ob- 
servation. At  one  lime  the  evangelist  soars  aloft  in- 
to a  spiritual  world,  and  moves  with  ease  among  the 
richest  and  highest  elements  of  spiritual  experience. 
Using  common  words,  he  yet  reads  into  them  the 
deepest  meanings  regarding  man,  the  world,  and 
( tod  which  have  ever  entered  into  the  mind  of  man. 
Sublime  mysticism  and  open-eyed  practical  sense 
meet  in  his  wonderful  writings.  Above  all,  we  are 
impressed  with  his  sense  of  the  supreme  value  of  the 
historical.  All  his  spiritual  meanings  have  a  his- 
torical basis.  This  is  as  apparent  in  the  1st  Ep.  as 
it  is  in  the  Gospel,  and  in  the  Gospel  it  is  conspicu- 
ous. While  his  main  interest,  is  to  focus  the  minds 
of  his  readers  on  Jesus,  I  lis  work  and  His  word,  yet 
unconsciously  he  has  written  his  own  spiritual 
biography.  We  gradually  become  aware,  as  we 
read  ourselves  sympathetically  into  the  spirit  of  the 
Gospel,  that  we  are  following  the  line  of  a  great 
spiritual  awakening,  and  are  tracing  the  growth  of 
faith  and  love  in  the  life  of  the  writer,  until  they 
become  the  overmastering  tone  of  his  whole  life. 
On  the  one  hand,  the  book  is  a  grand  objective 
revelation  of  a  unique  life,  the  story  of  the  self- 
revelation  of  the  Hon  of  God,  of  the  revelation  of 
the  Father  in  Jesus  Christ,  moving  onward  to  its 
consummation  through  the  contrasted  develop- 
ment s  of  fait  h  and  unbelief  on  the  part  of  them  who 
received  Him,  and  on  the  part  of  them  who  received 
Him  not.  On  the  other  hand,  it  has  a  subjective 
unity  in  the  heart  of  the  writer,  as  it  tells  of  how 
faith  began,  of  how  faith  made  progress,  until  he 
came  to  the  knowledge  of  the  Son  of  God.  We 
can  enter  into  the  various  crises  through  which  he; 
passed,  through  which,  as  they  successively  passed, 
he  won  the  assurance  which  he  so  calmly  expresses; 
and  these  supply  him  with  the  key  by  means  of 
which  he  is  able  to  unlock  the  mystery  of  the  rela- 
tions of  Jesus  to  the  world.  The  victory  of  faith 
which  he  sets  forth  was  first  won  in  his  own  soul. 
This  also  is  included  in  the  significant  phrase,  "We 
beheld  his  glory"  (1  14). 

(5)  Reminisccnceilluslrated. — The  Gospel  receives 
powerful  confirmation  from  reflection  on  the  nature 
of  reminiscence  generally.  A  law  of  reminiscence 
is  that,  when  we  recall  anything,  or  any  occurrence, 
we  recall  it  in  its  wholeness,  with  all  the  accessories 
of  its  accompaniments.  As  we  tell  it  to  others,  we 
have  to  make  a  selection  of  that  only  which  is  need- 
ful to  convey  our  meaning.  Inartistic  natures  do 
not  make  a  selection;  they  pour  out  everything 
that  arises  in  the  memory  (cf  Dame  Quickly  in 
Shakespeare).  The  finer  qualities  of  reminiscence 
are  abundantly  illustrated  in  the  Fourth  Gospel, 
and  furnish  an  independent  proof  that  it  is  from  the 
pen  of  an  eyewitness.  It  is  possible  within  reason- 
able limits  to  give  only  a  few  examples.  Observe 
first  the  exact  notes  of  time  in  ch  1  and  the  special 
notes  of  character  in  each  of  the  6  disciples  whom 
Jesus  met  on  the  first  4  days  of  His  minist  ry.  Mark 
the  peculiar  graphic  note  that  Nathanael  was  under 
the  fig  tree  (ver  50).  Pass  on  to  notice  the  6  water- 
pots  of  stone  set  at  Cana  after  the  manner  of  the 
Jews'  purifying  (2  6).  We  might  refer  in  this  con- 
nection to  the  geographical  remarks  frequently 
made  in  the  course  of  the  narrative,  indicative  of 
an  intimate  knowledge  of  Pal,  and  to  the  numerous 
allusions  to  Jewish  laws,  customs,  beliefs,  religious 
ceremonies,  usually  admitted  now  to  be  accurate, 
and  illustrative  of  familiar  knowledge  on  the  part 
of  the  writer.  Our  main  object,  however,  is  to  call 
attention  to  those  incidental  things  which  have  no 


symbolical  significance,  but  are  set  down  because, 
as  the  main  happening  was  recalled,  these  arose 
with  it .  He  again  sees  t  he  "lad"  with  t  he  5  barley 
loaves  and  2  fishes  (6  9);  remembers  that  Mary 
sat  still  in  the  house,  when  the  act  ive  Martha  went 
forth  to  meet  the  Lord  as  He  approached  Bethany 
(11  20);  recalls  the;  appearance  of  Lazarus  as  he 
came  forth  bound  hand  and  foot  with  grave-clothes 
(ver  44).  He  has  a  vivid  picture  before  him  as  he 
recalls  the  washing  of  the  disciples'  feet  (13  1-1")), 
and  tin;  various  attitudes  and  remarks  of  the  dis- 
ciples during  the  whole  of  that  eventful  night.  He 
still  sees  the;  attitude  of  the  soldiers  who  came  to 
arrest  Jesus  (18  3-8),  the  flashing  of  Peter's  sword 
(ver  10),  the  share  of  Nicodemus  in  the  burying  of 
Jesus,  and  the  kinds  and  weights  of  the  spices 
brought  by  him  for  the  embalming  of  the  body 
(19  38-40).  He  tells  of  the  careful  folding  of  the 
linen  cloths,  and  where  they  were  placed  in  the 
empty  tomb  (20  4-8).  These  are  only  some  of 
those  vivid  touches  due  to  reminiscence  which  none 
but  an  eyewitness  could  safely  make.  Looking 
back  on  the  past,  the  evangelist  recalls  the  various 
scenes  and  words  of  the  Lord  in  their  wholeness  as 
they  happened,  and  he  chooses  those  living  touches 
which  bear  the  mark  of  reality  to  all  readers. 

(6)  Conclusions. — These  touches  of  vivid  reality 
warrant  the  conclusion  that  the  writ  er  in  1  his  ( rospel 
is  depicting  scenes  in  a  real  life,  and  is  not  drawing 
on  his  imaginat  ion.  Looking  back. on  his  own  spirit- 
ual history,  he  remembered  with  special  vividness 
those  words  and  works  of  Christ  which  determined 
his  own  life,  and  led  him  on  to  the  full  assurance  of 
faith,  and  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Son  of  God.  The 
Gospel  can  be  understood  from  this  point  of  view: 
it  does  not  seem  to  us  that  it  can  be  understood  from 
any  other,  without  ignoring  all  the  phenomena  of 
the  kind  now  indicated.  When  the  Gospel  is  ap- 
proached from  this  point  of  view,  set  forth  by  itself, 
one  can  afford  to  neglect  many  of  the  elaborate 
discussions  which  have  arisen  regarding  the  possible 
displacement  of  certain  chs  (Spilta,  etc).  Much, 
e.g.,  has  been  made  of  the  sudden  transference  of 
the  scene  from  Galilee  to  Judaea  as  we  pass  from 
ch  4  to  ch  5,  and  the  equally  sudden  transference 
back  to  Galilee  (6  1).  Many  suggestions  have 
been  made,  but  they  all  proceed  on  the  supposition 
that  the  reminiscences  were  meant  to  be  continuous, 
which  it  has  been  seen  is  not  the  case.  While  it  is 
very  likely  that  there  is  a  sequence  in  the  writer's 
thought,  yet  this  need  not  compel  us  to  think 
of  displacements.  Taken  as  they  are  in  the 
Gospel,  the  selected  proofs,  whether  they  occur 
in  Judaea  or  in  Galilee,  in  all  instances  indicate 
progress.  They  illustrate  the  manifested  glory  of 
Jesus,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  growth  of  faith 
and  the  development  of  unbelief  on  the  other. 
This,  however,  opens  up  a  separate  line  of  objec- 
tion and  inquiry  to  which  attention  must  now  be 
given. 

IV.  Progress  and  Development  in  the  Gospel. — 
It  is  an  objection  often  urged  against  the  view  of  the 
apostolic  authorship  of  the  Fourth  Gospel  that  in 
it  there  is  no  progress,  no  development,  no  crisis, 
nothing,  e.g.,  to  correspond  with  the  significance 
of  the  confession  of  St.  Peter  at  Caesarea  Philippi 
(Mt  16  13-17  ||).  This  is  held  to  be  true  alike  of 
the  character  of  Jesus,  which,  under  the  influence 
of  the  Logos-doctrine  of  the  prologue,  exhibits  no 
development  from  first  to  last,  and  of  the  attitude 
of  the  disciples,  whose  faith  in  Jesus  as  the  Christ 
is  likewise  represented  as  complete  from  the  begin- 
ning. In  reality  the  opposite  is  the  case.  In  the 
course  of  the  Gospel,  as  already  said,  the  glory  of 
the  Lord  is  ever  more  completely  manifested,  and 
the  disciples  attain  to  a  deeper  faith,  while  the  unbe- 
lief of  those  who  reject  Him  becomes  more  fixed, 


1725 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA    John,  Gospel  of 


until  it  is  absolute.     This   will   appear   clearly  on 
nearer  examination. 

The  objection  from  the  presentation  of  Jesus  in 
the  Gospel  takes  different  forms,  which  it,  is  desir- 
able to  consider  separately. 
1.  The  Pres-  (1)  Alleged  absence  of  development 
entation  of  in  the  character  of  Jesus. — It  is  affirmed, 
Jesus  in  the  first,  that  there  is  no  development  in 
Gospel  the  character  of  Jesus  in  the  Fourth 

Gospel,  none  of  those  indications  such 
as  we  have  in  the  Synoptics  of  widening  horizons, 
no  recognition  of  the  fact  that  the  meaning,  pur- 
pose and  issue  of  His  calling  became  clearer  to  Him 
as  the  days  passed  by.  To  this  assertion  there  are 
two  answers.  The  first  is,  that  in  a  series  of  scenes 
from  the  activity  of  Jesus,  selected  for  the  definite 
purpose  set  forth  in  the  Gospel,  there  is  no  need  to 
demand  a  continuous  history  of  His  ministry. 
Selection  is  made  precisely  of  those  scenes  which 
set  forth  His  insight  into  human  character  and 
motive,  His  power  of  sympathetic  healing,  His 
command  over  Nature,  and  His  supreme  authority 
over  man  and  the  world.  The  other  remark  is,  that 
even  in  the  Fourth  Gospel  there  are  hints  of  a  crisis 
in  the  ministry  of  Our  Lord,  during  which  He  came 
to  a  clearer  recognit  ion  of  the  fuller  meaning  of  His 
mission  (e.g.  the  visit  of  the  Greeks,  ch  12).  It  will 
be  seen  further,  below,  that  it  is  not  true  in  this 
Gospel,  any  more  than  in  the  Synoptics,  that  Jesus 
is  represented  as  publicly  proclaiming  Himself  as 
the  Messiah  from  the  first. 

(2)  Alleged  "autonomy"  of  Jesus. — Akin  to  the 
above  is  the  objection  to  the  historicity  of  the  Gos- 
pel that  in  it  Jesus  is  represented  as  always  directing 
His  own  course,  maintaining  an  attitude  of  aloof- 
ness to  men,  refusing  to  be  influenced  by  them. 
This,  it  is  held,  results  from  the  dominance  of  the 
Logos-idea  in  the  prologue.  The  reply  is  that  there 
is  really  no  essential  difference  between  the  attitude 
of  Jesus  in  these  respects  in  the  Synoptics  and  in 
Jn.  In  all  alike  He  maintains  an  attitude  of  author- 
ity. In  the  Synoptics  He  can  say,  "I  say  unto  you" 
(Nit  5  22.28.32,  etc).  In  them  also  He  claims  to 
be  the  teacher  of  absolute  truth,  the  Saviour,  the 
Ruler,  the  Judge,  of  men.  In  this  regard  there  is 
no  new  claim  made  in  the  Fourth  Gospel:  "No  one 
conieth  unto  the  Father,  but  by  me"  (14  6).  But 
He  had  said,  "Come  unto  me  ....  and  I  will 
give  you  rest"  (Mt  11  28).  A  claim  to  authority 
over  men  is  thus  common  to  all  the  Gospels.  In  all 
of  them,  too,  in  the  Fourth  no  less  than  in  the 
others,  there  is  on  the  part  of  Jesus  loyalty,  sub- 
mission, subordination  to  the  Father.  In  fact  this 
is  more  conspicuous  in  the  Fourth  Gospel  than  in 
the  Synoptics:  "The  Father  is  greater  than  I"  (14 
28).  The  words  He  speaks  are  the  Father's  words; 
the  works  He  does  are  the  Father's  (5  19.20;  7  16. 
18,  etc):  "This  commandment  received  I  from  my 
Father"  (10  18).  In  all  the  Gospels  it  is  one  con- 
sistent, gracious  Figure  who  appears. 

(3)  "Inconceivability"  of  Logos-presentation. — 
A  further  objection,  which  aims  at  showing  that  this 
Gospel  could  not  be  the  work  of  "a  primitive  apos- 
tle," may  be  noticed,  partly  from  the  eminence 
of  him  who  makes  it ,  and  partly  from  the  interest 
of  the  objection  itself.  In  his  work  on  The  Apos- 
tolic Age,  Weizsiicker  says,  "It  is  a  puzzle  that  the 
beloved  disciple  of  the  Gospel,  he  who  reclined  at 
table  next  to  Jesus,  should  have  come  to  regard  and 
represent  his  whole  former  experience  as  a  life  with 
the  incarnate  Logos  of  God.  It  is  impossible  to 
imagine  any  power  of  faith  and  philosophy  so  great  as 
thus  to  obliterate  the  recollection  of  a  real  life  and 
to  substitute  forit  this  marvelous  picture  of  a  Divine 
being.  We  can  understand  that  Paul,  who  had  not 
known  Jesus,  who  had  not  come  into  contact  with 
the  man,  should  have  been  opposed  to  the  tradition 


of  the  eyewitnesses,  the  idea  of  the  heavenly  man, 
and  that  he  should  have  substituted  (lie  Christ 
who  was  spirit  for  His  earthly  manifestation,  pro- 
nouncing the  latter  to  be  positively  a  stage  above 
which  faith  must  rise.  For  a  primitive  apostle  it 
is  inconceivable.  The  question  is  decided  here  and 
finally  here"  (II,  211).  It  is  easy  to  say,  "For  a 
primitive  apostle  it  is  inconceivable,"  yet  we  know 
that  a  primitive  apostle  believed  that  Jesus  rose 
from  the  dead,  that  He  was  exalted  a  Prince  and 
Saviour,  that  He  was  seated  at  the  right  hand  of 
God,  that  He  was  Lord  of  all  (Acts  2  22-36).  If 
we  grant  that  the  primitive  church  believed  these 
things,  it  cannot  be  fairly  said  that  the  further 
step  taken  in  the  Fourth  Gospel  is  inconceivable. 
In  truth,  the  objection  of  Weizsacker  is  not  taken 
against  the  Fourth  Gospel;  it  is  equally  effective 
against  Christianity  in  general.  If  Jesus  be  what 
He  is  said  to  be  in  the  Synoptic  Gospels,  and  if  He 
be  what  the  primitive  church  held  Him  to  be,  the 
leading  conception  of  the  Fourth  Gospel  is  credible 
and  conceivable.  If  Christianity  is  credible,  the 
Fourth  Gospel  adds  nothing  to  the  difficulty  of 
faith;  rather  it  gives  an  additional  ground  for  a 
rational  faith. 

It  is  proper  at  this  point  that  a  little  more  should 
be  said  on  the  Logos-doctrine  itself,  in  its  bearing 

on  the  presentation  of  Christ  in  this 
2.  The  Gospel  (for  the  philosophical  and  his- 

Logos-  torical    aspects    of    the    doctrine,    see 

Doctrine  Logos).  Obviously  the  great  interest 
of  the  of  the  author  of  the  reminiscences  and 

Prologue        reflections  in  the  Fourth  Gospel  is  in 

the  personal  life  of  the  Master  whom 
he  had  known  so  intimately.  To  him  this  real 
historical  life  was  everything.  On  it  he  brooded, 
on  it  he  meditated,  and  he  strove  to  make  the  sig- 
nificance of  it  ever  more  real  to  himself  first,  and  to 
others  afterward.  How  shall  he  make  the  reality 
of  that  life  apparent  to  all?  What  were  the  rela- 
1  ionships  of  that  person  to  God,  to  man,  and  to  t  he 
world?  What  Jesus  really  was,  and  what  were  His 
relations  to  God,  to  man,  and  to  the  world,  John 
endeavors  to  make  known  in  the  prologue.  This 
real  person  whom  he  had  known,  revered,  loved, 
was  something  more  than  was  apparent  to  the  eyes 
of  an  ordinary  observer;  more  even  than  had  been 
apparent  to  His  disciples.  How  shall  this  be  set 
forth?  From  the  Gospel  it  is  evident  that  the  his- 
torical person  is  first,  and  the  attempt  to  set  forth 
the  meaning  of  the  person  is  second.  The  pro- 
logue is  an  attempt  to  find  language  to  set  forth 
fitly  the  glory  of  the  person.  The  Logos-doctrine 
does  not  descend  on  the  historic  person  as  a  gar- 
ment from  without;  it  is  an  endeavor  to  describe 
what  John  had  grown  to  recognize  as  the  essential 
meaning  of  the  person  of  Jesus.  It  is  not  a  specu- 
lative theory  we  have  here,  not  an  endeavor  to 
think  out  a  theory  of  the  world  or  of  God;  it  is  an 
attempt  to  find  suitable  language  for  what  the 
writer  recognizes  to  be  a  groat  fact.  We  need  not, 
therefore,  seek  an  explanation  of  St.  John's  Logos- 
doctrine  in  the  speculation  of  Heraclitus,  in  the 
theories  of  theStoics,  even  in  the  eclecticism  of  Philo. 
The  interests  of  these  men  are  far  removed  from  the 
atmosphere  of  the  Fourth  Gospel.  They  desired 
a  theory  of  the  universe;  John  sought  to  set  forth 
the  significance  of  a  personal  historical  life.  In  the 
prologue  he  set  forth  that  life,  and  he  chose  a  word 
which  he  filled  up  with  concreter  meaning,  a  mean- 
ing which  included  the  deepest  teaching  of  the  OT, 
and  the  highest  thought  of  his  contemporaries. 
The  teaching  of  St.  Paid,  esp.  in  the  epp.  of  the 
captivity,  approaches  very  closely  to  that  of  the 
Fourth  Gospel.  Thus  it  is  not  a  right  method  to 
bring  the  Logos-doctrine  to  the  interpretation  of 
the  Fourth  Gospel,  and  to  look  at  all  the  phenomena 


John,  Gospel  of 
Jonah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1726 


of  the  Gospel  as  mere  illustrations  of  that  doctrine. 
The  right  met  hod  is  the  reverse.  _  The  Logos- 
doctrine  has  no  concreteness,  no  living  reality, 
taken  apart  from  the  personal  life  which  was  mani- 
fest ed  t  o  t  he  apost  le.  The  prologue  represents  what 
John  had  come  to  see  as  to  the  meaning  of  the  per- 
sonality he  had  historically  known.  He  sets  it 
forth  once  for  all  in  the  prologue,  and  never  once 
in  the  Gospel  does  he  refer  to  it  again.  We  can 
understand  that  Logos-doctrine  when  we  look  at 
it  in  the  light  of  those  manifestations  recorded  in 
the  Gospel,  manifestations  which  enabled  St .  John 
to  behold  His  glory;  we  cannot  understand  the 
manifestations  if  we  look  at  them  merely  as  illus- 
trations of  an  abstract  philosophical  theorem.  In 
brief,  the  Fourth  Gospel  is  concrete,  not  abstract; 
it  is  not  thi'  evolution  or  the  demonstration  of  a 
theory,  but  the  attempt  to  set  forth  a  concrete  per- 
sonality, and  to  find  fitting  words  to  express  the 
significance  of  that  personality  as  St.  John  had 
grown  to  see  it . 

As  it  is  with  the  character  of  Jesus,  so  it  is  witli 
the  alleged  absence  of  development  in  the  faith  of 

the  disciples.     Careful  inquiry  shows 
3.  Growth     this  objection  also  to  be  unfounded. 
of  Faith  and      (1)   Early  confessions. — Here  again, 
Develop-        it  is  said,  we  see  the  end  from  the  be- 
ment  of  ginning.     In  ch  1  Jesus  is  twice  greeted 

Unbelief        as  the  Messiah  (vs  41.45),  and  twice 

described  as  the  Son  of  God  (vs  34. 
49).  The  Baptist  at  this  early  stage  points  to  Him 
as  "the  Lamb  of  God,  that  taketh  away  the  sin  of 
t  he  world"  (ver  29).  Reference  is  made  to  the  case 
of  Nicodemus  (3  Iff),  to  the  Samaritans  (4  41  f), 
and  other  incidents  of  the  same  kind,  with  the  view 
of  proving  that  at  this  early  stage  of  the  ministry  of 
Our  Lord  such  confessions  are  unlikely,  and  even 
impossible.  It  is  to  be  noticed,  however,  that  the 
confessions  in  these  cases  are  represented  as  the 
outcome  of  special  manifestations  on  the  part  of 
Jesus  to  the  persons  who  make  them.  And  the 
manifestations  are  such  as  to  justify  the  psychologi- 
cal possibility  of  the  confession.  It  is  so  in  the  case 
of  Nat  hanael.  Nor  is  the  objection  to  the  t  est  imony 
of  John  the  Baptist  of  a  kind  which  admits  of  no 
answer.  For  the  Baptist,  according  to  the  Synop- 
tics, had  found  his  own  credentials  in  Isa  40.  There 
he  found  himself  and  his  mission,  and  described 
himself,  as  we  find  it  in  the  Fourth  Gospel,  "I  am 
the  voice  of  one  crying  in  the  wilderness,  Make 
straight  the  way  of  the  Lord,  as  said  Isaiah  the 
prophet"  (1  23;  cf  Mt  3  3;  Mk  1  2.3).  We 
find  also  that  when  John  "heard  in  the  prison  the 
works  of  the  Christ,"  and  "sent  by  his  disciples 
and  said  unto  him,  Art  thou  he  that  comet  h,  or 
look  we  for  another?"  (Mt  11  2),  the  answer  of 
Jesus  was  a  reference  to  a  passage  in  Isa  61.  Ac- 
cording to  Jesus  these  were  the  true  signs  of  the 
Messianic  kingdom.  Is  there  any  reason  why  we 
should  not  say  that,  as  John  found  his  own  creden- 
tials  in  Isa  40,  he  would  also  have  found  the  charac- 
ter and  signs  of  the  Coming  One  in  the  description 
of  the  suffering  servant  in  ch  63?  If  he  did  so,  what 
more  simple  than  that  he  should  describe  the  Com- 
ing One  as  the  Lamb  of  God,  that  taketh  away 
the  sin  of  the  world?  In  His  answer  to  John,  Jesus 
simply  asks  him  to  read  farther  on  in  that  prophesy 
which  had  already  meant  so  much  for  him. 

(2)  Growth  of  faith  in  the  disciples. — Apart  from 
what  may  be  made  of  these  early  confessions,  it 
may  fairly  be  said  that  there  are  many  signs  of  a 
growl  h  of  faith  on  the  part  of  the  disciples.  Carry- 
ing with  us  the  fact  that  each  of  these  confessions 
had  its  ground  in  a  particular  manifestation  of  the 
glory  of  Christ,  we  go  on  to  passages  which  prove 
how  imperfect  was  the  faith  of  the  disciples.  It  is 
to  be  remembered  also  that  John  has  only  one  word 


to  describe  all  the  phases  of  faith,  from  the  slight- 
est impression  up  to  whole-hearted  conviction  and 
thorough  surrender.  We  may  refer  to  the  careful 
and  exhaustive  treatment  of  the  meanings  of  the 
word  "believing"  by  E.  A.  Abbott  in  his  work, 
Johannine  Vocabulary.  In  the  Fourth  Gospel  the 
vb.  is  always  used,  and  never  the  noun.  As  the 
word  is  used,  it  denotes  theimpression  made, whether 
that  impression  is  slight  and  transient,  or  deep  and 
abiding.  Successive  steps  of  acceptance  an;  seen 
as  the  disciples  advance  to  complete  and  absolute 
faith. 

As  we  read  the  Gospel,  we  perceive  that  Jesus 
did  test  and  try  the  faith  of  His  disciples,  and  made 
His  deeds  and  His  words  both  tests  of  faith,  and  a 
means  for  its  growth.  As  the  result  of  the  words 
on  the  bread  of  life,  we  find  thai  many  of  His  dis- 
ciples said,  "This  is  a  hard  saying;  who  can  hear 
it?"  (6  60),  and  on  account  of  the  difficulty  of  His 
words,  "Many  of  his  disciples  went  back,  and 
walked  no  more  with  him"  (ver  00).  On  His  appeal 
to  those  who  did  not  go  away  it  is  found  that  the 
difficulty  became  really  an  opportunity  to  them  for 
a  larger  faith  (vs  08. 09).  The  incidents  and  events 
of  the  night  of  the  betrayal,  and  the  conversations 
on  that  night,  prove  how  incomplete  were  the  faith 
and  confidence  of  the  disciples;  how  far  they  were 
from  a  full  understanding  of  the  Master's  purpose. 
Nor  is  it  until  after  the  resurrection,  and  the  glad- 
ness of  seeing  their  risen  Lord  in  the  upper  room, 
that  faith  obtained  a  complete  victory,  and  attained 
to  full  possession  of  itself. 

(3)  Gradual  disclosure  of  Messiahship:  Growth 
of  unbelief. — On  the  other  side,  there  is  as  mani- 
festly an  evolution  of  unbelief  from  the  passing 
doubt  of  the  moment  on  to  the  complete  disbelief 
in  Jesus,  and  utter  rejection  of  Him. 

It  is  only  fair  here  to  the  Gospel  to  observe  that 
the  confessions  to  which  we  have  already  referred 
are  on  the  part  of  individuals  who  came  into  special 
relationship  with  Jesus.  Such  is  the  case  with 
regard  to  Nathanael,  Nicodemus,  the  woman  of 
Samaria  and  the  Samaritan  people,  and  the  writer 
places  the  reader  in  that  close  relationship  so  that 
he  who  reads  may  believe.  But  such  close  relat  ion- 
ship  to  Jesus  is  only  the  lot  of  a  few  in  this  Gospel. 
It  is  not  true,  as  already  remarked,  that  in  this 
Gospel  Jesus  is  represented  as  definitely  proclaim- 
ing Himself  as  the  Messiah.  There  is  something 
of  the  same  reserve  here  as  there  is  in  the  Synoptics. 
He  did  not  assert  His  claim ;  He  left  it  to  be  inferred. 
His  brethren  hint  that  He  ought  to  put  His  claims 
really  to  the  test  (7  3  f).  An  account  of  the  doubts 
and  speculations  regarding  Him  is  given  in  ch  7. 
The  people  hesitate,  and  inquire,  and  speculate,  Is 
He  a  good  man,  or  a  deceiver?  (ver  12)  Had  He 
really  a  mission  from  God?  (vs  14  ff) — all  of  which 
goes  to  prove  that  only  certain  individuals  had  such 
intimate  knowledge  of  Him  as  to  lead  to  acceptance. 
In  ch  10  we  read,  "And  it  was  the  feast  of  the  dedi- 
cation at  Jems:  it  was  winter;  and  Jesus  was  walk- 
ing in  the  temple  in  Solomon's  porch.  The  Jews 
therefore  came  round  about  him,  and  said  unto 
him,  How  long  dost  thou  hold  us  in  suspense?  If 
thou  art  the  Christ,  tell  us  plainly"  (10  22-24). 
"It  is  very  clear,"  as  Dr.  Sanday  says,  "that  no 
sharply  defined  issue  was  set  before  the  people. 
They  are  left  to  draw  their  own  conclusions;  and 
they  draw  them  as  well  as  they  can  by  the  help  of 
such  criteria  as  they  have.  But  there  is  no  ent- 
iveder  ....  oder  .  .  .  . — either  Messiah  or  not 
Messiah — peremptorily  propounded  by  Jesus  Him- 
self" (The  Criticism  of  the  Fourth  Gospel,  104).  The 
sum  of  the  matter  as  regards  the  development  of 
unbelief  is  given  by  the  evangelist  in  the  words: 
"Though  he  had  done  so  many  signs  before  them, 
yet  they  believed  not  on  him"  (12  37).     On  the 


1727 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


John,  Gospel  of 
Jonah 


other  hand,  the  culmination  of  faith  is  seen  in  the 
word  of  the  Lord  to  Thomas:  "Because  thou  hast 
seen  me,  thou  hast  believed:  blessed  are  they 
that  have  not  seen,  and  yet  have  believed"  (20  29). 
Literature. — Besides  Comms.  and  other  works 
mentioned  in  the  art.,  with  valuable  arts,  on  the  Gospel 
in  Diets,  and  Encs,  the  following  may  be  consulted:  M. 
Dods  comm.  on  "  Fourth  Gospel "  in  Expositor's  Gr  Test.; 
Julicher.  Einleitung  in  das  AT«  (1906,  ET) ;  E.  A.  Abbott, 
Johannine  Vocabulary  (1905),  and  Johannine  Grammar 
(190G);  H.  J.  Holtzmann,  Evangelium,  Briefe  una1  Offen- 
barung  des  Johannes,  besorgt  von  \Y.  Bauer  (1908); 
Essays  on  Some  Bib.  Questions  of  the  Day  by  Members 
of  the  University  of  Cambridge,  edited  by  Dr.  Swete 
(1909),  Essay  IX,  "The  Theology  of  the  Fourth  Gos- 
pel "  by  W.  H.  Inge,  and  Essay  X,  "The  Historical 
Value  of  the  Fourth  Gospel,"  by  C.  E.  Brooke;  Schmie- 
del  The  Johannine  Writings  (ET,  190S);  J.  Arrmtage 
Robinson,  The  Historical  Character  of  St.  John's  Gospel 
(1908);  Askwith,  The  Historical  Value  of  the  Fourth 
Gospel'  (1910);  P^zra  Abbot.  External  Evidence  of  the 
Fourth  Gospel,  edited  by  J.  H.  Thayer  (1891);  Lowrie, 
The  Doctrine  of  St.  John  (1899). 

James  Iverach 
JOHN  MARK.     See  Mark,  John. 

JOHN,  THE  REVELATION  OF.  See  Reve- 
lation of  John*. 

JOIADA,  joi'a-da  (2"P"n ,  yoyadhu\  "Jeh  knows"; 
cf  Jehoiada)  : 

(1)  A  repairer  of  the  Jems  walls  (Xeh  3  6); 
AV  "Jehoiada." 

(2)  Son  of  Eliashib  the  high  priest  (Xeh  12  10. 
11.22;   13  28). 

JOIAKIM,  joi'a-kim  (uTp"^"1  ,  yoydklm,  "Jeh 
raises  up";  cf  Jehoiakim;  Jokim):  Son  of  Jeshua 
and  father  of  Eliashib,  the  high  priest  (Neh  12  10. 
12.2G). 

JOIARIB,  joi'a-rib  P'1"!"^"1 ,  yoydrlbh,  "Jeh  pleads" 
or  "contends";    cf  Jehoiarib): 

(1)  A  "teacher"  of  Ezra's  time  (Ezr  8    16). 

(2)  A  Judahite  (Neh  11  5). 

(3)  In   Neh  11  10;    12  6.19  =  Jehoiarib    (q.v.). 

JOIN,  join:  Of  the  NT  words,  kolldo,  lit.  "glue," 
"weld  together,"  and  its  compounds,  designate  the 
closest  form  of  personal  union,  as  in  Lk  15  15;  1 
Cor  6  10;  Eph  5  31.  In  the  words  of  institution 
of  marriage,  suzeugnumi  is  used  (Mt  19  0;  Mk 
10  9,  lit.  "yoke  together";   cf  Gen  2  24). 

JOKDEAM,  jok'dC-am  (DlHp?  ,  yokedh'*dm) :  An 
unidentified  city  of  Judah,  named  with  Maon,  Car- 
mel  and  Ziph  (Josh  15  56).  It  probably  lay  to  the 
S.  of  Hebron. 

JOKIM,  jd'kim  (BFpV  ,  yokim,  "Jeh  raises 
up";  cf  Jehoiakim;  Joiakim):  A  Judahite,  de- 
scendant of  Shelah  (1  Ch  4  22). 

JOKMEAM,  jok'mS-am  (ttppp?  >  yokmeXdm): 
A  town  in  Mt.  Ephraim  assigned  to  the  Kohathite 
Levites  (1  Ch  6  68),  named  along  with  Gezer  and 
Beth-horon.  Its  place  is  taken  by  Kibzaim  in  Josh 
21  22  (in  LXX  here  the  name  is  omitted).  It  is 
mentioned  again  in  1  K  4  12  (AV  wrongly  "Jok- 
neam"),  where  it  seems  to  indicate  some  position 
to  the  E.  of  Ephraim.  So  far  no  identification  is 
possible. 

JOKNEAM,  jok'ne-am  (D^5J?? ,  yokne%dm):  A 
royal  city  of  the  Canaanites  taken  by  Joshua  and 
described  as  "in  Carmel"  (Josh  12  22),  in  the  ter- 
ritory of  Zebulun,  and  allotted  to  the  Merarite 
Levites  (21  34).  The  border  of  Zebulun  "reached 
to  the  brook  that  is  before  Jokneam"  (19  11).  In 
1  K  4  12  the  name  appears  in  AV  where,  with  RV, 


we  should  read  "Jokmcam."  Onom  places  it  6 
Rom  miles  from  Lejio  (Lejjuri)  on  the  way  to  Pto- 
lemais  (Acre).  This  points  to  Tell  Kaimun,  a 
striking  mound  on  the  eastern  slope  of  Mt.  Carmel. 
To  the  E.  of  it  runs  the  "torrent  bed"  of  the  Kishon. 
It  stands  about  300  ft.  above  the  valley  to  the  N. 
of  it ,  and  the  sides  are  steep.  It  is  crowned  by  the 
ruins  of  an  ISth-eent .  fortress.  A  little  lower  down 
are  the  remains  of  a  small  chapel.  There  are  fine 
springs  at  the  foot  (PEFM,  II,  69  f).  In  Jth  7  3 
it  appears  as  "Cvamon"  (Kva/xCbv,  Kuamon).  It  is 
the  "Mons  Cain"  of  the  Middle  Ages.  "In  the 
Sam  Book  of  Jgs  it  is  noticed  as  the  scene  of  a 
conflict  between  the  Hebrews  and  the  Giants;  and 
Joshua  is  said  to  have  been  shut  up  here  in  magic 
walls  of  brass,  till  on  sending  a  dove  to  the  Heb  king 
of  Gilead,  he  was  rescued"  (Conder,  HDB,  s.v.). 

W.  Ewi.no 
JOKSHAN,  jok'shan  ("©p?  ,  yokshan,  meaning 
unknown):  Son  of  Abraham  and  Keturah  (Gen  25 
2.3  1  Ch  1  32).  Tuch  suggested  that  yokshdn 
=  yoktdn  (Gen  10  25-29);  see  HDB,  s.v.;  Skinner, 
Gen,  350. 

JOKTAN,  jok'tan  CjEp?  ,  yoktdn,  meaning  un- 
known): "Son"  of  Eber,  and  "father"  of  13  tribes 
(Gen  10  25.26.29;   1  Ch  1  19.20.23). 

JOKTHEEL,  jok'thS-el,  jok'thel  (btfrp?  ,  yok'- 
the'el): 

(1)  A  city  in  the  Shephelah  of  Judah  named  be- 
tween Mizpeh  and  Lachish  (Josh  15  38);  unidenti- 
fied. 

(2)  A  city  in  Edom  formerly  called  Sela,  taken 
by  Amaziah  after  the  battle  in  the  Valley  of  Salt, 
and  by  him  called  Joktheel  (2  K  14  7).     See  Sela. 

JONA,  jo'na.     See  Jonah;    Jonas. 

JONADAB,  jon'a-dab.     See  Jehonadab. 

JONAH,  jo'na  (HST"1  ,  youdh,  "dove";  'Was, 
Ioiids): 

(1)  According  to  2  K  14  25,  Jonah,  the  son  of 
Amittai,  of  Gath-hepher,  a  prophet  and  servant  of 
Jeli,  predicted  the  restoration  of  the  land  of  Israel 
to  its  ancient  boundaries  through  the  efforts  of 
Jeroboam  II.  The  prophet  lived  and  labored  either 
in  the  early  part  of  the  reign  of  Jeroboam  (790- 
750  BC),  or  during  the  preceding  generation.  He 
may  with  great  probability  be  placed  at  800-7S0 
BC.  His  early  ministry  must  have  made  him 
popular  in  Israel;  for  he  prophesied  of  victory  and 
expansion  of  territory.  His  native  village  of  Gath- 
hepher  was  located  in  the  territory  of  Zebulun  (Josh 
19   13). 

(2)  According  to  the  book  bearing  his  name, 
Jonah  the  son  of  Amittai  received  a  command  to 
preach  to  Nineveh;  but  he  fled  in  the  opposite 
direction  to  escape  from  the  task  of  proclaiming 
Jeh's  message  to  the  great  heathen  city ;  was  arrested 
by  a  storm,  and  at  his  own  request  was  hurled  into 
the  sea,  where  he  was  swallowed  by  a  great  fish, 
remaining  alive  in  the  belly  of  the  fish  for  three 
days.  When  on  his  release  from  the  body  of  the 
fish  the  command  to  go  to  Nineveh  was  renewed,  J. 
obeyed  and  announced  the  overthrow  of  the  wicked 
city.  When  the  men  of  Nineveh  repented  at  the 
preaching  of  the  prophet,  God  repented  of  the  evil 
He  had  threat ened  to  bring  upon  them.  J.  was 
grieved  that  the  oppressing  city  should  be  spared, 
and  waited  in  the  vicinity  to  see  what  would  be  the 
final  outcome.  An  intense  patriot,  J.  wished  for 
the  destruction  of  the  people  that  threatened  to 
swallow  up  Israel.  He  thought  that  Jeh  was  too 
merciful  to  the  heathen  oppressors.     By  the  lesson 


Jonah,  Book  of 
Jonas 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1728 


of  the  gourd  he  was  taught  the  value  of  the  heathen 
in  1  lie  sight  of  J  eh. 

It  is  the  fashion  now  in  scholarly  circles  to  treat 
the  Book  of  Jonah  as  fiction.  The  story  is  said  to 
be  an  allegory  or  a  parable  or  a  symbolic  narrative1. 
Why  then  did  the  author  fasten  upon  a  true  and 
worthy  prophet  of  J  eh  the  stigma  of  rebellion  anil 
narrowness?  On  the  theory  that  the  narrative  is 
an  allegory,  J.  Kennedy  well  says  that  "the  man  who 
wrote  it  was  guilty  of  a  gratuitous  insult  to  the 
memory  of  a  prophet,  and  could  not  have  been  in- 
spired by  the  prophet's  Master  thus  to  dishonor  a 
faithful  servant ." 

(3)  Our  Lord  referred  on  two  different  occasions 
to  the  sign  of  Jonah  the  prophet,  (Mt  12  38-41; 
Lk  11  29-32;  Alt  16  4).  He  speaks  of  J.'s  ex- 
perience in  the  belly  of  the  fish  as  parallel  with  His 
own  approaching  entombment  for  three  days,  and 
cites  the  repentance  of  the  Ninevites  as  a  rebuke 
to  t  he  unbelieving  men  of  his  own  generation.  Our 
Lord  thus  speaks  Dot  h  of  the  physical  miracle  of  the 
preservation  of  Jonah  in  the  body  of  the  fish  and 
of  the  moral  miracle  of  the  repentance  of  the  Nine- 
vites, and  without  the  slightest  hint  that  He  re- 
garded the  story  as  an  allegory. 

John  Richard  Sampey 

JONAH,  THE  BOOK  OF:  This  little  roll  of 
four  short  chapters  has  given  rise  to  almost  as  much 
discussion  and  difference  of  opinion  as  the  first  four 
chapters  of  Gen.  It  would  be  presumptuous  to 
think  that  one  could,  in  a  brief  article,  speak  the 
final  word  on  the  questions  in  debate. 

/.  Contents  of  the  Book. — The  story  is  too  well 
known  to  need  retelling.  Moreover,  it  would  be 
difficult  to  give  the  events  in  fewer  words  than  the 
author  employs  in  his  classic  narrative.  One  event 
grows  out  of  another,  so  that  the  interest  of  the 
reader  never  flags. 

When  the  call  came  to  Jonah  to  preach  in  Nineveh, 

hefled  in  the  opposite  direction,  hoping  thus  to  escape 

from    his   unpleasant   task.      He   was 

1.  Jonah  afraid  t  hat  the  merciful  God  would  for- 
Disobe-  give  the  oppressing  heathen  city,  if  it 
dient,  1:  should  repent  at  his  preaching.  Jonah 
1-3  was    a    narrow-minded    patriot,    who 

feared  that  Assyria  would  one  day  swal- 
low up  his  own  little  nation;  and  so  he  wished  to  do 
nothing  that  might  lead  to  the  preservation  of  wicked 
Nineveh.  Jonah  was  willing  to  prophesy  to  Israel;  he 
at  first  flatly  refused  to  become  a  foreign  missionary. 
The  vessel  in  which  the  prophet  had  taken  pas- 
sage was  arrested  by  a  great  storm.     The  heathen 

sailors  inferred  that  some  god  must  be 

2.  Jonah  angry  with  some  person  on  board,  and 
Punished,  cast  lots  to  discover  the  culprit.  When 
1:4-16  the  lot  fell  upon  Jonah,  he  made  a 

complete  confession,  and  bravely  sug- 
gested that  they  cast  him  overboard.  The  heathen 
manners  rowed  desperately  to  get  back  to  land,  but 
made  no  progress  against  the  storm.  They  then 
prayed  Jeh  not  to  bring  innocent  blood  upon  them, 
and  cast  Jonah  into  the  sea.  As  the  storm  prompt- 
ly subsided,  the  heathen  sailors  offered  a  sacrifice 
to  Jeh  and  made  vows.  In  this  part  of  the  story 
the  mariners  give  an  example  of  the  capacity  of  the 
Gentiles  to  perform  noble  deeds  and  to  offer  accept- 
able worship  to  Jeh. 

Jeh  prepared  a  great  fish  to  swallow  Jonah  and 

to  bear  him  in  his  body  for  three  days  and  nights. 

Surprised  to  find  himself  alive  and  con- 

3.  Jonah  scious  in  the  body  of  the  fish,  the 
Miraculous- pmphet  prayed  to  his  God.  Already 
ly  Pre-  by  faith  he  speaks  of  his  danger  as  a 
served,  past  experience.  The  God  who  had 
1:17— 2:10  saved    him    from    drowning    in    the 

depths  of  the  sea  will  yet  permit  him 
once  more  to  worship  with  loud  thanksgiving.     At 


the  command  of  Jeh  the  fish  vomits  out  Jonah  upon 
the  dry  land.  The  almost  inevitable  grotesqueness 
of  this  part  of  the  story  is  one  of  the  strongest 
arguments  against  the  view  that  the  Book  of  Jon  is 
literal  history  and  not  a  work  of  the  imagination. 

Upon  the  renewal  of  the  command  to  go  to  Nine- 
veh, Jonah  obeyed,  and  marching  through  the 
streets  of  the  great  city,  he  cried,  "Yet 
4.  Jonah's  forty  days,  and  Nineveh  shall  be  over- 
Ministry  in  thrown!"  His  message  was  so  brief 
Nineveh,  that  he  may  well  have  spoken  it  in  good 
3:1-4  Assyrian.  If  the  story  of  his  deliverance 

from  the  sea  preceded  him,  or  was  made 
known  through  the  prophet  himself,  the  effect  of  the 
prophetic  message  was  thereby  greatly  heightened. 
The  men  of  Nineveh  repented  at  the  preaching 
of  Jonah,  the  entire  city  uniting  in  fasting  and 
prayer.  So  great  was  the  anxiety  of 
6.  The  the  people  that  even  the  lower  animals 

Ninevites  were  clothed  in  sackcloth.  The  men 
Repent,  of    Nineveh    turned    from    deeds    of 

3:  5-10  violence  ("their  evil  way")  to  seek  the 

forgiveness   of   an    angry    God.     Jeh 
decided  to  spare  the  city. 

Jonah  breaks  out  into  loud  and  bitter  complaint 
when  he  learns  that  Nineveh  is  to  be  spared.  He 
decides  to  encamp  near  the  city  to  see 
6.  A  Nar-  what  will  become  of  it.  He  hopes  it 
row  Prophet  may  yet  be  overthrown.  Through  a 
versus  the  gourd  vine  Jeh  teaches  the  prophet  a 
Merciful  great  lesson.  If  such  a  mean  and 
God, 4: 1-11  perishable  plant  could  come  to  have 
real  value  in  the  eyes  of  the  sullen 
prophet,  what  estimate  ought  to  be  put  on  the  lives 
of  the  thousands  of  innocent  children  and  helpless 
cattle  in  the  great  city  of  Nineveh?  These  were 
dearer  to  the  God  of  heaven  than  Jonah's  protect- 
ing vine  could  possibly  be  to  him. 

//.  The  Aim  of  the  Book. — The  main  purpose  of 
the  writer  was  to  enlarge  the  sympathies  of  Israel 
and  lead  the  chosen  people  to  undertake  the  great 
missionary  task  of  proclaiming  the  truth  to  the 
heathen  world.  Other  lessons  may  be  learned  from 
the  subordinate  parts  of  the  narrative,  but  this  is 
the  central  truth  of  the  Book  of  Jon.  Kent  well 
expresses  the  author's  main  message:  "In  his 
wonderful  picture  of  God's  love  for  all  mankind, 
and  of  the  Divine  readiness  to  pardon  and  to  save 
even  the  ignorant  heathen,  if  they  but  repent 
according  to  their  light,  he  has  anticipated  the 
teaching  of  the  parable  of  the  Prodigal  Son,  and 
laid  the  foundation  for  some  of  the  broadest  faith 
and  the  noblest  missionary  activity  of  the  present 
generation"  (Sermons,  Epistles,  etc,  420). 

///.  Is  the  Book  History? — Most  of  the  early  in- 
terpreters so  understood  it,  and  some  excellent 
scholars  st  ill  hold  this  view.  If  Jesus 
1.  What  thought  of  the  story  as  history  and  so 
Did  Our  taught,  that  fact  alone  would  settle 
Lord  the  question  for  the  devout  believer. 

Teach?  On  two,  possibly  three,  different  occa- 

sions He  referred  to  Jonah  (Mt  12  38- 
41;  16  4;  Lk  11  29-32).  It  is  significant  that 
Jesus  brought  the  two  great  miracles  of  the  Book  of 
Jon  into  relation  with  Himself  and  His  preaching. 
As  Jonah  was  three  days  and  three  nights  in  the 
body  of  the  fish,  so  should  the  Son  of  Man  be  three 
days  in  the  heart  of  the  earth.  The  men  of  Nineveh 
repented  at  the  preaching  of  Jonah,  while  the  con- 
temporaries of  Jesus  for  the  most  part  rejected  His 
message.  It  is  the  fashion  now  among  advanced 
critics  to  treat  Mt  12  40  as  an  addition  to  the 
words  of_  Jesus,  though  there  is  no  manuscript 
evidence  in  favor  of  regarding  the  verse  as  an  inter- 
polation. G.  A.  Smith,  among  recent  scholars,  holds 
the  view  that  Jesus  did  not  mean  to  teach  the 
historicity  of  Jonah's  experience  in  the  fish. 


1729 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jonah,  Book  of 
Jonas 


"Christ  is  using  an  illustration:  it  matters  not 
whether  that  illustration  be  drawn  from  the  realms  of 
fact  or  of  poetry"  (BTP,  II,  508).  In  a  footnote  Dr. 
Smith  says:  "Suppose  we  tell  slothful  people  that  theirs 
will  be  t"he  fate  of  the  man  who  buried  his  talent,  is 
this  to  commit  us  to  the  belief  that  the  personages  of 
Christ's  parables  actually  existed?  Or  take  the  homi- 
letic:  use  of  Shakespeare's  dramas— 'as  Macbeth  did, 
or  '  as  Hamlet  said.'  Does  it  commit  us  to  the  historical 
reality  of  Macbeth  or  Hamlet?  Any  preacher  among 
us  would  resent  being  bound  by  such  an  inference.  And 
if  we  resent  this  for  ourselves,  how  chary  we  should  be 
about  seeking  to  bind  Our  Lord  by  it." 

Notwithstanding  Principal  Smith's  skilful  pres- 
entation of  his  case,  we  still  think  that  Our  Lord 
regarded  the  miracles  of  the  fish  and  1  he  repentance 
of  the  Nincvites  as  actual  events.  Orelli  puts  the 
matter  judiciously:  "It  is  not,  indeed,  proved  with 
conclusive  necessity  that,  if  the  resurrection  of 
Jesus  was  a  physical  fact ,  Jonah's  abode  in  the  fish's 
belly  must  also  be  just  as  historical.  On  this  point 
also'  the  saving,  'A  greater  than  Jonah  is  here,'  holds 
good.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  how  arbitrary  it 
is  to  assert,  with  Reuss,  that  Jesus  regarded  Jonah's 
history  as  a  parable!  On  the  contrary,  Jesus  saw 
in  it  a  sign,  a  powerful  evidence  of  the  same  Divine 
power  which  showed  itself  also  in  His  dying  in  order 
to  live  again  and  triumph  in  the  world.  Whoever, 
therefore,  feels  the  religious  greatness  of  the  book, 
and  accepts  as  authoritative  the  attitude  taken  to 
its  historical  import  by  the  Son  of  God  Himself, 
will  be  led  to  accept  a  great  act  of  the  God  who 
brings  down  to  Hades  and  brings  up  again,  as  an 
actual  experience  of  Jonah  in  his  flight  from  his 
Lord"  (The  Twelve  Minor  Prophets,  172,  3). 

Most    modern    critical    scholars    since    Kleinert 
(1868)  and  Bloch  (1875)  have  regarded  the  Book 
of  Jon  as  a  work  of  the  imagination. 
2.  Modern    Some   prefer   to    call   it   an    allegory, 
Critical  others  a  parable,  others  a  prose  poem, 

Views  others  a  didactic  story,  others  a  mid- 

rash,  others  a  symbolical  book.  Keil, 
Pusey,  Delitzsch,  Orelli,  J."  Kennedy  and  others 
have  contended  for  the  historical  character  of  the 
narrative.  A  few  treat  it  as  a  legend  containing 
a  kernel  of  fact.  Cheyne  and  a  few  other  scholars 
assert  that  in  the  symbolic  narrative  are  imbedded 
mythical  elements.  The  trend  of  critical  opinion, 
even  in  evangelical  circles,  has  of  late  been  toward 
the  symbolical  interpretation.  Radical  critics 
boldly  set  aside  the  teaching  of  Jesus  as  erroneous, 
while  the  more  evangelical  take  refuge  either  in  the 
doctrine  of  the  Kenosis  (Phil  2  5-8),  or  in  the  prin- 
ciple of  accommodation.  The  last  explanation 
might  commend  itself  to  the  devout  student,  viz. 
that  Jesus  did  not  think  it  worth  while  to  correct 
the  views  of  his  contemporaries,  had  Our  Lord  not 
spoken  more  than  once  of  the  sign  of  Jonah,  and  in 
such  detail  as  to  indicate  His  acceptance  of  the  en- 
tire narrative  with  its  two  great  miracles. 

IV.  Authorship  and  Date.— The  old  view  that 
Jonah  was  the  author  is  si  ill  held  by  some  scholars, 
though  most  moderns  place  the  book  in  the  late  exilic 
or  post-exilic  times.  A  few  Aram,  words  occur  in  t  lie 
Heb  text.  The  question  in  debate  is  whether  the 
language  of  Israel  in  the  days  of  Jeroboam  II  had 
taken  over  words  from  the  Aramaic.  There  had 
certainly  been  a  century  of  close  political  and  com- 
mercial contact  between  Israel  and  the  Aramaeans 
of  Damascus,  so  that  it  would  not  be  surprising  to 
meet  with  Aram,  words  in  a  prophet  of  Samaria. 
Rosea,  in  the  generation  following  Jonah,  betrays 
little  evidence  of  Aram,  influence  in  his  style  and 
vocabulary.  Of  course,  the  personal  equation  is 
a  factor  that  ought  not  to  be  overlooked.  If  the 
author  was  a  Judaean,  we  should  probably  have  to 
think  of  the  post-exilic  period,  when  Aram,  began 
to  displace  Heb  as  the  vernacular  of  the  Jews.  The 
Book  of  Jon  is  anonymous,  and  we  really  do  not 
know  who  the  author  was  or  when  Ik;  lived.      The 


view  that  Jonah  wrote  the  story  of  his  own  disobe- 
dience and  his  debate  with  the  merciful  God  has 
not  been  made  wholly  untenable. 

V.  The  Unity  of  the  Book.  — Nacht  igal  (1799) 
contended  that  there  were  three  different  authors  of 
widely  different  periods.  Kleinert  (1868)  held  that 
two  parallel  narrat  ives  had  been  woven  together  in 
chs  3  and  4.  Kaufmann  Kohler  (1879)  contended 
that  there  were  a  considerable  number  of  glosses 
and  interpolations  besides  some  transpositions  of 
material.  W.  Bohme,  in  1887,  advanced  the  most 
radical  theory  of  the  composition  of  the  roll.  Ho 
partitioned  the  story  among  two  authors,  and  two 
redactors  or  supplementers.  A  few  additional 
glosses  were  charged  to  later  hands.  Even  radical 
critics  treat  Bohme's  theory  as  one  of  the  curiosities 
of  criticism.  Winckler  (AOF,  II,  260  ff)  tried  to 
improve  the  story  by  a  few  transpositions.  Hans 
Schmidt  (1905)  subjects  the  roll  of  Jonah  to  a 
searching  criticism,  and  concludes  that  a  good  many 
changes  have  been  made  from  religious  motives. 
Budde  follows  Winckler  and  Schmidt  both  in  trans- 
posing and  in  omitting  some  material.  Sievers 
(1905)  and  Erbt  (1907)  tried  to  make  of  the  Book  of 
Jon  a  poem;  but  they  do  not  agree  as  to  the  meter. 
Sievers  regards  the  roll  as  a  unit,  while  Erbt  con- 
tends for  two  main  sources  besides  the  prayer  in 
ch  2.  Bewer,  in  ICC  (1912),  is  far  more  conser- 
vative in  both  textual  and  literary  criticism,  recog- 
nizing but  few  glosses  in  our  present  text  and  arguing 
for  the  unity  of  the  story  apart  from  the  insertion 
of  the  ps  in  ch  2.  Nearly  all  recent  crit  ica  assign 
Jonah's  prayer  to  a  writer  other  than  the  author 
of  the  narrative  about  Jonah,  but  opinions  vary 
widely  as  to  the  manner  in  which  the  psalm  found 
its  way  into  the  Book  of  Jon.  Bewer  holds  that  it 
was  probably  put  on  the  margin  by  a  reader  and 
afterward  crept  into  the  text,  the  copyist  inserting 
it  after  ver  2,  though  it  would  more  naturally  follow 
ver  11.  Bewer  remarks:  "The  literary  connections 
with  various  post-exilic  pss  argue  for  a  post-exilic 
date  of  the  ps.  But  how  early  or  how  late  in  the 
post-exilic  period  it  belongs  we  cannot  tell.  The 
Heb  is  pure  and  no  Aram,  influence  is  apparent." 
It  is  evident,  then,  that  the  presence  or  absence  of 
Aram,  influence  does  not  alone  settle  the  question 
of  the  date  of  the  document.  Geography  and  the; 
personal  equation  may  be  more  important  than  the 
question  of  date.  Bewer  recognizes  the  fact  that 
the  ps  in  Jon  is  not  a  mere  cento  of  quotations  from 
the  Pss.  "The  phrases  it  has  in  common  with  other 
pss,"  writes  Professor  Bewer,  "were  the  common 
property  of  the  religious  language  of  the  author's 
day"  (p.  24).  Those  who  still  believe  that  David 
wrote  many  of  the  pss  find  no  difficulty  in  believing 
that  a  prophet  of  780  BC  could  have  drawn  upon 
his  knowledge  of  the  Psalter  in  a  prayer  of  thanks- 
giving to  Jeh. 

Literature. — Among  comms.  covering  the  twelve 
Minor  Prophets,  see  esp.  Pusey  (1861),  Keil  (ET,  1880), 
von  Orelli  (ET,  1893),  Wellhausen  (1898),  (i.  A  Smith 
(1898).  Among  special  comms.  on  Jon,  consult  Klei- 
nert, in  Lange  (ET,  1875);  Perowne,  m  Cambridge 
Bible  (1897);  Bewer  in  ICC  (1912)  See  also  C  H.  II 
Wright,  Biblical  Essays  (1886);  H.  C.  Trumbull,  Jonah 
in  Nineveh,"  JBL,  XI  (1892);  J.  Kennedy,  Book  of 
Jon  (1895);  Konig  in  HDB;  Cheyne  in  EB.  For  more 
elaborate  bibliography  see  Bewer  in  ICC,  25-2/ . 

John  Richard  Sampey 

JONAM,  jo'nam  ('Wd^,  Iondm,  WI1;  'IwvAv, 
Iondn,  TR;  AV  Jonan):  An  ancestor  of  Jesus  in 
Lk's  genealogy  (3  30). 


JONAN,  jo'nan.     See  Jonam. 

JONAS,  jo'nas  (Twvds,  Jonas;  AV  Jonan): 

(1)  Son  of  Eliasib  (1  Esd  9  1). 

(2)  Corresponds  in   1  Esd  9  23  to   "Eliezer     in 
Ezr  10  23. 


Jonas 
Joppa 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1730 


(3)   The    prophet    Jonah    (2  E: 

4.8). 


1  39;     Toh  14 


JONAS,  jo'nas  (i"!"'1 ,  yondh,  or  "yHT1 ,  yohanan; 
'Iwva,  lond ) : 

(1)  The  name  given  in  Mt  12  39-41;  16  4;  Lk 
11  29-32  AV  to  the  OT  prophet  Jonah  (RV  renders 
"Jonah").     See  Jonah. 

(2)  ('ludv-ns,  Iodnes):  The  name  given  in  Jn  21 
15.16  AV  to  the  father  of  the  apostle  Simon  Peter. 
Nothing  further  is  known  of  him,  except  the  differ- 
ent forms  of  his  name.  In  Jn  1  42  AV  he  is  called 
Jona  (cf  also  Mt  16  17  AV).  In  Jn  1  42;  21  la. 
16  RV  he  is  called  John,  with  the  marginal  note 
"Or  Joanes."  In  Mt  16  17  RV  Simon  Peter  is 
called  Simon  Bar-Jonah. 

Jonas  may  be  a  contraction  for  Joanes  (Keim). 
It  has  also  been  suggested  that  the  father  of  Simon 
may  have  had  a  double  name,  Jona-Johannes  (cf 
F.  H.  Chase  in  HDB,  art.  ''John,  father  of  Simon 
Peter").  C.  M.  Kerr 

JONATH    ELEM    REHOKIM,    jo'nath    e'lem 

re"-ho'kim  (□"lpn~l  C^X  nil"1,  yonath  'elem  rrhdkl»i) 
(Ps  56,  title):  ''The  silent  dove  of  the  far  ones"  (i.e. 
either  of  far-off  lands,  or  among  aliens),  or  "The 
dove  of  the  distant  terebinths,"  in  either  case  indi- 
cating the  tune  to  the  melody  of  which  the  ps  was 
to  be  sung.     See  Psalms;  Song. 

JONATHAN,  jon'a-than  flrTJlrP,  yhdndthdn, 
"jrijT,  yondthan,  "Jeh  has  given";  'IcovaOdv,  Idna- 
thd  n ;   cf  J  ehon  ath  a  n  ) : 

(1)  (Heb  yhdndthdn):  The,  young  "Levite"  of 
Jgs  17,  18  referred  to  by  name  in  18  30,  where  he 
is  called  "the  son  of  Gershom,  the  son  of  Moses," 
and  where  AV  has  "Manasseh"  for  Moses,  following 
the  MT  in  which  the  letter  nun  of  Manasseh  is 
"suspended." 

Rashi  states  the  reason  thus:  "Because  of  tho  honor  of 
Moses  was  the  nun  written  so  as  to  alter  the  name."  The 
original  word  was  Moses,  but  it  was  thought  undesirable 
that  a  descendant  of  his  should  have  anything  to  do  with 
images;  and  so  J.  was  made  to  have  affinity  (metaphorically) 
with  Manasseh.    See  CB,  Intro,  335-38. 

J.  was  a  Levitical  Judahite  of  Beth-lehem-judah, 

who  came  to  the  house  of  Micah,  in  the  hill  country 
of  Ephraim,  and  hired  himself  as  a  priest  in  Micah's 
sanctuary  (17  1-13).  The  Danites  sent  5  men 
north  to  spy  for  new  territory,  and  on  their  way 
the  spies  came  to  the  house  of  Micah,  where  they 
found  J.  and  consulted  the  oracle  through  him 
(18  1-5).  Having  received  a  favorable  answer, 
they  set  out  and  came  to  Laish,  and  on  their  return 
south  they  advised  that  an  expedition  be  sent 
thither  (18  6-10).  Their  clansmen  accordingly  sent 
out  a  band  of  warriors  who  on  their  way  passed  by 
Micah's  house.  The  spies  informed  their  comrades 
of  the  ephod  and  teraphim  and  images  there,  and 
they  seized  them,  inducing  J.  at  the  same  time  to 
accompany  them  as  their  priest  (vs  11-20).  At 
Laish  he  founded  a  priesthood  which  was  thus  de- 
scended from  Moses  (ver  30). 

t  It  has  been  held  that  there  arc  two  sources  in  the  narra- 
tive in  Jgs  17,  18  (see  Moore,  Jgs,  365-72).  The  section 
is  important  because  of  the  light  it  throws  on  life  and  re- 
ligion in  early  Israel.  The  "Levites"  were  not  all  of  one 
tribe  (see  Moore,  op.  cit ..  383-84);  there  were  priests  who 
claimed  descent  from  Moses  as  well  as  Aaronite  priests- 
and  images  were  common  in  early  Heb  worship  (cf  Gen 
31   30 ff;  Jgs   8   27;    1   S   19    13).  X 

(2)  Son  of  King  Saul.     See  separate  art. 

(3)  (Heb  yhdndthdn,  yondthan,  2  S  15  27  36- 
17  17.20;  1  K  1  42.43):  Son  of  Abiathar  the 
priest .  He  acted  with  Ahimaaz  as  courier  to  inform 
David  of  events  at  Jerus  during  Absalom's  revolt. 
It  was  he  who  also  brought  to  Adonijah  the  news  of 
Solomon's  accession. 


(4)  (ILL  yhdndthdn,  2  S  21  21  1  Ch  20  7): 
Son  of  Shimei  or  Shimea,  David's  brother;  he  is 
said  to  be  the  slayer  of  Goliath.  See  Jeiionadab 
(1). 

(5)  (2  S  23  32,  Heb  yhondthan  =  l  Ch  11  34, 
Heb  ydnathan) :    One  of  David's  mighty  men.     See 

J  AS  HEN. 

(6)  (Heb  yondthan,  1  Ch  2  32.33):  A  Jerah- 
meelite. 

(7)  (Heb  yhdndthdn,  and  so  1  Ch  27  25  AV): 
Son  of  I'zziah,  and  one  of  David's  treasurers. 

(S)  (Heb  yhdndthdn,  1  Ch  27  32):  A  dddh  of 
David,  RV  "uncle,"  RVm  "brother's  son";  if  he 
was  David's  nephew,  he  will  be  the  same  as  (4) 
above.  He  "was  a  counsellor"  to  David,  and  "a 
man  of  understanding,  and  a  scribe." 

(9)  (Hob  yondthan,  Ezr  8  6;  1  Esd  8  32):  Father 
of  Ebed,  a  returned  exile. 

(10)  (Heb  yondthan,  Ezr  10  15;  1  Esd  9  14): 
One  who  either  supported  (RV)  or  opposed  (RVm, 
AV)  Ezra  in  the  matter  of  foreign  marriages;  see 
Jahzeiah. 

(11)  (Heb  yondthan,  Neh  12  11):  A  priest,  de- 
scendant of  Jeshua  (Joshua)  =  "Johanan"  (12  22.23); 
see  Jehohanan,  (3). 

(12)  (Heb  yondthan,  Neh  12  14):    A  priest. 

(13)  (Heb  yondthan,  Neh  12  35):  A  priest,  father 
of  Zechariah. 

(14)  (Heb  yhdndthdn,  Jer  37  15.20;  38  20):  A 
scribe  in  whose  house  Jeremiah  was  imprisoned. 

(15)  (Heb  yondthan,  Jer  40  8):  Son  of  Kareah; 
a  Judahite  captain  who  joined  Gedaliah  after  the 
fall  of  Jerus. 

(16)  Cluivddrjs,  Iondthes,  1  Mace  2  5;  9-13;  and 
''[vaOdv,  Inalhdn,  2  Mace  8  22;  Swete  reads  Iond- 
thes) :  The  Maccabee  surnamed  Apphus  in  1  Mace 
2  5,  son  of  Mattathias. 

(17)  Son  of  Absalom  (1  Mace  13  11).  He  was 
sent  by  Simon  the  Maccabee  to  capture  Joppa  (cf 
11  70,  where  there  is  mentioned  a  Mattathias,  son 
of  Absalom). 

(18)  A  priest  who  led  in  prayer  at  the  first  sacri- 
fice after  the  return  from  exile  (2  Mace  1  23). 

David  Francis  Roberts 

JONATHAN   CjrO/lJT,    yhdndthdn;  also  ]n:T> , 

yondthan,    "Jeh   has   given";    'ItovaG&v,  Ionathdn): 

The  eldest  son  of  Saul,  the  first  king 

1.  Three        of   Israel,   of  the   tribe  of    Benjamin. 

Periods  The  life  of   J.,   as  far  as  we  are  told 

about    him,     falls    naturally   into     3 

periods. 

(1)  First  period. — He  comes  on  the  scene  as  the 
right  hand  and  lieutenant  of  his  father  in  his  early 
struggles  to  beat  off  the  hostile  tribes,  esp.  the  Am- 
monites (1  S  11),  who  beset  the  territory  of  Israel 
on  all  sides.  As  soon  as  Saul  had  gained  his  first 
decisive  victory,  the  people  rallied  to  him  in  great 
numbers,  so  that  he  was  able  to  count  upon  3,000 
men  whenever  they  took  the  field.  These  were 
divided  into  two  small  armies,  Saul  retaining  2,000 
and  making  Michmash  his  headquarters,  the  rest 
being  stationed  at  Gibeah  under  J.,  some  5  miles 
distant  as  the  crow  flies.  J.  thus  commanded  the 
base,  while  his  father  led  the  fighting  force.  This 
position  of  comparative  inactivity  does  not  appear 
to  have  been  much  to  the  taste  of  J.  Midway 
between  the  two  camps  was  a  Phili  outpost  at 
Geba,  facing  Michmash  across  the  pass  of  that 
name,  a  valley  with  steep  sides,  now  the  WAdi 
Suweinit.  Saul  does  not  seem  to  have  felt  himself 
strong  enough  to  commence  hostilities  against  the 
Philis,  and  took  means  to  increase  the  forces  at  his 
disposal.  The  Philis  no  sooner  heard  that  the 
Israelites  had  cast  off  their  yoke  (1  S  13  36:  for 
"Let  the  Hebrews  hear,"  read  "The  Hebrews  have 
revolted,"  after  LXN),  than  they  came  out  in  great 


1731 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jonas 
Joppa 


numbers  (13  5).  They  seem  to  have  compelled 
Saul  to  evacuate  Michmash,  which  they  occupied, 
Saul  falling  back  on  Gibeah  (13  16)  and  Gilgal  with 
a  greatly  reduced  following  (13  3.4«  seems  to  be  a 
summary  anticipation,  in  Heb  style,  of  the  events 
detailed  in  ch  14).  In  spite  of  this,  J.,  accompanied 
only  by  his  armor-bearer,  surprised  the  Phili  out- 
post at  Geba  (14  5,  "Gibeah"  should  be  "Geba"), 
which  was  killed  to  a  man.  This  feat  precipitated 
a  general  engagement,  in  which  the  Israelites,  whose 
only  weapons  appear  to  have  been  their  farming 
implements  (13  20),  Saul  and  J.  alone  being  armed 
with  iron  swords  and  spears,  routed  their  enemies. 
The  completeness  of  the  victory  was  impaired  by 
the  superstitious  action  of  Saul  in  refusing  to  allow 
the  people  to  eat  until  the  day  was  over  (14  24). 
As  this  order  was  unwittingly  broken  by  J.,  Saul 
wished  to  have  him  executed;  but  this  the  people 
refused  to  allow,  as  they  clearly  recognized  that  the 
credit  of  the  victory  was  due  to  the  energetic  action 
of  J.  in  striking  before  the  enemy  had  time  to  con- 
centrate. (In  the  Heb  text  there  is  some  confusion 
between  Gibeah  and  Geba;  ef  10  5m  and  13  3.) 

(2)  Second  period. — The  2d  period  of  the  life  of 
J.  is  that  of  his  friendship  for  David.  The  narrative 
is  too  well  known  to  need  recapitulating,  and  the 
simple  tale  would  only  be  spoiled  by  telling  it  in 
other  words.  J.'s  devol  ion  to  David  was  such  that 
he  not  only  took  his  part  against  his  father,  Said 
(chs  18,  19),  but  was  willing  to  surrender  to  him 
his  undoubted  claim  to  become  Saul's  successor 
(ch  20).  Their  last  meeting  took  place  in  the 
''desert"  of  Ziph,  to  the  S.  of  Hebron,  some  time 
after  David  had  been  driven  into  outlawry  (23 
16-1S). 

(3)  Third  period.— The  3d  phase  of  J.'s  life  is 
that  of  the  exile  of  David,  when  Saul  was  directing 
his  energies  to  combat  what  he  no  doubt  considered 
the  rebellion  of  the  son  of  Jesse.  During  this  civil 
war,  if  that  can  be  called  war  in  which  one  of  the 
two  sides  refuses  to  take  the  offensive  against  the 
other,  J.  remained  entirely  passive.  He  could  not 
take  part  in  proceedings  which  were  directed  against 
his  friend  whom  he  believed  to  be  destined  to  occupy 
the  place  which  he  himself  should  in  the  ordinary 
course  of  events  have  filled.  We  therefore  hear  no 
more  of  J.  until  the  encroachments  of  the  Philis 
once  more  compelled  Saul  to  leave  the  pursuit  of 
the  lesser  enemy  in  order  to  defend  himself  against 
the  great  er.  Saul's  last  campaign  against  t  he  Philis 
was  short  and  decisive:  it  ended  in  the  defeat  of 
Gilboa  and  the  death  of  himself  and  his  sons.  The 
men  of  Jabesh-gilead,  out  of  gratitude  for  Saul's 
rescue  of  their  town  at  the  beginning  of  his  reign, 
crossed  over  to  Beth-shan,  on  the  walls  of  which 
town  the  Philis  had  hung  in  chains  the  bodies  of 
Saul  and  Jonathan,  and  took  them  down  under 
cover  of  darkness  and  carried  them  to  Jabcsh. 
There  they  burned  the  bodies  after  the  manner  of 
the  primitive  inhabitants  of  the  land,  and  buried 
the  bones. 

If  we  may  judge  from  the  little  which  has  been 

handed  down  to  us  concerning  him,  J.  must  have 

been  one  of  the  finest  spirits  that  ever 

2.  His  lived.  His  character  is,  as  far  as  our 
Character      knowledge   goes,    nearly   perfect.     He 

was  athletic  and  brave  (1  S  14  13; 
2  S  1  22.23).  He  could  keep  his  plans  secret 
when  secrecy  was  necessary  in  order  to  carry  t  hem 
to  a  successful  issue  (14  1),  and  could  decide  on 
what  course  of  action  to  follow  and  act  upon  it  on 

the    instant.     His    attack    upon    the 

3.  Military  Phili  garrison  at  Geba  (or  Gibeah,  if 
Qualities        we  adopt  the  reading  of  the  LXX  and 

Tg  of  13  3;  cf  10  5)  was  delivered  at 
the  right  moment,  and  was  as  wise  as  it  was  daring. 
If  he  had  a  fault,  from  a  military  point  of  view,  it 


may  have  been  an  inability  to  follow  up  an  advan- 
tage. The  pursuit  of  the  Philis  on  t  Ik;  occasion 
referred  to  ended  with  nightfall.  In  this  respect, 
however,  he  perhaps  cannot  be  censured  with  justice, 
as  he  never  had  an  entirely  free  hand. 

J.'s  independence  and  capacity  for  acting  on  his 

own  responsibility  were  combined  with  devotion  to 

his    father.     While    holding    his    own 

4.  Filial  opinion  and  taking  his  own  course, 
Piety  he  conformed  as  far  as  possible  to  his 

father's  views  and  wishes.  While 
convinced  of  the  high  deserts  of  David,  he  sought 
by  all  means  to  mitigate  Saul's  hatred  toward  him, 
and  up  to  a  certain  point  he  succeeded  (19  6). 
Filial  duty  could  not  have  been  more  severely  tested 
than  was  that  of  J.,  but  his  conduct  toward  both 
his  father  and  his  friend  is  above  criticism.  Only 
on  one  occasion  did  his  anger  get  the  better  of  him 
(20  34)  under  gross  provocation,  Saul  having  im- 
pugned the  honor  of  J.'s  mother  (20  30  LXX) 
Ahinoam  (14  50),  and  attempted  his  life.  The 
estrangement  was  momentary;  Saul  and  Jonathan 
were  undivided  in  life  and  in  death  (2  S  1  23  to  be 
so  read). 

But  it  is  as  the  befriender  of  David  that  J.  will 
always  be  remembered.     He  is  the  type  of  the  very 

perfect  friend,  as  well  as  of  the  chival- 

5.  Friend-  rous  knight,  for  all  time.  His  devotion 
ship  for  to  David  was  altogether  human;  had 
David  it    been    dictated    by    a    superstitious 

belief  in  David's  destiny  as  the  future 
ruler  of  his  people  (23  17),  that  belief  would  have 
been  shared  by  Saul,  which  was  not  the  case  (20  31). 
In  disinterestedness  and  willingness  to  efface  his 
own  claims  and  give  up  his  own  titles  the  conduct 
of  J.  is  unsurpassed,  and  presents  a  pleasing  con- 
trast to  some  of  the  characters  with  whom  we  meet 
in  the  Bible.  In  this  respect  he  resembles  'Alt,  the 
cousin  and  son-in-law  of  Muhammad,  who  was  the 
bravest  of  the  brave,  save  when  fight  ing  in  his  own 
cause,  and  who  had  no  ambition  to  fill  the  highest 
posts.  So  J.  preferred  to  serve  rather  than  to  com- 
mand (1  S  23  17).  J.  and  David  stand  for  the 
highest  ideal  of  Heb  friendship,  as  do  Damon  and 
Pythias  in  Gr  lit. 

We  may  be  sure  that  J.  won  the  affection  of  the 
people.     His  squire  was  ready  to  follow  him  any- 
where   (14  7).     David's    devotion    to 

6.  Inspired  him  seems  to  have  been  sincere, 
Affection        although    it    unfortunately    coincided 

with  his  own  self-interest.  J.  appears 
to  have  inspired  as  great  an  affection  as  he  himself 
felt  (1  S  20  41;  2  S  1  20).  His  quarrel  with  his 
father  was  largely  due  to  the  solicitude  of  the  latter 
for  his  son's  interests  (1  S  18  29;   20  31). 

Jonathan's  sons  were,  in  common  with  his 
brother's,  killed  in  the  wars.     One  alone — Merib- 

baal   (Mephibosheth) — survived.     J.'s 

7.  His  De-  posterity  through  him  lasted  several 
scendants      general  ions.     A  table  of  them  is  given 

in  1  Ch  8  33  ff  |  9  40  ff  (cf  2  S  9  12). 
They  were  famous  soldiers  and  were,  like  their  an- 
cestors, distinguished  in  the  use  of  the  bow  (1  Ch 
8  40).  Thomas  Hunter  Weir 

JONATHAS,  jon'a-thas  (Swete  reads  'IaGdv, 
Iathdn,  in  B;  Na9dv,  Nathan,  in  S<):  The  Lat  form 
of  the  common  name  "Jonathan"  (Tob  5  13).  See 
Jathan.     It  is  sometimes  represented  as  Nathan. 

JOPPA,  jop'a  (ID?  ,  ydpho,  iOE?    ydpho' ;  'low-mi, 
Ioppe):    In   Josh  19  40  AV  called  "Japho,"  a  city 
in  the  territory  allotted  to  Dan;    but 
1.  Ancient     there  is  nothing  to  show  that  in  pre- 
Notices  exilic  times  it  ever  passed  into  Israel- 

it  ish  hands.  "The  gate  of  Joppa"  is 
mentioned  in  the  Am  Tab  (214,  32  f;  cf  178,20), 


Joppa 
Jordan 


Till!   INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1782 


as  guarded  by  an  Egyp  officer  for  Amenhotep  IV. 
It  was  conquered  by  Thothmes  III,  and  old  Egyp 
records  speak  of  the  excellence  of  its  gardens  and 
fruit  trees.  Sennacherib  claims  to  have  taken  J. 
after  a  siege  (KB,  2,  93).  To  J.,  the  Chronicler 
tells  us,  the  cedars  of  Lebanon  were  brought  in 
floats  for  transportation  to  Jerus  by  the  workmen 

of  the  king  of  Tyre  (2  Ch  2  16).  The 
2.  Biblical  city  does  not  appear  in  the  history  as 
References    Philistine,  so  we  may,  perhaps,  infer 

that  it  was  held  by  the  Phoenicians, 
the  great  seamen  of  those  days.  It  was  doubtless 
a   Phoen  ship  that   Jonah   found  here,  bound  for 


Traditional  House  of  Simon  the  Tanner. 

Tarshish,  when  he  fled  from  the  presence  of  the 
Lord  (Jon  1  3).  In  Ezra's  time,  again,  cedars 
were  brought  here  for  the  buildings  in  Jerus  (Lzr 
3  7).  Having  been  brought  by  messengers  from 
Lyddato  J.,  Peter  here  raised  the  dead  Dorcas  to  life 
(Acts  9  30  f).  On  the  roof  of  Simon's  house  by  the 
sea,  the  famous  vision  was  vouchsafed  to  this  apostle, 
from  which  he  learned  that  the  gospel  was  designed 
for  Jew  and  Gentile  alike  (Acts  10  Iff;  11  5ff). 
The  men  of  J.,  having  treacherously  drowned 
some  200  Jews,  Judas  Maccabaeus  fell  upon  the 

town  "and  set  the  haven  on  fire  by 
3.  History  night,  and  burned  the  boats,  and  put 
from  Mac-  to  the  sword  those  that  had  fled 
cabean  thither"   (2  Mace  12  3  ff).     Jonathan 

Times  took    the    city,    in    which   Apollonius 

had  placed  a  garrison  (1  Mace  11 
47  ff).  It  was  not  easy  to  hold,  and  some  years 
later  it  was  captured  again  by  Simon,  who  garri- 
soned the  place,  completed  the  harbor  and  raised 
the  fortifications  (1  Mace  12  30  f;  13  11;  14 
5-34).  It  is  recorded  as  part  of  Simon's  glory  that 
he  took  it  "for  a  haven,  and  made  it  an  entrance  for 
the  isles  of  the  sea,"  the  Jews  thus  possessing  for 
the  first  time  a  seaport  through  which  commerce 


Through  the  Rocks  at  Joppa. 

might  be  fully  developed.  It  was  taken  by  Pompey 
and  joined  to  the  province  of  Syria  (.1  nt,  XIV,  iv,  4; 
BJ,  I,  vii,  7).     Caesar  restored  it  to  the  Jews  under 


Hyrcanus  (Ant,  XIV,  x,  6).  It  was  among  the 
cities  given  by  Antony  to  Cleopatra  (XV,  iv,  1). 
Caesar  added  it  to  the  kingdom  of  Herod  (vii.  3; 
BJ,  I,  xx,  3),  and  at  his  death  it  passed  to  Arche- 
laus  (Ant,  XVII,  xi,  4;  B.l ,  II,  vi,  3).  At  his 
deposition  it  was  attached  to  the  Rom  province1. 
The  inhabitants  were  now  zealous  Jews,  and  in  the 
Rom  wars  it  suffered  heavily.  After  a  massacre 
by  Cestius  Callus,  in  which  8,400  of  the  people 
perished,  it  was  left  desolate.  Thus  it  became  a 
resort  of  the  enemies  of  Rome,  who  turned  pirates, 
and  preyed  upon  the  shipping  in  the  neighboring 
waters.  The  place  was  promptly  captured  and 
destroyed  by  Vespasian.  The  people  took  to  their 
boats,  but  a  terrific  storm  burst  upon  them,  dashing 
their  frail  craft  to  pieces  on  the  rocks,  so  that  vast 
numbers  perished  (BJ,  III,  ix,  2-4).  At  a  later 
time  it  was  the  seat  of  a  bishopric.  During  the 
Crusades  it  had  a  checkered  history,  being  taken, 
now  by  the  Christians,  now  by  the  Moslems.  It 
was  captured  by  the  French  under  Kleber  in  1700. 
It  was  fortified  by  t he  English,  and  afterward  ex- 
tended by  the  Turks  (Baedeker,  Pal,  130). 

The  modern   Yd  fa  is  built  on  a  rocky  mound  110  ft. 
high,  at  the  edge!  of  the  sea.   A  reef  of  rocks  runs  parallel 
.         to  the  shore  a  short  distance  out.     It  may 
4.  Descnp-    be   rounded  in   calm   weather   by  lighter 
tion  vessels,  and  it  affords  a  certain  amount  of 

protection.  There  is  a  gap  in  the  reef 
through  which  the  boats  pass  that  meet  the  steamers 
calling  here.  In  time  of  storm  the  passage  is  dangerous. 
On  one  of  these  rocks  Perseus  is  said  to  have  rescued  the 
chained  Andromeda  from  the  dragon.  Yd/a,  is  a  pros- 
perous town,  profiting  much  by  the  annual  streams  of 
pilgrims  who  pass  through  it  on  their  way  to  visit  the 
holy  places  in  Pal.  A  good  trade  is  done  with  P^gypt, 
Syria  and  Constantinople.  Soap,  sesame,  wheat  and 
oranges  are  the  chief  exports.  The  famous  gardens  and 
orange  groves  of  Jaffa  form  oik;  of  the  main  sights  of 
interest.  The  Christians  and  the  Moslems  have  rival 
traditions  as  to  the  site  of  the  house  of  Simon  the 
tanner.  The  remains  of  the  house  of  Tabitha  are  also 
pointed  out.  From  Jaffa  to  Jerus  the  first  railway  in  Pal 
was  built. 

W.    EwiNG 

JORAH,  jo'ra  (rHT1 ,  ydrah,  meaning  uncertain, 
perhaps  "harvest  -born") :  A  family  which  returned 
with  Zerubbabel  (Ezr  2  1S)  =  "IJariph"  of  Neh  7 
24="Arsiphurith"  (AV  "Arzephurith")  of  1  Esd  5 
16. 

JORAI,  jo'ra-I  ("HT,  yoray,  "whom  Jeh  teaches") : 
A  Gadite  chief,  but  possibly  the  name  of  a  clan 
(1  Ch  5  13). 

JORAM,  jo'ram  (-^'", ,  yoram,  "Jeh  is  exalted"; 
cf  Jehoram): 

(1)  Son  of  Toi  (or  Ton,  according  to  LXX,  B,  and 
1  Ch  18  9.10),  sent  by  his  father  to  greet  David 
(2  S  8  10)  =  "Hadoram"(l  Ch  18  9.10)  a  form  pre- 
ferred by  commentators  in  2  S  also. 

(2)  Same  as  Jehoram,  king  of  Judah  (2  K  8  21- 
24;   11  2;   1  Ch  3  11;   Mt  1  8  ['Iwpdn,  Iordm]). 

(3)  Same  as  Jehoram,  king  of  Northern  Israel 
(2  K  8  29;  cf  2  K  9  15  RVm). 

(4)  (In  form  DT1 ,  yoram) :  A  Levite  (1  Ch  26  25). 

(5)  ('Jiopdfi,  Iordm,  1  Esd  19)  =  "Jozabad" 
(2  Ch  35  9);  see  Jozabad  (4). 

JORDAN,  jor'dan  C{T^ ,  yarden,  "flowing  down- 
ward";   'IopSdvns,    Iorddnes):    The    Jordan    river 

proper  begins  at  the  junction  of  four 
1.  Source      streams  (the  Bareighit,  the   Hdsl>dny, 

the  Leddan,  and  the  Bdnias),  in  the 
upper  part  of  the  plain  of  Lake  IIMeh.  The  Bar- 
eighit  receives  its  supply  of  water  from  the  hills  on 
the  W.,  which  separate  the  valley  from  the  river 
Litany,  and  is  the  least  important  of  the  four.  The 
H&sb&ny  is  the  longest  of  the  four  (40  milesj,  issuing 
from  a  great  fountain  at  the  western  foot  of  Mt. 
Hermon  near   Hasbciya,  1,700   ft.  above   the  sea, 


1733 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Joppa 
Jordan 


and  descends  1,500  ft.  in  its  course  to  the  plain. 
The  Leddan  is  the  largest  of  the  four  streams, 
issuing  in  several  fountains  at  the  foot  of  the  mound 
Tell  el-kddy  (Dan,  or  Laish)  at  an  elevation  of  505 
ft.  above  the  sea.  The  Banias  issues  from  a  cele- 
brated fountain  near  the  town  of  Banias,  which  is 
identified  as  the  Caesarea  Philippi  associated  with 
the  transfiguration.  The  ancient  name  was  Paneas, 
originating  from  a  grotto  consecrated  to  the  god  Pan. 
At  this  place  Herod  erected  a  temple  of  white  marble 
dedicated  to  Augustus  Caesar.  This  is  probably 
the  Baal-gad  of  Josh  11  17  and  12  7.  Its  altitude 
is  1,100  ft.  above  tide,  and  the  stream  falls  about 
GOO  ft.  in  the  5  miles  of  its  course  to  the  head  of 
the  Jordan. 

The  valley  of  Lake  Htileh,  through  which  the 
Jordan  wends  its  way,  is  about  20  miles  long  and 

5  miles  wide,  bordered  on  either  side 
2.  Lake  by  hills  and  mountains  attaining  cle- 

Huleh  vat  ions  of  3,000  ft.     After  flowing  4  or 

5  miles  through  a  fertile  plain,  the 
Jordan  enters  a  morass  of  marshy  land  which  nearly 
fills  the  valley,  with  the  exception  of  1  or  2  miles 
between  it  and  the  base  of  the  mountains  upon  the 
western  side.  This  morass  is  almost  impenetrable 
by  reason  of  bushes  and  papyrus  reeds,  which  in 
places  also  render  navigation  of  the  channel  diffi- 
cult even  with  a  canoe.  Lake  Htileh,  into  which 
the  river  here  expands,  is  but  7  ft.  above  tide,  and 
is  slowly  contracting  its  size  by  reason  of  the  accu- 
mulation of  the  decaying  vegel  ation  of  the  surround- 
ing morass,  and  of  the  sediment  brought  in  by  the 
river  and  three  tributary  mountain  torrents.  Its 
continued  existence  is  evidence  of  the  limited  period 
through  which  present  conditions  have  been  main- 
tained. It  will  not  be  many  thousand  years  before 
it  will  be  entirely  filled  and  the  morass  be  changed 
into  a  fertile  plain.  When  the  spies  visited  the 
region,  the  lake  must  have  been  much  larger  than 
it  is  now. 

At  the  southern  end  of  Lake  Htileh,  the  valley 
narrows  up  to  a  width  of  a  few  hundred  yards,  and 
the  river  begins  its  descent  into  levels  below  the 
Mediterranean.  The  river  is  here  only  about  60 
ft.  broad,  and  in  less  than  9  miles  descends  GS9  ft. 
through  a  narrow  rocky  gorge,  where  it  meets  the 
delta  which  it  has  deposited  at  the  head  of  the  Sea 
of  Galilee,  and  slowly  winds  its  way  to  meet  its 
waters.  Throughout  this  delta  the  river  is  easily 
fordable  during  a  great  part  of  the  year. 

The  Sea  of  Galilee  occupies  an  expansion  of  the 
Jordan  valley  12  miles  long  and  from  3  to  6  miles 

wide.     The  hills,  reaching,  in  general, 

3.  Sea  of        1,200  or  1,500  ft.  above  the  lake,  come 
Galilee  down  close  to  its  margin  on  every  side. 

On  the  E.  and  S.  they  are  mainly  of 
volcanic  origin,  and  to  some  extent  of  the  same 
character  on  the  N.W.  side  above  Tiberias.  In  the 
time  of  Christ  the  mouth  of  the  river  may  have  been 
a  half-mile  or  more  farther  up  the  delta  than  now. 

As  all  the  sediment  of  the  upper  Jordan  settles 
in  the  vicinity  of  the  delta  near  Capernaum,   a 

stream  of  pellucid  water  issues  from 

4.  The  the  southern  end  of  the  lake,  at  the 
Yarmtik         modern    town    of    Kerak.     Before    it 

reaches  the  Dead  Sea,  however,  it 
becomes  overloaded  with  sediment.  From  Kerak 
the  opening  of  the  valley  is  grand  in  the  extreme. 
A  great  plain  on  theE.  stretches  to  the  hills  of  De- 
capolis,  and  to  the  S.,  as  far  as  the  eye  can  reach, 
through  the  Ghor  which  descends  to  the  Dead  Sea, 
bordered  by  mountain  walls  on  either  side.  Four 
or  five  miles  below,  it  is  joined  on  the  E.  by  the 
Yarmtik,  the  ancient  Hieromax,  the  largest  of  all  its 
tributaries.  The  debris  brought  down  by  this 
stream  has  formed  a  fertile  delta  terrace  3  or  4  miles 
in  diameter,  which  now,  as  in  ancient  times,  is  an 


attractive  place  for  herdsmen  and  agriculturists. 
The  valley  of  the  Yarmtik  now  furnishes  a  natural 
grade  for  the  Acre  and  Damascus  Railroad,  as  it  did 
for  the  caravan  routes  of  early  times.  The  town 
of  Gadara  lies  upon  an  elevation  just  S.  of  the 
Yarmtik  and  4  or  5  miles  E.  of  the  Jordan. 


Jordan  Leaving  the  Sea  of  Galilee. 

Ten  miles  below  the  lake,  the  river  is  joined  on  the 
W.  by  Wddy  el- Birch,  which  descends  from  the 
vicinity  of  Nazaret  h,  between  Mt.  Tabor  and  Endor, 
and  furnishes  a  natural  entrance  from  the  Jordan 
to  Central  Galilee.  An  aqueduct  here  still  furnishes 
water  for  the  upper  terrace  of  the  Ghor.  Wddy 
el-Arab,  with  a  small  perennial  stream,  comes  in 
here  also  from  the  E. 

Twenty  miles  below  Lake  Galilee  the  river  is 
joined  by  the  important  Wddy  el-Jdltid,  which  de- 
scends through  the  valley  of  Jezreel 
5.  El-Ghor  between  Mt.  Gilboa  and  the  range  of 
the  Little  Hermon  (the  hill  Moreh  of  Jgs 
7  1).  This  valley  leads  up  from  the  Jordan  to  the  val- 
ley of  Esdraelon  and  thence  to  Nazareth,  and  fur- 
nished the  usual  route  for  Jews  going  from  Jerus  to 
Nazareth  when  they  wished  to  avoid  the  Samaritans. 
This  route  naturally  takes  one  past  Beisan  (Beth- 
shean),  where  the  bodies  of  Saul  and  Jonathan  were 
exposed  by  the  Philis,  and  past  Shunem  and  Nain. 
There  is  a  marked  expansion  of  the  Ghor  opposite 
Beisan,  constituting  an  important  agricultural  dis- 
trict. The  town  of  Pella,  to  which  the  Christians 
fled  at  the  time  of  the  destruction  of  Jerus,  lies  upon 
theE.  side  of  the  Ghor;  while  Jabesh-gilead,  where 
the  bodies  of  Saul  and  Jonathan  were  finally  taken 
by  their  friends  and  cremated,  is  a  little  farther  up 
the  slope  of  Gilead.  Twenty  miles  farther  down, 
the  Ghor,  on  the  E.,  is  joined  by  Wddy  Zerka  (the 
brook  Jabbok),  the  second  largest  tributary,  sepa- 
rating Amnion  from  Gilead,  its  upper  tributaries 
flowing  past  Amnion,  Mizpoh,  and  Ramoth-gilead. 
It  was  down  this  valley  that  Jacob  descended  to 
Succoth . 

A  few  miles  below,  the  Wddy  Farah,  whose  head 
is  at  Sychar  between  Mts.  Ebal  and  Gerizim,  de- 
scends from  the  W.,  furnishing  the  natural  route  for 
Jacob's  entrance  to  the  promised  land. 

At  Damieh  (probably  the  Adam  of  Josh  3  16), 
the  Ghor  is  narrowed  up  by  the  projection,  from 
the  W.,  of  the  mountain  ridge  terminating  in  K urn 
Stirttibeh,  which  rises  abruptly  to  a  height  of  2,000 
ft.  above  the  river. 

The  section  of  the  Ghor  between  Damieh  and  the 
Dead  Sea  is  of  a  pretty  uniform  width  of  10  to  12 
miles  and  is  of  a  much  more  uniform  level  than  the 
upper  portions,  but  its  fertility  is  interfered  with 
by  the  lack  of  water  and  the  difficulty  of  irrigation. 
From  the  vicinity  of  Jericho,  an  old  Rom  road  follows 
up  the  Wddy  Ndwaimeh,  which  furnished  Joshua 
a  natural  line  of  approach  to  Ai,  while  through  the 
Wddy  el- Kelt  is  opened  the  natural  road  to  Jerus. 
Both  Ai  and  the;  Mount  of  Olives  are  visible  from 
this  point  of  the  Ghor. 


Jordan 
Jordan  Valley 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1734 


In  a  direct  line  it  is  only  70  miles  from  Lake  Gali- 
leo to  the  Dead  Sea,  and  this  is  the  total  length  of 

the  lower  plain  (the  Zor) ;  but  so  numor- 
6.  The  Zor    ous  arc  the  windings  of  the  river  across 

the  flood  plain  from  one  bluff  to  the 
other  that  the  length  of  the  river  is  fully  200  miles. 
( "ol.  Lynch  reported  the  occurrence  of  27  rapids,  which 
wholly  interrupted  navigation,  and  many  others 
which  rendered  it,  difficult.  The  major  part  of  the 
descent  below  Lake  ( lalilee  takes  place  before  reach- 
ing Damieh,  1,140  ft.  below  the  Mediterranean. 
While  the  bluffs  of  theGhor,  upon  either  side  of  the 
Zor,  are  nearly  continuous  and  uniform  below 
Damieh,  above  this  point  they  are  much  dissected 


Notwithstanding  the  great  number  of  fords  where 
it  is  possible  to  cross  at  low  water,  those  which  were 
so  related  to  the  lines  of  travel  as  to  be  of  much 
avail  were  few.  Beginning  near  the  mouth  of  the 
J.  and  proceeding  northward,  there  was  a  ford  at 
el-Henu  leading  directly  from  Jericho  to  the  high- 
lands N.E.  of  the  Dead  Sea.  Two  or  three  miles 
farther  to  the  N.  is  the  ford  of  the  pilgrims,  best 
known  of  all,  at  the  mouth  of  Wady  Kelt.  A  few 
miles  farther  up  the  river  on  the  road  leading  from 
Jericho  to  es-Salt,  near  the  mouth  of  the  Wady 
Nimrin,  there  is  now  a  bridge  when;  the  dependence 
was  formerly  upon  the  ford.  Just  below  the  mouth 
of  the  WCuly  Zerka  (Jabbok)  is  the  ford  of  Damieh, 


The  River  Jordan. 


by  the  erosion  of  tributary  streams.  Still,  nearly 
everywhere,  an  extended'  view  brings  to  light 
the  original  uniform  level  of  the  sedimentary  de- 
posits formed  when  the  valley  was  filled  with 
water  to  a  height  of  650  ft.  (see  Arabah;  Dead 
Ska). 

The  river  itself  averages  about  100  ft.  in  width 
when  confined  strictly  within  its  channel,  but  in  the 
early  spring  months  the  flood  plain  of  the  Zor  is 
completely  overflowed,  bringing  into  its  thickets 
a  great  amount  of  driftwood  which  increases  the 
difficulty  of  penetrating  it,  and  temporarily  drives 
out  ferocious  animals  to  infest  the  neighboring 
country. 

According  to  Conder,  there  are  no  less  than  60 
fording-places  between  Lake  Galilee  and  the  Dead 

Sea.  Lor  the  most  part  it  will  be  seen 
7.  The  that  these  occur  at  rapids,  or  over  bars 

Fords  of  deposited  by  the  streams  which  de- 
Jordan  scend  from  one  side  or  the  other,  as, 

for  example,  below  the  mouths  of  the 
Yarrnuk,  Jabbok,  JdlHd  and  Kelt.  These  fords  are, 
however,  impassable  during  the  high  water  of  the 
winter  and  spring  months.  Until  the  occupation 
by  the  Romans,  no  bridges  were  built;  but  they 
and  their  successors  erected  them  at  various  places, 
notably  below  the  mouth  of  the  Yarrnuk,  and  the 
Jabbok,  and  nearly  opposite  Jericho. 


where  the  road  from  Shechem  comes  down  to  the 
river.  A  bridge  was  at  one  time  built  over  the  river 
at  this  point;  but  owing  to  a  change  in  the  course 
of  the  stream  this  is  now  over  a  dry  water-course. 
The  next  important  crossing-place  is  at  the  opening 
of  the  valley  of  Jezreel  coming  in  from  the  \V\, 
where  probably  the  Bethabara  of  the  NT  should 
be  located.  Upon  this  ford  a  number  of  caravan 
routes  from  E.  to  W.  converge.  The  next  impor- 
tant crossing-place  is  at  el-Mujamia,  2  or  3  miles 
below  the  mouth  of  the  Yarrnuk.  Here,  also,  there 
was  a  Rom  bridge.  There  are  also  some  traces  of 
an  ancient  bridge  remaining  just  below  the  exit  of 
the  river  from  Lake  Galilee,  where  there  was  a 
ford  of  special  importance  to  the  people  residing 
on  the  shores  of  this  lake  who  could  not  afford  to 
cross  in  boats.  Between  Lake  Galilee  and  Lake 
Huleh,  an  easy  ford  leads  across  the  delta  of  the 
stream  a  little  above  its  junction  with  the  lake; 
while  2  or  3  miles  below  Lake  Hutch  is  found  "the 
bridge  of  Jacob's  daughters"  on  the  line  of  one  of 
the  principal  routes  between  Damascus  and  Galilee. 
Above  Lake  Hfdeh  the  various  tributaries  are  easily 
crossed  at  several  places,  though  a  bridge  is  required 
to  cross  the  Barcighit  near  its  mouth,  and  another 
on  the  Hdsbdny  on  the  main  road  from  Caesarea 
Philippi  to  Sidon,  at  el-Ghagar. 

George  Frederick  Wright 


1735 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jordan 
Jordan  Valley 


JORDAN  VALLEY:  As  more  fully  detailed  else- 
where (see  Arabah;  Dead  Sea;  Geology  of 
Palestine),  the  Jordan  valley  in  its 
1.  Physical  lower  portion  occupies  a  remarkable 
Peculiarities  depression  in  the  earth's  surface,  reach- 
ing its  greatest  depth  in  the  Dead  Sea, 
the  surface  of  which  is  1,300  ft.,  the  bottom  2,600 
ft.  below  tide  level,  the  portion  of  the  basin  below 


Outer  Banks  of  the  Delta  of  the  Jordan. 

the  level  of  the  sea  being  about  100  miles  in  length 
and  from  10  to  15  miles  in  breadth  at  base,  and  from 
two  to  three  times  that  distance  between  the  bor- 
dering summits  of  the  mountains  and  plateaus  on 
either  side.  In  the  early  prehistoric  period,  cor- 
responding with  the  Glacial  epoch,  this  depression 
was  filled  with  water  to  a  height  of  1,400  ft.  (see 
references  above)  which  gradually  disappeared  by 
evaporation  as  prevent  climatic  conditions  came  on. 
At  an  elevation  of  approximately  650  ft.  above  the 
Dead  Sea,  very  extensive  sedimentary  deposits 
were  made,  which,  while  appearing  only  in  frag- 
ments along  the  shores  of  the  Dead  Sea,  are  con- 
tinuous over  the  bottom  of  the  valley  (the  so-called 
Gh or),  farther  N.  These  deposits  are  from  100  to 
200  ft.  thick,  consisting  of  material  which  was 
brought  down  into  the  valley  by  the  tributary 
mountain  streams  descending  from  each  side,  while 
the  water  stood  at  this  higher  level.  Naturally 
tin  so  deposits  slope  gradually  from  the  sides  of  the 
valley  toward  the  center,  the  coarser  material  of  the 
deposits  being  nearer  the  sides,  and  the  amount  of 
sediment  being  much  increased  opposite  the  mouths 
of  the  larger  streams.  The  deposit  was  at  first 
continuous  over  the  entire  Ghor,  or  valley,  but  has 
since  been  much  dissected  by  the  J.  river  and  its 
tributaries.  The  J.  itself  has  eroded  a  channel 
through  the  soft  sediment,  100  ft.  more  or  less  deep, 
from  Lake  Galilee  to  the  Dead  Sea,  a  distance  in  a 
st  raight  line  of  about  70  miles.  At  first  t  his  channel 
was  narrow,  but  it  has  been  constantly  enlarged  by 
the  stream  as  it  has  meandered  from  side  to  side, 
undercutting  the  banks  so  that  they  cave  into  the 
river  and  are  washed  down  to  fill  up  the  Dead  Sea, 
a  process  which  is  esp.  familiar  to  residents  upon  the 
banks  of  the  Mississippi  and  Missouri  rivers.  This 
narrow  gorge  is  called  the  Zdr,  and  will  hereafter 
be  referred  to  under  this  name.  The  Zdr  at  present 
averages  about  \  mile  wide,  the  most  of  which  is 
occupied  by  a  flood  plain  extending  from  the  banks 
of  the  river  to  the  foot  of  the  sedimentary  bluffs  on 
either  side.  This  flood  plain  is  so  overgrown  with 
brush  and  reeds  that  it  is  practically  impenetrable, 
except  by  wild  beasts,  which,  according  to  Scriptural 
references,  have  infested  it  from  earliest  times, 
among  which  may  be  mentioned  the  lion,  the  tiger, 
the  wild  boar.  During  the  spring  months,  when  the 
snows  are  melting  from  Mt.  Hermon  and  cloud- 
bursts are  sending  sudden  torrents  of  water  down 
the  river  courses  from  the  plateau  of  Gilead  and 
the  mountains  of  Samaria,  the  J.  "overflows  all  its 
banks,"  i.e.  covers  this  flood  plain  and  drives  out  the 
beasts  to  infest  the  neighborhood  for  a  short  time. 


The  surface  of  this  old  lake  bed  lias  also  been 
much  dissected  by  the  tributary  streams  which  come 
in  from  either  side,  they  having  cut  channels  across 
the  Ghor  down  to  a  depth  corresponding  to  that  of 
the  Zdr.  As  a  consequence  the  roads  leading  up 
the  valley  find  it  necessary  to  hug  the  base  of  the 
mountains  on  either  side  to  avoid  the  abrupt  de- 
scent into  the  channels  of  the  tributary  streams, 
which  are  deepest  near  their  mouths.  Another 
natural  consequence  of  these  physical  peculiarities 
is  that  agriculture  cannot  be  carried  on  except  as 
water  to  irrigate  the  level  surfaces  of  the  Ghor  is 
carried  out  from  the  higher  levels  of  the  perennial 
streams.  There  are  many  remains  of  such  aque- 
ducts for  irrigation  constructed  in  early  times. 
These  are  now  almost  all  in  ruins  and  unused. 
Merrill,  however,  estimates  that  200  sq.  miles  of  the 
J.  valley,  over  which  the  surface  is  as  level  as  a 
prairie,  and  as  free  from  stones,  could  be  irrigated 
at  the  present  time  and  made  as  fruitful  as  the  valley 
of  the  Nile.  But  from  time  immemorial  settled 
agriculture  in  the  Ghor  has  been  rendered  precarious 
by  the  incursions  of  the  nomadic  tribes,  who  periodi- 
cally come  down  from  the  desert  regions  on  the  E. 

Two  descriptions  (the  first  from  my  own  journal) 

of  the  general  views  obtained  of  the  J.  valley  from 

adjoining    elevated    points    will    give 

2.  Two  De-  vividness   to   our   conceptions  of   this 

scriptions       remarkable  depression. 

"It  was  the  middle  of  December  when, 
after  wading  all  day  across  the  southern  Hanks  of  Mt. 
Hermon,  through  snow  knee-deep  for  our  horses,  we 
descended  below  the  clouds  and  the  snow  to  the  brink  of 
the  eastern  mountain  wall  overlooking  the  upper  valley 
of  the  ,J.  It  was  a  sightever  to  be  remembered,  with  the 
glistering  peak  of  M  t.  Hermon  to  our  right,  and  t  he  jagged 
walls  of  the  borders  of  Naphtali  stretching  across  the 
horizon  on  the  W.,  only  a  few  miles  away,  while  between 
and  at  our  feet  were  the  green  fields  of  the  upper  J. 
valley,  through  which  ran  the  silver  thread  of  the  river, 
broadening  out  into  the  expanded  waters  of  Lake 
Merom.  Over  the  plain  could  dimly  be  seen  the  black 
tents  of  the  Arabs,  and  the  husbandmen  plowing  the 
fields  for  an  early  harvest.  No  wonder  the  spies  were 
impressed  with  the  attractiveness  and  fertility  of  the 
region."     This  of  the  upper  J.  valley. 

Dr.  Merrill  gives  the  following  description  of  the  view 
of  the  lower  J.  valley  from  the  summit  of  Kum  Sur- 
tdbeh,  March  23:  "  Jebel  esh  Sheikh  [Mt.  Hermon]  was 
covered  with  snow,  and  so  was  the  Lebanon  range 
farther  to  the  W.  and  N.  Lake  Merom  and  the  vol- 
canic peaks  on  the  plain  to  the  E.  of  it  and  S.  of  Her- 
mon were  distinctly  seen,  likewise  the  Sea  of  Galilee,  the 
hills  about  Safed,  the  hills  W.  of  Tiberias  and  the  slope 
from  their  summit,  which  inclines  toward  Mt.  Tabor; 
also  Gamala  and  Gadara,  all  the  range  of  Jebel  ' Ajlun 
or  hills  of  Gilead,  Kulat  er  Rubad,  Jebel  Mei.sera  and 
Jebel  Osha,  the  mountains  of  Moab,  and  the  Dead  Sea. 
But  the  mere  naming  of  different  points  that  can  be 
seen  gives  no  adequate  idea  of  the  extent  and  magnifi- 
cence of  the  prospect  which  one  enjoys  from  the  top  of 
this  strange  landmark.  Hills  to  the  W.  obstruct  the 
view  in  that  direction,  and  to  the  E.  nothing  can  be 
seen  beyond  the  highest  part  of  the  Moab  and  (iilead 
ranges,  but  it  is  the  north-and-south  sweep  which  makes 
the  prospect  a  glorious  one.  No  language  can  picture 
correctly  the  J.  valley,  the  winding  stream,  the  jungles 
on  its  banks,  the  strange  Ghdr  with  its  white,  ragged 
sides  the  vast  plain  of  the  valley,  through  and  in  the 
middle  of  which  the  lower  Ghor  [the  Zdr]  is  sunk,  the 
dense  green  oases  formed  here  and  there  by  some  moun- 
tain stream,  and  the  still,  lifeless  sea,  as  bright  and 
motionless  as  molten  lead,  lying  far  to  the  S.,  ending 
the  great  valley  and  touching  the  mountains  on  either 
side!  This  is  an  outline  merely,  but  I  cannot  summon 
to  my  aid  words  which  will  describe  it  more  accurately. 
The  J.  valley  or  Ghor,  in  front  of  S&rt&beh,  is  about 
8  miles  wide,  and  looks  like  a  vast  plain.  The  lower 
Ghdr  [Zor]  is  the  ragged  channel  cut  down  along  the 
middle  of  the  large  one.  This  distinction  of  the  upper 
and  lower  Ghdr  is  by  no  means  so  strikingly  defined 
above  the  mouth  of  the  Zerka  as  it  is  below  that  point, 
and  all  the  way  thence  to  the  Dead  Sea." 

Considered  in  detail  the  valley  may  be  divided, 
as  Condor  suggests,  into  8  sections.  "First  the 
portion  between  Banias  and  the  Hukh,  where  it  is 
some  5  miles  broad,  with  steep  cliffs  some  2,000 
ft.  high  on  either  side  and  a  broad  marsh  between. 
Secondly,   from   the    Hukh  to  the  Sea  of  Galilee, 


Jordan  Valley 
Joseph 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  MIHLH  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1736 


where   the  stream 
and   aboi 


3.   Division 
into  Eight 
Sections 


runs  close   to   t 
miles  from   the  base 
\\   ,  which  rise  toward 
mount  ains,  more  t  han 


'  eastern  hills, 
f  t  hose  on  t  lie 
the  high  Safnl 
5,500  ft.  above 


the  lake.  Thirdly,  for  13  miles  from 
the  S.  end  of  the  Sea  of  Galilee  to  the 
neighborhood  of  Beisdn.  Here  the 
valley  is  only  1-i  miles  broad  W.  of  the  river,  and 
about  15  on  the  1'].,  the  steep  cliffs  of  the  plateau  of 
Kaukab  el  flawa  on  the  \Y.  reaching  an  altitude 
of  l.SOOft.  above  the  stream. 

"South  of  Beisdn  is  the  4th  district,  with  a  plain 
W.  of  J.,  12  miles  long  and  6  miles  broad,  the  line 
of  hills  on  the  K.  being  straight,  and  the  foot  of  the 
mountains  on  this  side  about  2  miles  from  the  river. 
In  the  neighborhood  of  Beisdn,  the  cross-section  of 
the  plain  shows  3  levels:  that  of  the  shelf  on  which 
Beisdn  stands,  about  300  ft.  below  sea-level;  that 
of  tiie  Ghdr  itself,  some  400  ft.  lower,  reached  by  an 
almost  precipitous  descent;  and  that  of  the  Zdr, 
or  narrow  trench,  from  a  half  to  a  quarter  of  a  mile 
wide,  and  about  lot)  ft.  lower  still.  The  higher 
shelf  extends  westward  to  the  foot  of  Gilboa;  it 
dies  away  on  the  S.,  but  on  the  N.  it  gradually  rises 
into  the  plateau  of  Kaukab  and  to  the  western 
table-land  above  the  sea  of  Galilee,  l,<S00ft.  above  J. 

"After  leaving  the  Beisdn  plain,  the  river  passes 
through  a  narrow  valley  12  miles  long  and  2  or  3 
miles  wide,  with  a  raised  table-land  to  the  \\\, 
having  a  level  averaging  about  500  ft.  above  the 
sea.  The  Beisdn  plain  is  full  of  springs  of  fresh 
water,  some  of  which  arc1  thermal,  but  a  large  cur- 
rent of  salt  warm  water  flows  down  Wddy  Mdleh,  at 
the  northern  extremity  of  this  5th  district. 

"In  the  6th  district,  the  Ddmieh  region,  the1  valley 
again  opens  to  a  width  of  about  3  miles  on  the  W., 
and  5  on  the  E.  of  J.  The  great  block  of  the  Kuril 
Surtubeh  here  stands  out  like  a  bastion,  on  the  \\\, 
2,400  ft.  above  the  river.  Passing  this  mountain, 
the  7th  district  is  entered — a  broad  valley  extend- 
ing from  near  Fusdil  to  lOshel  Ghdrdb,  N. of  Jericho. 
In  this  region  the  Ghdr  itself  is  5  miles  broad,  W. 
of  the  river,  and  rather  more  on  the  E.  The  lower 
trench  or  Zor  is  also  wider  here  and  more  distinctly 
separated  from  the  Ghdr.  A  curious  geographical 
feature  of  this  region  was  also  discovered  by  the 
Survey  party.  The  great  affluents  of  the  Fdr'ah 
and  Aujeh  do  not  flow  straight  to  J.,  but  turn  S. 
about  a  mile  W.  of  it,  and  each  runs,  for  about  6 
miles,  nearly  parallel  with  the  river;  thus  the 
mouth  of  the  Fdr'ah  is  actually  to  be  found  just 
where  that  of  the  next  valley  is  shown  on  most 
maps. 

"The  Sth  and  last  district  is  that  of  the  plain  of 
Jericho,  which,  with  the  corresponding  basin  (Ghdr- 
es-Seisebdn)  I'],  of  J.,  measure's  over  S  miles  X.  and 
S.,  and  more  than  14  across,  with  J.  about  in 
the  middle.  The1  Zor  is  here  about  a  mile  wide, 
and  some  200  ft.  below  the  broad  plain  of  the 
Ghdr." 

Owing  to  its  depression  below  sea-level  the  climate 
of  the  lower  J.  valley  is  even  more  than  tropical. 
In  the  summer  months  the  thermome- 
4.  Climate:  ter  scarcely  falls  below  100°  F.,  even 
Fauna  and  in  the  night;  but  during  the  winter 
Flora  months,  though  the  days  are  hot,  the 

thermometer  frequently  goes  down  to 
40°  in  the  night  time. 

The  fauna  of  this  part  of  the  J.  valley  and  about 
the  Dead  Sea  is  said  by  Tristram  (SWP,  "Fauna 
and  Flora")  to  be  identical  with  that  now  existing 
in  Ethiopia.  Of  the  mammalia  characteristic  of 
this  general  region,  34  are  Ethiopian  and  16  Indian, 
though  there  is  now  no  possible  connection  with 
either  Ethiopia  or  India.  The  fish  of  the  J.  show 
close  affinity  to  many  species  of  tin;  Nile  and  of  the 
lakes  anil  rivers  of  tropical  Africa.     Many  species 


of  birds,  also,  now  confined  to  the  lower  basin  and 
the  Dead  Sea,  are  related  to  Ethiopian  and  Indian 
species. 

The  flora  is  equally  interesting.  Out  of  162 
species  of  plants  found  at  the  S.YY.  corner  of  the 
Dead  Sea,  135  species  are  African  in  their  affinity. 
In  the  marshes  of  Lake  Iluleh,  many  acres  are 
covered  with  the  papyrus  plant,  which  became 
extinct  in  Egypt  long  ago,  and  is  now  found  in 
Africa  only  in  the  Upper  Nile  beyond  the  7th  degree 
of  N.  lat.  The  most  common  trees  and  plants  of 
tin1  J.  valley  are  the  castor-oil  plant  and  the  oleander, 
flourishing  esp.  about  Jericho,  several  varieties  of 
the  acacia  tree,  the  caper  plant,  the  Dead  Sea 
apple  {Solarium  Sodomaeum)  the  oser  tree  of  the 
Arabs,  tamarisks,  Agnus  casti  (a  flowering  bam- 
boo), Balanites  A egypliaca  (supposed  to  be  the  balm 
of  Gilead),  Papains  Euphratica  (a  plant  found  all 
over  Central  Asia  but  not  W.  of  the  J.),  and  many 
tropical  plants,  among  which  may  be  mentioned 
Zygophyllum  coccineum,  Boerhavia,Indigofera,severa,] 
Astragali,  Cassias,  Gymnocarpum,  and  Nitraria. 
George  Frederick  Wright 

JORIBUS,  jor'i-bus  ('IiipiBos,  Idribos;  AV 
Joribas): 

(1)  In  1   Esd  8  44,  called  "Jarib"  in  Ezr  8   16. 

(2)  In  1   Esd  9  19,  called  "Jarib"  in  Ezr  10  18. 

JORIM,  jd'rim  ('ItopeifjL,  Ioreim,  from  D"Y1J"P, 
yhordm,  DHT ,  yordm):  An  ancestor  of  Jesus  in 
Lk's  genealogy  (Lk  3  20). 

JORKEAM,  jor'ke--am  (D^pT' ,  yorlf'am;  AV 
Jorkoam):  This  is  probably  to  be  taken  as  the  name 
of  a  town,  the  "father"  or  "founder"  of  which  was 
Ilaham  (1  Ch  2  44).  It  may  be  identical  with 
"Jokdeam"  of  Josh  15  56. 

JOSABAD,  jos'a-bad.     See  Jozabad. 

JOSABDUS,  jd-sab'dus  (Ta>o-a(386s,  Iosabdos,  1 
Esd  8  63;  probably  identical  with  'Ia)£a|3d8os, 
Idzabddos,  in  9  23) :  The  same  as  Jozabad  of  Ezr 
8  33;    10  23  (q.v.). 

JOSAPHAT,  jos'a-fat  CIwa<f>dT,  Idsaphdt,  AV 
in  Ml  1  8  for  Jehoshaphat  [q.v.]):  A  king  of 
Judah,  mentioned  in  Mt's  genealogy  of  Christ. 

JOSAPHIAS,  jos-a-ffas  ('Icoo-a<j>£as,  Iosaphias, 
1  Esd  8  36):    Called  "Josephiah"  in  Ezr  8  10. 

JOSE,  jo'se  ('Iu)o-t|,  lose):  AV  form  for  "Jesus" 
('Itjo-oOs,  Iesous)  in  Lk's  genealogy  (3  29),  RV  Gr. 

JOSECH,  jo'sek  ('Ia>o-TJx>  Idsech,  WH;  I<oo-t|4>, 
Iostph,  TR;  AV  Joseph):  An  ancestor  of  Jesus  in 
Lk's  genealogy  (3  26). 

JOSEDECH,  jos'e-dek,  JOSEDEK,  jos'e-dek 
('IoxreSeK,  Ioseilek) :  Father  of  Jeshua  (1  Esd  5  5). 
In  Hag  1  1  RV,  the  relationship  is  described  as 
"Joshua   the   son   of   Jehozadak    [q.v.],    the   high 

priest." 

JOSEPH,  jd'zef  (wIDT1 ,  yoseph;  'Loo-t|4>,  Idst-ph) : 
(1)  The   11th  son  of  Jacob  and   1st  of   Rachel 

(see  separate  art.). 

(2)  The  father  of  Igal  of  Issachar, 

1.  In  the        one  of  the  12  spies  (Nu  13  7). 

OT  (3)  A  son  of  Asaph  (1  Ch  25  2.9). 

(4)  A  man  of  the  sons  of  Bani,  who 

had  married  a  foreign  wife  (Ezr  10  42). 

(5)  A  priest  of  the  family  of  Shebaniah  in  the 

days  of  Joiakim  (Neh  12  14). 


1737 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jordan  Valley 
Joseph 


(1)  Son  of  Zacharias,  defeated  by  Gorgias  c  164 
BC  (1   Mace  5   18.56.60). 

(2)  Called  a  brother  of  Judas  Macca- 

2.  In  the        baeus   in   2  Mace  8  22,    probably   by 
Apoc  mistake  for  John. 

(3)  Great-grandfather     of      Judith 
(Jth  8  1). 

(1)  The  husband  of  Mary,  the  mother  of  Jesus 
(see  speeial  art.). 

(2,  3)  The  name  of  3   ancestors  of 

3.  In  the        Jesus   according   to   AV    (Lk  3  24.20. 
NT  30) ;   the  name  of  two  according  to  RV, 

which  reads  "Josech"  in  Lk  3  26. 

(4)  A  Jew  of  Arimathaea  in  whose  sepulcher  Jesus 
was  buried  (Mt  27  57,  etc;  see  art.). 

(5)  One  of  the  brethren  of  Jesus,  according 
to  RV  (Mt  13  55,  AV  "Joses").  AV  and  RV 
both  have  "Joses"  in  Mt  27  56;  Mk  6  3;  15 
40.47. 

(0)  Joseph  Barsabbas  (Acts  1  23;   see  art.). 
(7)  Joseph,  surnamei I  Barnabas  (Acts  4  36,  AV 
"Joses";  see  Barnabas).  S.  F.  Hunter 

JOSEPH,  jo'zof  (ZZV,  yoseph,  "He  will  add"; 
LXX  'Io>o-T|<j>,  Idstph.  The  narrative  [Gen  30  23. 
24]  indicates  not  so  much  a  double  etymology  as  the 
course  of  Rachel's  thoughts.  The  use  of  "v^ , 
'asaph,  "He  takes  away,''  suggested  to  her  mind  by 
its  form  in  the  future,  7ZV  ,  yo$eph,  "He  will  add," 
"And  she  called  his  name  J.,  saying,  Jeh  add  to  me 
another  son") : 

I.     The  Joseph  Stohy,  a  Literary  Question 

1.  An   Independent  Original  or  an  Adaptation? 

2.  A  Monograph  or  a  Compilation  ? 

(1)  An   Analytical   Theory    Resolving   It   into   a 
Mere  Compilation 

(2)  A  Narrative  Full  of  Gems 

(a)  The  Brothers  Presented;    Joseph  Weep- 
ing 

(b)  The     Scene     between     the    Brothers    of 
Joseph  and  the  Steward 

(r)   Judah's  Speech 

('/)    Revelation  of  Joseph  to  Bis  Brethren 

(3)  The  Argument  from  Chronology  Supporting 
It  as  a  Monograph 

II.     The  Stohy  ok  Joseph,  a  Biography 

1.  A  Bedouin  Prince  in  Canaan 

2.  A  Bedouin  Slave  in  Egypt 

3.  The  Bedouin  Slave  Becomes  Again  the  Bedouin 
Prince 

4.  The  Prime  Minister 

5.  The  Patriarch 
Literature 

The  eleventh  son  of  Jacob.  The  Bib.  narra- 
tive concerning  J.  presents  two  subjects  for  con- 
sideration, the  J.  story,  a  literary  question,  and 
the  story  of  J.,  a  biography.  It  is  of  the  first 
importance  to  consider  these  questions  in  this 
order. 

Cheyne  in  E  B  reaches  such  conclusions  concerning  the 
J.  story  that  the  story  of  J.  is  mutilated  almost  beyond 
recognition  as  a  biography  at  all.  Driver  in  11 1)H  holds 
that  tiie  J.  story  was  "in  all  probability  only  committed 
to  writing  700-800  years"  later  than  the  time  to  which 
J.  is  attributed,  points  out  that  J.'s  name  was  also  the 
name  of  a  tribe,  and  concludes  that  "the  first  of  these 
facts  at  once  destroys  all  guarantee;  that  we  possess  in 
the  J.  narrative  a  literal  record  of  the  facts,"  and  that 
"the  second  fact  raises  the  further  question  whether  the 
figure  of  J.,  in  part  or  even  as  a  whole,  is  a  reflection  of  the 
history  and  charactteristics  of  the  tribe  projected  upon 
the  past  in  the  individual  form."  But  he  draws  back 
from  this  view  and  thinks  it  "more  probable  that  there 
was  an  actual  person  J.,  afterward  ....  rightly  or 
wrongly  regarded  as  the  ancestor  of  the  tribe  .... 
who  underwent  substantially  the  experience  recounted 
of  him  hi  Gen."  In  the;  presence  of  such  critical  notions 
concerning  the  literature  in  which  the  narrative  of  J.  is 
embodied,  it  is  clear  that  until  we  have  reached  some 
conclusions  concerning  the  J.  story,  we  cannot  be  sure 
that  there  is  any  real  story  of  J.  to  relate. 

/.  The  Joseph  Story,  a  Literary  Question. — This 
literary  problem  will  be  solved,  if  satisfactory 
answers  may  be  found  to  two  questions:  Is  it 
an  independent  original  or  an  adaptation?     Suit- 


able  material    for   such   an    adaptation    as    would 

produce  a  J.  story  has  been  sought   at  either  end 

of    the   line   of   history:    J.    the   pro- 

1.  An  Inde-  genitor  and  J.  the  tribe.  The  only 
pendent  contestant  for  the  claim  of  being  an 
Original  or  early  original  of  which  the  J.  story 
an  Adapta-  might  be  an  adaptation  is  the  nasty 
tion?  "Tale  of  Two  Brothers"  (RP,  series  I, 

vol  II,  137-46).  This  story  in  its 
essential  elements  much  resembles  the  J.  story. 
But  such  events  as  it  records  are  common:  why 
not  such  stories  ? 

What  evidence  does  this  "Tale  of  Two  Brothers" 
afford  that  the  J.  story  is  not  an  independent  original  ? 
Are  we  to  suppose  that  because  many  French  romances 
involve  the  demi-monde,  there  was  therefore1  no  Madame 
de  Pompadour?  Art;  court  scandals  so  unheard  of  I  hat 
ancient  Egypt  cannot  afford  two  ?  And  why  impugn 
the  genuineness  of  the  J.  story  because  the  "Tale  of  Two 
Brothers"  resembles  it?  Is  anyone  so  ethereal  in  his 
passions  as  not  to  know  by  instinct  that  the  essential 
elements  of  such  scandal  are  always  the  same?  The 
difference  in  the  narrative  is  chiefly  in  the  telling.  At 
this  latter  point  the  J.  story  and  the  "Tale  of  Two 
Brothers"  bear  no  resemblance  whatever. 

If  the  chaste  beauty  of  the  Bib.  story  be  observed, 
and  then  one  turn  to  the  "Tale  of  Two  Brothers" 
with  sufficient  knowledge  of  the  Egyp  tongue  to 
perceive  the  coarseness  and  the  stench  of  it,  there 
can  be  no  question  that  the  J.  story  is  independent 
of  such  a  literary  source.  To  those  who  thus  sense 
both  stories,  the  claim  of  the  "Tale  of  Two  Brothers" 
to  be  the  original  of  the  J.  story  cannot  stand  for  a 
moment.  If  we  turn  from  J.  the  progenitor  to  J. 
the  tribe,  still  less  will  the  claim  that  the  story  is  an 
adaptation  bear  careful  examination.  The  perfect 
naturalness  of  the  story,  the  utter  absence  from  its 
multitudinous  details  of  any  hint  of  figurative 
language,  such  as  personification  always  furnishes, 
and  the  absolutely  accurate  reflection  in  the  story 
of  the  Egypt  of  J.'s  day,  as  revealed  by  the  many 
discoveries  of  which  people  of  700-800  years  later 
could  not  know,  mark  this  theory  of  the  reflection 
of  tribal  history  and  characteristics  as  pure  specu- 
lation. And  besides,  where  in  all  the  history  of 
literature  has  it  been  proven  that  a  tribe  has  been 
thus  successfully  thrown  back  upon  the  screen  of 
antiquity  in  the  "individual  form"?  Similar  mis- 
takes concerning  Menes  and  Minos  and  the  heroes 
of  Troy  are  a  warning  to  us.  Speculation  is  legiti- 
mate, so  long  as  it  does  not  cut  loose  from  known 
facts,  but_  gives  no  one  the  right  to  suppose  the 
existence  in  unknown  history  of  something  never 
certainly  found  in  known  history.  So  much  for 
the  first  question. 

Is  it  a  monograph  or  a  compilation?    The  author  of 

a  monograph  may  makelarge  use  of  literary  mat  erials, 

and  the  editor  of  a  compilation  may 

2.  A  Mono-  introduce  much  editorial  comment, 
graph  or  a  Thus,  superficially,  these  different  kinds 
Com-  of  composition  may  much  resemble 
pilation?         each  other,  yet  they  are,  in  essential 

character,  very  different  the  one  from 
the  other.  A  compilation  is  an  artificial  body,  an 
automaton;  a  monograph  is  a  natural  body  with 
a  living  soul  in  it.  This  story  has  oriental  pecul- 
iarities of  repetition  and  pleonastic  expression,  and 
these  things  have  been  made  much  of  in  order  to 
break  up  the  story;  to  the  reader  not  seeking 
grounds  of  partition,  it  is  one  of  the  most  unbroken, 
simply  natural  and  unaffected  pieces  of  narrative 
literature  in  the  world.  If  it  stood  alone  or  belonged 
to  some  later  portion  of  Scripture,  it  may  well  be 
doubted  that  it  would  ever  have  been  touched  by 
the  scalpel  of  the  literary  dissector.  But  it  belongs 
to  the  Pent.  There  are  manifest  evidences  all  over 
the  Pent  of  the  use  by  the  author  of  material,  either 
documentary  or  of  that  paradoxical  unwritten  lit. 
which  the  ancients  handed  down  almost  without 


Joseph 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1738 


the  change  of  a  word  for  centuries,  (lj  An  analyti- 
cal theory  has  been  applied  to  the  Pent  as  a  whole, 
to  resolve  ii  into  a  mere  compilation.  Once  the 
principles  of  this  theory  are  acknowledged,  and 
allowed  sway  there,  the  J.  story  cannot  be  left  un- 
touched, but  becomes  a  necessary  sacrifice  to  the 
system.  A  sight  of  the  lifeless,  ghastly  fragments 
of  the  living,  moving  J.  story  which  the  analysis 
leaves  behind  (cf  KB,  art.  "Joseph")  proclaims 
that  analysis  to  have  been  murder.  There  was  a 
life  in  the  story  which  has  been  ruthlessly  taken, 
and  t  hat  living  soul  marked  the  narrat  ive  as  a  mono- 
graph. (2)  Where  else  is  to  be  found  such  a  com- 
pilation? Here  is  one  of  the  most  brilliant  pieces  of 
literature  in  the  world,  a  narrative  full  of  gems: 
(a)  the  account  of  the  presentation  of  the  brothers  in 
the  presence  of  J.  when  he  was  obliged  to  go  out  to 
weep  (Gen  43  26-34),  and  (b)  the  scene  between 
the  terrified  brothers  of  J.  and  the  steward  of  his 
house  (Gen  44  6-13),  (c)  Judah's  speech  (Gen  44 
18-34),  {<0  the  touching  close  of  the  revelation  of 
J.  to  his  brothers  at  last  (Gen  45  1-15).  The  soul 
of  the  whole  story  breathes  through  all  of 
these.  Where  in  all  literature,  ancient  or  modern, 
is  to  be  found  a  mere  compilation  that  is  a  great 
piece  of  literature?  So  far  removed  is  this  story 
from  the  characteristics  of  a  compilation,  that  we 
may  challenge  the  world  of  literature  to  produce 
another  monograph  in  narrative  literature  that  sur- 
passes it.  (3)  Then  the  dates  of  Egyp  names  and 
events  in  this  narrative  strongly  favor  its  origin  so 
early  as  to  be  out  of  the  reach  of  the  compilers. 
That  attempts  at  identification  in  Egyp  of  names 
written  in  Heb,  presenting  as  they  do  the  peculiar 
difficulties  of  two  alphabets  of  imperfectly  known 
phonetic  values  and  uncertain  equivalency  of  one 
in  terms  of  the  other,  should  give  rise  to  differences 
of  opinion,  is  to  be  expected.  The  Egyp  equiva- 
lents of  Zaphenath-paneah  and  Asenath  have  been 
diligently  sought,  and  several  identifications  have 
been  suggested  (Brugsch,  Egypt  under  the  Pha- 
raohs, 122;  Budge,  History  of  Egypt,  V,  126-27). 
That  which  is  most  exact  phonetically  and  yields 
the  most  suitable  and  natural  meaning  for  Zaphe- 
nath-paneah is  by  Lieblein  (PSBA,  1S9S,  204-8). 
It  is  formed  like  four  of  the  names  of  Hyksos  kings 
before  the  time  of  J.,  and  means  "the  one  who  fur- 
nishes the  nourishment  of  life,"  i.e.  the  steward 
of  the  realm.  The  name  Asenath  is  found  from  the 
Xlth  Dynasty  on  to  the  XVIIIth.  Potiphar  is 
mentioned  as  an  Egyptian.  Why  not  of  course  an 
Egyptian?  The  narrative  also  points  distinctly  to 
conditions  obtaining  under  the  Hyksos  kings. 
When  the  people  were  like  to  perish  for  want  of 
food  they  promised  J.  in  return  for  help  that  thev 
would  be  "servants  of  Pharaoh"  (Gen  47  18-25). 
This  suggests  a  previous  antagonism  to  the  govern- 
ment, such  as  the  Hyksos  kings  had  long  to  contend 
with  in  Egypt.  But  the  revolution  which  drove 
out  the  Hyksos  labored  so  effectually  to  eradicate 
every  trace  of  the  hated  foreigners  that  it  is  with 
the  utmost  difficulty  that  modern  Egyptological  re- 
search has  wrested  from  the  past  some  small  items 
of  information  concerning  them.  Is  it  credible  that 
the  editor  of  scraps,  which  were  themselves  not 
written  down  until  some  700-800  years  later,  should 
have  been  able  to  produce  such  a  life-story  fitting 
into  the  peculiar  conditions  of  the  times  of  the 
Hyksos?  Considered  as  an  independent  literary 
problem  on  jts  own  merits,  aside  from  any  entan- 
gling necessities  of  the  analytical  theory  of  the  Pent, 
the  J.  story  must  certainly  stand  as  a  monograph 
from  some  time  within  distinct  memory  of  the  events 
it  records.  If  the  J.  story  be  an  independent  origi- 
nal and  a  monograph,  then  there  is  in  reality  to  be 
considered  the  story  of  J. 

//.    The  Story  of  Joseph. — It  is  unnecessary  to 


recount  here  all  the  events  of  the  life  of  J.,  a  story 
so  incomparably  told  in  the  Bib.  narrative.  It  will 
be  sufficient  to  touch  only  the  salient  points  where 
controversy  litis  raged,  or  at  which  archaeology  has 
furnished  special  illumination.  The  story  of  J. 
begins  the  tenth  and  last  natural  division  of  Gen 
in  these  words:  "The  generations  of  Jacob"  (Gen 
37  2).  Up  to  this  point  the  unvarying  method  of 
Gen  is  to  place  at  the  head  of  each  division  the  an- 
nouncement "the  generations  of"  one  of  the  patri- 
archs, followed  immediately  by  a  brief  outline  of 
the  discarded  line  of  descent,  and  then  to  give  in 
detail  the  account  of  the  chosen  line. 

There  is  to  be  now  no  longer  any  discarded  line 
of  descent.  All  the  sons  of  Jacob  are  of  the  chosen 
people,  the  depositary  of  the  revelation  of  redemp- 
tion. So  this  division  of  Gen  begins  at  once  with 
the  chosen  line,  and  sets  in  the  very  foreground  that 
narrative  which  in  that  generation  is  most  vital 
in  the  story  of  redemption,  this  story  of  J.  begin- 
ning with  the  words,  "J.,  being  seventeen  years 
old,  was  feeding  the  flock  with  his  brethren"  (Gen 
37  2).  J.  had  been  born  in  Haran,  the  firstborn 
of  the  beloved  Rachel,  who  died  at  the  birth  of  her 
second  son  Benjamin.  A  motherless  lad  among  the 
sons  of  other  mothers  felt  the  jealousies  of  the  sit- 
uation, and  the  experience  became  a  temptation. 
The  "evil  report"  of  his  brethren  was  thus  natu- 
rally carried  to  his  father,  and  quite  as  naturally 
stirred  up  those  family  jealousies  which  set  his  feet 
in  the  path  of  his  great  career  (37  2-4).  In  that 
career  he  appears  as  a  Bedouin  prince  in  Canaan. 

The  patriarchs  of  those  times  were  all  sheiks  or 

princes  of  those  semi-nomadic  rovers  who  by  the 

peculiar   social   and    civil   customs   of 

1.  A  that  land  were  tolerated  then  as  they 
Bedouin  are  to  this  day  under  the  Turkish 
Prince  in  government  in  the  midst  of  farms  and 
Canaan          settled    land    tenure.     Jacob    favored 

Rachel  and  her  children.  He  put 
them  hindermost  at  the  dangerous  meeting  with 
Esau,  and  now  he  puts  on  J.  a  coat  of  many  colors 
(Gen  37  3).  The  appearance  of  such  a  coat  a  little 
earlier  in  the  decoration  of  the  tombs  of  Benihassan 
among  Palestinian  ambassadors  to  Egypt  probably 
indicates  that  this  garment  was  in  some  sense  cere- 
monial, a  token  of  rank.  In  any  case  J.,  the  son  of 
Jacob,  was  a  Bedouin  prince.  Did  the  father  by 
this  coat  indicate  his  intention  to  give  him  the  pre- 
cedence and  the  succession  as  chieftain  of  the  tribe? 
It  is  difficult  otherwise  to  account  for  the  insane 
jealousy  of  the  older  brethren  (Gen  37  4).  Ac- 
cording to  the  critical  partition  of  the  story,  J.'s 
dreams  may  be  explained  away  as  mere  reflections 
or  adaptations  of  the  later  history  of  J.  (cf  Penta- 
teuch). In  a  real  biography  the  striking  provi- 
dential significance  of  the  dreams  appears  at  once. 
They  cannot  be  real  without  in  some  sense  being 
prophetic.  On  the  other  hand  they  cannot  be  other 
than  real  without  vitiating  the  whole  story  as  a 
truthful  narrative,  for  they  led  immediately  to  the 
great  tragedy;  a  Bedouin  prince  of  Canaan  becomes 
a  Bedouin  slave  in  Egypt. 

The  plot  to  put  J.  out  of  the  way,  the  substitution 
of  slavery  for  death,  and  the  ghastly  device  for  de- 
ceiving    Jacob     (Gen  37  18-36)     are 

2.  A  Bed-  perfectly  natural  steps  in  the  course 
ouin  Slave  of  crime  when  once  the  brothers  had 
in  Egypt         set  out  upon  it.     The  counterplot  of 

Reuben  to  deliver  J.  reflects  equally 
his  own  goodness  and  the  dangerous  character  of 
the  other  brothers  to  whom  he  did  not  dare  make 
a  direct  protest. 

Critical  discussion  of  "  Ishmaelites"  and  "Midianitcs" 
and  "Medanites"  presents  some  interesting  things  and 
many  clever  speculations  which  may  well  be  considered 
on  their  own  merits  by  those  interested  in  ethnology  and 


1739 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Joseph 


etymologies.  Many  opinions  advanced  may  prove  to 
be  correct.  But  let  it  be  noted  that  they  are  for  the 
most  part  pure  speculation.  Almost  nothing  is  known 
of  the  interrelation  of  the  trans-Jordanic  tribes  in  that  age 
other  than  the  few  hints  in  the  Bible.  And  wrho  can  say 
what  manner  of  persons  might  be  found  in  a  caravan 
which  had  wandered  about  no  one  knows  where,  or 
how  long,  to  pick  up  trade  before  it  turned  into  the 
northern  caravan  route  ?  Until  archaeology  supplies 
more  facts  it  is  folly  to  attach  much  importance  to  such 
speculations  (Kyle,  The  Deciding  Voice  of  the  Monuments 
in  Bib.  Criticism,  221). 

In  the  slave  market  in  Egypt,  J.  was  bought  by 
Potiphar,  an  officer  of  Pharaoh,  "an  Egyptian." 
The  significant  mention  of  this  fact  fits  exactly  into 
a  place  among  the  recovered  hints  of  the  history  of 
those  times,  which  make  the  court  then  to  be  not 
Egyp  at  all,  but  composed  of  foreigners,  the  dynasty 
of  llyksos  kings  among  whom  an  "Egyptian"  was 
so  unexpected  as  to  have  his  nationality  mentioned. 

J.'s  native  nobility  of  character,  the  pious  train- 
ing he  had  received  in  his  father's  house,  and  the 
favor  of  Cod  with  him  gave  him  such  prosperity 
that  his  master  intrusted  all  the  affairs  of  his  house- 
hold to  him,  and  when  the  greatest  of  temptations 
assails  him  he  comes  off  victorious  (ch  39).  There 
is  strong  ground  for  the  suspicion  that  Potiphar  did 
not  fully  believe  the  accusation  of  his  wife  against 
J.  The  fact  that  J.  was  not  immediately  put  to 
death  is  very  significant.  Potiphar  could  hardly  do 
less  than  shut  him  up  for  the  sake  of  appearances, 
and  perhaps  to  take  temptation  away  from  his  wife 
without  seeming  to  suspect  her.  It  is  noticeable 
also  that  J.'s  character  soon  triumphed  in  prison. 
Then  the  same  Providence  that  superintended  his 
dreams  is  leading  so  as  to  bring  him  before  the  king 
(chs40,  41). 

The  events  of  the  immediately  preceding  history 
prepared  J.'s  day:   the  llyksos  kings  on  the  throne, 
those     Bedouin     princes,      "shepherd 
3.  The  kin^s"    (Petrie,    llyksos  and    Israelite 

Bedouin  Cities),  the  enmity  of  the  Egyptians 

Slave  Be-      against   this  foreign   dynasty   so   that 
comes  they    accounted     every    shepherd    an 

Again  the  "abomination"  (46  34),  the  friendly 
Bedouin  relation  thus  created  between  Pales- 
Prince  tinian  tribes  and  Egypt,  the  princely 
character  of  J.,  for  among  princes  a 
prince  is  a  prince  however  small  his  principality, 
and  last  of  all  the  manifest  favor  of  Cod  toward 
J.,  and  the  evident  understanding  by  the;  Pharaohs 
of  Sem  religion,  perhaps  even  sympathy  with  it 
(41  39).  All  these  constitute  one  of  the  most 
majestic,  Oodlikc  movements  of  Providence  re- 
vealed to  us  in  the  word  of  God,  or  evident  any- 
where in  history.  The  same  Providence  that 
presided  over  the  boy  prince  in  his  father's  house 
came  again  to  the  slave  prince  in  the  Egyp  prison. 
The  interpretation  of  the  dreams  of  the  chief 
butler  and  the  chief  baker  of  Pharaoh  (40 — 41 
1-24)  brought  him  at  last  through  much  delay 
and  selfish  forgetfulness  to  the  notice  of  the  king, 
and  another  dream  in  which  the  same  cunning 
hand  of  Providence'  is  plainly  seen  (ch  41)  is  the 
means  of  bringing  J.  to  stand  in  the  royal  presence. 
The  stuff  that  dreams  are  made  of  interests 
scarcely  less  than  the  Providence  that  was  super- 
intending over  them.  As  the  harvest  fields  of  the 
semi-nomadic  Bedouin  in  Pal,  and  the  household 
routine  of  Egypt  in  the  dreams  of  the  chief  butler 
and  the  chief  baker,  so  now  the  industrial  interests 
and  the  religious  forms  of  the  nation  appear  in  the 
dreams  of  Pharaoh.  The  "seven  kine"  of  the  goddess 
Hathor  supplies  the  number  of  the  cows,  and  the 
doubling  of  the  symbolism  in  the  cattle  and  the 
grain  points  to  the  two  great  sources  of  Egypt's 
welfare.  The  Providence  that  had  shaped  and 
guided  the  whole  course  of  J.  from  the  Palestinian 
home   was   consummated   when,    with   the   words, 


"Inasmuch  as  thou  art  a  man  in  whom  is  the  spirit 
of  Cod,"  Pharaoh  lifted  up  the  Bedouin  slave  to  be 
again  the  Bedouin  prince  and  made  him  the  prime 
minister. 

The  history  of  "kings'  favorites"  is  too  well  known 
for  the  elevation  of  J.  to  be  in  itself  incredible.     Such 
things    are   esp.    likely   to   take   place 
4.  The  among  the  unlimited  monarchies  of  the 

Prime  Orient.     The  late  empress  of  China  had 

Minister  been  a  Chinese  slave  girl.  The  investi- 
ture of  J.  was  thoroughly  Egyp — the 
"collar,"  the  signet  "ring,"  the  "chariot"  and  the 
outrunners  who  cried  before  him  "Abrech."  The 
exact  meaning  of  this  word  has  never  been  certainly 
ascertained,  but  its  general  import  may  lie  seen  illus- 
trated to  this  day  wherever  in  the  East  royalty 
rides  out.  The  policy  adopted  by  the  prime  min- 
ister was  far-reaching,  wise,  even  adroit  (Gen  41 
2.">-36).  It  is  impossible  to  say  whether  or  not  it 
was  wholly  just,  for  we  cannot  know  whether  the 
corn  of  the  years  of  plenty  which  the  government 
laid  up  was  bought  or  taken  as  a  tax  levy.  The 
policy  involved  some  despotic  power,  but  J.  proved 
a  magnanimous  despot.  The  deep  and  subtle 
statesmanship  in  J.'s  plan  does  not  fully  appear 
until  the  outcome.  It  was  probably  through  the 
policy  of  J.,  the  prime  minister,  that  the  llyksos 
finally  gained  the  power  over  the  people  and  the 
mastery  of  the  land. 

Great  famines  have  not  been  common  in  Egypt,  but 
are  not  unknown.  The  only  one  which  corresponds  well 
to  the  Bible  account  is  that  one  recorded  in  the  inscrip- 
tion of  Baba  at  el  Kab,  tr<i  by  Brugseh.  Some  scarcely 
justifiable  attempts  have  been  made  to  discredit  Brugseh 
in  his  account  of  that  inscription.  The  monument  still 
remains  and  is  easily  visited,  but  the  inscription  is  so 
mutilated  that  it  presents  many  difficulties.  The 
severity  of  the  famine,  the  length  of  its  duration,  the 
preparation  by  the  government,  the  distribution  to  the 
people,  the  success  of  the  efforts  for  relief  and  even  the 
time  of  the  famine,  as  far  as  it  can  be  determined,  corre- 
spond well  to  the  Bible  account  (Brugseh,  Egypt  under 
the  Pharaohs,  ch  vi).  The  way  in  which  such  famines  in 
Rgypt  come  about  has  been  explained  by  a  movement 
of  the  sudd,  a  sedgelike  growth  in  1  lu;  Nile,  so  as  to  clog 
the  upper  river  (Wright,  Scientific  Confirmations,  70-79). 

J.'s  brethren  came  "with  those  that  came,"  i.e. 
with  the  food  caravans.  The  account  does  not 
imply  that  the  prime  minister  presided  in  person 
at  the  selling  of  grain,  but  only  that  he  knew  of  the 
coming  of  his  brethren  and  met  them  at  the  market 
place.  The  watchfulness  of  the  government  against 
"spies,"  by  the  careful  guarding  of  the  entrances  to 
the  land,  may  well  have  furnished  him  with  such 
information.  Once  possessed  with  it,  all  the  rest 
of  the  story  of  the  interviews  follows  naturally  (cf 
traditions  of  J.,  Jew  Eric). 

The  long  testing  of  the  brethren  with  the  attend- 
ant delay  in  the  relief  of  the  father  Jacob  and  the 
family  (chs  42-45)  has  been  the  subject  of  much 
discussion,  and  most  ingenious  arguments  for  the 
justification  of  J.  All  this  seems  unnecessary. 
J.  was  not  perfect,  and  there  is  no  claim  of  perfec- 
tion made  for  him  in  the  Bible.  Two  things  are 
sufficient  to  be  noted  here:  one  that  J.  was  ruler 
as  well  as  brother,  with  the  habits  of  a  ruler  of 
almost  unrestrained  power  and  authority  and 
burdened  with  the  necessity  for  protection  and  the 
obligation  to  mete  out  justice;  the  other  that  the 
deliberateness,  the  vexatious  delays,  the  subtle 
diplomacy  and  playing  with  great  issues  are  thor- 
oughly oriental.  It  may  be  also  that  the  perplexi- 
ties of  great  minds  make  them  liable  to  such  va- 
garies. The  career  of  Lincoln  furnishes  some 
curious  parallels  in  the  parleying  with  cases  long 
after  the  great  president's  mind  was  fully  made 
up  and  action  taken. 

The  time  of  these  events  and  the  identification 
of  J.  in  Egypt  are  most  vexed  questions  not  con- 
clusively settled.     Toff  teen   (mite  confidently  pre- 


Joseph  Barnabas   T]IF  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 
Joseph's  Dream 


1740 


sents  in  a  most  recent  identification  of  .J.  much  evi- 
dence to  which  one  would  like  to  give  full  credence 
(Toffteen,  The  Historical  Exodus).  But  aside  from 
the  fact  that  he  claims  two  exodi,  two  J.s,  two 
Aarons,  two  lawgivers  called  Moses,  and  two  givings 
of  the  law,  a  case  of  critical  doublets  more  astound- 
ing than  any  heretofore'  claimed  in  the  Pent,  the 
evidence  itself  which  he  adduces  is  very  far  from 
conclusive.  It  is  doubtful  if  the  texts  will  bear 
the  translation  he  gives  them,  esp.  the  proper  names. 
The  claims  of  Barneses  II,  that  lie  built  Pithom, 
compared  with  the  stele  of  100  years,  which  he  says 
he  erected  in  the  400th  year  of  King  Nubti,  seems 
to  put  J.  about  the  time' of  the  Ilyksos  king.  This 
is  the  most  that  can  be  said  now.  The  burial  of 
Jacob  is  in  exact  accord  with  Egyp  customs.  The 
wealth  of  the  Israelites  who  retained  their  posses- 
sions and  were  fed  by  the  crown,  in  contrast  with 
the  poverty  of  the  Egyptians  who  sold  everything, 
prepares  the  way  for  the  wonderful  growth  and  in- 
fluence of  Israel,  and  the  fear  which  t he  Egyptians 
at  last  had  of  them.  "Ami  J.  died,  being  110  years 
old,"  an  ideal  old  age  in  the  Egyp  mind.  The 
reputed  burial  place  of  J.  at  Shecnem  still  awaits 
examination. 

Joseph  stands  out  among  the  patriarchs  in  some 
respects  with  preeminence.  His  nobility  of  char- 
acter, his  purity  of  heart  and  life, 
5.  The  his  magnanimity  as  a  ruler  and  brot  her 

Patriarch  make  him,  more  than  any  other  of  the 
OT  characters,  an  illustration  of  that 
typo  of  man  which  Christ  was  to  give  to  the  world 
in  perfection.  J.  is  not  in  the  list  of  persons  dis- 
tinctly referred  to  in  Scripture  as  typos  of  Christ — 
the  only  perfectly  safe  criterion — but  none  more 
fully  illustrates  the  life  and  work  of  the  Saviour. 
He  wrought  salvation  for  those  who  betrayed  and 
rejected  him,  he  went  down  into  humiliation  as  the 
way  to  his  exaltation,  he  forgave  those  who,  at 
least  in  spirit,  put  him  to  death,  and  to  him  as  to 
the  Saviour,  all  must  come  for  relief,  or  perish. 

Literature.— Comms.  on  Gen;  for  rabbinical  lit., 
cf  Seligsolin  in  Jew  Enc,  some  very  interesting  and 
curious  traditions;  Ebers,  Egypten  und  die  Bilcher  Moses; 
"The  Tale  of  Two  Brothers,"  RJ',  scries  I,  vol  II,  137- 
46;  Wilkinson-Birch,  The  Manners  and  Customs  of  the 
Ancient  Egyptian*;    Erinan,   Life  in   Ancient  Eat/pt. 

M.  G.  Kyle 
JOSEPH  BARNABAS.     See  Barnabas. 

JOSEPH  BARSABBAS,  bar-sab'as  (Bapo-afJfias, 
Barsabbds,  or  BapcraPas,  Barsabds;  AV  Barsabas, 
bilr'sa-bas;  for  etymology,  etc,  of  Joseph,  sec  general 
art.  on  Joseph):    Joseph  Barsabbas  was  surnamed 

Justus  (Acts  1  23).  Barsabbas  was  probably  a 
patronymic,  i.e.  son  of  Sabba  or  Seba.  Other  inter- 
pretations given  are  ''son  of  an  oath,"  "son  of  an 
old  man,"  "son  of  conversion,"  "son  of  quiet." 
It  is  likely  that  the  "Judas  called  Barsabbas"  of 
Acts  15  22  was  his  brother.  Ewald  considers  that 
both  names  refer  to  the  same  person,  but  this  is 
improbable. 

J.  was  one  of  those  who  accompanied  the  apostles 
"all  the  time  that  the  Lord  Jesus  went  in  and  went 
out  among  us,  beginning  from  the  baptism  of  John, 
unto  the  day  that  he  was  received  up  from  us" 
(Acts  1  21.22).  At  the  meeting  of  the  brethren 
under  the  presidency  of  Peter  in  Jerus  shortly  after 
the  crucifixion,  he  was,  therefore,  proposed  along 
with  Matthias  as  a  suitable  candidate  for  the  place 
in  the  apostleship  left  vacant  by  the  treachery  and 
death  of  Judas  Iscariot;  but  was  unsuccessful 
(Acts  1  15-26). 

According  to  Eusebius  (HE,  I,  12),  J.  was  one 
of  the  70  (Lk  10  1),  and  Papias  records  the  oral 
tradition  that  he  drank  a  cup  of  poison  without 
harm  (cf  Mk  16  IS).  The  Acts  of  St.  Paul,  a  work 
belonging  to  the  2d  cent,  and  first  mentioned  by 


Origen,  relates  that  Barsabbas,  Justus  the  Flatfoot 
and  others  were  imprisoned  by  Nero  for  protesting 
their  faith  in  Christ,  but  that  upon  a  vision  of  the 
newly  martyred  Paul  appearing  to  the  emperor,  he 
ordered  their  immediate  release.  C.  M.  Kerr 

JOSEPH,  HUSBAND  OF  MARY  (for  etymology, 
etc,  of  Joseph,  see  Joseph):    Joseph,  the  carpenter 

(Mt  13  55),  was  a  "just,  man"  (Mt 
1.  Refer-  1  19  AV),  who  belonged  to  Nazareth 
ences  in  NT  (Lk  2  4).     He  was  of  Davidic  descent 

(Mt  1  20;  Lk  2  4),  the  son  of  Heli 
(Lk  3  23)  or  Jacob  (Mt  1  16),  the  husband  of 
Mary  (Mt  1  16),  and  the  supposed  father  of  Jesus 
(Mt   13  55;   Lk  3  23;  4  22;  Jn  1  45;  6  42). 

(1)  Before  the  Nativity. — The  Gospels  of  Mt  and 
Mk  alone  give  any  detailed  reference  to  J.  and  the 
birth  of  Jesus,  and  their  accounts  vary  in  part .  Lk 
begins  with  the  Annunciation  to  Mary  at  Nazareth 
(Lk  1  26-38).  Overwhelmed  with  the  tidings, 
Mary  departed  "with  haste"  "into  the  hill  country, 
....  into  a  city  of  Judah,"  to  seek  communion 
with  Elisabeth,  with  whom  she  had  been  coupled 
in  the  Annunciation  by  the  angel  Gabriel  (Lk  1 
39-55) .  After  abiding  wit  h  her  about  three  mont  hs 
she  returned  "unto  her  own  house"  (Lk  1  56  AV). 
The  events  recorded  in  Mt  1  1S-24  probably  took 
place  in  the  interval  between  this  return  and  the 
birth  of  Jesus.  During  Mary's  visit  to  Elisabeth, 
J.  had  likely  remained  in  Nazareth.  The  abrupt 
and  probably  unexplained  departure  of  his  espoused 
wife  for  Juduh  (cf  the  phrase  "with  haste"),  and 
her  condition  on  her  return,  had  caused  him  great 
mental  distress  (Mt  1  18-20).  Though  his  indig- 
nation was  tempered  with  mercy,  lie  was  minded 
to  put  her  away  "privily,"  but  the  visitation  of  the 
angel  in  his  sleep  relieved  him  from  his  dilemma,  and 
he  was  reconciled  to  his  wife  (Mt  1  24).  The  nar- 
rative is  then  continued  by  St.  Luke.  While  J.  and 
Mary  still  abode  in  Nazareth,  "there  went  out  a 
decree  from  Caesar  Augustus,  that  all  the  world 
should  be  enrolled"  (Lk  2  1).  "And  all  went  to 
enrol  themselves,  every  one  to  his  own  city"  (Lk 
2  3).  Being  of  the  house  and  lineage  of  David, 
J.  went  up  with  Mary,  who  was  "great  with  child," 
from  Galilee,  "out  of  the  city  of  Nazareth,  into 
Judaea,  to  the  city  of  David,  which  is  called  Beth- 
lehem" (Lk  2  4.5),  and  there  Jesus  was  born  (Lk 
2  7;  cf  Mt  2  1). 

(2)  After  the  Nativity. — (a)  St.  Luke's  account: 
The  two  accounts  now  diverge  considerably.  Ac- 
cording to  Lk,  the  Holy  Family  remained  for  a  time 
at  Bethlehem  and  were  there  visited  by  the  shep- 
herds (Lk-2  8-20).  After  a  sojourn  of  40  days  for 
the  purification  (cf  Lk  2  21.22;  Lev  12),  J.  de- 
parted with  his  wife  for  Jerus  "to  present"  the 
infant  Jesus  "to  the  Lord"  and  to  offer  up  sacrifice 
according  to  the  ancient  law  (Lk  2  24).  There 
he  was  present  at  the  prophesying  of  Simeon  and 
Anna  concerning  Jesus,  and  received  the  blessing 
of  the  former  (Lk  2  34).  After  "they  had  accom- 
plished all  things  according  to  the  law  of  the  Lord, 
they  returned  into  Galilee,  to  their  own  city  Naz- 
areth" (Lk  2  39).  Every  year,  at  the  Passover, 
they  made  this  journey  to  Jerus  (Lk  2  41).  The 
care  and  solicitude  of  J.  and  Mary  for  the  boy  Jesus 
and  their  grief  at  His  temporary  loss  are  also  re- 
corded (Lk  2  45.48.51).  There  is  evidence  that, 
though  Mary  "kept  all  these  things  in  her  heart," 
J.  at  least  had  no  understanding  then  of  the  Divine 
nature  of  the  charge  committed  to  his  care  (Lk  2 
50). 

(b)  St.  Matthew's  account:  But  according  to  Mt 
it  was  from  the  Wise  Men  of  the  East  that  Jesus 
received  homage  at  Bethlehem  (Mt  2  1-11). 
There  is  no  further  mention  of  the  dedicatory 
journey  to  Jerus,    or    of  the  return  to  Nazareth. 


1741 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Joseph  Barnabas 
Joseph's  Dream 


Instead,  it  is  stated  that  on  the  departure  of  the  Wise 
Men  from  Bethlehem,  J.  was  warned  in  a  dream  of 
the  impending  wrath  of  Herod,  and  escaped  with 
his  wife  and  the  infant  Jesus  into  Egypt  (Mt 
2  13.14).  Upon  the  death  of  Herod,  an  angel 
appeared  to  J.,  and  he  returned  to  the  land  of  Israel 
(Mt  2  19-21).  His  original  intention  was  to  settle 
once  more  in  Judaea,  but  on  learning  that  Arche- 
laus,  the  son  of  Herod,  was  ruler  there,  "he  with- 
drew into  the  parts  of  Galilee,  and  came  and  dwelt 
in  a  city  called  Nazareth"  (Mt  2  22.23). 

(c)  The  proper  sequence  of  the  two  narratives: 
The  narrative  of  Mt  would  thus  imply  that  the  Holy 
Family  had  no  connection  with  Nazareth  previous 
to  their  return  from  Egypt.  It  has,  however,  been 
suggested  by  Ramsay  that  Mt  merely  reports  what 
was  common  knowledge,  and  that  Lk,  while  quite 
cognizant  of  this,  supplemented  it  in  his  own 
Gospel  with  details  known  only  to  the  Holy  Family, 
and  in  part  to  the  mother  alone  (cf  Sir  W.  Ramsay, 
Was  Christ  Born  at  Bethlehem?  78-79).  A  com- 
parison of  the  two  Gospel  narratives  makes  it  clear 
that  the  visitation  of  the  Wise  Men  fell  on  a  later 
date  than  that  of  the  shepherds.  The  latter  took 
place  immediately  after  the  Nativity  (cf  Lk  2  11. 
15.16,  "is  born  ....  this  day,"  "let  us  now  go," 
"and  they  came  with  haste").  On  the  other  hand, 
when  the  AYise  Men  came  to  Jerus,  Christ  was 
already  born  (cf  Mt  2  1).  Time  was  required  for 
this  journey  to  Jerus  and  the  consultation  of  Herod 
with  the  chief  priests  (Mt  2  4);  and  during  this 
interval  the  events  recorded  in  Lk  2  8-39  had  t  aken 
place.  That  there  was  sufficient  time  for  this  is 
attested  also  by  the  fact  that  Herod's  decree  was 
directed  against  children  up  to  two  years  of  age 
(Mt  2  16).  Thus  it  was  after  the  return  of  the 
Holy  Family  to  Nazareth,  and  on  a  further  visit 
to  Bethlehem,  implied  by  Mt  but  not  recorded  by 
Lk,  that  the  infant  Jesus  received  the  adoration  of 
the  Wise  Men.  Jesus  being  born  in  6  BC,  this 
took  place  in  5  BC,  and  as  Herod  died  in  4  BC,  J. 
may  have  missed  only  one  of  the  Passovers  (cf  Lk 
2  41)  by  his  flight  into  Egypt.  (For  a  full  discus- 
sion, cf  Ramsay,  op.  cit.)  As  no  mention  is  made  of 
J.  in  the  later  parts  of  the  Gospels  where  the  Holy 
Family  is  referred  to  (cf  Mt  12  46;  Lk  8  19),  it 
is  commonly  supposed  that  he  died  before  the  com- 
mencement of  the  public  ministry  of  Christ. 

If  a  type  is  to  be  sought  in  the  character  of  J., 
it  is  that  of  a  simple,  honest,  hard-working,  God- 
fearing man,  who  was  possessed  of 
2.  Character  large  sympathies  and  a  warm  heart. 
Strict  in  the  observance  of  Jewish  law 
and  custom,  he  was  yet  ready  when  occasion  arose 
to  make  these  subservient  to  the  greater  law  of  the 
Spirit.  Too  practical  to  possess  any  deep  insight 
into  the  Divine  mysteries  or  eternal  significance  of 
events  which  came  within  his  knowledge  (cf  Lk  2 
50),  he  was  quick  to  make  answer  to  what  he  per- 
ceived to  be  the  direct  call  of  God  (cf  Mt  1  24). 
Originally  a  "just  man"  (AV),  the  natural  clemency 
within  his  heart  prevailed  over  mere  justice,  and 
by  the  promptings  of  the  Holy  Spirit  that  clemency 
was  transferred  into  a  strong  and  enduring  love 
(cf  Mt  1  24).  J.  is  known  to  us  only  as  a  dim 
figure  in  the  background  of  the  Gospel  narratives, 
yet  his  whole-hearted  reconciliation  to  Mary,  even 
in  the  face  of  possible  slanderings  by  his  neighbors, 
his  complete  self-sacrifice,  when  he  left  all  and  fled 
into  Egypt  to  save  the  infant  Jesus,  are  indicative 
that  he  was  not  unworthy  to  fulfil  the  great  trust 
which  was  imposed  upon  him  by  the  Eternal  Father. 

The  Gospel  of  the  Infancy  according  to  St.  James,  a 
work  composed  originally  in  the  2d  cunt.,  but  with  later 
additions  (cf  Ilennecke,  Neulestamentliche  Apokryphen, 
47-63),  gives  a  detailed  account  of  the  marriage  of  the 
aged  J.  with  Mary,  of  their  journey  to  Bethlehem,  and 
of  the  birth  of  Jesus.     A  similar  gospel,  reputed  to  be  by 


Thomas  the  philosopher,  of  later  origin  and  gnostic 
tendency  (cf  Henneeke,  63-73),  narrates  several  fantas- 

tic,  miraculous  happenings  in  the  domestic 
3.  Refer-  life  of  the  Holy  Family,  and  the  dealings 
ences  in  of  J°S(>Ph  with  the  teachers  of  the  youth- 

At,A/.r,ml,,l  ml  Jesus.  Other  legends,  from  Syr  or 
Apocrypnai  Egyp  sources,  also  dealing  with  the  In- 
Literature       fancy,    in    which    J.    figures,    are    extant. 

The  chief  is  The  History  of  Joseph  the 
Carpenter  (cf  Henneeke,  llandbuch  der  neutestamentlichen 
Apokryphen,  95-105).  This  contains  an  account  of  the 
death  and  burial  of  J.  at  the  age  of  110,  and  of  the 
entreaties  of  Mary  to  Christ  to  save  him.  Its  aim  was 
to  show  forth  Christ  as  the  Saviour,  even  at  the  last 
hour,  and  the  rightful  manner  of  Christian  death.  J. 
has  received  a  high  place  in  the  Calendar  of  the  Roman 
Catholic  Saints,  his  feast  being  celebrated  on  March  19. 

C.  M.  Kerr 
JOSEPH  OF  ARIMATHAEA  (diro  'ApifiaGaCas, 
apo  Arimathaias;  for  etymology,  etc,  of  Joseph, 
see  gen.  art.  on  Joseph):  Joseph  of  Arimathaea — 
a  place  the  locality  of  which  is  doubtful,  but  lying 
probably  to  the  N.W.  of  Jerus — was  a  "rich  man" 
(Mt  27  57),  "a  councillor  of  honorable  estate,"  or 
member  of  the  Sanhedrin  (Mk  15  43;  Lk  23  50), 
"a  good  and  righteous  man  ....  who  was  looking 
for  the  kingdom  of  God"  (Lk  23  50;  Mk  15  43), 
and  "himself  was  Jesus'  disciple"  (Mt  27  57;  Jn 
19  38).  Although  he  kept  his  discipleship  secret 
"for  fear  of  the  Jews"  (Jn  19  38),  he  was  yet  faith- 
ful to  his  allegiance  in  that  he  absented  himself 
from  the  meeting'which  found  Jesus  guilty  of  death 
(cf  Lk  23  51;  Mk  14  64).  But  the  condemnation 
of  his  Lord  awakened  the  courage  and  revealed  the 
true  faith  of  J.  On  the  evening  after  the  cruci- 
fixion he  went  "boldly"  to  Pilate  and  begged  the 
body  of  Jesus.  There  is  a  fine  touch  in  that  he 
himself  took  down  the  body  from  the  cross.  With 
the  assistance  of  Nicodemus  he  wound  it  in  fine 
linen  with  spices  (cf  Mt  27  57,  J.  was  a  "rich 
man")  and  brought  it  to  the  new  sepulcher  in 
the  garden  near  the  place  of  His  crucifixion. 
There  they  "laid  him  in  a  tomb  that  was  hewn  in 
stone,  where  never  man  had  yet  lain"  and  'rolled 
a  stone  against  the  door  of  the  tomb'  (cf  Mt  27 
57-60;  Mk  15  42-46;  Lk  23  50-53;  Jn  19  38-42). 
In  this  was  held  to  be  the  fulfilment  of  the 
prophecy  of  Isa  53  9. 

The  Gospel  of  St.  Peter,  written  probably  in  Syria 
about  the  middle  of  the  2d  cent.,  gives  a  slightly  different 
account.  According  to  this  J.,  "the  friend  of  Pilate  and 
the  Lord,"  was  present  at  the  trial  of  Jesus,  and  imme- 
diately upon  its  conclusion  besought  of  Pilate  that  ho 
might  have  the  body  for  burial.  This  was  granted,  and 
after  the  crucifixion  the  Jews  handed  the  body  over  to 
J.  (cf  Henneeke,  N eutestamentliehe  Apokryphen,  27-30). 
Legends  of  a  later  origin  record  that  J.  was  sent  by 
Philip  from  Gaul  to  Britain  along  with  11  other  disciples 
in  63  AD,  and  built  an  oratory  at  Glastonbury  (cf  Philip 
the  Apostle),  that  he  brought  the  Holy  Grail  to  Eng- 
land, and  that  he  freed  Ireland  from  snakes. 

C.  M.  Kerr 

JOSEPH,  PRAYER  OF:  An  OT  pseudepigraph, 
no.  3  in  the  Stichometry  of  Nicephorus  (Westcott, 
Canon  of  the  NT7,  571),  with  the  length  given  as 
1,100 lines, andno.5inthc  Listof  Sixty  Books(Wost- 
cott,  568).  The  work  is  lost,  and  the  only  quota- 
tions are  in  Origen  (In  Joan.,  ii.25,  Eng.  in  Anle- 
Nicene  Fathers,  IX,  341;  InGen. ,iii.9, 12).  Abraham, 
Isaac,  and  Jacob  are  said  to  have  been  created  before 
every  work,  but  Jacob-Israel  is  the  greatest,  "the 
firstborn  of  every  living  creature,"  the  "first  minister 
in  God's  presence,"  greater  than  the  angel  with  whom 
he  wrestled.  The  purport  may  be  anti-Christian, 
the  patriarchs  exalted  in  place  of  Christ;  cf,  per- 
haps, En  71  (but  not  so  in  Charles's  1912  text), 
but  Origen's  favorable  opinion  of  the  book  proves 
that  the  polemic  could  not  have  been  very  direct. 

Literature. — GJV,  4th  ed,  III,  359-60;  Dillmann 
in  PRE,  2d  ed,  XII,  362;  cf  Beer  in  3d  cd,  XVI,  256; 
Fabricius,  Codex  pseudep.  Vet.  Test.,  I,  761-71. 

Burton  Scott  Easton 
JOSEPH'S   DREAM.      See  Astronomy,   II,   6; 
Joseph. 


Joseph, Gospel  of 
Joshua 


HE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1742 


JOSEPH,  THE  CARPENTER,  GOSPEL  OF. 
Sec  Apocryphal  Gospkls. 

JOSEPHUS,  jo-se'fus  ('Lwt^os,  Usephos;  B 
roads  <t>6o-T|iros,  I'hosepos):  In  1  Es<l  9  34,  corre- 
sponding to  "Joseph"  in  Ezr  10  42. 

JOSEPHUS,  jo-se'fus,  FLAVIUS,  fla'vi-us:    Was 

born  at  Jems  37-3S  AD,  and  died  at  Rome  early  in 

the  2d  cent.,  when  is  not  known  pre- 

1.  Early  eisely.  His  father  and  mother  be- 
Life  and  longed  to  families  of  the  priestly 
Beliefs  aristocracy;  consequently  he  received 

an  excellent  education,  becoming  fa- 
miliar, not  only  with  Jewish,  but  with  Hellenistic, 
culture.  When  10  years  old  he  resorted  to  one 
Banus,  an  Essene  (q.v.),  in  the  desert  of  Engedi, 
with  whom  he  remained  for  3  years,  absorbing 
occult  lore,  and  practising  the  ascetic  life.  It 
might  have  been  expected  from  his  social  position 
that,  on  his  return  to  Jerus,  he  would  join  the 
Sadducees  (q.v.);  but,  his  Essene  experience  hav- 
ing indoctrinated  him  with  ceremonialism,  he  pre- 
ferred to  become  a  Pharisee  (q.v.).  He  evidently 
believed,  too,  that  the  Pharisees  were  akin  to  the 
Stoics,  who  were  then  influential  in  the  Hellenistic 
world.  During  his  absence  in  t  ho  desert,  the  mis- 
government  of  the  Rom  procurators  at  Jerus  had 
grown  apace.  And  the  ineptitudes  and  injustices 
of  Felix,  Albanus  and  Florus  were  succeeded  by 
anarchy  under  Annas,  the  high  priest  (62).  Ac- 
cordingly, the  Zealots  (q.v.)  plotted  against  Rom 
rule,  liebellion  simmered,  and  many  of  the  dis- 
affected were  transported  to  Rome  to  be  dealt  with 
there.  Among  these  were  several  priests,  whom 
Jos  knew.  About  the  year  64,  he  went  to  Rome  to 
plead  for  them,  met  shipwreck  on  the  voyage,  was 
rescued  with  a  few  survivors  and  was  brought  to 
port  at  Puteoli.  Here  he  met  Alityrus,  a  Jewish 
actor,  who  happened  to  be  in  the  good  graces  of 
Poppaea,  Nero's  consort.  The  empress,  a  Jewish 
proselyte,  espoused  his  cause  at  Rome,  and  showed 
him  many  favors.  At  the  capital,  he  also  dis- 
cerned the  power  of  the  Romans  and,  in  all  prob- 
ability, grew  convinced  of  t  he  hopelessness  of  armed 
revolt.  On  his  return  to  Jerus,  he  found  his  people 
set  upon  insurrection,  and  was  forced,  possibly 
against  his  better  judgment,  to  make  common  cause 
with  them.  The  first  part  of  his  public  career  is 
concerned  with  the  great  struggle  that  now  began. 
When  war  broke  out,  Jos  was  appointed  governor 
of  ( ralilee,  the  province  where  the  Rom  at  tack  would 
first  fall.     He  had  no  military  fitness 

2.  Public  for  command,  but  the  influence  of  his 
Career  friends  and  the  exigencies  of  politics 

thrust  the  office  upon  him.  The 
Zealots  soon  found  that  he  did  not  carry  out  the 
necessary  preparations  with  thoroughness,  and  they 
tried  to  compass  his  removal.  But  he  was  too  influ- 
ential, too  good  a  politician  also,  to  be  undermined. 
Surrounded  by  enemies  among  his  own  folk,  who 
even  attempted  to  assassinate  him,  he  encountered 
several  dangerous  experiences,  and,  at  length,  flying 
from  the  Romans,  was  beleaguered  with  his  army 
in  Jotopata,  near  the  Lake  of  Gennesaret,  in  May, 
67.  The  Jews  withstood  the  siege  for  47  days  with 
splendid  courage,  till  Titus,  assaulting  under  cover 
of  a  mist,  stormed  the  stronghold  and  massacred 
the  weary  defenders.  Jos  escaped  to  a  cave  where, 
with  his  usual  adroitness,  he  saved  himself  from 
death  at  the  hands  of  his  companions.  The  Romans 
soon  discovered  his  hiding-place,  and  haled  him 
before  Vespasian,  the  commander-in-chief.  Jos 
worked  upon  the  superstitions  of  the  general,  and 
so  ingratiated  himself  that  Vespasian  took  him  to 
Alexandria  in  his  train.  Having  been  liberated  by 
his  captor,   he  adopted   the  family  name  of   the 


Flavians,  according  to  Rom  custom.  Returning 
to  Pal  with  Titus,  he  proceeded  to  mediate  between 
the  Romans  and  the  Jews,  earning  the  suspicion 
of  the  former,  the  hatred  of  the  latter.  His  wonted 
diplomacy  preserved  him  from  anything  more 
serious  than  a  wound,  and  he  was  an  eyewitness  of 
the  terrible  events  that  marked  the  last  days  of 
Jerus.  Then  he  accompanied  Titus  to  Rome  for 
the  Triumph  (q.v.).  Here  he  lived  the  remainder 
of  his  days,  in  high  favor  with  the  ruling  house,  and 
relieved  from  all  anxiety  about  worldly  goods  by 
lavish  imperial  patronage.  He  was  thus  enabled 
to  devote  himself  to  literary  pursuits. 

The  works  of  Jos  render  him  one  of  the  most 
valuable  authorities  for  the  student  of  NT  times. 

They  are  as  follows:  (1)  ('oncer/ting 
3.  Works       the   Jewish    War,   written   before   7!); 

we  have  the  Gr  tr  of  this  history  by  the 
author;  there  are  7  books:  I,  the  period  from  Antio- 
chus  Epiphanes  (175  BC)  to  Herod  the  Great  (4 
BC);  II,  from  4  BC  to  66  AD,  covering  the  early 
events  of  the  War;  III,  occurrences  in  Galilee  in 
67  AD;  IV,  the  course  of  the  War  till  the  siege  of 
Jerus;  V  and  VI,  the  investment  and  fall  of  Jerus; 
VII,  the  aftermath  of  the  rebellion.  While  this 
work  is  not  written  with  the  objective  accuracy  of 
scientific  history,  it  is  credible  on  the  whole,  except 
where  it  concerns  the  role  played  by  the  author. 
(2)  The  Antiquities  of  the  Jews,  written  not  later 
than  94  AD.  In  this  Jos  purports  to  relate  the 
entire  history  of  his  race,  from  the  beginning  till  the 
War  of  66  AD.  The  20  books  fall  naturally  into 
5  divisions,  thus:  (a)  I-X,  from  prehistoric  times 
till  the  Captivity,  in  other  words,  the  period  related 
in  the  OT  substantially;  (b)  XI,  the  age  of  Cyrus; 
(c)  XII-XIV,  the  beginnings  of  the  Hellenistic 
period,  from  Alexander  the  Great,  including  the 
Maccabean  revolt,  till  the  accession  of  Herod  the 
Great;  (d)  XV-XVII,  the  reign  of  Herod;  (e) 
XVIII-XX,  from  Herod's  death  till  the  War  of  66. 
While  it  cannot  be  called  an  apology  for  the  Jews, 
this  work  betrays  the  author's  consciousness  of  the 
disfavor  with  which  his  people  were  viewed  through- 
out the  Rom  Empire.  Jos  does  what  he  can  to 
disabuse  the  Gr-Rom  educated  classes,  although  he 
shows  curious  obliquity  to  the  grandeur  of  Heb 
religion.  All  in  all,  the  work  is  disappointing;  but 
it  contains  many  details  and  sidelights  of  first  im- 
portance to  investigators.  (3)  The  treatise  called, 
since  Jerome,  Against  Apion,  is  Josephus'  most 
inspiring  performance.  The  older  title,  Concern- 
ing the  High  Antiquity  of  the  Jews,  tells  us  what  it 
contains — a  defence  of  Heb  religion  against  the 
libels  of  heathendom.  It  is  in  two  books.  The 
vituperation  with  which  Jos  visits  Apion  is  unim- 
portant in  comparison  with  the  defence  of  Mosaic 
religion  and  the  criticism  of  paganism.  Here  the 
author's  character  is  seen  at  its  best;  the  air  of 
Worldly  Wiseman  has  been  dropped,  and  he  ap- 
proaches enthusiasm.  (4)  His  last  work  is  the 
Vita  or  Autobiography,  a  misleading  title.  It  is 
an  echo  of  old  days  in  Galilee,  directed  against  the 
traductions  of  an  associate,  Justus  of  Tiberias.  We 
have  Jos  at  his  worst  here.  He  so_  colors  the  narra- 
tive as  to  convey  a  totally  wrong  impression  of  the 
part  he  played  during  the  great  crisis.  In  exten- 
uation, it  may  be  said  that  his  relations  with  the 
imperial  court  rendered  it  difficult,  perhaps  impos- 
sible, for  him  to  pursue  another  course. 

Literature. — W.  D.  Morrison,  The  Jews  under  Rom 
Rule  (London,  1890);  E.  Schurer,  History  of  the  Jewish 
Peopleinthe  Time  of  Jesus  Christ,  div  I,  vol  I  (Edinburgh, 
1890) ;  A.  Hausrath,  History  of  NT  Times,  IV,  div  \  II,  ch 
ii  (London,  1895);  II.  Graetz,  History  of  the  Jews  from 
the  Earliest  Times  to  the  Present  Day,  II,  ch  X  (London, 
1X91);  art.  "Josephus"  in  Jew  Enc.  Translations  by 
Whiston   (many  odd),   and  of    The    War  of  the  Jews,  by 


Traill  and  Taylor  (London,  1862). 


R.  M.  Wenley 


1743 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Jj^*  G°SPeI  °f 


JOSES,  jo'sez,  jo'zez  ('Iaxrfis,  loses): 

(1)  One  of  the  brethren  of  Jesus  (Mk  6  3;  in 
Mt  13  55  the  Gr  is  "Joseph,"  and  RV  so  renders). 

(2)  A  son  of  Mary,  perhaps  identical  with  (1) 
(Mt  27  5G;  Mk  15" 40.47).  See  Brethren  op 
the  Lord. 

(3)  A  name  of  Barnabas  (Acts  4  36  AV,  where 
again  Gr  and  RV  have  "Joseph").    See  Barnabas. 

JOSHAH,  jo'sha  (HtTP,  yoshah,  "Jeh's  gift"): 
A  descendant  of  Simeon,  chief  in  his  family  (1  Ch 
4  34.38). 

JOSHAPHAT,  josh'a-fat  (EplpT',  yoshdphat, 
"Jeh  lias  judged" ;  cf  Jehoshaphat)  : 

(1)  One  of  David's  mighty  men  (t  Ch  11  43), 
a  "Mithnite,"  but  not  included  in  the  list  of  2  S  23. 

(2)  A  priest  and  trumpeter  of  David's  time  (1  Ch 
15  24),  AV  "Jehoshaphat," 

JOSHAVIAH,  josh-a-vl'a  (rnor ,  yoshawydh, 
allied  form  to  Joshah  [q.v.]):  Son  of  Elnaam,  one 
of  the  band  of  braves  who  served  David  (1  Ch  11 
40),  omitted  from  the  list  of  2  S  23,  which  is  less 
complete  and  differs  in  detail. 

JpSRBEKASHAH,josh-bft-ka'sha,josh-bO-kasli'a 
(mp|52lTZP,  yo.s}ib'kashah,  "son"  of  Heman;  1  Ch 
25  4.24)  :*  The  last  8  or  9  names  in  ver  4  are  taken 
by  commentators  to  be  not  names  but  the  words  of 
a  prayer.  See  02V C2,  143,  n.;  Curtis,  Chron,  278, 
280;  SBOT. 

JOSHEB-BASSHEBETH,  jo-sheb-ba-she'beth 
(rQ12?3  2'iT"1,  yoshebh  ba-shebhelh) :  This  proper 
name  in  RV  takes  the  place  of  the  tr  "that  sat  in  the 
seat"  in  AV  (2  S  23  8).  The  phrase  so  rendered  is 
meaningless.  The  text  has  evidently  suffered  cor- 
ruption. There  can  be  no  doubt  that  a  proper 
name  is  intended.  This,  according  to  the  ||  passage 
in  1  Ch  11  11,  should  be  Jashobeam.  Some 
scholars  think  that  this  also  is  a  corruption,  and 
by  a  process  of  emendation  arrive  at  "Eshbaal"  as 
the  correct  name  (Driver,  Heb  Text  of  S;  SBOT, 
ad  loc). 

JOSHIBIAH,  josh-i-bl'a  (7VQtDT\  yoshibhyah, 
"Jeh  sets,"  or  "causes  to  dwell";  AV  Josibiah):  A 
Simeonite  (1  Ch  4  35). 

JOSHUA,  josh'u-a  ([a]  JlflTBT,  yhdsha"\  [b] 
IPTpirP,  yhoshu"\  "Jeh  is  deliverance"  or  "opu- 
lence"; cf  Jeshua;    'Itjo-ovs,  Iesous): 

(1)  Joshua  the  son  of  Nun;  the  name  has  the 
Heb  form  (a)  above  in  Dt  3  21;  Jgs  2  7;  elsewhere 
the  form  (b),  except  in  Neb.  8  17,  where  it  is  of  the 
form  yeshua%  (See  Jeshua);  cf  also  Nu  13  8.16; 
Dt  32  44.     See  following  article. 

(2)  In  1  S  6  14.18  (form  [6]),  the  Bethshemite 
in  whose  field  stood  the  kine  that  brought  the  ark 
from  the  Philistines. 

(3)  In  2  K  23  8  (form  [b]),  governor  of  Jerus  in 
the  time  of  Josiah. 

(4)  The  high  priest  at  Jerus  after  the  return. 
See  separate  article.  S.  F.  Hunter 

JOSHUA: 

I.     Form  and  Significance  of  Name 
II.     History  of  the  Life  of  Joshua 

1.  First  Appearance 

2.  The  Minister  of  Moses 

3.  One  of  the  Spies 

4.  The  Head  of  the  People 

(1)  His  First  Act  —Sending  of  the  Spies 

(2)  Crossing  of  the  .Jordan 

(3)  Capture  of  Jericho 

(4)  Conquest  of  Ai  and  Bethel 

(5)  Reading  of  the  Law  on  Mt.  Ebal 


(6)  The  Gibeonites 

(7)  Conquest  of  the  South 

(8)  Northern  Conquests 

(9)  Allotment  of  Territory 

(10)  Cities  of  Refuge 

(11)  Final  Address  and  Death 

III.  Sources  of  History 

IV.  Character  and  Work  of  Joshua 

/.  Form  and  Significance  of  Name. — The  name 
Joshua,  a  contracted  form  of  Jehoshua  (51HJV"P, 
""C."Tp ,  y'linshu"x),  which  also  appears  in  the  form 
Jeshua  (^ilP,  Neh  8  17),  signifies  "Jeh  is  deliver- 
ance" or  "salvation,"  and  is  formed  on  the  analogy 
of  many  Israelite  names,  as  Jehoiakim  (D'^'irVJ  ( 
yhoyakim),  "Jeh  exalteth,"  Jehohanan  ("HTP, 
yhohdndn),  "Jeh  is  gracious,"  Elishua  or  Elisha 
(?W,^$,  'elishiia\  y^bX,  'elisha'),  "God  is  de- 
liverance," Elizur  CWb$,  'ellcur),  "God  is  a 
rock,"  etc.  In  the  narrative  of  the  mission  of  the 
spies  in  Nu  13,  the  name  is  given  as  Hoshea  (2"ETin , 
hoshe"\  vs  8.16;  cf  Dt  32  44),  which  is  changed 
by  Moses  to  Joshua  (ver  16).  In  the  passage  in  Dt, 
however,  the  earlier  form  of  the  name  is  regarded 
by  Dr.  Driver  (Com/a.  in  loc.)  as  an  erroneous  read- 
ing. 

The  Gr  form  of  the  name  is  Jesus  (  I^croOs,  Iesous, 
Acts  7  45;  He  4  8,  RV  "Joshua,"  but  AV  "Jesus" 
in  both  passages),  and  this  form  appears  even  in  the 
passages  cited  above  from  Neh  and  Dt.  In  Nu  13 
8.16,  however,  LNX  has  Avar/,  House.  The  name 
occurs  in  later  Jewish  history,  e.g.  as  that  of  the 
owner  of  the  field  in  which  the  ark  rested  after  its 
return  from  the  land  of  the  Philis  (1  S  6  14.18), 
and  appears  to  have  become  esp.  frequent  after  the 
exile  (Ezr  2  40;  Zee  3  lab,  etc).  It  is  also  found 
(Jeshua)  with  a  local  signification  as  the  name  of 
one  of  the  "villages"  in  Southern  Judaea,  where  the 
repatriated  Jews  dwelt  after  their  return  from 
Babylon  (Neh  11  26). 

//.  History  of  the  Life  of  Joshua.  — The  narrat  i ve 
of  the  life  of  Joshua,  the  son  of  Nun,  is  naturally 
divided  into  two  parts,  in  which  he  held  entirely 
different  positions  with  regard  to  the  people  of 
Israel,  and  discharged  different  duties.  In  the 
earlier  period  he  is  the  servant  and  minister  of  Moses, 
loyal  to  his  leader,  and  one  of  his  most  trusted  and 
valiant  captains.  After  the  death  of  Moses  he 
himself  succeeds  to  the  leadership  of  the  Israelite 
host,  and  conducts  them  to  a  settlement  in  the 
Promised  Land.  The  service  of  the  earlier  years 
of  his  life  is  a  preparation  and  equipment  for  the 
office  and  responsibility  that  devolved  upon  him 
in  the  later  period. 

The  first  appearance  of  J.  in  the  history  is  at 
Rephidim,  on  the  way  from  the  wilderness  of  Sin 
to  Horeb.  Neither  the  exact  site  of 
1.  First  Rephidim  nor  the  meaning  of  the  name 

Appearance  can  be  determined;  the  Israelites, 
however,  apparently  came  to  Rephi- 
dim before  they  approached  the  rich  oasis  of  Feirdn, 
for  at  the  former  place  "there  was  no  water  for  the 
people  to  drink"  (Ex  17  1).  The  fact  that  the 
host  encamped  there  seems  to  assume  the  existence 
of  wells;  either,  therefore,  these  were  found  to  be 
dry,  or  they  failed  before  the  wants  of  the  great 
host  were  satisfied.  The  Amalekites,  wandering 
desert  tribes,  claimed  the  ownership  of  the  wells, 
and,  resenting  the  Israelite  intrusion,  swooped  down 
upon  them  to  drive  them  away  and  to  enrich  them- 
selves with  the  spoil  of  their  possessions.  Under 
the  command  of  J.,  the  Israelites  won  a  complete 
victory  in  a  battle  that  seems  to  have  been  pro- 
longed until  sunset;  the  fortunes  of  the  battle 
varying  with  the  uplifting  or  falling  of  Moses' 
hands,  which  were  accordingly  supported  by  Aaron 
and  Hur  throughout  the  day  (vs  11  ff).     A  curse 


Toshua 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  RIHLH  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1744 


and  sentence  of  extermination  pronounced  against 
Amalek  were  formally  written  down  and  communi- 
cated to  J.,  apparently  that,  as  the  future  leader 
of  Israel,  he  might  have  it  in  charge  to  provide  for 
their  fulfilment. 

It  is  evident  also  that  at  this  period  J.  was  no 
young  and  untried  warrior.  Although  no  indica- 
tion of  his  previous  history  is  given,  his  name  is 
introduced  into  the  narrative  as  of  a  man  well 
known,  who  is  sufficiently  in  the  confidence  of 
Moses  to  be  given  the  chief  command  in  the  first 
conflict  in  which  the  Israelites  had  been  engaged 
since  leaving  Egypt.  The  result  justified  the 
choice.  And  if,  during  the  march,  he  had  held  the 
position  of  military  commander  and  organizer 
under  Moses,  as  the  narrative  seems  to  imply,  to 
him  was  due  in  the  first  instance  the  remarkable 
change,  by  which  within  the  brief  space  of  a  month 
the  undisciplined  crowd  of  serfs  who  had  fled  from 
Egypt  became  a  force  sufficiently  resolute  and 
compact  to  repel  the  onset  of  the  Amalekite  hordes. 

In    all   the   arrangements  for   the   erection  and 

service  of  the  tabernacle,  J.  the  warrior  naturally 

has   no   place.     He   is   briefly   named 

2.  The  (Ex  24  13)  as  the  minister  of  Moses, 
Minister        accompanying  him  apparently  to  the 
of  Moses       foot  of  the  mount  of  God,  but  remain- 
ing behind  with  the  elders  and  Aaron 

and  Hur,  when  Moses  commenced  the  ascent.  A 
similar  brief  mention  is  in  32  17,  where  he  has 
rejoined  Moses  on  the  return  of  the  latter  from  the 
mount  with  the  two  tables  of  the  testimony,  and  is 
unaware  of  the  outbreak  of  the  people  and  their 
idolatrous  worship  of  the  molten  calf  in  the 
camp;  cf  33  11,  where  again  he  is  found  in  the 
closest  attendance  upon  his  leader  and  chief.  No 
further  reference  is  made  to  J.  during  the  stay  of 
the  Israelites  at  Sinai,  or  their  subsequent  journey- 
ings,  until  they  found  themselves  at  Kadesh-barnea 
on  the  southern  border  of  the  Promised  Land  (Nu 
13).  His  name  is  once  mentioned,  however,  in  an 
earlier  eh  of  the  same  book  (Nu  11  28),  when  the 
tidings  are  brought  to  Moses  that  two  men  in  the 
camp  of  Israel,  Eldad  and  Medad,  had  been  in- 
spired to  prophesy.  There  he  is  described  in  har- 
mony with  the  previous  statements  of  his  position, 
as  Moses'  minister  from  his  youth.  Jealous  of  his 
leader's  prerogative  and  honor,  he  would  have  the 
irregular  prophesying  stopped,  but  is  himself 
checked  by  Moses,  who  rejoices  that  the  spirit  of 
God  should  rest  thus  upon  any  of  the  Lord's  people. 
Of  the  12  men,  one  from  each  tribe,  sent  forward 
by  Moses  from  Kadesh  to  ascertain  the  character 
of   the   people   and   land   before   him, 

3.  One  of  two  only,  Hoshea  the  Ephraimite, 
the  Spies       whose  name  is  significantly  changed 

to  Joshua  (13  8.16),  and  Caleb  the 
Judahite,  bring  back  a  report  encouraging  the 
Israelites  to  proceed.  The  account  of  the  mission 
of  the  spies  is  repeated  substantially  in  Dt  1  22-4(5. 
There,  however,  the  suggestion  that  spies  should  be 
commissioned  to  examine  and  report  upon  the  land 
comes  in  the  first  instance  from  the  people  them- 
selves. In  the  record  of  Nu  they  are  chosen  and 
sent  by  Moses  under  Divine  direction  (13  1  f). 
The  two  representations  are  not  incompatible, 
still  less  contradictory.  The  former  describes  in 
an  altogether  natural  manner  the  human  initiative, 
probable  enough  in  the  circumstances  in  which  the 
Israelites  found  themselves;  the  hitter  is  the  Divine 
control  and  direction,  behind  and  above  the  affairs 
of  men.  The  instructions  given  to  the  spies  (vs 
17  ff)  evidently  contemplated  a  hasty  survey  of  the 
entire  region  of  the  Negeb  or  southern  borderland 
of  Pal  up  to  and  including  the  hill  country  of 
Judaea;  the  time  allowed,  40  days  (ver  25),  was  too 
brief  to  accomplish  more,  hardly  long  enough  for 


this  purpose  alone.  They  were,  moreover,  not 
only  to  ascertain  the  character  of  the  towns  and 
their  inhabitants,  the  quality  and  products  of  the 
soil,  but  to  bring  back  with  them  specimens  of  the 
fruits  (ver  20).  An  indication  of  the  season  of  the 
year  is  given  in  the  added  clause  that  "the  time  was 
the  time  of  first-ripe  grapes."  The  usual  months 
of  the  vintage  are  September  and  October  (cf  Lev 
23  39) ;  in  the  warm  and  sheltered  valleys,  however, 
in  the  neighborhood  of  Hebron,  grapes  may  some- 
times be  gathered  in  August  or  even  as  early  as  July. 
The  valley  from  which  the  fruits,  grapes,  figs  and 
pomegranates  were  brought  was  known  as  the 
vallev  of  Eshcol,  or  the  "cluster"  (Nu  13  23  f ; 
32  9;  Dt  1  24). 

No  hesitating  or  doubtful  account  is  given  by  all 
the  spies  of  the  fertility  and  attractiveness  of  the 
country;  but  in  view  of  the  strength  of  its  cities 
and  inhabitants  only  J.  and  Caleb  are  confident  of 
the  ability  of  the  Israelites  to  take  possession  of  it. 
Their  reports  and  exhortations,  however,  are  over- 
borne by  the  timidity  and  dissuasion  of  the  others, 
who  so  entirely  alarm  the  people  that  they  refuse  to 
essay  the  conquest  of  the  land,  desiring  to  return 
into  Egypt  (Nu  14  3f),  and  attempt  to  stone  J. 
and  Caleb  (14  10).  These  two  alone,  therefore, 
were  exempted  from  the  sentence  of  exclusion  from 
the  Promised  Land  (vs  24.30.38;  26  65;  32  12; 
Dt  1  25  ff).  The  remainder  of  the  spies  perished 
at  once  by  a  special  visitation  (Nu  14  36) ;  and  t  he 
people  were  condemned  to  a  40-year  exile  in  the 
wilderness,  a  year  for  each  day  that  the  spies  had 
been  in  Pal,  until  all  the  men  of  that  genera- 
tion "from  twenty  years  old  and  upward"  were 
dead  (14  29;  26  64"f;  32  11  ff).  An  abortive  at- 
tempt was  made  to  invade  the  land  in  defiance  of 
the  prohibition  of  Jeh,  and  ended  in  failure  and 
disastrous  defeat  (vs  40ff;   Dt  1  41  ff;  cf  21  1-3). 

Upon  the  events  of  the  next  38  or  40  years  in  the 
life  of  Israel  an  almost  unbroken  silence  falls.  The 
wanderers  in  the  wilderness  have  no  history. 
Some  few  events,  however,  that  are  recorded  without 
note  of  time,  the  rebellion  of  Korah,  Dat  han  and  Abi- 
ram,  and  the  breaking  out  of  the  plague  because  of 
the  people's  murmuring,  and  probably  others  (Nu  15 
32-36;  16  f),  appear  to  belong  to  this  period.  In 
none  of  them  does  J.  take  an  active  part,  nor  is  his 
name  mentioned  in  connection  with  the  campaigns 
against  Sihon  and  Og  on  the  E.  of  the  Jordan. 
When  the  census  of  the  people  is  taken  in  the  plains 
of  Moab  opposite  Jericho,  J.  and  Caleb  with  Moses 
himself  are  found  to  be  the  only  survivors  of  the 
host  that  40  years  previously  came  out  of  Egypt 
(26  63  ff).  As  the  time  of  the  death  of  the  great 
leader  and  lawgiver  drew  near,  he  was  commissioned 
formally  to  appoint  J.  as  his  successor  and  to  hand 
over  to  him  and  to  Eleazar  the  priest  the  duty  of 
finally  apportioning  the  conquered  territory  among 
the  several  tribes  (27  18  ff;  32  28;  34  17;  cf  Dt 
1  38;  3  28;  31  3.7.23;  34  9).  _  Some  of  these  pas- 
sages anticipate  the  direct  Divine  commission  and 
encouragement  recorded  in  Josh  (1  1.5  ff)  and 
given  to  him  after  the  death  of  Moses. 

The  history  of  J.  in  his  new  capacity  as  supreme 
head  and  leader  of  the  people  in  several  instances 
recapitulates  as  it  were  the  history  of 
4.  The  his   greater   forerunner.     It   was   not 

Head  of  the  unnatural  that  it  should  be  so;  and 
People  the    similarity    of     recorded    events 

affords  no  real  ground  for  doubt  with 
regard  to  the  reliability  of  the  tradition  concerned. 
The  position  in  which  Israel  now  found  itself 
on  the  E.  of  the  Jordan  was  in  some  respects  not 
unlike  that  which  confronted  Moses  at  Kadesh- 
barnea  or  before  the  crossing  of  the  Red  Sea.  J., 
however,  was  faced  with  a  problem  much  less  diffi- 
cult, and  in  the  war-tried  and  disciplined  host  at 


1745 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Joshua 


his  command  he  possessed  an  instrument  immensely 
more  suitable  and  powerful  for  carrying  out  his 
purpose. 

(1)  Sending  of  the  spies. — His  first  act  was  to 
send  spies  from  Shittim  to  ascertain  the  character 
of  the  country  immediately  opposite  on  the  W.  of 
the  Jordan,  and  esp.  the  position  and  strength  of 
Jericho,  the  frontier  and  fortified  city  which  first 
stands  in  the  way  of  an  invader  from  the  E.  who 
proposes  to  cross  the  river  by  the  fords  near  its 
mouth  (Josh  2  2).  In  Jericho  the  spies  owed  their 
lives  to  the  quick  inventiveness  of  Rahab  (cf  He 
11  31),  who  concealed  them  on  the  roof  of  her  house 
from  the  emissaries  of  the  king;  and  returning  to 
J.,  they  reported  the  prospects  of  an  easy  victory 
and  conquest  (vs  23  f ) . 

There  were  doubtless  special  reasons  which  induced 
J.  to  essay  the  crossing  of  the  Jordan  at  the  lower  fords 
opposite  Jericho.  Higher  up  the  river  a  probably  easier 
crossing-place  led  directly  into  Central  Pal,  a  district  in 
which  apparently  his  advance  would  not  have  been 
obstructed  by  fortified  cities  such  as  confronted  him 
farther  south';  which  therefore  would  seem  to  offer  the 
advantages  of  an  open  and  ready  entrance  into  the  heart 
of  the  country.  His  decision  was  probably  influenced 
bv  a  desire  to  possess  himself  of  a  fortified  base  at  Jericho 
and  in  the  neighboring  cities.  The  favorable  report  of 
the  spies  also  proved  that  there  would  be  no  great  diffi- 
culty in  carrying  out  this  plan. 

(2)  Crossing  of  the  Jordan. — The  actual  crossing 
of  the  river  is  narrated  in  chs  3,  4.  The  city  of 
Jericho  was  built  in  a  plain  from  12  to  14  miles  wide 
formed  by  the  recession  of  the  hills  that  border  the 
valley  of  the  Jordan  from  the  Sea  of  Galilee  to  the 
Dead  Sea,  and  stood  at  the  mouth  of  the  valley  of 
Achor(7  24.26;  15  7).  The  modern  village o(  Erlha 
is  built  at  a  short  distance  S.E.  of  the  ancient  site, 
and  Gilgal  lay  half-way  to  the  river.  At  the  latter 
place  the  fixed  camp  was  established  after  the  taking 
of  Jericho,  and  Gilgal  formed  for  some  considerable 
time  the  base  of  operations,  where  the  women  and 
children  remained  in  safety  while  the  men  were 
absent  on  their  warlike  expeditions.  There  also 
the  tabernacle  was  erected,  as  the  symbol  and 
center  of  national  life,  and  there  apparently  it 
remained  until  the  time  came  for  the  removal  to 
Shiloh  (18  1). 

Within  the  plain  the  stream  has  excavated  a 
tortuous  bed  to  a  depth  of  200  ft.  below  the  surface, 
varying  from  an  eighth  of  a  mile  to  a  mile  in  breadth. 
In  ordinary  seasons  the  waters  are  confined  to  a 
small  portion  of  the  channel,  which  is  then  crossed 
opposite  Jericho  by  two  fords  where  the  depth  does 
not  exceed  2  or  3  ft.  When  the  river  is  low  it  may 
be  crossed  elsewhere.  In  times  of  flood,  however, 
the  water  rises  and  fills  the  entire  channel  from 
bank  to  bank,  so  that  the  fords  become  impractica- 
ble. It  is  expressly  stated  that  it  was  at  such  a 
time  of  flood  that  the  Israelites  approached  the 
river,  at  the  "time  of  harvest,"  or  in  the  early 
spring  (3  15).  The  priests  were  directed  to  carry 
the  ark  to  the  brink  of  the  river,  the  waters  of  which, 
as  soon  as  their  feet  touched  them,  would  be  cut 
off,  and  a  dry  passage  afforded.  The  narrative 
therefore  is  not  to  be  understood  as  though  it  indi- 
cated that  a  wall  of  water  stood  on  the  right  and 
left  of  the  people  as  they  crossed ;  the  entire  breadth 
of  the  river  bed  was  exposed  by  the  failure  of  the 
waters  from  above.     See  Jordan. 

An  interesting  parallel  to  the  drying  up  of  the  Jordan 
before  J.  is  recorded  by  an  Arab,  historian  of  the  Middle 
Ages,  who  writes  to  explain  a  natural  but  extraordinary 
occurrence,  without  any  thought  of  the  miraculous  or 
any  apparent  knowledge  of  the  passage  of  the  Israelites. 
During  the  years  12Gt)-f>7  AD,  a  Mohammedan  sultan 
named  Beybars  was  engaged  in  building  a  bridge  over 
the  Jordan  near  Damieh,  a  place  which  some  have  identi- 
fied with  the  city  Adam  (Josh  3  16);  but  the  force  of  the 
waters  repeatedly  carried  away  and  destroyed  his  work. 
On  one  night,  however,  in  December  of  the  latter  year, 
the  river  ceased  entirely  to  flow.  The  opportunity  was 
seized,  and  an  army  of  workmen  so  strengthened  the 


bridge  that  it  resisted  the  flood  which  came  down  upon 
it  the  next  day,  and  stood  firm.  It  was  found  that  at 
some  distance  up  the  river,  where  the  valley  was  nar- 
row, the  banks  had  been  undermined  by  the  running 
water  and  had  fallen  in,  thus  completely  damming  back 
the  stream.  It  seems  not  improbable  that  it  was  by 
agency  of  this  character  that  a  passage  was  secured  for 
the  Israelites;  even  as  40  years  earlier  a  "strong  east 
wind"  had  been  employed  to  drive  back  the  waters  of 
the  Red  Sea  before  Moses. 

At  the  command  of  J.,  under  Divine  direction, 
the  safe  crossing  of  the  Jordan  was  commemorated 
by  the  erection  at  Gilgal  of  12  stones  (4  3-9.20  ff), 
one  for  each  of  the  tribes  of  Israel,  taken  from  the 
bed  of  the  river.  In  ver  9  it  is  stated  that  12  stones 
were  set  up  in  the  midst  of  the  river.  The  state- 
ment is  probably  a  misunderstanding,  and  a  mere 
confusion  of  the  tradition.  It  is  not  likely  that 
there  would  be  a  double  commemoration,  or  an 
erection  of  stones  in  a  place  where  they  would 
never  be  seen.  At  Gilgal  also  the  supply  of  manna 
ceased,  when  the  natural  resources  of  the  country 
became  available  (5  12).  The  date  of  the  passage 
is  given  as  the  10th  day  of  the  1st  month  (4  19); 
and  on  the  14th  day  the  Passover  was  kept  at  Gilgal 
in  the  plains  of  Jericho  (5  10).  For  the  2d  time, 
also,  at  the  crisis  of  the  first  entrance  into  the  land, 
J.  was  encouraged  for  his  work  by  a  vision  and 
Divine  promiseof  assistance  and  direction  (5  13-15). 

(3)  Capture  of  Jericho. — The  narrative  that 
follows,  of  the  taking  of  Jericho,  illustrates,  as  would 
naturally  be  expected  in  the  case  of  a  city  so  sit- 
uated, the  effeminate  and  unwarlike  character  of 
its  inhabitants.  There  was  apparently  little  or  no 
fighting,  while  for  a  whole  week  J.  with  priests  and 
people  paraded  before  the  walls.  A  brief  reference 
(6  1)  seems  to  indicate  that  the  citizens  were  quickly 
driven  to  take  refuge  behind  their  fortifications. 
Twice  seven  times  the  city  was  compassed,  with 
the  ark  of  the  covenant  borne  in  solemn  procession, 
and  at  the  7th  circuit  on  the  7th  day,  while  the 
people  shouted,  the  wall  of  the  city  fell  "in  its 
place"  (6  20  m),  and  Jericho  was  taken  by  assault. 
Only  Rahab  and  her  household  were  spared.  All 
the  treasure  was  devoted  to  the  service  of  the  Lord, 
but  the  city  itself  was  burnt,  and  a  solemn  curse 
pronounced  upon  the  site  and  upon  the  man  who 
should  venture  to  rebuild  its  walls  (6  26).  The 
curse  was  braved,  whether  deliberately  or  not,  by 
a  citizen  of  Bethel  in  the  time  of  King  Ahab;  and 
the  disasters  foretold  fell  upon  him  in  the  loss  of  his 
children  (1  K  16  34).  Thenceforward  Jericho  ap- 
pears to  have  been  continuously  inhabited.  There 
was  a  settlement  of  the  sons  of  the  prophets  there 
in  Elisha's  day  (2  K  2  5.15).  The  natural  fer- 
tility of  the  site  won  for  it  the  name  of  the  city  of 
palm  trees  (Dt  34  3;  Jgs  1  10;  3  13). 

From  the  plains  of  Jericho  two  valleys  lead  up 
into  the  central  hill  country  in  directions  N.W.  and 
S.W.  respectively.  These  form  the  two  entrances 
or  passes,  by  which  the  higher  land  is  approached 
from  the  E.  Along  these  lines,  therefore,  the  in- 
vasion of  the  land  was  planned  and  carried  out. 
The  main  advance  under  J.  himself  took  place  by 
the  northernmost  of  the  valleys,  while  the  immediate 
southern  invasion  was  intrusted  to  Caleb  and  the 
two  tribes  of  Judah  and  Benjamin,  the  supreme 
control  remaining  always  in  the  hands  of  J.  (cf 
Josh  14,  15;  Jgs  1).  This  seems  on  the  whole  to 
be  the  better  way  of  explaining  the  narratives  in 
general,  which  in  detail  present  many  difficulties. 

(4)  Conquest  of  Ai  and  Bethel. — At  the  head  of 
the  northern  pass  stood  the  city  of  Luz  or  Bethel 
(Gen  28  19;  Josh  18  13;  Jgs  1  23).  Ai  lay  close 
at  hand,  and  was  encountered  by  the  invaders  before 
reaching  Bethel;  its  exact  site,  however,  is  unde- 
termined. The  two  towns  were  in  close  alliance 
(cf  Josh  8  17),  and  the  defeat  and  destruction  of 
the  one  was  quickly  followed  by  the  similar  fate 


Joshua 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1746 


that  overtook  the  other.     Before  Ai,  the  advance 

guard  of  the  Israelites,  a  small  party  detached  on 
the  advice  of  the  spies  sent  forward  by  J.  from 
Jericho,  suffered  defeat  and  were  driven  hack  in 
confusion  (7  2  if).  The  disaster  was  due  to  the 
failure*  to  obey  the  command  to  "devote"  the  whole 
spoil  of  Jericho,  and  to  the  theft  by  one  of  the  people 
of  treasure  which  belonged  rightfully  to  Jeh  (7  1  1  ). 
When  the  culprit  Achan  had  been  discovered  and 
punished,  a  renewed  attempt  upon  Ai,  made  with 
larger  forces  and  more  skilful  dispositions,  was 
crowned  with  success.  The  city  was  taken  by  a 
stratagem  and  destroyed  by  fire,  its  king  being 
hanged  outside  the  city  gate  (8  28  f).  Unlike 
Jericho,  it  seems  never  to  have  been  restored. 
Bethel  also  was  captured,  through  the  treachery 
apparently  of  one  of  its  own  citizens,  and  its  in- 
habitants were  put  to  the  sword  (Jgs  1  24  f). 

(."))  Reading  of  the  law  on  Ml.  Ebal. — Of  further 
campaigns  undertaken  by  J.  for  the  subjugation  of 
Central  Pal  no  account  has  been  preserved.  It  is 
possible,  therefore,  that  the  conquest  of  this  part 
of  the  country  was  accomplished  without  further 
righting  (see  Joshua,  Book  of).  In  the  list  of  the 
cities  (Josh  12  7-24)  whose  kings  were  vanquished 
by  J.,  there  are  no  names  of  towns  that  can  be 
certainly  identified  as  situated  here;  the  greater 
part  evidently  belong  to  the  north  or  south.  The 
only  record  remaining  is  that  of  the  formal  erection 
of  an  altar  on  Mt.  Ebal  in  the  presence  of  all  the 
people  and  the  solemn  reading  of  the  law  in  their 
hearing  (8  30-35).  It  is  expressly  noted  that  all 
this  was  done  in  accordance  with  the  directions  of 
Moses  (cf  Dt  11  29;  27  2-8.11  ff).  It  would  further 
appear  probable  that  this  ceremony  really  took  place 
at  the  close  of  the  conquest,  when  all  the  land  was 
subdued,  and  is  narrated  here  by  anticipation. 

(6)  The  Gibeonites. — The  immediate  effect  of  the 
Israelite  victories  under  J.  was  very  great.  Espe- 
cially were  the  Hivite  inhabitants  of  Gibeon  struck 
with  fear  (9  3  ff)  lest  the  same  fate  should  over- 
take them  that  had  come  upon  the  peoples  of 
Jericho  and  Ai.  With  Gibeon,  3  other  cities  were 
confederate,  viz.  Chephirah,  Beeroth  and  Kiriath- 
jearim,  or  the  "city  of  groves"  (9  17).  Gibeon, 
however,  was  the  chief,  and  acted  in  the  name  of  the 
others.  It  is  usually  identified  with  the  modern 
village  or  township  of  el-Jib,  7  or  8  miles  N.  by  W. 
of  Jerus;  and  all  four  lay  clustered  around  the  head 
of  the  pass  or  valley  of  Aijalon,  which  led  down 
from  the  plateau  westward  to  the  foothills  of  the 
Shephelah,  toward  the  plain  and  the  sea.  Gibeon 
held  therefore  a  position  of  natural  strength  and 
importance,  the  key  to  one  of  the  few  practicable 
routes  from  the  west  into  the  highlands  of  Judaea, 
equally  essential  to  be  occupied  as  a  defensive  posi- 
tion against  the  incursions  of  the  dwellers  in  the 
plains,  and  as  affording  to  an  army  from  the  east  a 
safe  and  protected  road  down  from  the  mountains. 

By  a  stratagem  which  threw  J.  and  the  leaders 
of  Israel  off  their  guard,  representing  themselves 
as  jaded  and  wayworn  travelers  from  a  distance,  the 
Gibeonites  succeeded  in  making  a  compact  with 
Israel,  which  assured  their  own  lives  and  safety. 
They  affirmed  that  they  had  heard  of  the  Israelite 
victories  beyond  Jordan,  and  also  of  the  gift  to  them 
by  Jeh  of  the  whole  land  (9  9f.24).  J.  and  the 
princes  were  deceived  and  entered  too  readily  into 
covenant  with  them,  a  covenant  and  promise  that 
w  as  scrupulously  observed  when  on  the  3d  day  of 
traveling  the  Israelites  reached  their  cities  and 
found  them  to  be  close  at  hand  (vs  16  ff).  While, 
however,  their  lives  were  preserved,  the  men  of 
Gibeon  were  reduced  to  the  position  of  menial  serv- 
ants, "hewers  of  wood  and  drawers  of  water";  and 
the  writer  adds,  it  is  thus  "unto  this  day"  (vs  21.27). 
See  Gibeon. 


The  treaty  of  peace  with  the  Gibeonites  and  the 
indignation  thereby  aroused  among  the  neighbor- 
ing kings,  who  naturally  regarded  the  independent 
action  of  the  men  of  Gibeon  as  treachery  toward 
themselves,  gave  rise  to  one  of  the  most  formidable 
coalitions  and  one  of  the  most  dramatic  incidents 
of  the  whole  war.  The  king  of  Jerus,  Adoni-zedck 
("the  Lord  of  righteousness"  or  "the  Lord  is  right- 
eousness," 10  1;  cf  Melchizedek,  "the  king  of 
righteousness,"  Gen  14  IS;  in  Jgs  1  5  ff  the  name 
appears  as  Adoni-bezek,  and  so  LNX  reads  here), 
with  the  4  kings  of  Hebron,  Jarmuth,  Lachish  and 
Eglon  (10  3),  formed  a  plan  to  destroy  Gibeon  in 
revenge,  and  the  Gibeonites  sent  hastily  for  assist- 
ance to  J.,  who  had  returned  with  his  army  to  Gil- 
gal.  The  Israelites  made  a  forced  march  from 
( rilgal,  came  upon  the  allied  kings  near  Gibeon,  and 
attacked  and  defeated  them  with  great  slaughter. 
The  routed  army  fled  westward  "by  the  way  of  the 
ascent  to  Beth-horon"  (ver  10),  and  in  the  pass  was 
overtaken  by  a  violent  hailstorm,  by  which  more 
perished  than  had  fallen  beneath  the  swords  of  the 
Israelite's  (ver  11).  The  5  kings  were  shut  up  in  a 
cave  at  Makkedah,  in  which  they  had  taken  refuge, 
whence  they  were  subsequently  brought  forth  and 
put  to  death.  The  actual  pursuit,  however,  was 
not  stayed  until  the  remnant  had  found  temporary 
security  behind  the  walls  of  their  fortified  cities 
(10  16  ff).  The  victory  of  Israel  was  commem- 
orated by  J.  in  a  song  of  which  some  words  are 
preserved    (10  12  f).    See    Beth-horon,    Battle 

OF. 

(7)  Conquest  of  the  south. — With  almost  severe 
simplicity  it  is  further  recorded  how  the  confederate 
cities  in  turn  were  captured  by  J.  and  utterly  de- 
stroyed (10  28-39).  And  the  account  is  closed  by 
a  summary  statement  of  the  conquest  of  the  entire 
country  from  Kadesh-barnea  in  the  extreme  south 
as  far  as  Gibeon,  after  which  the  people  returned 
to  their  camp  at  Gilgal  (10  40-43). 

(8)  Northern  conquests. — A  hostile  coalition  of 
northern  rulers  had  finally  to  be  met  and  defeated 
before  the  occupation  and  pacification  of  the  land 
could  be  said  to  be  complete.  Jabin,  king  of  Hazor, 
the  "fort,"  was  at  the  head  of  an  alliance  of  northern 
kings  who  gathered  together  to  oppose  Israel  in 
the  neighborhood  of  the  waters  of  Merom  (11  1  ff). 
Hazor  has  been  doubtfully  identified  with  the 
modern  Jebel  Hadirch,  some  5  miles  W.  of  the  lake. 
No  details  of  the  fighting  that  ensued  are  given. 
The  victory,  however,  of  the  Israelites  was  decisive, 
although  chariots  and  horses  were  employed  against 
them  apparently  for  the  first  time  on  Can.  soil. 
The  pursuit  was  maintained  as  far  as  Sidon,  and 
Misrephoth-maim,  perhaps  the  "boilings"  or 
"tumults  of  the  waters,"  the  later  Zarephath  on  the 
coast  S.  of  the  former  city  (11  8;  cf  13  6);  and  the 
valley  of  Mizpeh  must  have  been  one  of  the  many 
wadies  leading  down  to  the  Phoen  coast  land.  The 
cities  were  taken,  and  their  inhabitants  put  to  the 
sword;  but  Hazor  alone  appears  to  have  been 
burnt  to  the  ground  (11  11  ff).  That  the  royal  city 
recovered  itself  later  is  clear  from  the  fact  that  a 
king  of  Hazor  was  among  the  oppressors  of  Israel 
in  the  days  of  the  Judges  (Jgs  4).  For  the  time 
being,  however,  the  fruit  of  these  victories  was  a 
widespread  and  much-needed  peace.  "The  land 
had  rest  from  war"  (11  23). 

(9)  Allotment  of  territory. — Thus  the  work  of  con- 
quest, as  far  as  it  was  effected  under  J.'s  command, 
was  now  ended;  but  much  yet  remained  to  be  done 
that  was  left  over  for  future  generations.  The 
ideal  limits  of  Israel's  possession,  as  set  forth  by 
Jeh  in  promise  to  Moses,  from  the  Shihor  or  Brook 
of  Egypt  (cf  ICh  13  5)  to  Lebanon  and  the  entering 
in  of  Hamath  (Nu  34),  had  not  been  and  indeed 
never  were  reached.    In  view,  however,  of  J.'s  age 


1747 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  RIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Joshua 


(13  1),  it  was  necessary  that  an  allotment  of  their 
inheritance  W.  of  the  Jordan  should  at  once  be 
made  to  the  remaining  tribes.  Reuben,  Gad  and 
half  the  tribe  of  Manasseh  had  been  already  pro- 
vided for  by  Moses  in  Eastern  Pal  (13  15-32). 
Chs  14-21  accordingly  contain  a  detailed  account 
of  the  arrangements  made  by  the  Israelite  leader  for 
the  settlement  of  the  land  and  trace  the  bound- 
aries of  the  several  tribal  possessions.  The  actual 
division  appears  to  have  been  made  on  two  separate 
occasions,  and  possibly  from  two  distinct  centers. 
Provision  was  first  made  for  Judah  and  the  children 
of  Joseph;  and  between  the  northern  border  of  the 
former  tribe,  recorded  in  detail  in  15  5-11,  and  the 
inheritance  of  the  sons  of  Joseph,  a  tract  of  land  for 
the  present  left  unassigned  was  later  given  to  the 
tribes  of  Benjamin  and  Dan.  An  extra  portion 
also  was  promised  by  J.  to  the  descendants  of  Joseph 
on  the  ground  of  their  numbers  and  strength  (17 
14  ff). 

For  the  7  tribes  that  were  yet  without  defined 
inheritance  a  rough  survey  of  the  land  appears  to 
have  been  made,  and  the  unallotted  districts  were 
divided  into  7  portions,  for  which  lots  were  then 
cast  atShiloh  in  the  presence  of  the  assembled  tribes 
(chs  18,19).  The  express  mention  of  Shiloh  here 
(18  1.10)  suggests  that  the  previous  division  was 
carried  out  at  some  other  place,  and  if  so,  probably 
at  Gilgal,  the  earlier  resting-place  of  the  ark  and 
the  tabernacle.  No  definite  statement,  however, 
to  that  effect  is  made.  Benjamin's  portion  was 
assigned  between  the  territories  of  Judah  and  the 
children  of  Joseph  (18  11).  Simeon  received  his 
inheritance  out  of  the  land  given  to  Judah,  a  part 
on  the  south  being  taken  away  on  the  ground  that 
the  whole  was  too  great  for  a  single  tribe  (19  1-9). 
Zebulun,  Issachar,  Asher,  and  Naphtali  were  estab- 
lished in  the  north  (19  10-39).  And  Dan  was 
settled  on  the  seacoast  by  Joppa,  with  additional 
territory  in  the  extreme  north,  of  which  they  appar- 
ently took  independent  and  forcible  possession, 
bevond  the  inheritance  of  the  other  tribes  (19  40- 
48";  cf  Jgs  18  27-29). 

(10)  Cities  of  refuge. — Finally  the  6  cities  of 
refuge  were  appointed,  3  on  each  side  of  the  Jordan, 
and  the  48  cities  of  the  Levites  taken  out  of  the 
territories  of  the  several  tribes  (Josh  20,21;  cf  Nu 
35;  Dt  4  41-43).  The  two  and  a  half  tribes  whose 
inheritance  lay  in  Eastern  Pal  were  then  dismissed, 
their  promise  of  assistance  to  their  brethren  having 
been  fulfilled  (ch  22);  and  an  altar  was  erected  by 
them  on  the  right  bank  of  the  Jordan  whose  purpose 
is  explained  to  be  to  serve  as  a  standing  witness  to 
the  common  origin  of  all  the  tribes,  and  to  frustrate 
any  future  attempt  to  cut  off  those  on  the  E.  from 
the  brotherhood  of  Israel. 

(11)  Final  address  and  death. — In  a  closing 
assembly  of  the  Israelites  at  Shechem,  J.  delivered 
to  the  people  his  final  charge,  as  Moses  had  done 
before  his  death,  reminding  them  of  their  own 
wonderful  history,  and  of  the  promises  and  claims 
of  God,  and  exhorting  them  to  faithful  and  loyal 
obedience  in  His  service  (23,  24).  A  stone  also  was 
set  up  under  the  oak  in  the  sacred  precinct  of  Jeh, 
to  be  a  memorial  of  the  renewed  covenant  between 
God  and  His  people  (24  26  f).  Then  at  the  age  of 
1 10  the  second  great  leader  of  Israel  died,  and  was 
laid  to  his  rest  within  his  own  inheritance  in  Tim- 
nath-serah  (vs  29.30;  in  Jgs  2  9,  Timnath-heres), 
in  the  hill  country  of  Ephraim.  The  site  of  his 
grave  is  unknown.  Tradition  has  placed  it  at 
Kefr  H&ris,  9  miles  S.  of  Nablus  or  Shechem.  But 
the  localizing  by  tradition  of  the  burying-place  of  a 
hero  or  saint  is  often  little  more  than  accidental,  nor 
can  any  reliance  be  placed  upon  it  in  this  instance. 

///.  Sources  of  History. — That  the  narratives  con- 
cerning the  life  and  work  of  J.  rest  in  the  main  upon  a 


basis  of  tradition  can  hardly  be  doubted.  How  far  the 
details  have  been  modified,  or  a  different  coloring  im- 
parted in  the  course  of  a  long  transmission,  it  is  impos- 
sible to  determine.  There  is  a  remarkable  similarity  or 
parallelism  between  many  of  the  leading  events  of  J.'s 
life  as  ruler  and  captain  of  Israel  and  the  experiences  of 
his  predecessor  Moses,  which,  apart  from  any  literary 
criticism,  suggests  that  the  narratives  have  been  drawn 
from  the  same  general  source,  and  subjected  to  the  same 
conditions  of  environment  and  transmission.  Thus 
both  are  called  to  and  strengthened  for  their  work  by  a 
special  Divine  revelation,  Moses  at  Horeb  in  the  burn- 
ing bush,  J.  at  Jericho.  Both  lead  the  people  across 
the  bed  of  waters  miraculously  driven  back  to  aliord 
them  passage.  And  both  at  no  long  interval  after  the 
passage  win  a  notable  victory  over  their  adversaries — 
a  victory  ascribed  in  each  case  to  direct  Divine  inter- 
vention on  their  behalf,  although  in  different  ways. 
At  the  close  of  their  life-work,  moreover,  both  Moses 
and  J.  deliver  stirring  addresses  of  appeal  and  warning 
to  the  assembled  Israelites;  and  both  are  laid  in  nameless 
graves.  These  all,  however,  are  occurrences  perfectly 
natural  and  indeed  inevitable  in  the  position  in  which 
each  found  himself.  Nor  do  they  afford  adequate 
ground  for  the  supposition  that  the  achievements  of  the 
greater  leader  have  been  duplicated,  or  by  mistake 
attributed  to  the  less.  To  cross  the  Jordan  and  to  de- 
feat the  Canaanite  confederacy  were  as  essential  to  the 
progress  of  Israel  as  the  passage  of  the  Red  Sea  and  the 
breaking  up  of  the  gathering  of  Amalekite  clans;  and 
no  true  or  sufficient  history  could  have  evaded  the  narra- 
tion of  these  events.  The  position  of  Israel  also  on  the 
E.  of  the  Jordan  about  to  undertake  the  invasion  and 
conquest  of  the  Promised  Land  as  imperatively  de- 
manded a  specially  qualified  captain  and  guide,  a  master- 
mind to  control  the  work,  as  did  the  oppressed  people  in 
Egypt  or  the  wanderers  in  the  desert.  That  J.  was  not 
so  great  a  man  as  his  predecessor  the  entire  narrative 
testifies.  Moses,  however,  must  of  necessity  have  had 
a  successor  to  take  up  his  unfinished  work  and  to  carry 
it  to  completion. 

IV.   Character  and  Work  of  Joshua. — As  to  the 

personal  character  of  J.,  there  is  little  to  be  inferred 
from  the  narrative  of  his  campaigns.  In  this  respect 
indeed  they  are  singularly  colorless.  In  early  life 
his  loyalty  to  Moses  was  conspicuous  and  unswerv- 
ing. As  his  successor,  he  seems  to  have  faithfully 
acted  upon  his  principles,  and  in  the  direction  of 
the  Israelite  campaigns  to  have  proved  himself  a 
brave  and  competent  general,  as  wise  in  counsel  as 
he  was  strong  in  fight.  The  putting  to  death  of 
captives  and  the  handing  over  to  the  sword  of  the 
inhabitants  of  hostile  cities,  which  the  historian  so 
often  records  as  the  consequence  of  his  victories, 
must  evidently  be  judged  by  the  customs  of  the 
times,  and  have  perhaps  lost  nothing  in  the  narra- 
tion. They  do  not  in  any  case  justify  the  attribu- 
tion to  Joshua  of  an  especially  inhumane  disposition, 
or  a  delight  in  slaughter  for  its  own  sake.  After 
the  death  of  Moses  he  would  appear  to  have  been 
reluctant  to  undertake  the  onerous  position  and 
duty  assigned  to  him  through  mistrust  of  his  own 
ability  and  lack  of  self-confidence,  and  needed  more 
than  once  to  be  encouraged  in  his  work  and  assured 
of  Divine  support.  In  the  language  of  his  closing 
discourse  there  is  apparent  a  foresight  and  appre- 
ciation of  the  character  and  tendencies  of  the  people 
who  had  followed  him,  which  is  hardly  inferior  to 
that  of  Moses  himself. 

In  a  real  sense  also  his  work  was  left  unfinished 
at  his  death.  The  settlement  of  Canaan  by  the 
tribes  of  Israel  within  the  appointed  and  promised 
limits  was  never  more  than  partial.  The  new 
colonists  failed  to  enjoy  that  absolute  and  undis- 
turbed possession  of  the  land  to  which  they  had 
looked  forward;  witness  the  unrest  of  the  period 
of  the  Judges,  prolonged  and  perpetuated  through 
monarchical  times.  For  all  this,  however,  the 
blame  cannot  justly  be  laid  to  the  account  of  J. 
Many  causes  undoubtedly  concurred  to  an  issue 
which  was  fatal  to  the  future  unity  and  happiness 
and  prosperity  of  Israel.  The  chief  cause;,  as  J. 
warned  them  would  be  the  case,  was  the  persistent 
idolatry  of  the  people  themselves,  their  neglect  of 
duty,  and  disregard  of  the  commands  and  claims 
of  their  God.  A.  S.  Geden 


Joshua 
Joshua,  Book  of 


II 


i;   [XTEKNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  KNCYCLOPAEDIA 


1748 


1  l.l: 


14; 
igh 

lis 


JOSHUA:  Sou  of  Jchozadak  (Ilai 
2  2.4;  Zee  3  1.3.(5.8.9;  6  11  form  \h\)  ant 
priest' in  Jerus,  called  "Jeshua"  in  Ezr-Nel 
father  wan  amoiij!  the  captives  at  the  fall  of  Jerus 
in  586  BO,  and  also  his  grandfather  Seraiah,  who 
was  put  to  death  at  Lliblah  (2  K  25  18  IT;  1  Ch 
6  15). 

Joshua  appears  in  Ezr  3  2  with  Zerubbabel  al 
the  head  of  the  returned  exiles  and  as  leader  in  the 
work  of  building  an  altar  and  reestablishing  sacri- 
ficial worship  (538  or  537  BC).  Ezr  3  8  tells  of 
their  laying  the  foundation  of  the  temple,  and  in  4 
1  ft  the  two  heads  of  the  community  refuse  to  allow 
the  Samaritans  to  cooperate  in  the  building  opera- 
tions, with  the  result  that  the  would-be  helpers 
became  active  opponents  of  the  work.  Building 
then  ceased  until  Ilaggai  and  Zechariah  in  520 
(Ezr  5;  Hag  1  I— 11)  exhort  the  community  to  re- 
start work,  and  the  two  leaders  lake  the  lead  (Hag 
1  12-15).  The  following  are,  in  chronological  order, 
the  prophetic  utterances  in  which  J.  is  spoken  of: 
(1)  Hag  1  1-11;  (2)  Hag  2  1  9;  (3)  Zee  1  1-6; 
(4)  Hag  2  10-19;  (5)  Hag  2  20-23;  (0)  the  visions 
of  Zee  1  7—6  8  together  with  (7)  the  undated  utter- 
ance of  Zee  6  9-15. 

Two  of  t  hese  call  for  special  at  t  cut  ion.     First ,  the 
vision  of  a  trial  in  which  J.  is  prosecuted  before  the 
angel  of  Jeh  by  Satan  (ha-satan,  "the 
1.  The  adversary"),  who  is,  according  to  one 

Vision  of  view,  "not  the  spirit  of  evil  who  ap- 
Zec  3:1-10  pears  in  later  Jewish  writings;  he  is 
only  t  he  officer  of  just  ice  whose  business 
is  to  see  that  the  case  against  criminals  is  properly 
presented"  in  the  heavenly  court  of  justice  (11.  P. 
Smith,  OT  History,  356);  while  others  regard  him 
as  the  enemy  of  God's  people  (cf  Orelli,  Minor 
Prophets,  ET,  327).  We  are  not  told  what  the 
charge  against  J.  is:  some  hold  him  to  be  tried  as 
in  some  way  a  representative  of  the  people  or  the 
priesthood,  and  his  filthy  garments  as  symbolical 
of  sin;  while  others  explain  the  garments  as  put 
on  to  excite  the  court's  pity.  The  adversary  is 
rebuked  by  "the  angel  of  Jeh"  (read  at  beginning 
of  ver  2,  "and  the  angel  of  Jeh  said,"  etc),  and  J. 
is  acquitted.  He  is  then  ordered  to  be  stripped  of 
his  old  clothes  and  to  be  arrayed  in  "rich  apparel" 
(ver  4),  while  a  "clean  turban"  (ARVm)  is  to  be 
put  on  his  head.  Conditional  upon  his  walking  in 
God's  ways,  he  is  promised  the  government  of  the 
temple  and  "free  access"  to  God,  being  placed 
among  the  servants  of  the  "angel  of  Jeh."  J.  and 
his  companions  "are  men  that  are  a  sign"  (ver  8), 
i.e.  a  guaranty  of  the  coming  of  the  Messiah;  there 
is  set  before  J.  a  stone  which  is  to  be  inscribed  upon, 
and  the  iniquity  of  the  land  will  be  removed,  an 
event  to  be  followed  by  peace  and  plenty  (vs  9  f). 

In  vs  4  ff  Nowack  and  Well  Hansen  (with  the  LXX 
mostly)  read,  "And  lie  answered  and  spake;  unto  those 
that  stood  before  him  [i.e.  his  servants]  thus:  Take  the 
filthy  garments  from  olf  him,  and  clothe  him  with  rich 
apparel.  [5]  and  set  a  clean  turban  upon  his  head.  So 
they  set  a  clean  turban  upon  his  head  and  clothed  him 
with  clean  garments.  And  the  angel  of  Jeh  stood  up, 
[6]  and  solemnly  exhorted  J.,"  etc.  They  also  omit  the 
first  "  for"  in  ver  <s  as  a  dittography. 

Different  interpretations  are  given  of  the  vision: 
(1 )  Some  claim  to  see  here  a  contest  between  the 
civil  and  religious  powers  as  represented  by  Zerub- 
babel  and  J.  respectively  (6  13),  and  that,  Zecha- 
riah decides  for  the  supremacy  of  the  latter.  The 
Messiah-King  is  indeed  in  Jerus  in  the  person  of 
Zerubhabel,  though  as  yet  uncrowned;  but  J.  is  to 
be  supreme  (scv.  G.  A.  Smith,  Jerus,  II,  303;  II.  P. 
Smith,  OT  History,  356 f).  This  explanation  is 
dependent  to  a  large  extent  upon  6  9-15,  and  is 
not  supported  by  3  8.  It  is  difficult  to  explain  ver 
2  on  this  view,  for  Zerubhabel  could  also  be  de- 
scribed as  a  "brand  plucked  out  of  the  fire."     What 


the  vision  says  is  that  the  vindication  of  J.  is  a  sign 
for  the  coming  of  Jeh's  "servant,  the  Branch,"  a 
title  tli at  is  not  given  to  J.  (cf  ver  7). 

(2)  Others  maintain  that  the  garments  are  sym- 
bolical of  the  sins  of  the  predecessors  of  J.,  who  is 
tried  tor  their  offences  and  himself  regarded  as  being 
unworthy  of  the  office  because  lie  had  been  brought 
up  in  a  foreign  and  heathen  land  (so  Keil,  Orelli). 

(3)  Hitzig,  followed  by  Nowack  (Kleine  Prophe- 
ten,  325),  holds  that  the  idea  which  lies  at  the  basis 
of  the  vision  is  that  Satan  is  responsible  for  the  ills 
which  the  community  had  suffered  (cf  Job  1,  2). 
The  people  had  begun  to  think  that  their  offerings 
were  not  acceptable  to  God  and  that  He  would  not 
have  pity  upon  them.  Then;  was  a  feeling  among 
the  most  pious  ones  that  God's  righteousness  would 
not  allow  of  their  restoration  to  their  former  glory. 
This  conflict  between  righteousness  and  mercy  is 
decided  by  silencing  the  accuser  and  vindicating  J. 

It  is  difficult  to  decide  which  view,  if  any,  is  correct. 
"The  brand  plucked  out  of  the  fire"  seems  to  point  to 
God's  recognizing  that  the  community,  or  perhaps  the 
priestly  succession,  had  almost  been  exterminated  by 
the  exile.  It  remind-:  us  of  the  oak  cf  which,  after  its 
felling,  the  stump  remaineth  (Isa  6  13),  and  may  per- 
haps point  to  God's  pity  being  excited  for  the  community. 
The  people,  attacked  by  their  enemies  and  represented 
by  J.,  are  to  be  restored  to  their  old  glory:  that  act  being 
symbolized  by  the  clothing  of  .1.  in  clean  raiment;  and 
that  symbolical  act  (cf  Isa  8  IS)  is  a  sign,  a  guaranty, 
of  the  coming  of  the  Messiah- King.  The  ritualistic  tone 
of  Mai  will  then  follow  naturally  after  the  high  place 
given  here  to  the  high  priest.  It  is  noteworthy  that  the 
promise  of  3  7  is  conditional. 

One  more  point  remains,  viz.  the  meaning  of  the 
stone  in  3  9.  It  has  been  differently  explained  as 
a  jewel  in  the  new  king's  crown  (Nowack);  afounda- 
t  ion  stone  of  the  temple,  which,  however,  was  already 
laid  (Hitzig);  the  chief  stone  of  4  7  (Ewald, 
Steiner);  the  Messiah  Himself  (Keil);  the  stone  in 
the  high  priest's  breastplate  (Bredenkamp),  and  the 
stone  which  served  as  an  altar  (Orelli).  Commen- 
tators tend  to  regard  the  words  "upon  one  stone  are 
seven  eyes"  as  a  parenthetical  addition  character- 
istic of  the  author  of  Zee  9  ff. 

The  utterance  of  Zee  6  9-15  presents  to  us 
some  more  exiles  coming  from  Babylon  with  silver 
and  gold  apparently  for  the  temple. 
2.  Joshua's  According  to  the  present  text,  Zecha- 
Crown,  riah  is  commanded  to  see  that  this  is 

Zee  6:  used  to  make  a  crown  for  J.  who  is  to 

9-15  be  a  priest -king.  This  is  taken  to  mean 

that  he  is  to  be  given  the  crown  that 
had  been  meant  for  Zerubhabel.  But  commenta- 
tors hold  that  the  text  has  been  altered:  that  the 
context  demands  the  crowning  of  Zerubbabel — the 
Branch  of  Davidic  descent,  This  view  is  supported 
by  ver  13,  "And  the  counsel  of  peace  shall  be  be- 
tween them  both";  and  therefore  the  last  clause 
of  ver  11  is  omitted.  Wellhausen  keeps  vs  9  and  10, 
and  then  reads:  "[11]  Yea,  take  of  them  silver  and 
gold  and  make  a  crown,  [12]  and  say  to  them:  Thus 
saith  Jeh  of  hosts,  saying,  Behold  the  man  whose 
name  is  the  Branch,  from  whose  root  there  will  be 
a  sprout,  [13]  and  he  will  build  the  Temple  of  Jeh, 
and  he  will  obtain  glory  and  sit  and  rule  upon  his 
throne.  And  Joshua  will  be  a  priest  on  his  right 
hand,  and  there  will  be  friendly  peace  between  them 
both.'  [14]  The  crown  shall  be,"  etc;  ver  15  is  in- 
complete. . 

It  will  be  objected  that  this  does  away  with  the 
idea  of  a  priest-king,  an  idea  found  also  in  Ps  110. 
But  it  seems  fairly  certain  that  Ps  110  (see  Kirk- 
patrick,  The  Book  of  Psalms)  does  not  refer  to  J., 
the  point  there  being  that  the  king  referred  to  was 
a  priest,  although  not  descended  from  Aaron,  being 
a  priest  after  the  order  of  Melehizedek,  while  here  the 
point  is,  if  the  present  text  be  correct,  that  a  priest 
is  crowned  king.  What  became  of  Zerubbabel  after 
this  is  not  known.     See  Ed.  Meyer,  Der  Papyrus- 


1749 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Joshua 
Joshua,  Book  of 


fund  van  Elephantine2,  70  ff,  86  ff .  J.  is  railed  Jesus 
in  Sir  49  12.  See  Zerubbabel;  Haggai;  Zecha- 
riah.  David  Francis  Roberts 

JOSHUA,  BOOK  OF: 

I.     Title  and  Authorship 
II.     Contents 

1.  Invasion  and  Conquest  of  Western  Palestine 

2.  Allotment  of   the   Country   to   the   Tribes  of 
Israel 

III.  Historical  Character   and  Chronology 

1.  The  Book  of  Josh  as  History 

2.  Chronology    . 

IV.  Sources   of  the   Written   Narrative 
V.     Relation  to  the  Book  of  Ji.s 

1.  Parallel  Narratives 

2.  Omissions  in  the  History 

VI.     Place  of  Josh  in  the  Her  Canon 
VII.     Greek  and  Other  Ancient  Versions 

1.  The  Greek 

2.  Other  Ancient  Versions 

VIII.     Religious  Purpose   and   Teaching 
Literature 

/.  Title  and  Authorship.  —The  name  Joshua 
signifies  "Jeh  is  deliverance"  or  "salvation"  (see 
Joshua).  The  Gr  form  of  the  name  is  Jesus 
fl7?<xo0s,  Iesous,  Acts  7  45;  He  4  8).  In  later 
Jewish  history  the  name  appears  to  have  become 
popular,  and  is  even  found  with  a  local  significance, 
as  the  designation  of  a  small  town  in  Southern 
Pal  O^TIT.,  yeshua\  Neh  11  26).  The  use  of  the 
title  by  the  Jews  to  denote  the  Book  of  Josh  did 
not  imply  a  belief  that  the  book  was  act  ually  written 
or  dictated  by  him;  or  even  that  the  narratives 
themselves  were  in  substance  derived  from  him, 
and  owed  their  authenticity  and  reliability  to  his 
sanction  and  control.  In  the  earliest  Jewish  lit- 
erature the  association  of  a  name  with  a  book  was 
not  intended  in  any  case  to  indicate  authorship. 
And  the  Book  of  Josh  is  no  exception  to  the  rule 
that  such  early  writings,  esp.  when  their  contents 
an;  of  a  historical  nature,  are  usually  anonymous. 
The  title  is  intended  to  describe,  not  authorship, 
but  theme;  and  to  represent  that  the  life  and  deeds 
of  Joshua  form  the  main  subject  with  which  the 
book  is  concerned. 

//.  Contents. — With  regard  to  the  contents  of 
Josh,  it  will  be  found  to  consist  of  two  well-marked 
divisions,  in  the  first  of  which  (chs  1-12)  are  nar- 
rated the  invasion  and  gradual  conquest  under  the 
command  of  J.  of  the  land  on  the  W.  of  the  Jordan; 
while  the  2d  part  describes  in  detail  the  allotment 
of  the  country  to  the  several  tribes  with  the  bound- 
aries of  their  territories,  and  concludes  with  a  brief 
notice  of  the  death  and  burial  of  J.  himself. 

Ch  1:  Renewal  of  the  Divine  promise  to  J.  and  ex- 
hortation to  fearlessness  and  courage  (vs  1-9);  direc- 
tions to  the  people  to  prepare  for  the  pas- 
1  Invasion  sage  of  the  river,  and  a  reminder  to  the 
1.  invasion  ea|tern  fcribes  (Reuben,  Gad,  and  half 
and  Con-  Manasseh)  of  the  condition  under  which 
nuest  of  they  held  their  possession  beyond  Jordan; 

W^c+orn  the  renewal  by  these  tribes  of  their  pledge 

western         Qf  lovalty  to  Muses'  successor  (vs  10-18). 
Palestine  Ch2:  The  sending  of  the  two  spies  from 

Shittim    and    their    escape   from   Jericho 
through  the  stratagem  of  Rahab. 

Ch  3:  The  passage  of  Jordan  by  the  people  over 
against  Jericho,  the  priests  bearing  the  ark,  and  standing 
in  the  dry  bed  of  the  river  until  all  the  people  had  crossed 

Ch  4:  Erection  of  12  memorial  stones  on  the  other 
side  of  Jordan,  where  the  people  encamped  after  the 
passage  of  the  river  (vs  1-14);  the  priests  with  the  Ark 
of  the  Covenant  ascend  in  their  turn  from  out  of  the 
river-bed,  and  the  waters  return  into  their  wonted  course 
(vs  15-24). 

Ch  5:  Alarm  excited  among  the  kings  on  the  W.  of 
Jordan  by  the  news  of  the  successful  crossing  of  the 
river  (ver  1);  circumcision  of  the  people  at  Oilgal  (vs 
2-9) ;  celebration  of  the  Passover  at  Oilgal  in  the  plains 
of  Jericho  (vs  10.11);  cessation  of  the  supply  of  the 
manna  (ver  12) ;  appearance  to  J.  of  the  captain  of  the 
Lord's  host  (vs  13-15).  .  . 

Oh  6-  Directions  given  to  J.  for  the  siege  and  taking 
of  Jericho  (vs  1-5);  capture  of  the  city,  which  is  de- 
stroyed by  Are,  Rahab  and  her  household  alone  being 
saved  (vs  6-25) ;  a  curse  is  pronounced  on  the  man  who 
rebuilds  Jericho  (ver  26). 


Ch  7:  The  crime  and  punishment  of  Achan,  who  stole 
for  himself  part  of  the  spoil  of  the  captured  city  (vs  1. 
16-2(5);  incidentally  his  sin  is  the  cause  of  a  disastrous 
defeat  before  Ai  (vs  2-12). 

Ch  8:  The  taking  of  Ai  by  a  stratagem,  destruction 
of  the  city,  and  death  of  its  king  (vs  1-29);  erection  of 
an  altar  on  Mt.  Bbal,  and  reading  of  the  Law  before  the 
assembled  people  (vs  30-35). 

Ch  9:  Gathering  of  the  peoples  of  Pal  to  oppose  J. 
(vs  1-2) ;  a  covenant  of  peace  made  with  the  Gibeonites, 
who  represent  themselves  as  strangers  from  a  far  country 
(vs  3-26);  they  are,  however,  reduced  to  a  condition  of 
servitude  (ver  27). 

Ch  10:  Combination  of  5  kings  of  the  Amorites  to 
punish  the  inhabitants  of  Gibeon  for  their  defection,  and 
defeat  and  rout  of  the  kings  by  J.  at  Beth-horon  (vs 
1-14);  return  of  the  Israelites  to  Oilgal  (ver  15);  cap- 
ture and  death  by  hanging  of  the  5  kings  at  Makkedah 
(vs  16-27);  taking  and  destruction  of  Makkedah  (ver 
28),  Libnah  (vs  29.30),  Lachish  (vs  31.32),  (lezer  (ver 
33).  Eglon  (vs  34.35),  Hebron  (vs  3(1.37),  Debir  (vs 
38.39),  and  summarily  all  the  land,  defined  as  from 
Kadesh-barnea  unto  Gaza,  and  as  far  N.  as  Gibeon 
(40-42);   return  to  Oilgal  (ver  43). 

Ch  11:  Defeat  of  Jabin,  king  of  Hazor,  and  allied 
kings  at  the  waters  of  Merom  (vs  1-9);  destruction  of 
Hazor  (vs  10-15);  reiterated  summary  of  J.'s  conquests 
(vs  L6-23). 

Ch  12:  Final  summary  of  the  Israelite  conquests  in 
Canaan,  of  Sihon  and  Og  on  the  E.  of  the  Jordan  under 
the  leadership  of  Moses  (vs  1-6);  of  31  kings  and  their 
cities  on  the  W.  of  the  river  under  .J.  (vs  7-24). 

Ch  13:   Command  to  J.  to  allot  the  land  on  the  W.  of 

the  Jordan,  even  that  which  was  still  unsubdued,  to  the 

nine  and  a  half  tribes  (vs  1-7);  recapitula- 

O     AH/%+  tion  of  the   inheritance   given   by    Moses 

A.  Allot-  Qn  the  E    ()f  the  riv(,r  (vs  S-X3.32);    the 

ment  of  the    border  of  Reuben   (vs   15-23),  of  Gad  (vs 
Country  to      24-28),  of  the  half-tribe  of  Manasseh  (vs 
+Vl     T^ihoc      29-31);   the  tribe  of  Levi  alone  received  no 
me  irmeb      lamu,(l  inheritance  (vs  14.33). 
of  Israel  Ch  14:    Renewed  statement  of  the  prin- 

ciple on  which  the  division  of  the  land  had 
been  made  (vs  1-5);  Hebron  given  to  Caleb  for  his 
inheritance  (vs  6-15). 

Ch  15.  The  inheritance  of  Judah,  and  the  boundaries 
of  his  territory  (vs  1-20),  including  that  of  Caleb  (vs  13- 
19);   enumeration  of  the  cities  of  Judah  (vs  21-63). 

Ch  16:  Inheritance  of  the  sons  of  Joseph  (vs  1-4) ;  the 
border  of  Ephraim  (vs  5-10). 

Ch  17:  Inheritance  of  Manasseh  and  the  border  of  the 
half-tribe  on  the  W.  of  the  Jordan  (vs  1-13);  complaint 
of  the  sons  of  Joseph  of  the  insufficiency  of  their  inherit- 
ance, and  grant  to  them  by  J.  of  an  extension  of  terri- 
tory (vs  14-18). 

Ch  18:  The  land  yet  unsubdued  divided  by  lot  into  7 
portions  for  the  remaining  7  tribes  (vs  1-10) ;  inheritance 
of  the  sons  of  Benjamin  and  the  border  of  their  territory 
(vs  11-20) ;   enumeration  of  their  cities  (vs  21-28). 

Ch  19:  Inheritance  of  Simeon  and  his  border  (vs  1-9) ; 
of  Zebulun  and  his  border  (vs  10-16);  of  Issachar  and  his 
border  (vs  17-23);  of  Asher  and  his  border  (vs  24-31); 
of  Naphtali  and  his  border  (vs  32-39) ;  and  of  Dan  and 
his  border  (vs  40-48) ;  inheritance  of  Joshua  (vs  49.50) ; 
concluding  statement  (ver  51). 

Ch  20:  Cities  of  Refuge  appointed,  three  on  eacn  side 
of  the  Jordan.  .  ..     T      ,. 

Ch  21 :  48  cities  with  their  suburbs  given  to  the  Levites 
out  of  the  territories  of  tin-  several  tribes  (vs  1-41) ;  the 
people  had  rest  in  the  land,  their  enemies  being  subdued, 
according  to  the  Divine  promise  (vs  43-45). 

Ch  22:  Dismissal  of  the  eastern  tribes  to  their  inherit- 
ance their  duty  to  their  brethren  having  been  fulfilled 
(vs  i_9)  •  the  erection  by  them  of  a  great  altar  by  t  In- 
side of  the  Jordan  aroused  the  suspicion  of  the  western 
tribes,  who  feared  that  they  intended  to  separate  them- 
selves from  the  common  cause  (vs  10-20) ;  their  reply 
that  the  altar  is  to  serve  the  purpose  of  a  witness  between 
themselves  and  their  brethren  (vs  21-34). 

Ch  23:   J-'s  address  of  encouragement  and  warning  to 

Ch°24-e  Second  address  of  J.,  recalling  to  the  people 
their  history,  and  the  Divine  interventions  on  their  be- 
half (vs  1-23) ;  the  people's  pledge  of  loyalty  to  the  Lord, 
and  formal  covenant  in  Shechem  (vs  24.25);  the  book 
of  the  law  of  Ood  is  committed  to  writing,  and  a  stone  is 
erected  as  a  permanent  memorial  (vs  26-28) ;  death  and 
burial  of  J.  (vs  29-31);  burial  in  Shechem  of  the  bones 
of  Joseph,  brought  from  Egypt  (ver  32);  death  and 
burial  of  Eleazar,  son  of  Aaron  (ver  33). 

///.  Historical  Character  and  Chronology. — As 
a  historical  narrative,  therefore,  detailing  the  steps 

taken    to    secure    the    conquest    and 
1.  The  possession  of  Canaan,  Josh  is  incom- 

Book  of  plete  and  is  marked  by  many  omissions, 

Josh  as  and  in  some  instances  at  least  includes 

History  phrases  or  expressions  which  seem  to 

imply  the  existence  of  parallel  or  even 
divergent  accounts  of  the  same  event,   e.g.  in  the 


Joshua,  Book  of 
Josiah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1750 


passage  of  the  Jordan  and  (he  erection  of  memorial 
stones  (ehs  3,  4),  the  summary  of  the  conquests 
of  Joshua  (10  40-43;  11  16-23),  or  the  references 
to  Moses'  victories  over  the  Amorite  kings  on  the 

E.  of  the  Jordan. 

This  last  fact  suggests,  what  is  in  itself  sufficiently 
probable,  that  t  he  writer  or  compiler  of  t  lie  book  made  use 
of  previously  exist  in^  records  or  narratives,  not  necessar- 
ily in  every  instance  written,  but  probably  also  oral  and 
traditional,  upon  which  lie  relied  and  out  of  which  by 
means  of  excerpts  with  modifications  and  omissions,  the 
resultant  history  was  composed.  The  incomplete  and 
defective  character  of  the  book  therefore,  considered 
merely  as  a  history  of  the  conquest  of  Western  Pal  and 
its  allotment  among  (he  new  settlers,  would  seem  to 
indicate  that  the  "  sources"  available  for  t  he  writer's  use 
were  fragmentary  also  in  their  nature,  and  did  not  pre- 
sent a  complete  view  either  of  the  life  of  .1.  or  of  the  ex- 
periences of  Israel  while  under  his  direction. 

Within  the  limits  of  (lie  book  itself,  moreover, 
notifications   of   chronological  sequence,  or  of   the 

length  of  time  occupied  in  the  various 
2.  Chro-  campaigns,  art'  almost  entirely  want- 
nology  ing.     Almost    the    only    references    to 

date  or  period  are  the  statements 
that  Joshua  himself  was  110  years  old  at  the 
time  of  his  death  (24  20),  and  that  his  wars 
lasted  "a  long  time"  (11  18;  cf  23  1).  Caleb  also, 
the  son  of  Jephunneh,  companion  of  J.  in  the 
mission  of  the  spies  from  Kadesh-barnea,  describes 
himself  as  85  years  old,  when  he  receives  Hebron 
as  his  inheritance  (14  10;  cf  15  13  ff);  the  inference 
would  be,  assuming  40  years  for  the  wanderings  in 
the  desert,  that  5  years  had  then  elapsed  since  the 
passage  of  the  Jordan  "on  the  tenth  (lay  of  the  first 
month"  (4  19).  No  indication,  however,  is  given 
of  the  chronological  relation  of  this  event  to  the 
rest  of  the  history;  and  5  years  would  be  too  short 
a  period  for  the  conquest  of  Pal,  if  it  is  to  be  under- 
stood that  the  whole  was  carried  out  in  consecutive 
campaigns  under  the  immediate  command  of  J. 
himself.  On  the  other  hand,  "very  much  land" 
remained  still  unsubdued  at  his  death  (13  1). 
Christian  tradition  seems  to  have  assumed  that  J. 
was  about  the  same  age  as  Caleb,  although  no 
definite  statement  to  that  effect  is  made  in  the  book 
itself;  and  that,  therefore,  a  quarter  of  a  century, 
more  or  less,  elapsed  between  the  settlement  of  the 
hitter  at  Hebron  and  Joshua's  death  (14  10;  24 
29).  The  entire  period  from  the  crossing  of  the 
Jordan  would  then  be  reckoned  at  from  28  to  30 
years. 

IV.    Sources  of  the  Written  Narrative. — The  attempt 

to  define  the  "sources"  of  Josh  as  it  now  exists,  and  to 
disentangle  them  one  from  another,  presents  consider- 
ably more  difficult y  than  is  to  be  encountered  for  the 
most  part  in  the  Pent.  The  distinguishing  criteria  upon 
which  scholars  rely  and  which  have  led  serious  students 
of  the  book  to  conclude  that  there  may  be  traced  here 
also  the  use  of  the  same  "documents"  or  "documentary 
sources"  as  are  to  be  found  in  the  Pent,  are  essentially 
the  same.  Existing  and  traditional  accounts,  however, 
have  been  used  apparently  with  greater  freedom,  and 
the  writer  has  allowed  himself  a  fuller  liberty  of  adapta- 
tion and  combination,  while  the  personal  element  has 
been  permitted  wider  scope  in  molding  the  result  ant- 
form  which  the  composition  should  take.  For  the  most 
part,  therefore,  the  broad  line  of  distinction  between  the 
various  "sources"  which  have  been  utilized  may  easily 
be  discerned  on  the  ground  of  their  characteristic  traits, 
in  style,  vocabulary  or  general  conception;  in  regard  to 
detail,  however,  the  precise  point  at  which  one  "  source" 
has  been  abandoned  for  another,  or  the  writer  himself 
has  supplied  deficiencies  and  bridged  over  gaps,  there  is 
frequent  uncertainty,  and  the  evidence  available  is  in- 
sufficient to  justify  an  absolute  conclusion.  The  fusion 
of  material  has  been  more  complete  than  in  the  5  books 
of  the  law,  perhaps  because  the  latter  were  hedged  about 
with  a  more  reverential  regard  for  the  letter,  and  at 
an  earlier  period  attained  the  standing  of  canonicity. 

A  detailed  analysis  of  the  sources  as  they  have  been 
distinguished  and  related  to  one  another  by  scholars  is 
here  unnecessary.  A  complete  discussion  of  the  sub- 
ject will  be  found  in  Dr.  Driver's  LOT*,  105  If,  in  other 
Introductions,  or  in  the  Comms.  on  Josh.  Not  seldom 
in  the  ultimate  detail  the  distinctions  are  precarious, 
and  there  are  differences  of  opinion  among  scholars 
themselves  as  to  the  precise  limit  or  limits  of  the  use  made 


of  any  given  source,  or  at  what  point  the  dividing  line 
should  be  drawn.  It  is  only  in  a  broad  and  general 
sense  that  in  Josh  esp.  the  literary  theory  of  the  use  of 
"documents,"  as  generally  understood  and  as  inter- 
preted in  the  case  of  the  Pent,  can  be  shown  to  be  well 
founded.  In  itself,  however,  such  a  theory  is  eminently 
reasonable,  and  is  both  in  harmony  with  the  general 
usage  and  methods  of  ancient,  composition,  and  affords 
ground  for  additional  confidence  in  the  good  faith  and 
reliability  of  the  narrative  as  a  whole. 

V.  Relation  to  the  Book  of  Jgs. — A  comparison 
moreover  of  the  history  recorded  in  Josh  with 
the  brief  account  in  Jgs  furnishes 
1.  Parallel  ground  for  believing  that  a  detailed  or 
Narratives  chronological  narrative  was  not  con- 
templated by  the  writer  or  writers 
themselves.  The  introductory  vs  of  Jgs  (1  1  — 
2  5)  tire  in  part  a  summary  of  incidents  recorded 
in  Josh,  and  in  part  supply  new  details  or  present 
a  different  view  of  the  whole.  The  original  notices 
that  are  added  relate  almost  entirely  to  the  invasion 
and  conquest  of  Southern  Pal  by  the  united  or 
allied  tribes  of  Judah  and  Simeon  and  the  destruc- 
tion of  Bethel  by  the  "house  of  Joseph."  The 
action  of  the  remaining  tribes  is  narrated  in  a  few 
words,  the  brief  record  closing  in  each  case  with  a 
reference  to  the  condition  of  servitude  to  which  the 
original  inhabitants  of  the  hind  were  reduced.  And 
the  general  scheme  of  the  invasion  as  there  repre- 
sented is  apparently  that  of  a  series  of  disconnected 
raids  or  campaigns  undertaken  by  the  several 
tribes  independently,  each  having  for  its  object  the 
subjection  of  the  territory  assigned  to  the  individ- 
ual tribe.  A  general  and  comprehensive  plan  of 
conquest  under  t  he  supreme  leadership  of  Joshua  ap- 
pears to  be  entirely  wanting.  In det ail,  however,  the 
only  real  inconsistency  between  the  two  narratives 
would  appear  to  be  that  in  Jgs  (1  21)  the  failure  to 
expel  the  Jebusites  from  Jems  is  laid  to  the  account 
of  the  Benjamites,  while  in  Josh  (15  63)  it  is  charged 
.against  the  children  of  Judah.  The  difficulties  in 
the  way  of  the  formation  of  a  clear  conception  of 
the  incidents  attending  the  capture  of  Jerus  are 
perhaps  insuperable  upon  any  hypothesis;  and  the 
variation  of  the  tribal  name  in  the  two  texts  may  be 
no  more  than  a  copyist's  error. 

A  perhaps  more  striking  omission  in  both  narra- 
tives is  the  absence  of  any  reference  to  the  conquest 
of  Central  Pal.  The  narrative  of  the 
2.  Omis-  overthrow  of  Bethel  and  Ai  (6  1 — 8 
sions  in  the  29)  is  followed  immediately  by  the 
History  record  of  the  building  of  an  altar  on 

Mt.  Ebal  and  the  recitation  of  the  Law 
before  the  people  of  Israel  assembled  in  front  of  Mts. 
Ebal  and  Gerizim  (8  30 ff).  Joshua  then  turns 
aside  to  defeat  at  Beth-horon  the  combination  of 
the  Amorite  kings,  and  completes  the  conquest  of 
the  southern  country  as  far  south  as  Kadesh-barnea 
(10  41).  Immediately  thereafter  he  is  engaged 
in  overthrowing  a  confederacy  in  the  far  north 
(11  1-15),  a  work  which  clearly  could  not  have 
been  undertaken  or  successfully  accomplished, 
unless  the  central  region  had  been  already  subdued; 
but  of  its  reduction  no  account  is  given.  It  has 
been  supposed  that  the  silence  of  the  narrator  is 
an  indication  that  at  the  period  of  the  invasion  this 
district  was  in  the  occupation  of  tribes  friendly  or 
even  related  to  the  Israelite  clans;  and  in  support 
of  the  conjecture  reference  has  been  made  to  the 
mention  of  Israel  on  the  stele  of  Merenptah,  the 
Egyp  ruler  in  whose  reign,  according  to  the  most 
probable  view,  the  exodus  took  place.  In  this 
record  the  nation  or  a  part  thereof  is  regarded 
as  already  settled  in  Pal  at  a  date  earlier  by  half 
a  century  than  their  appearance  under  Moses  and 
Joshua  on  the  borders  of  the  Promised  Land.  The 
explanal  ion  is  possible,  but  perhaps  hardly  probable. 
The  defects  of  the  historical  record  are  irremediable 
at  this  distance  of  time,  and  it  must  be  acknowl- 


1751 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Joshua,  Book  of 
Josiah 


edged  that  with  the  available  material  no  complete 
and  consistent  narrative  of  the  events  of  the  Israel- 
ite conquest  of  Pal  can  be  constructed. 

VI.  Place  of  Josh  in  the  Heb   Canon. — In   the 

Hel)  Canon  Josh  is  the  first  in  order  of  the  propheti- 
cal books,  and  the  first  of  the  group  of  4,  viz.  Josh, 
Jgs,  S,  K,  which  form  the  "Earlier  Prophets" 
(n'bhiim  ri'shonim).  These  books,  the  contents 
of  which  are  history,  not  prophecy  in  the  ordinary 
sense  of  the  term,  were  assigned  by  the  Jews  to  the 
2d  division  of  their  sacred  Canon,  and  found  a  place 
by  the  side  of  the  great  writings  of  the  "Later 
Prophets"  (nebhi'im  'ahdronlm).  This  position 
was  given  to  them  in  part  perhaps  because  they 
were  believed  to  have  been  written  or  composed  by 
prophets,  but  mainly  because  Jewish  history  was 
regarded  as  in  purpose  and  intent  "prophetic," 
being  directed  and  presided  over  by  Jeh  Himself, 
and  conveying  direct  spiritual  instruction  and 
example.  The  Canon  of  the  Law,  moreover,  was 
already  closed;  and  however  patent  and  striking 
might  be  the  resemblance  of  Josh  in  style  and 
method  of  composition  to  the  books  of  the  Pent, 
it  was  impossible  to  admit  it  therein,  or  to  give  a 
place  within  the  Torah,  a  group  of  writings  which 
were  regarded  as  of  Mosaic  authorship,  to  a  narra- 
tive of  events  which  occurred  after  Moses'  death. 
Later  criticism  reviewed  and  reversed  the  verdict 
as  to  the  true  character  of  the  book.  In  every 
Canon  except  the  Hel),  its  historical  nature  was 
recognized,  and  the  work  was  classified  accordingly. 
Modern  criticism  has  gone  further,  and,  with  in- 
creasing consciousness  of  its  close  literary  relation- 
ship to  the  books  of  the  Law,  has  united  it 
with  them  in  a  Hexateuch,  or  even  under  the 
more  comprehensive  title  of  Octateuch  combines 
together  the  books  of  J^*  and  Ruth  with  the  pre- 
ceding six  on  the  ground  of  similarity  of  origin 
and  style. 

VII.  Greek  and  Other  Ancient  Versions. — In 
the  ancient  VSS  of  Josh  1  here  is  not  much  that  is 

of  interest.  The  Gr  tr  bears  witness 
1.  The  to  a  Heb  original  differing  little  from 

Greek  the    MT,     In    their   renderings,    how- 

ever, and  general  treatment  of  the 
Heb  text,  the  translators  seem  to  have  felt  them- 
selves at  liberty  to  take  up  a  position  of  greater 
independence  and  freedom  than  in  dealing  with  the 
5  books  of  the  Law.  Probably  also  the  rendering 
of  Josh  into  (ir  is  not  to  be  ascribed  to  the  same 
authors  as  the  tr  of  the  Pent.  While  faithful  to  the 
Heb,  it  is  less  constantly  and  exactly  literal,  and 
contains  many  slight  variations,  the  most  important 
of  which  are  found  in  the  last  6  chs. 

Ch  19:  The  LXX  transposes  vs  47.48,  and,  omitting 
tlie,  first  clause  of  ver  47,  refers  the  whole  to  the  sons  of 
Judah,  without  mention  of  Dan;  it  further  adds  vs  47a. 
48a  on  the  relation  between  the  Amorites  and  Ephraim, 
and  the  Amorites  and  the  Danites  respectively.  With 
ver  47a  cf  16  10  and  Jgs  1  29,  and  with  ver  48a  cf  19 
47  (Heb)  and  Jgs  1   34. 

Ch  20:  Vs  4-6  inclusive  are  omitted  in  B,  except  a 
clause  from  ver  6;  A,  however,  Inserts  them  in  full.  Cf 
Driver,  LOT*,  112,  who,  on  the  ground  of  their  Deuter- 
onomic  tone,  regards  it  as  probable  that  the  verses  are 
an  addition  to  P,  and  therefore  did  not  form  part  of  the 
original  text  as  used  by  the  Gr  translators. 

Ch21:  Vs  36.37,  which  give  the  names  of  the  Levitical 
cities  in  Judah,  are  omitted  in  the  Heb  printed  text 
although  found  in  many  Heb  MSS.  Four  vs  also  are 
added  after  ver  42,  the  first  three  of  which  repeat  19  50  f, 
and  the  last  is  a  reminiscence  of  5  3. 

Ch  24:  Vs  29  f  which  narrate  the  death  and  burial  of 
J.  are  placed  in  the  Gr  text  after  ver  31 ;  and  a  verse  is 
inserted  after  ver  30  recording  that  the  stone  knives 
used  for  the  purposes  of  the  circumcision  (5  2  ff)  were 
buried  with  Joshua  in  his  tomb  (cf  21  42d).  After  ver 
33  also  two  new  verses  appear,  apparently  a  miscellany 
from  Jgs  2  6.11-15;  3  7.12.14,  with  a  statement  of  the 
death  and  burial  of  Phinehas,  son  and  successor  of  Eleazar. 
of  the  idolatrous  worship  by  the  children  of  Israel  of 
Astarte  and  Ashtaroth,  and  the  oppression  under  Eglon, 
king  of  Moab. 


The  other  VSS,  with  the  exception  of  Jerome's  tr  from 
the  Heb,  are  secondary,  derived  mediately  through  the 
Gr.      The  Old  I. at  is  contained  in  a  manu- 
2.   Other  script  at  Lyons,  Cod.  Lugdunensis,  which 

Anrient  is  referred  to  the  6th  cent.      Of  the  Coptic 

5:       .     u  version   only   small    portions    are   extant; 

Versions  they  have  been  published  by  G.  Maspero, 

Me  moires  de  la  mission  arrheologique  fran- 
fai.se,  torn.  VI,  fasc.  1,  le  Caire,  1892,  and  elsewhere.  A 
Sam  tr  also  is  known,  for  parts  of  which  at  least  an  early 
origin  and  an  independent  derivation  from  the  Heb  have 
been  claimed.  The  ancient  character  of  the  version,  how- 
ever, is  contested,  and  it  lias  been  shown  that  the  argu- 
ments on  which  reliance  was  placed  are  insufficient  to 
justify  the  conclusions  drawn.  The  tr  appears  to  be  in 
reality  of  quite  recent  date,  and  to  have  been  made 
originally  from  the  Arab.,  perhaps  in  part  compared  with 
and  corrected  by  the  MT.  The  subject  was  fully  and 
conclusively  discussed  by  Dr.  Yehuda  of  Berlin,  at  the 
Oriental  Congress  in  the  summer  of  1908,  and  in  a  sepa- 
rate pamphlet  subsequently  published.  It  was  even 
stated  that  the  author  of  the  version  was  still  living,  and 
his  name  was  given.  Dr.  Gaster,  the  original  discoverer 
of  the  Sam  MS,  in  various  articles  and  letters  maintains 
his  contention  that  the  tr  is  really  antique,  and  therefore 
of  great  value,  but  he  lias  failed  to  convince  scholars. 
(See  M.  Gaster  in  JRAS  [1908],  795  tf,  1148  ff;  E.  N. 
Adler,  ib,  1143  ff.  The  text  of  the  MS  was  published 
by  Dr.  Gaster  in  ZDMG  [1908],  209  tf,  and  a  specimen 
ch  with  Eng.  rendering  and  notes  in  WB4.XXXI  [1909], 
115ff,  149  if.) 

VIII.  Religious  Purpose  and  Teaching. — As  a 
whole,  then,  Josh  is  dominated  by  the  same  reli- 
gious and  hortatory  purpose  as  the  earlier  writings 
of  the  Pent ;  and  in  this  respect  as  well  as  in  author- 
ship and  structure  the  classification  which  assigns 
to  it  a  place  by  the  side  of  the  5  hooks  of  Moses  and 
gives  to  the  whole  the  title  of  Hexateuch  is  not  un- 
justified. The  author  or  authors  had  in  Anew  not 
merely  the  narration  of  incident,  nor  the  mord  of 
events  in  the  past  history  of  their  people  of  which 
they  judged  it  desirable  that  a  correct  account 
should  be  preserved,  but  tiny  endeavored  in  all  to 
subserve  a  practical  and  religious  aim.  The  his- 
tory is  not  for  its  own  sake,  or  for  the  sake  of  the 
literal  facts  which  it  enshrines,  but  for  the  sake  of 
the  moral  and  spiritual  lessons  which  may  be  eluci- 
dated therein,  and  enforced  from  its  teaching.  The 
Divine  leading  in  history  is  the  first  thought  with 
the  writer.  And  the  record  of  Israel's  past  presents 
itself  as  of  interest  to  him,  not  because  it  is  a  record 
of  events  that  actually  happened,  but  because  he 
sees  in  it  the  ever-present  guidance  and  overruling 
determination  of  God,  and  would  draw  from  it 
instruction  and  warning  for  the  men  of  his  own  time 
and  for  those  that  come  after  him.  Not  the  history 
itself,  but  the  meaning  and  interpretation  of  the 
history  are  of  value.  Its  importance  lies  in  the 
illustrations  it  affords  of  the  controlling  working  of 
a  Divine  Ruler  who  is  faithful  to  His  promises, 
loving  righteousness  and  hating  iniquity,  and  sway- 
ing the  destinies  of  men  in  truth.  Thus  the  selection 
of  materials,  and  the  form  and  arrangement  of  the 
book  are  determined  by  a  definite  aim:  to  set  forth 
and  enforce  moral  lessons,  and  to  exhibit  Israel's 
past  as  the  working  out  of  a  Divine  purpose  which 
lias  chosen  the  nation  to  be  the  recipient  of  the  Di- 
vine favor,  and  the  inst  rument  for  the  carrying 
forward  of  His  purposes  upon  earth. 

Literature. — A  complete  bibliography  of  the  lit.  up 
to  date  will  be  found  in  the  dictionaries,  s.v.  "Joshua," 
DIP,  1S93,  HDH,  II,  1899,  EH,  II.  1901;  cf  W.  II.  Ben- 
nett, "  The  Book  of  Josh,"  in  SBOT,  Leipzig,  1895;  W.  G. 
Blaikie,  "Joshua,"  in  Expositor's  Bible,  1893;  A.  Dill- 
mann,  Nu,  Dt  u.  Josua*,  Leipzig,  1886;  H.  Holzinger, 
"  Das  Buch  Josua,"  in  Kurzer  Hand-Comm.  zum  A  T ,  Tu- 
bingen, 1901;  C.  Steuernagel,  "Josua,"  in  Nowaek's 
Handcommentar  zum  AT,  1899;  S.  Oettli,  "  Dt,  Josua  U. 
Richter,"  in  Kurzgef.Komm,  Mtinchen,  1893;  W.J.  Deane, 
Josh  no.  His  Life  and  'Times,  in  "  Men  of  the  Bible  Series," 
London. 

A.  S.  Ceden 

JOSIAH,  jo-si'a  Oin*W,  yo'shlyahu,  "Jeh 
supports  him";  'Iwo-€ias,  Ioselas;  AV  Josias  [q.v.]): 

I.     Sources  for  His  Life  and  Times 

1.  Annalistic 

2.  Prophetic 

3.  Memorial 


Josiah 
Jot 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1752 


II.      Til  UTS   .11     His    Keion 

1.  Situation  at  the  Beginning 

2.  binding  of  the  Law 

3.  The  ( iroat  lieform 

4.  Disaster  at  Megiddo 

The  name  given  0  years  before  the  death  of  his 
grandfather  Manasseh  resumes  the  Judaic  custom, 
suspended  in  the  case  of  that  king  and  Anion,  of 
compounding  royal  names  with  that  of  Jeh;  per- 
haps a  hint  of  the  time,  when,  according  to  the 
Chronicler,  Manasseh  realized  Jeh's  claim  on  hia 
realm  (2  Ch  33  12.13).  One  of  the  most  eminent 
of  the  kings  of  Judah;  came  to  the  throne  at,  8  years 
of  age  and  reigned  c  637-608  BC. 

/.   Sources  for  His  Life  and  Times. — The  earliest 

history  (2  K  22  1    -23  30)  is  dispassionate  in  tone, 

Let  raying   its   prophetic  feeling,   how- 

1.  Annal-       ever,   in   its  acknowledgment  of  Jeh's 
istic  wrath,  still  menacing  in  spite  of  Jo- 
siah s    unique    piety    (2  K  23  20.27). 

For  ''the  rest  of  his  acts"  (to  which  the  rather  bald 
account  of  his  deal  h  is  relegated  as  a  kind  of  appen- 
dix), it  refers  to  "the  book  of  the  chronicles  of  the 
kings  of  Judah."  In  the  later  history  (2  Ch  34, 
35),  written  from  the  developed  ecclesiastical  point 
of  view,  he  is  considerably  idealized:  the  festal  and 
ceremonial  aspects  of  his  reform  are  more  fully  de- 
tailed, and  the  story  of  his  campaign  and  death  is 
more  sympathetically  told  in  the  sense  of  it  as  a 
great  national  calamity. 

For  the  spiritual  atmosphere  of  his  time  and  the 
prophe+;c  consciousness  of  a  day  of  wrath  impend- 
ing,   the    prophet    Zephaniah    is    illu- 

2.  Prophetic  minating,  esp.  for  the  first  half  of  the 

reign.  Jeremiah,  born  at  about  the 
same  time  as  J.,  began  prophesying  in  the  13th  year 
of  the  reign  (Jer  1  2).  His  intimate  connection 
with  state  affairs,  however,  belongs  to  succeeding 
reigns;  but  some  prophecies  of  his,  notably  those 
revealing  his  attitude  toward  the  temple  misuse 
(7  1-1."))  and  toward  the  Deuteronomic  reform 
(11  1-13),  throw  much  light  on  the  prevailing  con- 
dit  ions.  Nahum,  writing  near  the  end  of  the  reign, 
and  from  an  outlying  village,  is  less  concerned  with 
home;  affairs  than  with  the  approaching  end  of 
Nineveh  (fell  606  BC). 

In  Jesus  Sirach's  Praise  of  Famous  Men  there  is 
a  passage  (Sir  49  1-4),  wholly  eulogistic  of  J.,  on 

the  score  that  "in  the  days  of  wicked 

3.  Memorial  men   he  made  godliness  to  prevail"; 

and  along  with  David  and  Hezekiah  he 
is  one  of  the  three  who  alone  did  not  "commit  tres- 
pass." Jeremiah's  lamentation  for  J.,  mentioned  in 
2  Ch  35  25,  is  not  preserved  to  us;  instead  there 
is  only  an  allusion  (Jer  22  10),  naming  his  successor 
Shallum  (Jehoahaz)  as  a  fitter  subject.  The  lamen- 
t  at  ions  which  became  "an  ordinance  in  Israel"  (2 
Ch  35  25)  tire  not  to  be  referred  to  the  Scripture 
hook  of  that  name;  which  has  no  hint  of  J.,  unless 
Lam  4  20  be  so  construed. 

//.  Traits  of  His  Reign.—  Until  his  18th  year  2  K 
gives  no  events  of  J.'s  reign;  2  Ch,  however,  relates 

that  in  his  8th  year  (at  16  years  of 
1.  Situation  age)  he  "began  to  seek  after  the  God 
at  Begin-  of  David  his  father,"  and  that  in  the 
ning  12th  year  he  began  the  purgation  of 

Judah  and  Jerus.  The  Clironieler 
may  be  mistaken  in  putting  the  completion  of  this 
work  before  the  finding  of  the  law  (2  Ch  34  8), 
but  of  his  disposition  and  of  his  beginning  without 
documentary  warrant  on  a  work  which  Hezekiah 
had  attempted  before  him,  there  is  no  reason  to 
doubt.  And  indeed  various  influences  were  work- 
ing together  to  make  his  procedure  natural.  The 
staunch  loyalty  to  the  Davidic  house,  as  empha- 
sized by  tin;  popular  movement  which  seated  him 
(see  under  Amon),  would  in  itself  be  an  influence  to 
turn   his   mind    to   the   Cod   of   David   his   father. 


Manasseh's  all-embracing  idolatry  had  indeed 
reduced  his  aristocracy  to  a  people  "settled  on  their 
lees,  that  say  in  their  heart,  Jeh  will  not  do  good, 
neither  will  he  do  evil"  (Zeph  1  12);  but  these 
represented  merely  the  inertia,  not  the  intelligence, 
of  the  people.  Over  against  them  is  to  be  reckoned 
the  spiritually-minded  "remnant"  with  which  since 
Isaiah  the  prophets  had  been  working;  a  remnant 
now  seasoned  by  persecution,  and  already  com- 
mitted to  the  virtue  of  meekness  (Zeph  2  3)  and 
the  willing  acceptance  of  affliction  as  their  appointed 
lot,  as  against  the  arrogance  of  the  "proudly  exult- 
ing ones"  (Zeph  3  11-13).  To  such  courage  and 
hope  the  redeeming  element  of  Israel  had  grown  in 
the  midst  of  a  blatant  infidelity  and  worldliness. 
Nor  were  they  so  unconnected  with  the  established 
order  as  formerly.  The  ministers  of  the  temple- 
service,  if  not  subjected  to  persecution,  had  been 
ranked  on  a  level  with  devotees  of  other  cults,  and 
so  had  a  common  cause  which  would  work  to  unite 
the  sympathies  of  priests  and  prophets  in  one 
loyalty  to  Jeh.  All  this  is  adduced  as  indicating 
how  the  better  elements  of  the  nation  weie  ripen- 
ing for  a  forward  step  in  enlightened  religious 
progress. 

The  providential  moment  arrived  when  in  the 
18th  year  of  his  reign  J.  sent  Shaphan  the  scribe 
to  the  temple  to  arrange  with  Hilkiah 
2.  Finding  the  high  priest  for  the  prescribed 
of  the  Law  temple  repairs.  On  giving  his  account 
of  the  funds  for  that  purpose,  Hilkiah 
also  delivered  to  Shaphan  a  book  which  he  had 
found  in  the  "house  of  Jeh,"  that  is,  in  the  temple 
proper;  which  book,  when  Shaphan  read  there- 
from to  the  king,  caused  the  latter  to  rend  his  robe 
in  dismay  and  consternation.  It  was  a  book  in 
which  were  commands  of  Jeh  that  had  long  been 
unknown  or  disregarded,  and  along  with  these, 
fearful  curses  to  follow  the  infraction  of  them. 
Such  a  discovery  could  not  be  treated  lightly,  as 
one  might  spurn  a  prophet  or  priest;  nay,  it  imme- 
diately called  the  authority  of  the  prophet  into 
requisition.  The  king  sent  a  deputation  to  Huldah 
the  prophetess  for  her  verdict  on  the  book;  and  she, 
whether  aware  of  its  contents  or  not,  assured  him 
that  the  curses  were  valid,  andthat  for  impieties 
against  which  the  prophets  continually  warned,  all 
the  woes  written  in  the  book  were  impending.  One 
of  the  most  voluminous  discussions  of  Bib.  scholar- 
ship litis  centered  round  the  question  what  this 
book  was,  what  its  origin,  and  how  it  came  there 
in  the  temple.  The  Chronicler  says  roundly  it  was 
"the  book  of  the  law  of  Jeh  by  the  hand  of  Moses." 
That  it  was  from  the  nation's  great  first  prophet 
and  lawgiver  was  the  implicit  belief  of  the  king  and 
all  his  contemporaries.  There  can  be  little  doubt, 
judging  from  the  nature  of  the  reforms  it  elicited 
and  the  fact  that  the  curses  it  contained  are  still 
extant,  that  this  "book  of  the  law"  was  virtually 
identical  with  our  Book  of  Dt.  But  is  this  the  work 
of  Moses,  or  the  product  of  a  later  literary  activity? 
In  answer,  it  is  fair  to  say  that  it  is  so  true  to  the 
soundest  interpretation  of  the  spirit  and  power  of 
Moses  that  there  need  be  no  hesitation  in  calling 
it  genuinely  Mosaic,  whatever  adaptations  and 
supplementations  its  laws  received  after  his  time. 
Its  highly  developed  style,  however,  and  its  imper- 
fect conformity  to  the  nomadic  conditions  of  Moses' 
time,  make  so  remote  an  origin  of  its  present  form 
very  doubtful.  It  comes  to  us  written  with  the 
matured  skill  of  Israel's  literary  prime,  in  a  time 
too  when,  as  we  know  (see  under  Hezkkiah),  men 
of  letters  were  keenly  interested  in  rescuing  and 
putting  to  present  use  the  literary  treasures  of  their 
past.  As  to  how  it  came  to  be  left  in  the  temple  at 
a  time  so  much  before  its  discovery  that  none 
questioned  its  being  what  it  purported  to  be,  each 


1753 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Josiah 
Jot 


scholar  must  answer  for  himself.  Some  have  con- 
jectured that  it  may  have  been  a  product  of  Solo- 
mon's time,  and  deposited,  according  to  immemorial 
custom  in  temple-building,  in  the  foundation  of 
Solomon's  temple,  where  it  was  found  when  certain 
ruins  made  repairs  necessary.  To  the  present 
writer  it  seems  likelier  that  it  was  one  of  the  literary 
products  of  Hezekiah's  time,  compiled  from  scat- 
tered statutes,  precedents,  and  customs  long  in  the 
keeping — or  neglect — of  priests  and  judges,  put 
into  the  attractive  form  of  oratory,  and  left  for  its 
providential  moment.  See  further,  Deuteronomy; 
Writing. 

J.'s  immediate  procedure  was  to  call  to  the  temple 
a     representative     assemblage — elders,     prophets, 

priests,     populace — and     to    read     to 
3.  The  them    this    "book    of    the    covenant" 

Great  (2  K  23  2).     Then  he  made  a  solemn 

Reform  covenant  before  Jeh  to  obey  it,  and 

all  the  people  stood  to  the  covenant. 
So,  perhaps  for  the  first  time,  the  people  of  Judah 
and  Jems  had  for  their  guidance  not  only  the  case 
decisions  of  judges  and  priests,  nor  only  the  emer- 
gency warnings  and  predictions  of  prophets,  but 
a  written  and  accessible  document,  covering  in  a 
large  and  liberal  way  the  duties  of  their  civic,  social 
and  religious  life.  One  of  the  most  momentous 
productions  of  all  history,  the  book  became  the 
constitution  of  the  Jewish  race;  nor  were  its  noble 
provisions  superseded  when,  centuries  later,  the 
tethers  of  race  were  broken  and  a  Christian  civiliza- 
tion came  into  its  heritage.  But  the  book  that  was 
destined  to  have  so  large  a  significance  in  all  coming 
history  had  its  immediate  significance  too,  and  never 
had  this  been  so  pressing.  J.'s  consternation  arose 
from  the  sense  of  how  much  of  the  nation's  obvious 
duty  had  been  left  undone  and  unregarded.  First 
of  all,  they  had  through  heedless  years  and  ages 
drifted  into  a  medley  of  religious  ideas  and  customs 
which  had  accumulated  until  all  this  lumber  of 
Manasseh's  idolatry  was  upon  them.  Hezekiah 
had  tried  to  clear  away  some  of  its  most  crude  and 
superstitious  elements  (see  under  Hezekiah),  but 
he  was  handicapped  by  the  lack  of  its  clear  issue  and 
objective,  which  now  this  book  supplied.  Zepha- 
niah  too  was  showing  what  Jeh's  will  was  (Zeph  1 
2-6) ;  there  must  be  a  clean  sweep  of  the  debasing 
and  obscuring  cults,  and  the  purgation  must  be 
done  to  stay.  So  J.'s  first  reforming  step  was  to 
break  up  the  high  places,  the  numerous  centers  of 
the  evil,  to  destroy  the  symbols  and  utensils  of  the 
idolatrous  shrines  and  rites,  and  to  defile  them  past 
resuscitation.  His  zeal  did  not  stop  with  Jerus  and 
Judah;  he  went  on  to  Bethel,  which  had  been  the 
chief  sanctuary  of  the  now  defunct  Northern  King- 
dom, and  in  his  work  here  was  recognized  the  ful- 
filment of  an  old  prophecy  dating  from  the  time  of 
its  first  king  (2  K  23  17;  cf  1  K  13  1.2).  This 
necessitated  the  concentration  of  public  worship 
in  the  temple  at  Jerus,  and  in  Dt  was  found  the 
warrant  for  this,  in  the  prescript,  natural  to  Moses' 
point  of  view,  that  the  worship  of  Israel  must  have 
a  single  center  as  it  had  in  the  wilderness.  From 
this  negative  procedure  he  went  on  to  the  positive 
measure  of  reviving  the  festival  services  inseparable 
from  a  religion  requiring  pilgrimage,  instituting 
a  grand  Passover  on  a  scale  unheard  of  since  the 
time  of  the  Judges  (2  K  23  21.22),  a  feature  of  his 
reform  on  which  the  Chronicler  dwells  with  peculiar 
zest  (2  Ch  35  1-15).  Tims  both  in  the  idolatries 
they  must  abolish  and  in  the  organized  worship  that 
they  must  maintain,  the  people  were  committed 
to  a  definite  and  documented  issue;  this  it  was 
which  made  J.'s  reform  so  momentous.  That  the 
reform  seemed  after  J.'s  untimely  death  to  have 
been  merely  outward,  is  what  might  reasonably  be 
expected  from  the  inveteracy  of  the  unspirituality 


that  it  must  encounter.  Jeremiah  had  small  faith 
in  its  saving  power  against  the  stubborn  perversity 
of  the  people  (Jer  11  1-14);  and  the  historian  of 
2  K  intimates  that  more  than  the  piety  of  a  zealous 
king  was  needed  to  turn  away  the  stern  decree  of 
Jeh's  anger  (2  K  23  20.27).  In  spite  of  all  hard- 
ness and  apostasy,  however,  the  nation  that  had 
once  ''stood  to  the  covenant"  of  Dt  could  never 
again  be  at  heart  the  nation  it  was  before. 

Ardent  and  pious  as  he  was,  there  seems  to  have 
been  a  lack  of  balance  in  J.'s  character.  His  ex- 
treme dismay  and  dread  of  the  curse 
4.  Disaster  pronounced  on  the  realm's  neglect  of 
at  Megiddo  the  law  seems  to  have  been  followed, 
after  his  great  reform  had  seemed  to 
set  things  right,  by  an  excess  of  confidence  in  Jeh's 
restored  favor  which  went  beyond  sound  wisdom, 
and  amounted  to  presumption.  The  power  of 
Assyria  was  weakening,  and  Pharaoh-necoh  of 
Egypt,  ambitious  to  secure  control  of  Mesopotamia, 
started  on  the  campaign  in  which  he  was  eventually 
to  suffer  defeat  at  Carchemish.  J.,  whose  reform- 
ing zeal  had  already  achieved  success  in  Northern 
Israel,  apparently  cherished  inordinate  dreams  of 
invincibility  in  Jeh's  name,  and  went  forth  with  a 
little  army  to  withstand  the  Egyp  monarch  on  his 
march  through  the  northern  provinces.  At  the 
first  onset  he  was  killed,  and  his  expedition  came  to 
nothing.  In  his  untimely  death  the  fervid  hopes 
of  the  pious  received  a  set-back  which  was  long 
lamented  as  one  of  the  cardinal  disasters  of  Israel. 
It  was  a  sore  calamity,  but  also  a  stern  education. 
Israel  must  learn  not  only  the  enthusiasm  but  also 
the  prudence  and  wisdom  of  its  new-found  faith. 

(2)  A  contemporary  of  Zechariah  (Zee  6  10), 
at  whose  house  in  Jerus  the  prophet  met  some  re- 
turned Jews  from  Babylon. 

John  Franklin  Genung 

JOSIAS,  jci-sl'as  {TR  'I<o<HaS)  Iosias;  WH  Ta>- 
<rela.<s,  Ioseias): 

(1)  Or  form  in  AV  of  Josiah  (Mt  1  10.11;  cf 
1  Esd  1;   Bar  1  8),  king  of  Judah. 

(2)  In  1  Esd  8  33  AV  for  Jesias  (q.v.). 

JOSIBIAH,  jos-i-bi'a.      See  JoSHlBIAH. 

JOSIPHIAH,  jos-i-fl'a  (TPSCYi,  yo§iphyah, 
"Jeh  adds"):  Found  in  Ezr  8  10,  where  MT  is 
"and  of  the  sons  of  ...  .  Shelomith  the  son  of 
Josiphiah."  With  the  help  of  LXX  A  and  1  Esd 
8  36,  the  name  "Bani"  (which  is  the  same  in  the 
unpointed  text  as  "the  sons  of"  and  was  omitted 
through  haplography)  can  be  supplied  above  be- 
fore "Shelomith."  J.  is  thus  the  father  of  Shelo- 
mith, one  of  Ezra's  companions.  1  Esd  8  36  has 
"Josaphias." 

JOT,  jot:  "Jot"  (11V,  later  edd  of  AV)  is  a  cor- 
ruption of  iote  (early  edd  of  AV,  Geneva,  Rheims, 
Bishops' — pronounced  i-o'te),  an  Eng.  translitera- 
tion of  wTo,  iota,  the  9th  letter  of  the  Gr  alphabet 
(Mt  6  18  ||).  "Iota,"  in  turn,  is  the  nearest  Gr 
equivalent  for  the  Ileb  yodh  p),  the  smallest  letter 
of  the  Ileb  alphabet,  in  XT  times  being  little  larger 
than  an  Eng.  accent  (').  The  tittle  (q.v.)  is  the 
smallest  part  of  a  letter  (not  part  of  a  "l,  however). 
Consequently,  thinking  of  the  law  as  written  out,  the 
sense  of  Mt  5  17,  is:  "From  this  code,  so  written, 
not  the  smallest  letter  nor  part  of  a  letter — not  an  'i' 
nor  the  crossing  of  a  't' — shall  be  erased  until  all 
things  come  to  pass."  (For  the  meaning,  see  Law.) 
The  reference  is  to  the  synagogue  rolls,  which  were 
written  in  Heb,  so  that  the  passage  has  no  bearing 
on  the  language  used  by  Christ.  For  the  form  of 
the  "jot,"  cf  the  tables  in  IIDB,  art.  "Alphabet," 
more  fully  in  Chwolson,  Corp.  Inner.  Heb.  (18S2). 
See  Tittle.  Burton  Scott  Easton 


Jotapata 
Jozabad 


Till-:  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1754 


JOTAPATA, 

JOTHATIIAII. 


jo-tap'a-ta   (/>./,    Ill, 


-).     S< 


JOTBAH,  jot'ba  (~3"r?  •  yotbah,  "pleasantness"): 
The  home  (if  Meshullemeth,  the  mother  of  K i n^; 
Anion,  daughter  of  Haruz  (2  K  21  19).  It  may 
be  the  same  as  Jotbathah  (q.v.). 

JOTBATHAH,  jot'ha-tha  (~r2'^  ,  yotbatliah) :  A 
desert  camp  of  the  Israelites  between  Hor-hagidgad 
and    Abronah    (Nu  33  33.34;     I)t  10  7).     It    was 

"a  land   of   brooks  of  water"    (I)t.  10  7).     Site   is 
unknown.     See  Wanderings  of  Israel. 

JOTHAM,  jo'tham  ("""" ,  yolham,  "Jeh  is  per- 
fect";  'Ia>a0d.|i,  Ioatfulm): 

(1)  The  youngest  son  of  Gideon-Jerubbaal,  the 
sole  survivor  of  the  massacre  of  his  seventy  brothers 
by  Abimelech  (Jgs  9  5),  and  (by  8  22)  the  legiti- 
mate ruler  of  Shechem  after  their  death.  Recog- 
nizing, however,  that  he  is  powerless  to  assert  his 
claim,  J.  delivers  from  the  summit  of  Gerizim  his 
famous  fable  (9  7-15),  applies  it  to  the  situation  in 
hand,  and  then  flees  for  his  life  to  Beer  (ver  21). 
Nothing  more  is  told  of  him,  but  the  downfall  of 
Abimelech  is  referred  in  part  to  his  "curse"  (ver 
57).  The  fable  tells  of  the  kingship  of  the  trees 
which,  after  having  been  declined  by  all  useful 
plants,  was  finally  offered  to  the  bramble.  The 
latter,  inflated  by  its  unexpected  dignity,  pom- 
pously offers  its  "shade"  to  its  faithful  subjects, 
while  threatening  all  traitors  with  punishment 
(brambles  cany  forest  fires),  quite  in  the  manner  of 
an  oriental  monarch  on  assuming  the  throne. 
Having  thus  parodied  the  relationship  of  the  worth- 
less Abimelech  to  the  Shechemites,  J.  ironically 
wishes  both  parties  joy  of  their  bargain,  which  will 
end  in  destruction  for  all  concerned.  Otherwise 
the  connection  between  the  fable  and  its  appli- 
cation is  loose,  for,  while  the  fable  depicts  the  king- 
ship as  refused  by  all  properly  qualified  persons,  in 
the  application  the  Shechemites  are  upbraided  for 
their  treachery  and  their  murder  of  the  rightful 
heirs.  In  fact ,  the  fable  taken  by  itself  would  seem 
rather  to  be  a  protest  against  kings  as  a  class  (cf 
1  S  8  10-18;  12  19,  etc);  so  it  is  possible  that  either 
the  fable  or  its  application  has  become  expanded  in 
transmission.  Or  an  older  fable  may  have  been 
used  for  the  sake  of  a  single  salient  point,  for  nothing 
is  more  common  than  such  an  imperfect  reapplica- 
tion  of  fables,  allegories  and  parables. 

Burton  Scott  Easton 

(2)  Twelfth  king  of  Judah,  son  of  Uzziah  and 
Jerusha,  daughter  of  Zadok  (2  K  15  32-38;   2  Ch 

27  1-9).  J.  was  25  years  of  age 
1.  Accession  at  the  time  of  his  father's  attack  of 
and  leprosy,  and  was  at  once  called  upon 

Regency  to  take  the  administration  of  the  king- 
dom (2  K  15  5;  2  Ch  26  21).  In 
doing  this  lie  not  only  judged  the  people  of  the  land 
by  presiding  at  the  administration  of  justice,  but 
also  was  over  the  household  of  the  king,  showing 
how  complete  was  the  isolation  of  his  father.  He 
was  thus  king  in  all  but  name,  and  is  invariably 
spoken  of  as  reigning  in  Jerus.  His  reign  lasted 
for  16  years  (2  K  15  33;  2  Ch  27  1),  759-744 
(others  put  later).  While  the  father  loved  hus- 
bandry and  had  much  cattle  (2  Ch  26  10)— ex- 
ternal affairs  with  which  he  could  occupy  himself 
in  his  retirement — to  the  son  fell  the  sterner  duties 
and  heavier  responsibilities  of  the  state. 

The  relation  between  father  and  son  is  well 
brought  out  in  the  Chronicler's  account  of  the  Am- 
monite war.  In  2  Ch  26  8  we  are  told  that  "the 
Ammonites  gave  tribute  [AV  "gifts"]  to  Uzziah," 
such  gifts  being  compulsory,  and  of  the  nature  of 
tribute.     In  2  Ch  27  5  we  are  told  that  the  actual 


conquest   of   Ammon   was   made   by   J.,  and   that 

for  3  successive   years  he  compelled  them  to  pay 

an   annual  subsidy   of    100   talents  of 

2.  The  War  silver  and  10,000  "cors"  each  of  wheat 
with  and  barley  (the  cor  [Heb  kor]  was 
Ammon  about  10  bushels).     The  campaign  on 

the  E.  of  the  Jordan  was  the  only  one 
in  which  J.  took  part,  but  as  the  state  suffered 
no  loss  of  territory  during  his  regency,  the  external 
provinces  must,  have  been  strongly  held  and  well 
governed. 

It  is  probable  that  before  attempting  to  win  any 
extension  of  territory,  J.  had  spent  some  years  in 

completing    the    unfinished    building 

3.  Jotham's  schemes  in  which  his  father  was  en- 
Building  gaged  at  the  time  of  his  affliction. 
Operations     Like  him,  he  became  an  enthusiastic 

builder  (2  Ch  27  3.4).  He  is  re- 
corded to  have  built  towers,  castles  and  cities,  and 
specifically  to  have  completed  the  Ophel  wall  in 
Jerus, which  is  still  standing  to  the  S.  of  the  Haram 
area.  But  the  crowning  architectural  glory  of  his 
reign  was  the  completion  of  the  temple  court  by 
erecting,  or  setting  up,  "the  upper  gate  of  the  house 
of  Jeh"  (ver  3;  2  K  15  35).  This  particular  gate 
was  the  entrance  to,  and  exit  from,  the  upper  or 
new  court  of  the  temple,  which  had  been  begun  so 
long  ago  as  the  time  of  Asa  (cf  the  writer's  Solomon's 
Temple,  Part  II,  ch  viii).  Its  situation  is  perfectly 
known,  as  it  bore  the  same  name  and  place  in  the 
Herodian  temple  as  in  each  of  its  predecessors.  It 
stood  facing  the  S.,  and  was  on  higher  ground  than 
any  other  of  the  temple  gates.  Hence  its  name.  It 
gave  entrance  to  that  upper  court  of  the  temple, 
mentioned  in  Jer  36  10,  where  it  is  spoken  of  as 
"the  new  gate  of  Jeh's  house."  As  Jeremiah  began 
his  ministry  about  a  century  after  J.'s  death,  Jere- 
miah's use  of  the  name  commemorates  the  fact  that 
the  gate  was  not  built  till  long  after  the  other  parts 
of  the  structure. 

During  J.'s  regency,  a  formidable  combination  of 
the  Northern  Kingdom  and  the  Syrian  state,  with 

Damascus  as  capital,  began  to  show 

4.  The  signs  of  hostility  to  Judah.  For  4 
Syrian  years  before  J.'s  death,  Pekah  occu- 
League-          pied    the    throne    of    Samaria.     The 

Assyr  king,  Tiglath-pileser  III,  was 
then  pushing  his  arms  westward,  and  a  Syrian 
league  was  formed  to  oppose  them.  _  J.  may  have 
refused  to  join  this  league.  The  political  situation 
at  his  death  is  thus  described:  "In  those  days  Jeh 
began  to  send  against  Judah  Rezin  the  king  of 
Syria,  and  Pekah  the  son  of  Remaliah"  (2  K  15  37). 

J.'s  character  is  represented  in  a  moderately  favorable 
light,  it  being  put  to  his  credit  that  he  did  not  enter  the 
temple  (2  Ch  27  2).  The  wisdom  and 
K  rendition  vigor  of  his  administration,  and  of  his 
t  VTU"U'UUU  policy  for  the  defence  of  the  country,  are 
Ot  Juaan  recognized.  It  was  owing  to  his  com- 
pletion of  his  father's  plans  for  the  pro- 
tection of  .Terns,  and  of  the  building  of  country  fortresses, 
that  Hezekiah,  a  few  years  afterward,  was  able  to  show 
so  stout  a  resistance  "to  Sennacherib.  But  within  the 
state  itself  corruption  and  oppression  were  rife.  The 
great  prophets,  Isaiah,  Hosea  and  Micah,  exercised  their 
ministries  in  J.'s  days,  and  in  their  pages  we  have  a 
graphic  picture  of  the  moral  condition  of  the  time.  Isa 
doesnot  name  J.,  except  in  the  title  (Isa  1  l;cf7  D.but 
chs  1-5  of  his  book  were  probably  written  in  this  reign. 
Hosea's  writings  go  back  to  the  last  years  of  Jeroboam 
II.  who  died  the  year  J.  came  to  the  throne.  Micah's 
evidence  is  valuable,  telling  us  that  Omri  had  formu- 
lated and  published  rules  for  the  cult  of  the  Zidonian 
Baal,  and  that  these  "statutes"  were  kept  by  some  of 
the  citizens  of  Samaria,  and,  possibly,  of  Jerus  (Mic 
6    L6). 

J.'s  name  appears  in  the  royal  genealogical  list 
of  1  Ch  3  12,  and  in  the  genealogy  of  Jesus  (Mt 
1  9). 

(3)  A  Calebite  (1  Ch  2  47  AV). 

W.  Suaw  Caldecott 


1755 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jotapata 
Jozabad 


JOURNEY,  JQr'ni. 
bath  Day's  Journey. 


See  Day's  Journey;    Sab- 


JOY,  joi  (nn'52'ttJ ,  simhah;  xaP"')  chard) :  The  idea 
of  joy  is  expressed  in  the  OT  by  a  wealth  of  synony- 
mous   terms    that    cannot    easily    be 

1.  Terms       differentiated.      The      commonest      is 

simhah  (1  S  18  6,  etc),  variously  ti"1 
in  EV  "joy,"  "gladness,"  "mirth";  from  sdmeah, 
properly  "to  be  bright,"  "to  shine"  (Prov  13  9, 
"The  light  of  the  righteous  rejoiceth,"  lit.  "is 
bright"),  but  generally  used  fig.  "to  rejoice,"  "be 
glad"  (Lev  23  40  and  very  frequent). 

Other  nouns  are;  mdsos  and  sason,  both  from  sus, 
properly  "to  spring,"  "leap,"  hence  "exult,"  "rejoice"; 
rut  null,  "shouting,"  "joy";  gil,  from  vb.  gil  or  gul,  "to 
go  in  a  circle,"  hence  "be  excited"  (dancing  round  for 
joy),  "rejoice."  In  the  NT,  far  the  commonest  are 
rhnra,  "joy,"  chairo,  "to  rejoice"  (cf  xaP1?.  chdris, 
"grace").  But  we  have  also  agalliasis,  which  expresses 
"exuberant  joy."  "exultation"  (not  used  in  classical  Gr, 
but  often  in  LXX;  in  the  NT,  Lk  1  14.44;  Acts  2  4(1; 
Jude  ver  24;  He  1  9),  and  the  corresponding  vb.  agal- 
liiio  (-(iomai),  "to  exult,"  "rejoice  exceedingly"  (Alt  5 
12,  etc).  In  EV  we  have  sometimes  "to  joy"  (now 
obsolete  as  a  vb.),  used  in  an  intransitive  sense  ="to 
rejoice"  (Hab  3   18;   2  Cor  7   13,  etc). 

Besides  joy  in  a  general  sense,  as  the  response  of 

the  mind   to   any  pleasurable  event  or  state  (1    K 

1  40;  Est  8  17,  etc),  joy  as  a  religious 

2.  In  the        emotion  is  very  frequently  referred  to 
OT  in  the  OT.     Religion  is  conceived  of 

as  touching  the  deepest  springs  of  emo- 
tion, including  the  feeling  of  exultant  gladness 
which  often  finds  outward  expression  in  such  actions 
as  leaping,  shouting,  and  singing.  Joy  is  repeatedly 
shown  to  be  the  natural  outcome  of  fellowship  with 
God.  "In  thy  presence  is  fulness  of  joy;  in  thy 
right  hand  there  are  pleasures  for  evermore"  (Ps 
16  11;  cf  vs  8.9).  God  is  at  once  the  source  (Ps 
4  7;  51  12)  and  the  object  (Ps  35  9;  Isa  29  19) 
of  religious  joy.  The  phrase  "rejoice  [be  glad]  in 
Jeh"  and  similar  expressions  are  of  frequent  occur- 
rence (e.g.  Ps  97  12;  149  2;  Isa  61  10;  Zee  10 
7).  Many  aspects  of  the  Divine  character  call  forth 
this  emotion,  such  as  His  lovingkindness  (Ps  21 
6.7;  31  7),  His  salvation  (Ps  21  1;  Isa  25  9; 
Hal,  3  IS),  His  laws  and  statutes  (Ps  1  2;  119 
passim),  His  judgments  (Ps  48  11),  His  words  of 
comfort  in  dark  days  (Jer  15  15.16).  The  funda- 
mental fact  of  the  sovereignty  of  ( lod,  of  the  equity 
of  the  Divine  government  of  the  world,  gives  to  the 
pious  a  joyous  sense  of  security  in  life  (Ps  93  1  f ; 
96  10;  97  1)  which  breaks  forth  into  songs  of 
praises  in  winch  even  inanimate  Nature  is  poetically 
called  upon  to  join  (Ps  96  11-13;  98  4-9).  In  the 
case  of  those  who  held  such  views  of  God,  it  was 
natural  that  the  service  of  God  should  elicit  a  joy- 
ous spirit  ("I  will  offer  in  his  tabernacle  sacrifices  of 
joy,"  Ps  27  6;  cf  1  Ch  299),  a  spirit  which  is 
abundantly  manifest  in  the  jubilant  shouting  with 
which  religious  festivities  were  celebrated,  and  the 
trumpet-sound  which  accompanied  certain  sacri- 
fices (2  S  6  15;  Ps  33  1-3;  Nu  10  10;  2  Ch  29 
27),  and  esp.  in  psalms  of  praise,  thanksgiving  and 
adoration  (Pss  47,  81,  100,  etc).  "Rejoice  before 
Jeh  your  God"  is  an  oft-repeated  phrase  in  Dt  with 
reference  to  the  sacrificial  feast  (e.g.  12  12).  But 
joy  is  a  Divine,  as  well  as  a  human,  emotion;  for 
God  Himself  is  represented  in  the  ( )T,  not  as  a  rigid, 
impassible  Being,  but  as  susceptible  to  pleasure  and 
pain.  God  may  be  conceived  of  as  "rejoicing  in 
his  works"  (Ps  104  31;  cf  Gen  1  31),  and  over 
His  people  "for  good"  (Dt  30  9).  "He  will  rejoice 
over  thee  [Zion]  with  joy;  he  will  rest  in  his  love; 
he  will  joy  over  thee  with  singing"  (Zeph  3  17). 
Such  noble  and  vivid  anthropomorphisms  are  a 
nearer  approach  to  the  truth  than  the  abstract  doc- 
trine of  the  impassibility  of  God  which,  owing  to 


Platonic  influences,  dominated  the  theology  of  the 
early  Christian  centuries. 

The  element  of  joy  in  religion  is  still  more  promi- 
nent, in  the  NT.     It  is  the  appropriate  response  of 

the  believer  to  the  "good  tidings  of 
3.  In  the  great  joy"  which  constitute  the  gospel 
NT  (Lk  2  10).     In  the  four  Gospels,  esp. 

Lk,  this  element  is  conspicuous.  It 
is  seen  in  the  canticles  of  Lk  1  and  2.  It  is  both 
exemplified  in  the  life  and  character,  and  set  forth 
in  the  teaching  of  Jesus.  There  are  many  intima- 
t  ions  that,  in  spite  of  the  profound  elements  of  grief 
and  tragedy  in  His  life,  His  habitual  demeanor  was 
gladsome  and  joyous,  certainly  not  gloomy  or 
ascetic:  such  as,  His  description  of  Himself  as 
bridegroom,  in  defence  of  His  disciples  for  not  fast- 
ing (Mk  2  18-20) ;  the  fact  that  He  came  "eating 
and  drinking,"  giving  occasion  to  the  charge  that 
He  was  "a  gluttonous  man  and  a  winebibber" 
(Alt  11  19);  His  "rejoicing  in  the  Holy  Spirit" 
(Lk  10  21);  the  fact  that  His  presence  was  found 
to  be  congenial  at  social  festivities  (Mk  14  3;  Lk 
14  1;  Jn  12  1),  and  at  the  wedding  in  Cana  (Jn  2 
1  ff);  His  mention  of  "my  joy"  (Jn  15  11;  17  13). 
His  teaching  with  reference  to  His  followers  har- 
monizes with  this.  The  Christian  virtues  confer 
on  those  who  attain  them  not  only  beatitude,  a  calm 
and  composed  state  of  felicity  (Alt  5  3-11),  but 
also  a  more  exuberant  state  of  joy,  which  is  in  sharp 
contrast  to  the  "sad  countenance"  of  the  hypocrites 
(6  10)  ("Rejoice,  and  be  exceeding  glad,"  5  12). 
This  spirit  is  reflected  in  many  of  the  parables.  The 
discovery  of  the  true  treasure  of  life  brings  joy 
(Alt  13  44).  The  three  parables  in  Lk  15  reveal 
the  joy  of  the  Divine  heart  itself  at  the  repentance 
of  sinners  (see  esp.  vs  5-7.9.10.22-24.32).  The 
parable  of  the  Talents  lays  stress  on  the  "joy  of  the 
Lord"  which  is  the  reward  of  faithfulness  (Alt  25 
21.23).  Jesus  confers  on  His  followers  not  only 
peace  (Jn  14  27;  16  33),  but  participation  in  His 
own  fulness  of  joy  (Jn  15  11;  16  24;  17  13),  a 
joy  which  is  permanent,  in  contrast  to  the  sorrow 
which  is  transient  (16  22).  In  the  dark  days  of 
disappointment  that  succeeded  the  crucifixion,  the 
joy  of  the  disciples  passed  under  a  cloud,  but  at  the 
resurrection  (Lk  24  41)  and  still  more  on  the  day 
of  Pentecost  it  emerged  into  light,  and  afterward 
remained  a  marked  characteristic  of  the  early  church 
(Acts  2  40  f;  8  39;  13  52;  15  3).  Paid  speaks 
of  joy  as  one  of  the  fruits  of  the  spirit  (Gal  5  22) 
and  of  "joy  in  the  Holy  Spirit"  as  an  essential  mark 
of  the  kingdom  of  God  (Rom  14  17j.  This  j  >y 
is  associated  with  faith  (Phil  1  25),  hope  (Rom  5  2; 
12  12),  brotherly  fellowship  and  sympathy  (Rom 
12  15;  2  Cor  7  13;  Phil  2  1  f).  To  "rejoice  in 
the  Lord"   is   enjoined   as  a  Christian  duty  (Phil 

3  1;  4  4;  cf  2  17  f;  1  Thess  5  16).  In  Christ, 
the  Christian  "rejoices  with  joy  unspeakable  and 
full  of  glory"  (1  Pet  1  8),  in  spite  of  his  temporary 
afflictions  (ver  6).  Christian  joy  is  no  mere  gaiety 
t  hat  knows  no  gloom,  but  is  the  result  of  t  he  triumph 
of  faith  over  adverse  and  trying  circumstances, 
which,  instead  of  hindering,  actually  enhance  it 
(Acts  5  41;   Rom  5  3f;  Jas  1  2.12;   5  11;    1  Pet 

4  13;  cf  Alt  5  11.12).  Even  Our  Lord  Himself 
"for  the  joy  that  was  set  before  him  endured  the 
cross,  despising  shame"   (He  12  2). 

D.  AIiall  Edwards 
JOZABAD,   joz'a-bad    n^TT1,    yozabhadh,    "Jeh 
has  bestowed") : 

(1)  A  Gederathite,  and  one  of  David's  recruits 
at  Ziklag  (1  Ch  12  4  [Heb  5]).  He  is  named 
with  the  Benjamites,  but  possibly  he  was  a  native 
of  the  town  Gedara  in  Southern  Judah.  See  Curtis, 
Ch,  196. 

(2),  (3)  Two  Alanassite  captains  who  joined  David 
at  Ziklag  (1  Ch  12  20  [Heb  21]). 


Jozabdus 
Judah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1756 


(4)  A  Levite  overseer  in  Hezekiah's  time  (2  Ch 
31  13);  may  be  the  ancestor  of  the  chief'  of  the 
priests  in  2  Ch  35  9  =  "Joram"  of  1  Esd  1  9. 

(5)  A  Levite  (Ezr  8  33),  mentioned  again  prob- 
ably in  Ezr  10  23;  Neh  8  7;  11  L6.  The  name 
in  1  Esd  8  03  (  =  Ezr  8  33)  is  "Josabdus"  (AV 
"Josabad"). 

((>)  A   priest   who   had   married    a   foreign    wife 
Ezr  10  22)  =  "Ocidelus"  of  1  Esd  9  22. 

JOZABDUS,  jo-zab'dus  (TcotaBSos,  Iuzabdos): 

(1)  Son  of  Jeshua  the  Levite  (1  Esd  8  63), 
called  "Jozabad"  in  Ezr  8  33. 

(2)  Son  of  Bebai  (1  Esd  9  29),  called  "Zabbai" 
in  Ezr  10  28. 

JOZACAR,  joz'a-kar,  j6-za'kar  ("DTT  ,  yozakhar, 
"Jeh  has  remembered";  A\'  Jozachar) :  Servant  and 
murderer  (with  Jehozabad)  of  Joash,  king  of  Judah 
(2  K  12  21  [Heb  22]);  called  "Zabad"  in  2  Ch 
24  26.     Many  MSS   have   "Jozabad"  in  2  K. 

JOZADAK,  joz'a-dak.     See  Jeuozadak. 

JUBAL,  joo'bal  (52*  ^ ,  yubhal;  for  meaning  see 
Jabal):  Son  of  Lamech  by  Adah,  and  inventor  of 
musical  instruments  (Gen  4  21). 

JUBILEE,  joo'bi-le,  ju'bi-le,   CYCLE  OF  THE. 

See  Luni-solar  cycle,  under  Astronomy,  I,  5. 

JUBILEE  YEAR  (bni^n  T\Zlp ,  sh'nath  ha-yobhel; 
ctos  tt)s  d^e'o-eioS)  etos  tts  apheseds;  annus  jubi- 
laeus,  "year  of  jubilee"  [Lev  25  13],  or  simply 
b^n, ha-yobhel,  "the  jubilee"  [25  28;  cf  Nu  36  4], 
AV  and  ERV  Jubile):  The  Heb  word  yobhel  stands 
for  keren  ha-yobhel,  meaning  t  he  horn  of  a  ram.  Now, 
such  a  horn  can  be  made  into  a  trumpet,  and  thus 
the  word  yobhel  came  to  be  used  as  a  synonym  of 
trumpet.  According  to  Lev  25  9  a  loud  trumpet 
should  proclaim  liberty  throughout  the  country 
on  the  10th  day  of  the  7th  month  (the  Day  of 
Atonement),  after  the  lapse  of  7  sabbaths  of  years  = 
49  years.  In  this  manner,  every  50th  year  was 
to  be  announced  as  a  jubilee  year.  All  real 
property  should  automatically  revert  to  its  origi- 
nal owner  (25  10;  cf  ver  13),  and  those  who, 
compelled  by  poverty,  had  sold  themselves  as  slaves 
to  their  brothers,  should  regain  their  liberty  (25  10; 
cf  ver  39). 

In  addition  to  this,  the  Jubilee  Year  was  to  be 
observed  after  the  manner  of  the  sabbatic  year,  i.e. 
there  should  be  neither  sowing  nor  reaping  nor 
pruning  of  vines,  and  everybody  was  expected  to 
live  on  what  the  fields  and  the  vineyards  produced 
"of  themselves,"  and  no  attempt  should  be  made 
at  storing  up  the  products  of  the  land  (25  11  f). 
Thus  there  are  three  distinct  factors  constituting 
the  essential  features  of  the  Jubilee  Year:  personal 
liberty,  restitution  of  property,  and  what  we  might 
call  the  simple  life. 

The  50th  year  was  to  be  a  time  in  which  liberty 
should  be  proclaimed  to  all  the  inhabitants  of  the 
country.  We  should,  indeed,  diminish 
1.  Personal  the  import  of  this  institution  if  we 
Liberty  should  apply  it  only  to  those  who  were 

to  be  freed  from  the  bonds  of  physical 
servitude.  Undoubtedly,  they  must  have  been  the 
foremost  in  realizing  its  beneficial  effects.  But  the 
law  was  intended  to  benefit  all,  the  masters  as  well 
as  the  servants.  They  should  never  lose  sight  of 
their  being  brothers  and  citizens  of  the  theocratic 
kingdom.  They  owed  their  life  to  God  and  were; 
subject  to  His  sovereign  will.  Only  through  loyalty 
to  Him  were  they  free  and  could  ever  hope  to  be 
free  and  independent  of  all  other  masters. 


The  institution  of  the  Jubilee  Year  should  become 

the  means  of  fixing  the  price  of  real  property  (25 

15  f;      cf     vs    25-28);      moreover,     it 

2.  Restitu-  should  exclude  the  possibility  of  selling 
tion  of  any  piece  of  land  permanently  (25  23), 
Property         the  next  verse  furnishing  the  motive: 

"The  land  is  mine:  for  ye  are  strangers 
and  sojourners  with  me."  The  same  rule  was  to  be 
applied  to  dwelling-houses  outside  of  the  walled 
cities  (25  31),  and  also  to  the  houses  owned  by 
Levites,  although  they  were  built  within  walled 
cities  (ver  32). 

In  the  same  manner  the  price  of  Heb  slaves  was 
to  vary  according  to  the  proximity  of  the  Jubilee 
Year  (25  47-54).  This  passage  deals  with  the 
enslaving  of  a  Hebrew  by  a  foreigner  living  among 
the  Jews;  it  goes  without  saying  that  the  same  rule 
would  hold  good  in  the  case  of  a  Hebrew  selling  him- 
self to  one  of  his  own  people. 

In  27  17-25  we  find  a  similar  arrangement  re- 
specting such  lands  that  were  "sanctified  unto  Jeh." 
In  all  these  cases  the  original  owner  was  at  liberty 
to  redeem  his  property  at  any  time,  or  have  it 
redeemed  by  some  of  his  nearest  relatives  (25  25- 
27.29.48  ff;  27  19). 

The  crowning  feature,  though,  was  the  full  resti- 
tution of  all  real  property  in  the  Jubilee  Year.  The 
primary  object  of  this  regulation  was,  of  course,  the 
reversion  of  all  hereditary  property  to  the  family 
which  originally  possessed  it,  and  the  reestablish- 
ment  of  the  original  arrangement  regarding  the  di- 
vision of  the  land.  But  that  was  not  all;  for  this 
legal  disposition  and  regulation  of  external  matters 
was  closely  connected  with  the  high  calling  of  the 
Jewish  people.  It  was  a  part  of  the  Divine  plan 
looking  forward  to  the  salvation  of  mankind.  "The 
deepest  meaning  of  it  (the  Jubilee  Year)  is  to  be 
found  in  the  airoKaTixcrTacns  tt)s  /3a<ri\etas  rod  6eov, 
apokatdstasis  tts  basileias  toil  theou,  i.e.  in  the  re- 
storing of  all  that  which  in  the  course  of  time  was 
perverted  by  man's  sin,  in  the  removing  of  all 
slavery  of  sin,  in  the  establishing  of  the  true  liberty 
of  the  children  of  God,  and  in  the  delivering  of  the 
creation  from  the  bondage  of  corruption  to  which 
it  was  subjected  on  account  of  man's  depravity" 
(Rom  8  19  ff)  (ciKeW,  Manual  of  Bib.  Archaeology). 
In  the  Year  of  Jubilee  a  great  future  era  of  Jeh's 
favor  is  foreshadowed,  that  period  which,  according 
to  Isa  61  1-3,  shall  be  ushered  in  to  all  those  that 
labor  and  are  heavy  laden,  by  Him  who  was  anointed 
by  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  Jehovah. 

The  Jubilee  Year,  being  the  crowning  point  of  all 

sabbatical  institutions,  gave  the  finishing  touch  as 

it  were  to  the  wdiole  cycle  of  sabbatic 

3.  The  days,  months  and  years.  It  is,  there- 
Simple  Life  fore,  quite  appropriate  that  it  should 

be  a  year  of  rest  for  the  land  like  the 
preceding  sabbatic  year  (Lev  25  11  f).  It  follows, 
of  course,  that  in  this  instance  there  were  two  years, 
one  after  the  other,  in  which  there  should  be  no 
sowing  or  systematic  ingathering.  This  seems  to 
be  clear  from  Lev  25  18-22:  "And  ye  shall  sow 
the  eighth  year,  and  eat  of  the  fruits,  the  old  store; 
until  the  ninth  year,  until  its  fruits  come  in,  ye 
shall  eat  the  old  store."  Thus  in  the  7th  and  8th 
years  the  people  were  to  live  on  what  the  fields 
had  produced  in  the  6th  year  and  whatever  grew 
spontaneously.  This  shows  the  reason  why  we 
may  say  that  one  of  the  factors  constituting  the 
Jubilee  Year  was  the  "simple  life."  They  could 
not  help  but  live  simply  for  two  consecutive  years. 
Nobody  can  deny  that  this  afforded  ample  oppor- 
tunity to  develop  the  habit  of  living  within  very 
limited  means.  And  again  we  see  that  this  external 
part  of  the  matter  did  not  fully  come  up  to  the 
intention  of  the  Lawgiver.  It  was  not  the  simple 
life    as  such    that    He   had    in    view,  but  rather 


1757 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jozabdus 
Judah 


the  laying  down  of  its  moral  and  religious  founda- 
tions. In  this  connection  we  must  again  refer  to 
25  18-22,  "What  shall  we  eat  the  seventh  year?" 
1  he  answer  is  very  simple  and  yet  of  surpassing 
grandeur:  "Then  I  will  command  my  blessing  upon 
you,"  etc.  Nothing  was  expected  of  the  people  but 
faith  in  Jeh  and  confidence  in  His  power,  which  was 
not  to  be  shaken  by  any  doubtful  reflection.  And 
right  here  we  have  found  the  root  of  the  simple  life: 
no  life  without  the  true  God,  and  no  simplicity  of 
life  without  true  faith  in  Him.  "Man  shall  not 
live  by  bread  alone,  but  by  every  word  that  pro- 
ceedeth  out  of  the  mouth  of  God"  (Mt  4  4;  cf  Dt 
8  3). 

We  may  well  ask:  Did  the  Jewish  people  ever 
observe  the  Jubilee  Year?  There  is  no  reason  why 
they  should  not  have  observed  it  in  preexilic  times 
(cf  Lotz  in  New  Sch-Herz,  N,  s.v.  "Sabbatical  Year" 
and  "Year  of  Jubilee").  Perhaps  they  signally 
failed  in  it,  and  if  so,  we  should  not  be  surprised  at 
all.  Not  that  the  institution  in  itself  was  cumbered 
with  any  obstacles  that  could  not  have  been  over- 
come; but  what  is  more  common  than  unbelief  and 
unwillingness  to  trust  absolutely  in  Jeh?  Or,  was 
it  observed  in  post-exilic  times?  Here,  too,  we  are 
in  the  dark.  There  is,  indeed,  a  tradition  accord- 
ing to  which  the  Jubilee  Year  has  never  been  ob- 
served— neither  in  the  time  of  Ezra  and  Nehemiah 
nor  at  any  later  period.  The  truth  of  this  seems 
to  be  corroborated  by  the  silence  of  Jos,  who,  while 
referring  quite  frequently  to  the  sabbatic  year, 
never  once  mentions  the  Year  of  Jubilee. 

William  Baur 

JUBILEES,  BOOK  OF.  See  Apocalyptic  Lit- 
erature. 

JUCAL,  joo'kal.     See  Jehucal. 

JUDA,  joe/da:  Lk  1  39  AV,  see  Juttah;  3  20, 
seeJouA;  3  30,  see  Judas. 

JUDAEA,  joo-de'a,   ju-de'a    ('IovSaCa,  Ioudaia): 

The  "land  of  the  Jews,"  the  Gr-Rom  equivalent  of 
Judah.  As  most  of  the  Israelites  returning  from 
the  captivity  belonged  to  the  tribe  of  Judah,  they 
came  to  be  called  Jews  and  their  land  Judaea.  In 
Tob  1  18  the  name  is  applied  to  the  old  kingdom  of 
Judah.  For  a  general  description  of  the  physical 
geography  and  early  history  of  this  region  see  Ju- 
dah. The  limits  of  this  district  varied  greatly, 
extending  as  the  Jewish  population  increased,  but 
in  many  periods  with  very  indefinite  boundaries. 

Under  the  Pers  empire,  Judaea  (or  Judah)  was  a 
district  administered  by  a  governor  who,  like 
Zerubbabel  (Hag  1  14;  2  2),  was  probably  usually 
a  Jew.  Even  as  late  as  Judas  Maceabaeus,  Hebron 
and  its  surroundings — the  very  heart  of  old  Judah — 
was  under  the  domination  of  the  Edomites,  whom, 
however,  Judas  conquered  (1  Mace  5  6.5);  in  the 
time  of  his  brother  Jonathan  (145  BC),  three 
tetrarehies  of  Samaria,  Aphaerema,  Lydda  and 
Ramathaim,  were  added  to  Judaea  (1  Mace  10 
30.38;  11  34);  in  some  passages  it  is  referred  to  at 
this  time  as  the  "land  of  Judah"  ('lovda)  (1  Mace 
10  30.33.37).  The  land  was  then  roughly  limited 
by  what  may  be  called  the  "natural  boundaries  of 
Judah"  (see  Judah). 

St  rabo  (xvi.ll,  21)  extends  the  name  Judaea  to  in- 
clude? practically  all  Pal;  as  does  Lk  (4  44m;  23  5; 
Acts  2  9;  10  37,  etc).  In  several  NT  references 
(Mt  4  25;  Mk  15;  3  7;  Lk  5  17;  Jn  3  22; 
Acts  1  8),  Judaea  is  contrasted  with  its  capital 
Jerus.  The  country  bordering  on  the  shores  of 
the  Dead  Sea  for  some  miles  inland  was  known  as 
the  Wilderness  of  Judaea  (see  Judah;  Jeshimon) 
(Mt  3  l),or  "the  wilderness"  (Mk  1  4;  Lk  3  2); 
here   John   the   Baptist  appeared   as   a   preacher. 


According  to  Mt  19  1  (but  cf  Mk  10  1,  where  RV 
has  "Judaea  and  beyond  Jordan"),  some  cities  be- 
yond Jordan  belonged  to  Judaea.  That  this  was  an 
actual  fact  we  know  from  Ptolemy  (v.16,9)  and  Jos 
{Ant,  XII,  iv,  11). 

According  to  Jos  (BJ ',  III,  iii,  5),  Judaea  ex- 
tended from  Anuath-Borkaeos  (i.e.  Khan  Berkit 
near  Khan  es  Saweh,  close  to  the  most  northerly 
front  ier  of  Judah  as  described  in  Judah  [q.v.])  to  the 
village  Jordan,  possibly  Tell  KArad,  near  Arabia  in 
the  S.     Its  breadth  was  from  Joppa  in  the  W.  to 


Wilderness  of  Judaea. 

Jordan  in  the  E.  The  seacoast  also  as  far  north  as 
Ptolemais  CAkka),  except  Jamnia,  Joppa  and  (ac- 
cording to  the  Talm)  Caesarea,  belonged  to  this 
province. 

After  the  death  of  Herod  the  Great,  Archelaus 
received  Judaea,  Samaria  and  Idumaea  as  his 
ethnarchy,  but  on  his  deposition  Judaea  was  ab- 
sorbed into  the  Rom  province  of  Syria,  the  procura- 
tor of  which  lived  at  Caesarea. 

Of  later  history  it  is  only  necessary  to  notice  that 
in  the  5th  cent.  Judaea  became  part  of  the  land 
known  as  Palaestina  Prima;  that  at  the  time  of  the 
Lat  kingdom  of  Jerus  (12th  cent.)  all  the  hill 
country  of  Judah  from  Sinjil  to  Tekoa  was  the 
royal  domain,  while  the  southern  section  to  Beer- 
sheba  belonged  to  the  Seigneur  de  St,  Abraham  (i.e. 
of  Hebron);  and  lastly  that  a  district,  the  rough 
equivalent  of  the  kingdom  of  Judah,  though  larger, 
and  of  the  Judaea  described  by  Jos  (B.I,  III,  iii,  5), 
though  slightly  smaller,iorms today  the  Mutaserraflic 
of  el  Kuds,  an  administrative  area  where  more  than 
in  any  spot  in  the  world  the  problem  of  the  "land 
of  the  Jews"  is  today  increasingly  acute. 

E.  W.  G.  Marterman 

JUDAEA,  WILDERNESS  OF  (Mt  3  1).  See 
Judaea. 

JUDAH,  jdo'da   (rTTirP,   yhiidhah,   "praised"): 

(1)  4th  son  of  Jacob  by  Leah  (see  separate;  art.). 

(2)  An  ancestor  of  Kadmiel,  one  of  those  who  had 
the  oversight  of  the  rebuilding  of  the  temple  (Ezr 
3  9).  He  is  the  same  as  Hodaviah  (Ezr  2  40), 
and  Hodevah  (Neh  7  43). 

(3)  A  Levite  who  had  taken  a  strange  wife  (Ezr 
10  23). 

(4)  A  Levite  who  came  up  with  Zerubbabel  (Neh 
12  S). 

(5)  A  priest  and  musician  who  took  part  in  the 
dedication  of  the  wall  of  Jerus  (Neh  12  3(>);  (3), 
(4)  and  (5)  may  be  the  same  person. 

(6)  A  Benjamite,  the  son  of  Hassenuah,  who  was 
second  over  the  city  of  Jerus  in  the  days  of  Nehe- 
miah (Neh  11  9). 

(7)  One  of  the  princes  of  Judah  who  took  part 
in  the  dedication  of  the  wall  of  Jerus  (Neh  12  34). 

S.  F.  Hunter 


Judah 

Judah,  Kingdom 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BTBI.E  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1758 


JUDAH    (rVTirr,   yhudhah;    in   Gon  29  3/5    I'.. 

'IouSav,  [oihlan,  A,  'IovSa,  louda;   elsewhere  B  and 

A,  'Iov5as,  lowlua):  The  4th  son  born 

1.  Jacob's     to    Jacob    by    Leah    in    I'addan-aram 
Son  ((Jon  29  35,  etc).     Of  this  patriarch's 

life  only  scanty  details  remain  to  us. 
He  turned  his  brethren  from  their  purpose  to  slay 
Joseph,  persuading  them  to  sell  him  to  the  Midian- 
itesat  Dot  ban  (37  26ff).  A  dark  stain  is  loft  upon 
his  memory  by  the  disgraceful  story  told  in  eh  38. 
Reuben  forfeited  the  rights  of  primogeniture  by  an 
act  of  infamy;  Simeon  and  Levi,  who  came  next 
in  order,  were  passed  over  because  of  their  cruel  and 
treacherous  conduct  at  Shechem;  to  J.,  therefore, 
were  assigned  the  honors  and  responsibilities  of  the 
firstborn  (34;  35  22;  49  off).  On  the  occasion 
of  their  first  visit  to  Egypt,  Reuben  acted  as  spokes- 
man for  his  brethren  (42  22.37).  Then  the  leader- 
ship passed  to  J.  (43  3,  etc).  The  sons  of  Joseph 
evidently  looked  askance  upon  J.'s  promotion,  and 
their  own  claims  to  hegemony  were  backed  by 
considerable  resources  (49  22  ft).  The  rivalry 
between  the  two  tribes,  thus  early  visible,  culmi- 
nated in  the  disruption  of  the  kingdom.  To  .1., 
the  "lion's  whelp,"  a  prolonged  dominion  was 
assured  (49  Off). 

The  tribe  of  Judah,  of  which  the  patriarch  was 
the  name-father,  at  the  first  census  in  the  wilder- 
ness  numbered   74,t>00  fighting   men; 

2.  Tribe  of    at    Sinai  the  number  "from  20  years 
Judah  old  and  upward"  was 76,500  (Nu  127; 

26  22;  see  Numbers).  The  stand- 
ard of  the  camp  of  J.,  with  which  were  also  the 
tribes  of  Zebulun  and  Issachar,  wras  to  the_E.  of  tin; 
tabernacle  "toward  the  sunrising,"  the  prince  of  J. 
being  Nahshon,  the  son  of  Amminadab  (2  3). 
Caleb,  the  son  of  Jephunneh,  represented  J.  among 
the  spies  (13  6) ;  he  also  was  told  off  to  assist  at  the 
future  allocation  of  the  tribal  portions  (34  19). 

The  land  assigned  to  J.  lay  in  the  S.  of  Pal  (see 
Jtjdaii,    Territory   of),    comprising   part  of  the 

mountain,    the    Shephelah,    and    the 

3.  Territory  maritime     plain.       The     information 

given  of  its  conquest  is  meager  and 
cannot  be  arranged  in  a  self-consistent  story.  In 
Josh  11  21  i'f,  the  conquest  is  ascribed  to  Joshua. 
Caleb  is  described  as  conquering  at  least  a  portion 
in  Josh  14  12;  15  13  if;  while  in  Jgs  1  the  tribes 
of  J.  and  Simeon  play  a  conspicuous  part;  and  the 
latter  found  a  settlement  in  the  S.  within  the  terri- 
tory of  J.  The  tribal  organization  seems  to  have 
been  maintained  after  the  occupation  of  the  land, 
and  J.  was  so  loosely  related  to  the  northern  tribes 
that  it  was  not  expected  to  help  them  against 
Sisera.  Deborah  has  no  reproaches  for  absent  J. 
It  is  remarkable  that  no  judge  over  Israel  (except 
Othniel,  Jgs  3  0-11)  arose  from  the  tribe  of  J. 
The  first  king  of  all  Israel  was  chosen  from  the  tribe 
of  Benjamin.  This  made  acquiescence  on  the  part 
of  J.  easier  t  han  it  would  have  been  had  Saul  sprung 
from  the  ancient  rival,  Ephraim.  But  the  dignity 
of  J.  was  fully  vindicated  by  the  splendid  reigns  of 
David  and  Solomon,  in  lineal  descent  from  whom 
theSaviourof  the  world  should  come.  The  further 
history  of  t  he  t  ribe  is  merged  in  that  of  Israel. 

W.    EWING 

JUDAH,  KINGDOM  OF: 

I.     Cana  \  n"  before  the  Monarchy 

1.  The  Coming  of  the  Semites 

2.  The  ( !anaanites 

3.  The  Israelite  Confederacy 

4.  Migration  into  Canaan 

5.  The  Bond  of  Union 
(>    Early  Rulers 

7.  The  Judges 
X.   Hereditary  Kings 
II.     The  Pirst  Three  Kings 

1.  The  Boniamite  King 

2.  Rachel  and  Leah  Tribes 

3.  The  Disruption 


I I I.  'I'k  v.  Dim  i.  Mon  \  rch  v 

1.  War  between  Two  Kingdoms 

2.  First  Reform  of  Religion 

3.  Two  Kingdoms  at   Peace 

4.  Two  Kingdoms  Contrasted 

5.  Revolution  in  t lie  Northern  Kingdom 
ti.  K fleet  on  the  Southern  Kingdom 

7.  Davidic  House  at  Lowest  Ebb 

S.  Regius  to  Recover 

9.  Reviving  Fortunes 

10.  Monarchy  Still  Elective 

11.  Government  by  Regents 

12.  Period  of  Great  Prosperity 

13.  Rise  of  Priestly  Caste 

14.  Advent  of  Assyria 

15.  Judah  a  Protectorate 

10.  Cosmopolitan  Tendencies 

IV.  Period  of  Decline 

1.  .Judah  Independent 

2.  Reform  of  Religion 

3.  Egypt  and  Judah 

4.  Traffic  in  Horses 

5.  Reaction  under  Manasseh 

6.  Triumph  of  Reform  Party 

7.  Babylonia  and  Judah 

8.  End  of  Assyrian  Empire 

9.  After  Scythian  Invasion 

10.  Judah  Again  Dependent 

11.  Prophets  Lose  Influence 

12.  The  Deportations 

13.  Summary 

/.    Canaan   before   the   Monarchy.       Some   4.000   years 

BC  the  land  on  either  side  of  the  valley  of  the  Jordan 

was  peopled  fey  a  race  who,  to  whatever 

1  TViq  stock  they  belonged,  were  not  Semites. 
x.  ine  lt  was  not  untjj  aDout  the  year  2500  BC 
Coming  that  the  tide  of  Sem  immigration  began 
of  the  t()  now  from  North  Arabia  into  the  coun- 
c  -i-^c  tries  watered  by  the  Jordan  and  the 
Semites  Euphrates.     One    of    the    first    waves    in 

this  human  tide  consisted  of  the  Phoeni- 
cians who  settled  in  the  N.W.,  on  the  seashore;  they  were 
closely  followed  by  other  Can.  tribes  who  occupied  the 
country  which  long  bore  their  name. 

The   Canaanites   are   known   to   us  chiefly  from  the 
famous  letters  found  at  Tell  Amarna  in  Egypt  which 

describe  the  political  state  of  the  country 

2  The  during  the  years  1415-1300  BC — the 
*  .,  years  of  the  reigns  of  Amenophis  III  and 
Canaanites     ly.     Canaan  was  at  this  time  slipping  out 

of  t  he  hands  of  Egypt.  The  native  princes 
were  in  revolt:  tribute  was  withheld;  and  but  few  Egyp 
garrisons  remained.  Meantime  a  fresh  tide  of  invasion 
was  hurling  its  waves  against  the  eastern  frontiers  of  the 
land.  The  newcomers  were,  like  their  predecessors,  Sem 
Bedawin  from  the  Syrian  desert.  Among  them  the  Am 
Tab  name  the  Chabiri,  who  are,  no  doubt,  the  people 
known  to  us  as  the  Hebrews. 

The  Hebrews  are  so  named  by  those  of  other  nation- 
ality after  one  of  their  remoter  ancestors  (Gen  10  24), 
or  because  they  had  come  from  beyond 

3  The  ('ebher)  the  Jordan  or  the  Euphrates.  Of 
T"  ]Jt  themselves  they  spoke  collectively  as 
Israelite  Israel.  Israel  was  a  name  assumed  by 
Confederacy  the  eponymous  hero  of  the  nation  whose 

real  name  was  Jacob.  Similarly  the 
Arabian  prophet  belonged  to  the  tribe  called  from  its 
ancestor  Koraish,  whose  name  was  Fihr.  The  people  of 
Israel  were  a  complex  of  some  12  or  13  tribes.  These 
12  tribes  were  divided  into  two  main  sections,  one  sec- 
tion tracing  its  descent  from  Leah,  one  of  Jacob's  wives, 
and  the  other  section  tracing  its  descent  from  Rachel,  his 
other  wife.  The  names  of  the  tribes  which  claimed  to 
be  descended  from  Leah  were  Reuben,  Simeon.  Levi, 
Judah,  Issachar,  Zebulun,  and,  indirectly,  Gad  and 
Asher:  those  which  claimed  to  be  descended  from  Rachel 
were  Joseph,  which  was  divided  into  two  clans;  Eph- 
raim and  Manasseh,  Benjamin,  and,  indirectly,  Dan 
and  Naphtali.  The  rivalry  between  these  two  great 
divisions  runs  all  through  the  national  history  of  the 
Hebrews,  and  was  only  brought  to  an  end  by  the  annihi- 
lation of  one  of  the  opposing  factions  (Isa  11  13).  But 
not  only  was  the  Israelitish  nation  a  combination  of 
many  clans;  it  was  united  also  to  other  tribes  which 
could  not  claim  descent  from  Israel  or  Jacob.  Such 
tribes  were  the  Kenites  and  the  Calebites.  Toward 
such  the  pure  Israelite  tribes  formed  a  sort  of  aristocracy, 
very  much  as,  to  change  the  parallel,  the  tribe  of  Koraish 
did  among  the  Arabs.  It  was  rarely  that  a  commander 
was  appointed  from  the  allied  tribes,  at  least  in  the  ear- 
lier years  of  t  he  national  life. 

"We  find  exactly  the  same  state  of  things  obtaining  in 

the  history  of  the  Arabian  conquests.     All  through  that 

history  there  runs  the  rivalry  between  the 

4  Miera-  South  Arabian  tribes  descended  from 
«««;«+«  Kaht&n  (the  Heb  Joktan,  Gen  10  25, 
lion  into  e-tC)  -ail(j  tho  northern  or  Ishmaelite  tribes 
Canaan            of   Modar.     It  is   often   stated   that   the 

OT  contains  two  separate  and  irrecon- 
cilable accounts  of  the  conquest  of  Canaan  by  the  Is- 
raelites.    According  to  the   Book  of  Josh,  it  is   said  the 


1759 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Judah 

Judah,  Kingdom 


invasion  was  a  movement  of  the  whole  people  of  Israel 
under  the  leadership  of  Joshua;  according  to  the  Book 
of  Jgs,  it  consisted  of  a  series  of  expeditions  made  by 
individual  tribes  each  on  its  own  account  (Jgs  1  2.10, 
etc).  But  again,  in  the  history  of  the  Arabs  we  find 
precisely  the  same  apparent  discrepancy.  For  Persia, 
Syria  and  Egypt  were  conquered  by  the  Arabs  as  a  whole; 
but  at  the  same  time  no  tribe  lost  its  individuality;  each 
tribe  made  expeditions  on  its  own  account,  and  turned 
its  arms  against  rival  tribes  even  in  the  enemy's  countrv. 
On  the  confines  of  China  in  the  E.  and  in  .Spain  on  the 
W.,  the  arms  of  the  Yemen's  tribes  were  employed  in 
the  destruction  of  those  of  Modar  as  fiercely  as  ever 
they  had  been  within  Arabia  itself. 

The  bond  which  united  the  Israelite  tribes,  as  well  as 

those  of  Kayin  (the  eponym  of  the  Kenites)  and  Caleb, 

was  that  of  the  common  worship  of  Jeh. 

5.  The  As  Mohammed  united  all  the  tribes  of 
Bond  of  Arabia  into  one  whole  by  the  doctrine  of 
TT  .  monotheism,  so  did  Moses  the  Israelite 
Union               tribes  by  giving  them  a  common  object 

of  worship.  And  the  sherifs  or  descend- 
ants of  'Ali  today  occupy  a  position  very  like  what  the 
Levites  and  the  descendants  of  Aaron  must  have  main- 
tained in  Israel.  In  order  to  keep  the  Israelite  nation 
pure,  intermarriage  with  the  inhabitants  of  the  invaded 
country  was  forbidden,  though  the  prohibition  was  not 
observed  (Jgs  3  of).  So  too,  the  Aral)  women  were 
not  permitted  to  marry  non-Arabs  during  the  first  years 
of  conquest. 

It  is  customary  to  date  the  beginning  of  monarchv  in 

Israel  from  Saul  the  son  of  Kish,  but  in  point  of  fact 

many  early  leaders  were  kings  in  fact  if 

6.  Early  ,lot  m  name.  Moses  and  Joshua  may  be 
pi  compared  with  Mohammed  and  his  caliph 
outers  (properly    khalifa)    or    "successor,"    Abu 

Bekr.  Their  word  was  law;  they  reigned 
supreme  over  a  united  nation.  Moreover,  the  word 
"king"  (melekh)  often  means,  both  in  Heb  and  Arab., 
nothing  more  than  governorof  a  town,  or  local  resident. 
There  was  more  than  one  "king"  of  Midian  (Jgs  8  12). 
Balak  seems  to  have  been  only  a  king  of  Moab  (Nu  22  4). 
Before  the  monarchy  proper,  the  people  of  Israel 
formed,  in  theory,  a  theocracy,  as  did  also  the  Arabs  under 
the  caliphs.     In  reality   they   were   ruled 

7.  The  bv  temporary  kings  called  judges  (sho- 
T"  i  plit't,  the  Carthaginian  sufes).  Their 
juuges             office   was   not   hereditary,    though   there 

were  exceptions  (cf  Jgs  9).  On  the  other 
hand,  the  government  of  the  Northern  Kingdom  of 
Israel  was  practically  an  elective  monarchy,  so  rarely 
were  there  more  than  two  of  the  same  dynasty.  Tho 
judge  again  was  usually  appointed  in  order  to  meet  some 
special  crises,  and  the  theoretically  ideal  state  of  things 
was  one  in  which  there  was  no  visible  head  of  the  state— 
a  republic  without  a  president.  These  intervals,  how- 
ever, always  ended  in  disaster,  and  the  appointment  of 
another  judge.  The  first  king  also  was  elected  to  cope 
with  a  specially  serious  crisis.  The  main  distinction 
between  judge  and  king  was  that  the  former,  less  than 
the  latter,  obscured  the  fact  of  the  true  King,  upon  the 
recognition  of  whom  alone  the  continued  existence  of  the 
nation  depended.  Tin;  rulers  then  became  the  "elders" 
or  sheikhs  of  the  tribes,  and  as  these  did  not  act  in  unison, 
tho  nation  lost  its  solidarity  and  became  an  easy  prey  to 
any  invader. 

During  the  period  of  the  Judges  a  new  factor  entered 
into   the   disturbed    politics   of    Canaan.     This   was    an 

invader  who  came  not  from  tho  eastern 

8.  Heredi-  ana-  southern  deserts,  but  from  the  wost- 
'       v-      '       ern  sea.     Driven  out  of  Crete  bv  invaders 

tary  Jiangs  from  the  mainland,  tho  last  remnants  of 
the  race  of  Minos  found  refuge  on  tho 
shores  of  the  country  which  ever  after  took  from  them 
the  name  it  still  bears — Pltilistin  or  Palestine;.  At  the 
same  time;  the  Ammonites  and  Midianites  were  pressing 
into  the;  country  from  the  E.  (t  S  11).  ("aught  between 
these  two  opposing  forces,  the  tribes  of  Israel  were  threat- 
ened with  destruction.  It  was  felt  that  the  temporary 
sovereignty  of  the  judge  was  no  longer  equal  to  the  sit- 
uation. The  supreme  authority  must  be  permanent. 
It  was  thus  the  monarchy  was  founded.  Three  motives 
are  given  by  tradition  as  leading  up  to  this  step.  The 
pretext  alleged  by  the  elders  or  sheikhs  is  the  worthless- 
ness  and  incapacity  of  Samuel's  sons,  who  he  intended 
should  succeed  him  (1  S  8).  The  immediate  causo 
was  the  double  pressure  from  the  Philis  (1  S  9  10)  and 
the  Ammonite  king  (12  12).  The  real  reason  was  that 
the  system  of  government  by  elective  kings  or  judges 
had  proved  a  failure  and  had  completely  broken  down. 
The  times  called  for  a  hereditary  monarchy. 

//.  The  First  Three  Kings. — The  most  warlike 
of  the  clans  of  Israel  shortly  before  this  had  been 

that  of  Benjamin — one  of  the  Rachel 
1.  The  tribes.     The  national  sanctuary,  with 

Benjamite  the  ark  and  the  grandson  of  Aaron  as 
King  priest,  was  at  Bethel  in  their  territory. 

Moreover,  they  had  defeated  the 
combined  forces  of  the  other  tribes  in  two  pitched 


battles.  They  had  at  last  been  defeated  and  almost 
exterminated,  but  they  had  recovered  much  of  their 
strength  and  prestige  (Jgs  20;  1  S  4  12).  From 
this  tribe  the  first  king  was  chosen  (sec  Saul).  He, 
however,  proved  unequal  to  his  task.  After  some 
years  spent  in  war  with  the  Philis  and  in  repressing 
supposed  disloyalty  at  home,  he  was  defeated  and 
killed. 

Meantime,  one  of  the  less-known  clans  was 
coming  to  the  front.  The  territory  of  the  tribe  of 
J.  lay  in  the  S.  After  its  occupation  (cf  Jgs  1  2M), 
the  tribe  of  J.  appears  to  have  settled  down  to  the 
care  of  its  flocks  and  herds.  It  is  not  mentioned 
in  the  Song  of  Deborah.  None  of  the  judges  be- 
longed to  it,  unless  Ibzan,  who  seems  to  have 
been  of  little  account  (Jgs  12  Sf).  Under  the 
leadership  of  David  (q.v.),  this  tribe  now  came 
to  the  front,  and  proved  in  the  end  to  be 
endowed  with  by  far  the  greatest  vitality  of  all 
the  tribes.  It  outlived  them  all,  and  survives  to 
this  day. 

The  Rachel  tribes,  led  by  Benjamin  and  Ephraim 

(2  S  2,3),  resisted  for  some  time   the   hegemony 

of  J.,  but  were  obliged  in  the  end  to 

2.  Rachel  submit.  Under  David  Israel  became 
and  Leah  again  a  united  whole.  By  making 
Tribes  Jerus  his  capital  on  the  borders  of  J. 

and  Benjamin,  he  did  much  to  insure 
the  continuance  of  this  union  (cf  1  Ch  9  3).  The 
union,  however,  was  only  on  the  surface.  By  play- 
ing off  the  Rachel  tribes,  Benjamin  and  Ephraim, 
against  the  rest,  Absalom  was  able  to  bring  the 
whole  structure  to  the  ground  (2  S  15  f'f),  the  tribe 
to  which  Saul  belonged  being  esp.  disloyal  (2  S 
16  5  IT).  Nor  was  this  the  only  occasion  on  which 
the  smoldering  enmity  between  the  two  houses 
burst  out  into  flame  (2  S  20).  As  soon  as  the 
strong  hand  of  David  was  removed,  disaffection 
showed  itself  in  several  quarters  (1  K  11  14  ff), 
and  esp.  the  aspiration  of  the  tribe  of  Ephraim, 
after  independence  was  fomented  by  the  prophets 
(11  20  ff).  Egypt  afforded  a  convenient  asylum 
for  the  disaffected  until  opportunity  should  ripen. 
They  had  not  long  to  wait. 

Solomon  was  succeeded  by  Rehoboam,  who  found 

it  politic  to  hold  a  coronation  ceremony  at  Shechem 

as    well,    presumably,    as    at    Jerus. 

3.  The  Dis-  The  malcontents  found  themselves 
ruption  strongenough  to  dictate  terms.     These 

Rehoboam  rejected,  and  the  northern 
tribes  at  once  threw  off  their  allegiance  to  the 
dynasty  of  David.  The  disruption  thus  created 
in  the  Israelite  nation  was  never  again  healed.  The 
secession  was  like  that  of  the  Moors  in  Spain  from 
the  'Abbasid  caliphs.  Henceforth  "Israel,"  except 
in  the  Chronicler,  denotes  the  Northern  Kingdom 
only.  In  that  writer,  who  does  not  recognize  the 
kingdom  of  the  ten  tribes,  it  means  Judah.  It  is 
usual  at  the  present  day  to  recognize  in  the  Northern 
Kingdom  the  true  Israelite  kingdom.  Certainly 
in  point  of  extent  of  territory  and  in  resources  it 
was  far  the  greater  of  the  two.  But  as  regards 
intellectual  power  and  influence,  even  down  to  the 
present  day,  not  to  mention  continuity  of  dynasty, 
the  smaller  kingdom  is  by  far  the  more  important. 
It  is,  therefore,  treated  here  as  the  true  representa- 
tive of  the  nation.  Lying,  as  it  did,  in  the  imme- 
diate vicinity  of  Jerus,  the  tribe  of  Benjamin  could 
hardly  do  otherwise  than  throw  in  its  lot  with  that 
of  J.  Bethel,  which  became  one  of  the  religious 
capitals  of  the  Northern  Kingdom,  although  nomi- 
nally within  their  territory,  in  fact  belonged  to 
Ephraim  (Jgs  1  22  ff).  With  this  union  of  op- 
posing interests  may  be  compared  that  of  the  'Alids 
and  Wbbasids,  both  belonging  to  the  house  of  Mo- 
hammed and  both  aspirants  to  the  caliphate, 
against  the  house  of  Umeiya. 


Judah, Kingdom  THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1760 


///.    The  Dual  Monarchy. — Rchoboam  made  no 

decisive  at  tempt  to  bring  hack  the  recalcitrant  tribes 

to     their     allegiance     (1  K  12  21  ff), 

1.  War  though  the  two  countries  made  raids, 
between  one  upon  the  other  (14  30).  Tor  his 
Two  King-  own  security  he  built  numerous  for- 
doms               tresses,  the  remains  of  some  of  which 

have,  it  is  probable,  been  recovered 
within  recent  years  (2  Ch  11  nil).  These  excited 
the  suspicion 'of  Shishak  of  Egypt,  who  invaded 
the  country  and  reduced  it  to  vassalage  (1  K  14 
25  ff).  I'nder  Rehoboam's  son  Abijah,  actual  war 
broke  out  between  the  two  kingdoms  (15  0  as  cor- 
rected in  ver  7;  2  Ch  13).  The  war  was  con- 
tinued during  the  long  reign  of  his  son  Asa,  whose 
opponent,  Baasha,  built  a  fort  some  6  miles  N. 
of  Jerus  in  order  to  cut  off  that  city  from  com- 
munication with  the  N.  Asa  confessed  his  weak- 
ness by  appealing  for  help  to  Ben-hadad  of  Damas- 
cus. The  end  justified  the  means.  The  fort  was 
demolished. 

The  reign  of  Asa  is  also  remarkable  for  the  first 
of   those  reformations   of   worship  which  recur  at 

intervals  throughout  the  history  of  the 

2.  First  Southern  Kingdom.  The  high  places 
Reform  of  were  not  vet,  however,  considered  ille- 
Religion         gitimate  "(1  K  15  14;     but   cf   2  Ch 

14  5).  He  also,  like  his  grandfather, 
was  a  builder  of  castles,  and  with  a  similar,  though 
more  fortunate,  result  (2  Ch  14  0.0  ff).  Asa's  old 
age  and  illness  helped  to  bring  to  the  rival  kingdoms 
a  peace  which  lasted  bevond  his  own  reign  (1  K 
15  23). 

An  effect  of  this  peace  is  seen  in  the  expanding 
foreign   trade  of  the  country  under  his  successor 

Jehoshaphat.     He  rebuilt  the  navy  as 

3.  Two  in  the  days  of  Solomon,  but  a  storm 
Kingdoms  ruined  the  enterprise  (1  K  22  48  f). 
at  Peace        During  this  reign  the  two  kingdoms 

came  nearer  being  united  than  they 
had  done  since  the  disruption.  This  was  no  doubt 
largely  due  to  the  Northern  Kingdom  having  been 
greatly  weakened  by  the  wars  with  Syria  and 
Assyria,  and  having  given  up  the  idea  of  annexing 
the  smaller  country.  Moreover,  Jehoshaphat  had 
married  his  son  Joram  (Jehoram)  to  Ahab's  daughter 
Athaliah.  From  a  religious  point  of  view,  the  two 
states  reacted  upon  one  another.  Jehoram  of  Israel 
inaugurated  a  reformation  of  worship  in  the  North- 
ern Kingdom,  and  at  the  same  time  that  of  J.  was 
brought  into  line  with  the  practice  of  the  sister 
kingdom  (2  K  8  IS).  The  peace,  from  a  political 
point  of  view,  did  much  to  strengthen  both  countries, 
and  enabled  them  to  render  mutual  assistance 
against  the  common  foe. 

Up  to  the  death  of  Jehoram  of  Israel,  which  synchro- 
nized with  that  of  Joram  and  Ahaziah  of  J..  (>  kiiigs  had 
reigned  in  J.  Of  these  the  first  4  died  in 
their  beds  and  were  buried  in  their  own 
mausoleum.  During  the  same  period  of 
Kingdoms  about  90  years  there  were  in  Israel  9  kings 
Contrasted  divided  into  4  dynasties.  The  second 
king  of  the  1st  Dynasty  was  immediately 
assassinated  and  the  entire  family  annihi- 
lated. Precisely  the  same  fate  overtook  the 'lid  Dy- 
nasty. Then  followed  a  civil  war  in  which  two  pre- 
tenders were  killed,  one  perishing  by  his  own  hand.  The 
Hid  Dynasty  lasted  longer  than  the  first  two  and 
counted  4  kings.  Of  these  one  was  defeated  and  killed 
in  battle  and  another  assassinated.  The  fate  of  the 
kings  of  Israel  is  very  like  that  or  the  middle  and  later 
Ahbasid  caliphs.  The  murder  of  his  brothers  by  the 
Judaean  Jehoram,  a  proceeding  once  regular  with  the 
sultans  of  Turkey,  must  also  be  put  down  to  the  influence 
of  his  Israelite  wife. 

It  was  obvious  that  a  crisis  was  impending. 
Edom  and  Libnah  had  thrown  off  their  allegiance, 
and  the  Philis  had  attacked  and  plundered  Jerus, 
even  the  king's  sons  being  taken  prisoners,  with  the 
exception  of  the  youngest  (2  Ch  21  10).  More- 
over,   the    two    kingdoms   had  become  so  closely 


4.  Two 


united,  not  only  by  intermarriage,  but  also  in 
religion  and  politics,  that  they  must  stand  and  fall 
together.  The  hurricane  which  swept 
6.  Revclu-  away  the  northern  dynasty  also  carried 
tion  in  the  off  the  members  of  the  southern  royal 
Northern  house  more  nearly  connected  with 
Kingdom  Ahab,  and  the  fury  of  the  queen- 
mother  Athaliah  made  the  destruction 
complete   (2  K  11  1). 

For  0  years  the  datighter  of  Ahab  held  sway  in 

Jerus.     The  only  woman  who  sat  on  the  throne  of 

David  was  a  daughter  of  the  hated 

6.  Effect  Ahab.  In  her  uniqueness,  she  thus 
on  the  holds  a  place  similar  to  that  of  Shejer 
Southern  ed-Durr  among  the  Memluk  sultans 
Kingdom        of  Egypt.     The  character  of  her  reign 

is  not  described,  but  it  can  easily  be 
imagined.  She  came  to  her  inevitable  end  0  years 
later. 

Successive  massacres  had  reduced  the  descend- 
ants of  David  until  only  one  representative  was  left. 

Jehoram,   the  last  king  but  one,   had 

7.  Davidic  murdered  all  his  brothers  (2  Ch  21 
House  at  4);  the  Arab  marauders  had  killed 
Lowest  Ebb  Ids  sons  except  the  youngest   (22  1 ; 

cf  21  17).  The  youngest,  Ahaziah, 
after  the  death  of  his  father,  was,  with  42  of  his 
"brethren,"  executed  by  Jehu  (2  K  10  14).  Fi- 
nally, Athaliah  ''destroyed  all  the  seed  royal." 
The  entente  with  the  Northern  Kingdom  had 
brought  the  Davidic  dynasty  to  the  brink  of 
extinction. 

But  just  as  'Abd  or-Rahman  escaped  from  the 
slaughter  of  the  Umeiyads  to  found  a  new  dynasty 

in  Spain,  so  the  Davidic  dynasty  made 

8.  Begins  a  fresh  start  under  Joash.  The  church 
to  Recover    had  saved  the  state,  and  naturally  the 

years  that  followed  were  years  in 
which  the  religious  factor  bulked  large.  The 
temple  of  Baal  which  Athaliah  had  built  and  sup- 
ported was  wrecked,  the  idols  broken,  and  the 
priest  killed.  A  fund  was  inaugurat  ed  for  the  repair 
of  the  national  temple.  The  religious  enthusiasm, 
however,  quickly  cooled.  The  priests  were  found 
to  be  diverting  the  fund  for  the  restoration  of 
the  temple  to  their  own  uses.  A  precisely  similar 
diversion  of  public  funds  occurred  in  connection 
with  the  Karawiyin  mosque  in  Fez  under  the 
Almoravids  in  the  12th  cent._  The  reign  which 
had  begun  with  so  much  promise  ended  in  clouds 
and  darkness  (2  K  12  17  ff ;  2  Ch  24  17  ff ;  Mt 
23  35),  and  Joash  was  the  first  of  the  Judaean 
kings  to  be  assassinated  by  his  own  people  (2  K 
12  20  f). 

By  a  curious  coincidence,  a  new  king  ascended 
the  throne  of  Syria,  of  Israel  and  of  Judah  about 

the  same  time.     The  death  of  Hazael, 

9.  Reviving  and  accession  of  Ben-hadad  III  led 
Fortunes        to  a  revival  in  the  fortunes  of  both  of 

the  Israelite  kingdoms.  The  act  of 
clemency  with  which  Amaziah  commenced  his 
reign  (2  K  14  5.0;  Dt  24  16)  presents  a  pleasing 
contrast  to  the  moral  code  which  had  come  to  pre- 
vail in  the  sister  kingdom;  and  the  story  of  his 
hiring  mercenaries  from  the  Ephraimite  kingdom 
(2  Ch  25  5-10)  sheds  a  curious  light  on  the  relations 
subsisting  between  the  two  countries,  and  even  on 
those  times  generally.  It  is  still  more  curious  to 
find  him,  some  time  after,  sending,  without  provoca- 
tion, a  challenge  to  Jehoash;  and  the  capture  and 
release  of  Amaziah  evinces  some  rudimentary  ideas 
of  chivalry  (2  K  14  8ff).  The  chief  event  of  the 
reign  was  the  reconquest  of  Edom  and  taking  of 
Petra  (2  K  14  7). 

The  principle  of  the  election  of  kings  by  the  people 
was  in  force  in  Judah,  although  it  seemed  to  be  in 


17G1 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA   Judah, Kingdom 


abeyance  since   the  people  were   content   to  limit 

their    choice    to    the   Davidic    line.     But    it    was 

exercised     when     occasion     required. 

10.  Mon-  Joash  had  been  chosen  by  the  popu- 
archy  Still  lace,  and  it  was  they  who,  when  the 
Elective  public   discontent   culminated   in   the 

assassination    of   Amaziah,   chose    his 

16-year-old  son  Uzziah  (or  Azariah)  to  succeed  him. 

The   minority  of   the   king  involved   something 

equivalent    to    a   regency.     As    Jehoiada   at   first 

carried  on  the  government  for  Joash, 

11.  Govern-  so  Uzziah  was  at  first  under  the  tutelage 
ment  by  of  Zechariah  (2  Ch  26  5),  and  the 
Regents         latter  part  of  his  reign  was  covered 

by   the   regency   of   his   son   Jotham. 

It  is  obvious  that  with  the  unstable  dynasties  of  the 

north,  such  government  by  deputy  would  have  been 

impracticable. 

The  reign  of  Uzziah  (2  Ch  26)  was  one  of  the 

most  glorious  in  the  annals  of  the  Judaean  king- 
dom.    The  Philis  and  southern  Arabs, 

12.  Period  who  had  been  so  powerful  in  the 
of  Great  reign  of  Jehoram,  were  subdued,  and 
Prosperity     other  Bedawtn  were   held    in    check. 

The  frontiers  were  strengthened  with 
numerous  castles.  Now  that  Edom  was  again 
annexed,  the  Red  Sea  trade  was  resumed.  Irriga- 
tion was  attended  to,  and  the  agricultural  resources 
of  the  country  were  developed.  Uzziah  also  estab- 
lished a  standing  army,  properly  equipped  and 
trained.  Artillery,  in  the  shape  of  catapults  and 
other  siege  engines,  was  manufactured.  It  is  ob- 
vious that  in  this  reign  we  have  advanced  far  be- 
yond the  earlier  and  ruder  times. 

In  this  and  the  preceding  reigns,  we  notice  also 
how  the  priests  are  becoming  a  distinct  and  power- 
ful caste.     Zadok  and  Abiathar  were 

13.  Rise  of  no  more  than  the  domestic  chaplains 
Priestly  of  David.  The  kings  might  at  pleasure 
Caste  discharge  the  functions  of  the  priest. 

But  the  all-powerful  position  of  Je- 
hoiada seems  to  have  given  the  order  new  life;  and 
in  the  latter  part  of  the  reign  of  Uzziah,  king  and 
priest  come  into  conflict,  and  the  king  comes  off 
second-best  (2  Ch  26  16  ff). 

Uzziah  is  the  first  king  of  J.  to  be  mentioned  in  the 
Assyr  annals.     He  was  fighting  against  "Pul"  in 

the  years  742-740.     The  advent  of  the 

14.  Advent  great  eastern  power  upon  the  scene  of 
of  Assyria      Judaean  politics  could  end  but  in  one 

way — as  it  was  soon  to  do  with  Israel 
also.  The  reign  of  Jotham  may  be  passed  over  as 
it  coincided  almost  entirely  with  that  of  his  father. 
But  in  the  following  reign  we  find  J.  already  paying 
tribute  to  Assyria  in  the  year  of  the  fall  of  Damas- 
cus and  the  conquest  of  the  East-Jordan  land,  the 
year  734. 

During  the  regency  of  Jotham,  the  effeminacy 
and  luxury  of  the  Northern  Kingdom  had  already 

begun  to  infect  the  Southern  (Mic  1  9; 

15.  Judah  a  6  16),  and  under  the  irresolute  Ahaz 
Protectorate  the  declension  went  on  rapidly.     This 

rapprochement  in  morals  and  customs 
did  not  prevent  Israel  under  Pekah  joining  with 
Rezin  of  Syria  against  J.,  with  no  less  an  object 
than  to  subvert  the  dynasty  by  placing  an  Ara- 
maean on  the  throne  (Isa  7  6).  What  the  result 
might  have  been,  had  not  Isaiah  taken  the  reins 
out  of  Ahaz'  hands,  it  is  impossible  to  say.  As  it 
was,  J.  felt  the  st  rain  of  the  conflict  for  many  a  year. 
The  country  was  invaded  from  other  points,  and 
many  towns  were  lost,  some  of  which  were  never 
recovered  (2  Ch  28  17  ff).  In  despair  Ahaz  placed 
himself  and  his  country  under  the  protection  of 
Assyria  (2  K  16  7ff). 

It  was  a  part  of  the  cosmopolitan  tendencies  of 
the  time  that  the  worship  became  tarnished  with 


foreign  innovations  (2  K  16  10).  The  temple  for 
the  first  time  in  its  history  was  closed  (2  Ch  28  24). 

Altars  of  Baal  were  set  up  in  all  the 
16.  Cosmo-  open  spaces  of  Jerus,  each  representing 
politan  some  urban  god  (Jer  11  13).     About 

Tendencies   the  closing  of  the  temple  Isaiah  would 

not  be  greatly  concerned.  Perhaps  it 
was  his  suggestion  (cf  Isa  1).  The  priests  who 
were  supreme  in  the  preceding  reigns  had  lost  their 
influence:  their  place  had  been  taken  by  the 
prophets.  The  introduction  of  Baalism,  however, 
was  no  doubt  due  to  Ahaz  alone. 

IV.  Period  of  Decline. — The  following  reign — 
that  of  Hezekiah — was,  perhaps  as  a  result  of  the 

disappearance  of  the  Northern  King- 

1.  Judah  dom,  a  period  of  reformation.  Isaiah 
Inde-  is  now  supreme,  and  the  history  of  the 
pendent  times  will  be  found  in  his  biography. 

It  must  have  been  with  a  sigh  of  relief 
that  Hezekiah  saw  the  Northern  Kingdom  dis- 
appear  forever  from  the  scene.  The  relations  of 
the  two  countries  had  been  too  uniformly  hostile 
to  make  that  event  anything  but  an  omen  for  good. 
It  was  no  doubt  due  to  Isaiah  that  Hezekiah  sought 
to  recover  the  old  independence  of  his  country. 
Their  patriotism  went  near  to  be  their  own  undoing. 
Sennacherib  invaded  Pal,  and  Hezekiah  found  him- 
self shorn  of  everything  that  was  outside  the  walls 
of  Jerus.  Isaiah's  patriotism  rose  to  the  occasion; 
the  invading  armies  melted  away  as  by  a  miracle; 
J.  was  once  more  free  (2  K  18  13 ff). 

A  curious  result  of  Sennacherib's  invasion  was 
the  disappearance  of  the  high  places — local  shrines 

where   Levitical    priests    officiated   in 

2.  Reform  opposition  to  those  of  the  temple, 
of  Religion    When    the    Judaean    territories   were 

limited  to  the  city,  these  of  necessity 
vanished,  and,  when  the  siege  was  over,  they  were 
not  restored.  They  were  henceforward  regarded 
as  illegal.  It  is  generally  held  by  scholars  that 
this  reform  occurred  later  under  Josiah,  on  the 
discovery  of  the  "Book  of  the  Law"  by  Hilkiah  in 
the  temple  (2  K  22  8),  and  that  this  book  was 
Dt.  The  high  places,  however,  are  not  mentioned 
in  the  law  book  of  Dt.  The  reform  was  probably  the 
work  of  Isaiah,  and  due  to  considerations  of  morals. 
The  Judaeans  had  always  had  a  friendly  feeling 
toward  Egypt.  When  the  great  eastern  power 
became  threatening,  it  was  to  Egypt 

3.  Egypt  they  turned  for  safety.  Recent  exca- 
and  Judah     vation  has  shown  that  the  influence  of 

Egypt  upon  the  life  and  manners  of 
Pal  was  very  great,  and  that  that  of  Assyria  and 
Babylonia  was  comparatively  slight,  and  generally 
confined  to  the  N.  In  the  reign  of  Hezekiah  a 
powerful  party  proposed  an  alliance  with  Egypt 
with  the  view  of  check-mating  the  designs  of  Assyria 
(2  K  17  4;  Isa  30  2.3;  31  1).  Hezekiah  followed 
Isaiah's  advice  in  rejecting  all  alliances. 

The  commercial  and  other  ties  which  bound  Pal  to 
Egypt  were  much  stronger  than  those  between  Pal  and 

the  East.  One  of  the  most  considerable 
4  Traffic  °'  these  was  the  trade  in  horses.  This 
.  '  TT  traffic  had  been  begun  by  Solomon  (1  K 

in  Morses       iq  28  f).     The  chief  seat  of  the  trade  in 

Pal  was  Lachish  (Mic  1  13).  In  their 
nomadic  state  the  Israelites  had  used  camels  and  donkeys, 
and  the  use  of  the  horse  was  looked  upon  with  suspicion 
by  the  prophets  (Dt  17  16;  Zee  9  10).  When  the 
horse;  is  spoken  of  in  the  OT,  it  is  as  the  chief  weapon  of 
the  enemies  of  tho  nation  (Ex  15  1;  Jgs  5  22,  etc). 

On  the  death  of  Hezekiah,  the  nation  reverted 
to  the  culture  and  manners  of  the  time  of  Ahaz  and 
even  went  farther  than  he  in  corrupt 
5.  Reaction  practices.     Esp.   at  this  time   human 
under  sacrifice  became  common  in  Israel  (Mic 

Manasseh     6  7).     The  influence  for  good  of  the 
prophets  had  gone   (2  K  21).     There 
is  a  curious  story  in  2  Ch  33  11  f  that  Manasseh 


Judah,  Kingdom 
Judah,  Territory 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  RIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1 7G2 


was  taken  captive  by  the  Assyrians,  and,  after 
spending  some  time  in  captivity  in  Babylon,  re- 
formed and  was  restored  to  his  throne.  His  son, 
however,  undid  these  reforms,  and  public  discon- 
tent grew  to  such  an  extent  that  he  was  assassinated 
(2   K  21   1!)  ff) 

Once   more   the    tide    turned    in   the   direction    of 

reform,  and  on  this  occasion  it  rose  higher  than  ever 

before.     The  reformation  under  Josiah 

6.  Triumph  was  never  again  wholly  undone.  The 
of  Reform  enthusiasm  of  the  iconoclasts  carried 
Party  i  hem  far  beyond  the  frontiers  of  Judah 

(2  Ch  34  6),  for  on  this  occasion  they 
were  backed  up  by  the  newly  found  "Book  of  the 
Law."  All  boded' well  for  a  prosperous  reign,  but 
unforeseen  disasters  came  from  without.  The 
Scythian  invasion  swept  over  Southwestern  Asia 
(Jer  1  14-10;  6  1,  etc).  The  storm  passed,  and 
hope  rose  higher  than  before,  for  the  power  of 
Assyria  had  been  shattered  forever. 

Already  in  722,  when  Sargon  seized   the  throne 
on   the   death  of   Shahnaneser,    Babylonia  had   re- 
volted, and  crowned  Marduk-baladan 

7.  Baby-  king  (Isa  39  1).  Hezekiah  received 
Ionia  and  a  deputation  from  Babylonia  (2  K 
Judah  20   12  fT),    no    doubt    in    the    hope   of 

freeing  himself  from  the  Assyr  danger 
by  such  an  alliance.  The  revolt  of  Merodach- 
baladan  was  maintained  for  12  years;  then  it,  was 
suppressed.  There  was,  however,  a  second  revolt, 
of  Babylonia  on  the  accession  of  Sennacherib,  Sar- 
gon's  son,  in  70.5,  which  went  on  till  691,  and  the 
events  referred  to  in  2  K  20  may  have  happened 
at  this  time,  for  Hezekiah's  reign  seems  to  have 
ended  prosperously. 

Sennacherib  was  assassinated  in  GS1  (Isa  37  38) 
and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  Esar-haddon,  who 

rebuilt  Babylon,  razed  to  the;  ground 

8.  End  of  by  his  father,  and  under  whom  the 
Assyrian  province  remained  quiet.  In  674  hos- 
Empire  tilities  with  Egypt  broke  out,  and  that 

country  was  overrun,  and  Tirhakah 
(q.v.)  was  expelled  in  670.  Two  years  later, 
however,  occurred  the  revolt  of  Egypt  and  the 
death  of  Esar-haddon.  Assur-bani-pal  succeeded, 
and  Egypl  regained  her  independence  in  660.  The 
revolt,  of  Babylonia,  the  incursion  of  the  Scythians 
(Jer  1  1  1  fT)  and  the  death  of  Assur-bani-pal  fol- 
lowed. Two  more  kings  sat  on  the  throne  of 
Assyria,  and  then  Nineveh  was  taken  by  the  com- 
bined Scythians  (Mandor)  and  Babylonians  (Herod. 
i.74;   Nah;  Zeph  2  13-15;   Hab  1  of). 

The  Scythian  tempest  passed  quickly,  and  when 
it  was  over  the  Assyr  peril  was  no  more.     Pharaoh- 

necoh  seized  the  opportunity  to  avenge 

9.  After  the  injuries  of  his  country  by  the  inva- 
Scythian  sion  of  the  erstwhile  Assyr  territories. 
Invasion         Josiah,  pursuing  the  policy  of  alliance 

with  Babylonia  inaugurated  by  Heze- 
kiah, endeavored  to  arrest,  his  progress.  He  was 
defeated  and  mortally  wounded  at  Megiddo  (Zee 
12  11). 

By  the  foolhardy  action  of  Josiah,  J.  lost  its  inde- 
pendence.    The    people,   indeed,  elected    Jehoahaz 
(Shallum)    king,    but    he    was    imme- 

10.  Judah  diatelv  deposed  and  carried  to  Egypt 
Again  De-  by  the  Pharaoh  (Jer  22  10  ff;  Ezk 
pendent  19  3  f),     who     appointed     Jehoiakim 

(Eliakim)  as  vassal-king.  After  the 
defeat  of  t  he  Pharaoh  at  Carchemish,  the  old 
Hittite  stronghold,  by  Nebuchadrezzar,  Jehoia- 
kim submitted,  and  J.  became  a  dependency  of 
Babylon.  There  must  have  been  some  return  of 
prosperity,  for  Jehoiakim  is  denounced  for  his 
luxury  and  extravagance  and  oppressive  taxation 
(Jer  22   13  ff),  but  the  country  was  raided  by  the 


neighboring  Bedawin  (2  K  24  2),  and  Jehoiakim 
came  to  an  untimely  end  (Jer  22   10). 

The  prophets  were  no  longer,  as  under  Hezekiah, 

all-powerful  in  the  state.     The:  influence  of  Jeremiah 

was  no  doubt  great,  but  the  majority 

11.  Prophets  was  against,  him.  His  program  was 
Lose  In-  both  unpopular  in  itself  and  it  had 
fluence  the  fatal  defect  of  being  diametrically 

opposed  to  that  of  Isaiah,  the  patriot- 
politician  (if  such  there  be),  who  had  saved  the  st  at  e 
from  shipwreck.  Isaiah  had  preached  reliance 
upon  the  national  God  and  through  it  the  political 
independence  of  the  nation.  It,  was  the  sad  duty 
of  Jeremiah  to  advise  the  surrender  of  the  national 
independence  to  the  newly  risen  power  of  Babylon. 
(Jer  21  4.0;  38  2,  etc).  Isaiah  had  held  that  the 
Holy  City  was  impregnable  (2  K  19  32);  Jeremiah 
was  sure  that  it  would  be  taken  by  the  Chaldaeans 
(Jer  32  24.43).  Events  proved  that  each  prophet 
was  right  for  the  time  in  which  he  lived. 

Jehoiakim  was  the  only  Judaean  king  who  was 
a  vassal  first  to  one  overlord   and  then  to  another. 

J.  took  a  step  downward  in  his  reign. 

12.  The  It,  was  under  him  also  that  the  first 
Deporta-  deportation  of  the  Judaeans  occurred 
tions  (Dnl  1   1^17).     He  was  succeeded  by 

his  son  Jehoiachin  who,  on  account  of 
a  rebellion  which  closed  the  reign  of  his  father,  was 
ere  long  deported,  along  with  the  best  of  the  nation 
(Jer  22  24  ff;  Ezk  19  off).  A  3d  son  of  Josiah, 
Mattaniah,  was  set  on  the  throne  under  the  title  of 
Zedekiah.  Against  the  advice  of  Jeremiah,  this, 
the  last  king  of  J.,  declared  himself  independent  of 
Babylon,  and  threw  in  his  lot  with  Egypt  under 
Pharaoh  Hophra  (Apries),  thus  breaking  his  oath 
of  fealty  (Ezk  17  15  ff).  On  the  advance  of  the 
Chaldaeans,  J.  was  deserted  by  her  allies,  the  Edom- 
ites  and  Philis  (see  Book  of  Ob),  and  soon  only 
Lachish  (Tellel-Hesy),  Azekah  (probably  Tell  Zaka- 
rya)  and  Jerus  remained  in  the  hands  of  Zedekiah. 
The  siege  of  the  city  lasted  two  years.  It  was  taken 
on  the  fatal  9th  of  Ab  in  the  year  586.  Zedekiah's 
family  was  put  to  the  sword,  and  he  himself  was 
taken  to  Babylon.  Egypt  shared  the  fate  of  J., 
with  whom  she  had  been  often  so  closely  connected, 
and  Hophra  was  the  last  of  the  Pharaohs. 

The  kingdom  of  J.  had  lasted  480  years,  counting 

from  its  commencement,  exactly  twice  as  long  as 

the   kingdom  of  Israel,  counting  from 

13.  Sum-  the  disruption.  No  doubt  this  longer 
mary  existence  was  due  in  the  first  place  to 

the  religious  faith  of  the;  people.  This 
is  clear  from  the  fact  that  the  national  religion  not 
only  survived  the  extinction  of  the  nation,  but 
spread  far  beyond  its  original  territories  and  has 
endured  down  to  the  present  day.  But  then;  were 
also  circumstances  which  conspired  to  foster  the 
growth  of  the  nation  in  its  earliest  and  most  critical 
period.  One  of  these  was  the  comparative  isola- 
tion and  remoteness  of  the  country.  Neither  the 
kingdom  of  Israel  nor  that  of  Judah  is  for  a  moment 
to  be  compared  to  those  of  Egypt  and  Assyria. 
Even  the  combined  kingdom  under  David  and  Sol- 
omon hardly  deserves  that  comparison;  and  sepa- 
rate1, the  Northern  Kingdom  would  be  about  the  size 
of  New  Hampshire  and  the  Southern  Kingdom  about 
that  of  Connect  icut.  The  smaller  kingdom  survived 
1  he  larger  because  it  happened  to  be  slightly  farther 
removed  from  the  danger  zone.  Even  had  the  two 
kingdoms  held  together,  it  is  impossible  that  they 
could  have  withstood  the  expansion  of  Assyria  and 
Babylonia  on  the  one  side  and  of  Egypt  on  the 
other.  The  Egyp  party  in  Judaean  politics  in  the 
times  of  Isaiah  and  Jeremiah  were  so  far  in  the 
right,  that,  if  J.  could  have  maintained  her  inde- 
pendence in  alliance  with  Egypl ,  t  hese  two  countries 
combined    might    have    withstood    the    power    of 


1763 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Judah,  Kingdom 
Judah,  Territory 


Assyria  or  Babylon.  But  it  is  because  this  ancient 
race,  tracing  its  descent  from  remote  antiquity, 
preserved  its  religious,  at  the  expense  of  its  national, 
independence,  that  its  lit.  continues  to  mold  much 
of  the  thought  of  Europe  and  America  today.  See 
Israel,  Kingdom  of.      Thomas  Hunter  Weir 

JUDAH,  TERRITORY  OF  (HTTP,  y'hudhah): 

I.     Geographical   Data 

1.  The  Natural  Boundaries 

2.  The  Natural  Divisions  of  Judah 

(1)  The  Maritime  Plain 

(2)  The  Shephelah 

(3)  The  Hill  Country  of  Judah 

II.     The  Tribe  of  Judah  and  Irs  Territory 
III.     The  Boundaries  of  the  Kingdom  of  Judah 
Literature 

/.  Geographical  Data. — Although  the  physical 
conformation  of  Western  Pal  divides  this  land  into 
very  definite  areas  running  longitudinally  N.  and  S., 
yet  all  through  history  there  has  been  a  recognition 
of  a  further — and  politically  more  important — 
division  into  3  areas  running  transversely,  known  in 
NT  times  as  Galilee,  Samaria  and  Judaea.  These 
districts  are  differentiated  to  some  extent  by  dis- 
tinctive physical  features  which  have  in  no  small 
degree  influenced  the  history  of  their  inhabitants. 

The  southernmost  of  these  regions  possesses  on  3  sides 
very  definite  natural  boundaries?   to  the  VV.  the  Medi- 
terranean,   to   tin;   E.    the    Dead    Sea,    and 

1.  The  the  Jordan,  and  to  the  S.  60  miles,  N.  to  S., 
Natural  of  practically  trackless  desert,  a  frontier 
z:  .  as  secure  as  sea  or  mountain  range.  On 
Boundaries    the  N.  no  such  marked  "scientific  frontier" 

exists,  and  on  this  the  one  really  accessible 
side,  history  bears  witness  that  the  frontier  lias  been 
pushed  backward  and  forward.  The  most  ideal  natural 
northern  frontier,  which  only  became  the  actual  one  com- 
paratively late  in  Heb  times  (sec;  Judaea),  is  that  which 
passes  from  the  river  '  Aujeh  in  the  W.,  up  the  Wady  Deir 
Baldt,  by  the  wide  and  deep  Wady  Ishdr  to  '  Akrabbeh  and 
thence  E.  to  the  Jordan.  A  second  natural  frontier  com- 
mences at  the  same  line  on  the  XV.,  but  after  following 
the  Wady  Deir  Baldt,  branches  off  southward  along  the 
Wady  Nimr  (now  traversed  by  the  modern  carriage  road 
from  Jerus  to  Nablus),  crosses  the  water-parting  close  to 
the  lofty  Tell  Ashur,  and  runs  successively  down  t  he  Wady 
San  icAand  the  Wady'  A  ujeh  and  by  the  eastern  river'  A  ujt  h 
to  the  Jordan.  This  division-line  is  one  conformable  to 
the  physical  features,  because  north  of  it  the  table-lands  of 
"Judaea"  give  place  to  the  more  broken  mountain  groups 
of  "  Samaria."  Another  less  natural,  though  much  more 
historic,  frontier  is  that  which  traverses  the  Vale  of  Ajalon, 
follows  the  Beth-horon  pass,  and,  after  crossing  the  cen- 
tral plateau  near  el  Jib  (Gibeon)  and  er  Ram  (Ramah  of 
Benjamin),  runs  down  the  deep  and  rugged  Wady 
SuweitM,  between  Jeba'  (Geba)  and  Mukhmas  (Mich- 
mash),  to  Jericho  and  the  Jordan.  It  was  along  this 
line  that  the  great  frontier  fortresses,  Bethel,  Gibeon, 
Ramah,  Adasa,  Geba  and  Michmash,  were  erected. 
Such,  on  the  .V,  S.,  B.,  and  XV.,  were  (he  natural  bound- 
aries of  the  southern  third  of  Pal;  yet  in  all  history  the 
land  thus  inclosed  scarcely  ever  formed  a  homogeneous 
whole. 

Within  these  boundaries  lay  four  very  different 

types  of  land — the  maritime  plain,   the  "lowland" 

or  Shephelah,  the  ''hill  country"  and, 

2.  The  Nat- included  usually  with  the  last,  the 
ural  Divi-      desert  or  Jeshimon. 

sions  of  (1)    The  maritime   -plain,   the   "land 

Judah  of  the  Philis"   (1  S  6  1;  27  1;    2  K 

8  2;  Zeph  2  5),  was  ideally  though 
never  actually,  the  territory  of  Judah  (cf  Josh  15 
45-47);  it  may  have  been  included,  as  it  is  by  some 
modern  writers,  as  part  of  the  Shephelah,  but  this 
is  not  the  usual  use  of  tin;  word.  It  is  a  great 
stretch  of  level  plain  or  rolling  downs  of  very  fertile 
soil,  capable  of  supporting  a  thriving  population 
and  cities  of  considerable  size,  esp.  near  tin;  sea- 
coast. 

(2)  TJie  Shephelah  (s}icpJielah),  or  "lowland"  of 
Judah  (Dt  1  7;  Josh  9  1;  11  2. 16;  15  33-44; 
1  K  10  27;  1  Ch  27  28;  Jer  17  26).— In  these 
reference's  the  word  is  variously  rendered  in  AV, 
usually  as  "vale"  or  "valley,"  sometimes,  as  in  the 
hist  two,  as  "plain."  In  RV  the  usual  rendering  is 
"lowland."     In  1  Mace  12  38,  AV  has  "Shephela" 


and  RV  "plain  country."  The  word  "Shephelah" 
appears  to  survive  in  the  Arab.  Sifia  about  Beit 
Jebrin. 

This  is  a  very  important  region  in  the  history  of  Judah. 
It  is  a  district  consisting  mainly  of  rounded  hills  500- 
800  ft.  high,  with  fertile  open  valleys  full  of  corn  fields; 
caves  abound,  and  there  are  abundant  evidences  of  a 
once  crowded  population.  Situated  as  it  is  between  the 
"hill  country"  and  the  maritime  plain,  it  was  the  scene 
of  frequent  skirmishes  between  the  Hebrews  and  the 
Philis;  Judah  failed  to  hold  it  against  the  Philis  who  kept 
it  during  most  of  their  history.  The  Shephelah  is  some- 
what sharply  divided  off  from  the  central  mountain  mass 
by  a  remarkable  series  of  valleys  running  N.  and  S 
Commencing  at  the  Yale  of  Ajalon  and  passing  S.,  we 
have  in  succession  the  Wady  el  Ghurab  and,  after  crossing 
the  Wady  cs  Siwdn,  the  Wady  en  Najil,  the  Wady  en 
Sunt  (Elah)  and  the  Wady  es  S&r.  It  is  noticeable  that 
the  western  extremity  of  the  most  historic  northern 
frontier  of  ancient  Judah — that  limited  bv  the  Vale  of 
Ajalon  in  the  W. — appears  to  have  been  determined  by 
the  presence  of  this  natural  feature.  N.  of  this  the  hills 
of  Samaria  flatten  out  to  the  plain  without  any  such 
intervening  valleys. 

(3)    The  hill  country  of  Judah  is  by  far  the  most 
characteristic    part    of     that    tribe's    possessions; 
it  was  on  account  of  the  shelter  of  these  mountain 
fastnesses  that  this  people  managed  to  hold  their 
own  against  their  neighbors  and  hide;  away  from  the 
conquering  armies  of  Assyria  and  Egypt .     No  other 
section  of  the  country  was  so  secluded  and  protected 
by  her  natural  borders.     It  was  the  environment 
of   these   bare  hills   and    rugged  valleys  which  did 
much  to  form  the  character    and    influence  the  lit. 
of   the   Jews.     The    hill    country   is    an   area   well 
defined,  about  35  miles  long  and  some  15  broad,  and 
is  protected  on  three  sides  by  natural  frontiers  of 
great  strength;  on  the  N.  alone  it  has  no  "scientific 
frontier."     On  the  S.  lay  the  Nogeb,  and  beyond 
that  the  almost  waterless  wilderness,  a  barrier  con- 
sisting of  a  series  of  stony  hills  running  E.  and  W., 
difficult    for    a    caravan  and  almost  impracticable 
for  an  army.     On  the  W.  the  hills  rise  sharply  from 
those  valleys  which  delimit  them  from  the  Shephe- 
lah, but  they  are  pierced  by  a  series  of  steep  and 
rugged  defiles  which  wind  upward   to   the  central 
table-land.     At  the  northwestern  corner  the  Beth- 
horon   pass — part,  of   the  northern   frontier  line — 
runs  upward  from  the  wide  Vale  of  Ajalon;    this 
route,  the  most  historic  of  all,  has  been  associated 
with  a  succession  of  defeats  inflicted  by  those  hold- 
ing the  higher  ground    (see   Beth-horon).     S.   of 
this  is  the   Wady  KAli,  up  which  runs  the  modern 
carriage  road  to  Jerus,  and  still  farther  S.  lies  the 
winding  rocky  defile1,  up  part  of  which  the  railway 
from  Jaffa  is  laid,  the  Wady  es  Surdr.     A  more  im- 
portant  valley,    because   of   its   width    and    easier 
gradient,  is  the  great  Vale  of  Elah  (Wady  es  Sunt), 
to  guard  the  highest  parts  of  which  (now  the  Wady 
es  Sur)  was  built  the  powerful  fortress  of  Beth-zur 
(2  Ch  11  7,  etc),  which  Jos  (Ant,  XIII,  v,  6)  de- 
scribes as  "the  strongest  place  in  all  Judaea"  (see 
Beth-zur).     Up  this  pass  the  Syrians  successfully 
with  the  aid  of  elephants  (Ant,  XII,  ix,  4)  invaded 
Judaea.     The  eastern  frontier  of   the  hill  country 
is  one  of  extraordinary  natural  strength.     Firstly, 
there  were  the  Jordan  and  the  Dead  Sea;  then  along 
all  but  the  northernmost  part  of  the  eastern  frontier 
lay  a  long  line  of  semi-precipitous  cliffs,  in  places 
over    1,000    ft.   high,    absolutely    unscalable    and 
pierced  at  long  intervals  by  passes  all  steep  and 
dangerous.     Within  this  again  came  a  wide  area  of 
waterless    and    barren    desert,    the    Wilderness    of 
Judah    (or   Judaea)    known    in    EV   as    Jeshimon 
(q.v.).     To  the  northeasterly  part  of  the  frontier, 
where   the   ascent   from   the   Jericho   plain    to    the 
mountains  presents  no  special  difficulty  in  gradation, 
the    waterless   condition    of    the   Jeshimon    greatly 
restricted  the  possible  routes  for  an  enemy.     The 
natural  position  for  the  first-  line  of  defence  was  the 
fortified  city  of  Jericho,  but    as  a  frontier  fortress 


Judah,  Territory 
Judas  Iscariot 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1764 


io  days  of   Joshua  onward    (see 
Jericho  four  roads  pass  upward 


she  failed  from  i 
Jericho).  From 
to  the  plateau  of  Judah;   unlike  the  corresponding 

passes  on  the  western  frontier,  they  do  not  traverse; 
any  definite  line  of  valley,  but  in  many  places  run 
actually  along  the  ridges. 

Those  roads  are:  (a)  The.  earliest  historically,  though 
now  the  least  frequented,  is  the  most  northerly,  which 
passes  westward  at  the  back  of  ancient  Jericho  (near 
■  tin  es  Sultan)  and  ascends  by  Michmash  and  Ai  to 
Bethel;  (b)  the  route  traversed  by  the  modern  Jerus- 
.Toricho  road;  (c)  the  more  natural  route  which  enters  the 
hills  by  »'"'/'/  Jorcif  Gh&sal  and  runs  by  Nebi  Musa, 
joining  the  line  of  the  modern  carriage  road  a  mile  or  so 
after  passing  the  deserted  ruin  of  the  Saracenic  Khan 
el  \hmar.  Here  runs  the  road  for  the  thousands  of  pil- 
grims who  visit  the  shrine  of  Nebi  M&sa  in  the  spring. 
(d)  The  most  natural  pass  of  all  is  by  way  of  Wady  el 
Kunt  iterah,  across  the  open  plateau  of  el  Bukeia'  and  over 
the  shoulder  of  Jebel  el  Munt&r  to  Bethlehem.  From 
'.tin  Feshkhah  a  very  steep  road,  probably  ancient, 
ascends  to  join  this  last  route  in  el  Bukeia'.  From  En- 
gedi  ('Ain  Jidy)  a  steep  ascent — almost  a  stairway — ■ 
winds  abruptly  to  the  plateau  above,  whence  a  road 
passes  northwesterly  by  the  Wady  Husaseh,  past  Tekoa 
to  Bethlehem  and  Jerus,  and  another  branch  goes  west 
to  Hebron  and  Juttah. 

Somewhere  along  these  routes  must  have  lain  the 
"Ascent  of  Ziz"  and  the  "Wilderness  of  Jeruel,"  the 
scene  of  the  events  of  2  Ch  20.  The  hill  country 
of  Judah  is  distinguished  from  other  parts  of  Pal 
by  certain  physical  characteristics.  Its  central  part 
is"  a  long  plateau — or  really  series  of  plateaus — 
running  N.  and  S.,  very  stony  and  barren  and  sup- 
plied with  but  scanty  springs:  "dew"  is  less  plenti- 
ful than  in  the  north;  several  of  the  elevated  plains, 
e.g.  about  Bethlehem,  Beit  Jala  and  Hebron,  are 
well  suited  to  the  growth  of  corn  and  olive  trees;  in 
the  sheltered  valleys  and  on  the  terraced  hillsides 
to  the  W.  of  the  water-parting,  vines,  olives,  figs 
and  other  fruit  trees  nourish  exceedingly.  There 
is  evidence  everywhere  that  cultivation  was  far 
more  highly  developed  in  ancient  times;  on  most 
of  the  hill  slopes  to  the  W.  traces  of  ancient  ter- 
races can  still  be  seen  (see  Botany).  This  district 
in  many  parts,  esp.  on  its  eastern  slopes,  is  preemi- 
nently a  pastoral  land,  and  flocks  of  sheep  and  goats 
abound,  invading  in  the  spring  even  the  desert 
itself.  This  last  is  ever  in  evidence,  visible  from  the 
environs  of  all  Judah's  greater  cilies  and  doubtless 
profoundly  influencing  the  lives  and  thoughts  of  their 
inhabitants. 

The  altitude  attained  in  this  "hill  country"  is 
usually  below  3,000  ft.  in  the  north  (e.g.  Ramallah, 
2,S.r)()  ft.,  Nebi  Samwil,2,$35  ft.),  but  is  higher  near 
Hebron,  where  we  get,  3,045  ft.  at  Ramet  el  Khulil. 
Many  would  limit  the  term  "hill  country  of  Judaea" 
to  the  higher  hills  centering  around  Hebron,  but 
this  is  unnecessary.  Jerus  is  situated  near  a  lower 
and  more  expanded  part  of  the  plateau,  while  the 
higher  hills  to  its  north,  are,  like  that  city  itself,  in 
the  territory  of  Benjamin. 

//.  The  Tribe  of  Judah  and  Its  Territory. — In  Nu 
26  19-22,  when  the  tribes  of  the  Hebrews  are 
enumerated  "in  the  plains  of  Moab  by  the  Jordan 
at  Jericho"  (ver  3),  Judah  is  described  as  made  up 
of  the  families  of  the  Shelanites,  the  Perezites,  the 
Zerahitos,  the  Hezronites  and  the  Hamulites. 
"These  are  the  families  of  Judah  according  to  those 
that  wore  numbered  of  them,"  a  total  of  76,500 
(ver  22).  In  Jgs  1  16  we  read  that  the  Kcnites 
united  with  the  tribe  of  J.,  and  from  other  references 
(Josh  14  6-15;  15  13  19;  Jgs  1  12-15.20)  we 
learn  that  the  two  Kenizzite  clans  of  Caleb  and 
Othniel  also  were  absorbed;  and  it  is  clear  from 
1  S  27  10;  30  29  that  the  Jorahmeolites— closely 
connected  with  the  Calobites  (of  1  Ch  2  42) — also 
formed  a  part  of  the  tribe  of  J.  The  Kenizzites 
and  Jorahmeolites  were  probably  of  Edomite  origin 
((ion  36  11;  cf  1  Ch  2  42),  and  this  large  admix- 
ture of  foreign  blood  may  partly  account  for  the  com- 


parative isolation  of  J.  from  the  other  tribes  (e.g.  she 
is  not  mentioned  in  Jgs  5). 

The  territory  of  the  tribe  of  J.  is  described  ideally  in 
Josh  15,  but  it  never  really  extended  over  the  maritime 
plain  to  the  \V.  The  natural  frontiers  to  the  W.  and  K. 
have  already  been  described  as  the  frontiers  of  the  "hill 
country";  to  the  S.  the  boundary  is  described  as  going 
"even  to  the  wilderness  of  Zin  southward,  at  the  utter- 
most part  of  the  south,"  i.e.  of  the  Negeb  (ver  1),  and 
(ver  IV)  as  far  south  as  Kadesh-barnea,  i.e.  tin;  oasis  of 
'  .1  in  Kadi  s,  50  miles  S.  of  Beersheba,  far  in  the  desert ;  the 
position  of  the  "Ascent  of  Akrabbim,"  i.e.  of  scorpions, 
is  not  known.  The  "Brook  of  Egypt"  is  generally 
accepted  to  be  the  Wady  el'  Arish.  The  fact  is,  the  actual 
frontier  shaded  off  imperceptibly  into  the  desert — varying 
perhaps  with  the  possibilities  of  agriculture  and  depend- 
ing therefore  upon  the  rainfall.  The  cities  mentioned  as 
on  the  boundaries,  whose  sites  are  now  lost,  probably 
roughly  marked  the  edge  of  the  habitable  area  (see 
Neoeb). 

The  northern  boundary  which  separated  the  land  of 
J.  from  that  of  Benjamin  requires  brief  mention.  The 
various  localities  mentioned  in  Josh  15  5-12  are  dealt 
with  in  separate  articles,  but,  omitting  the  very  doubtful, 
the  following,  which  are  generally  accepted,  will  show 
the  general  direction  of  the  boundary  line:  The  border 
went  from  the  mouth  of  the  Jordan  to  Beth-hoglah  ('Ain 
Hajlah),  and  from  the  Valley  of  Achor  ( Wady  Kelt)  by 
the  ascent  of  Adummin  (Tala'at  e<t  Dumm)  to  the  waters 
of  En  Shemesh  (probably  'Ain  Hand),  En  Rogel  (Bir 
Eyyub),  and  the  Valley  of  Hinnom  (Wndy  er  Rababi). 
The  line  then  crossed  the  Vale  of  Rephaim  (rl  Bukeia') 
to  the  waters  of  Nephtoah  (Lifta),  Kiriath-jearira 
(Kuryet  el  'Enab),  Chesalon  (Kesld),  Beth-shemesh 
('Ain  Shems),  Ekron  ('  Akir),  and  Jabneel  (Yebnah),  "and 
the  goings  out  of  the  border  -were  at  the  sea."  Accord- 
ing to  the  above  line,  Jerus  lay  entirely  within  the  bounds 
of  Benjamin,  though,  according  to  a  tradition  recorded 
in  the  Talm,  the  site  of  the  altar  was  in  a  piece  of  land 
belonging  to  Judah.  The  above  frontier  line  can  be 
followed  on  any  modern  map  of  Pal,  and  if  it  does  not 
in  many  parts  describe  a  natural  frontier,  it  must  be 
remembered  that  the  frontiers  of  village  and  town  pos- 
sessions in  modern  Pal  are  extremely  arbitrary,  and 
though  undetermined  by  any  natural  limits  such  as 
streams  or  mountain  summits,  they  persist  from  gen- 
eration to  generation,  and  this  too  during  periods — not 
long  past — when  there  was  constant  warfare  between 
diirerent  clans. 

The  territory  of  J.  was  small;  even  had  it  included  all 
within  its  ideal  boundaries,  it  would  have  been  no  more 
than  2,000  sq.  miles;  actually  it  was  nearer  1,300  su.. 
miles,  of  which  nearly  halt  was  desert. 

///.    The  Boundaries  of  the  Kingdom  of  Judah. — ■ 

These  wore  very  circumscribed.  In  2  Ch  11  5-12 
there  is  a  list  of  the  cities — chiefly  those  on  the 
frontier — which  Rehoboam  fortified.  On  the  E. 
were  Bethlehem,  Etam  and  Tekoa;  and  on  the 
W.  and  S.W.  were  Beth-zur,  Soco,  Adullam,  Oath, 
Mareshah,  Ziph,  Adoraim,  Lachish,  Azekah, 
Zorah,  Aijalon  and  Hebron.  The  sites  of  the  great 
majority  of  those  are  known,  and  they  are  all  upon 
the  borders  of  the  Shophclah  or  the  hill  country. 
It  will  be  seen  too  that  the  military  preparation 
then  made  was  against  an  attack  from  the  W.  In 
the  5th  year  of  the  reign  of  Rehoboam  the  expected 
attack  came,  and  Shishak  (Sheshenq  I)  of  Egypt 
swept  over  the  land  an'd  not  only  conquered  all  J. 
and  Jerus,  but,  according  to  the  reading  of  some 
authorities  in  the  account  of  this  campaign  given 
in  the  great  temple  of  Kamak,  he  handed  over  to 
Jeroboam  of  Israel  certain  strongholds  of  Judah. 

The  usual  northern  frontier  between  the  two  Hob 
kingdoms  appears  to  have  been  the  southernmost 
of  the  three  natural  lines  described  in  I  above, 
namely  by  the  Valley  of  Ajalon  on  the  W.  and  the 
Gorge  of  Michmash  (Wady  Suweinit)  on  the  E. 
Along  the  central  plateau  the  frontier  varied. 
Bethel  (1  K  12  29;  2  K  10  29;  Am  3  14;  4  4; 
7  10.13;  Hos  10  15)  belonged  to  Israel,  though 
once  it  fell  to  J.  when  Abijah  took  it  and  with  it 
Jeshanah  (Vim  Sinia)  and  Ephron  (probably  et 
Taiyibeh)  (2  Ch  13  19).  Goba  (Jeba<),  just  to  the 
S.  of  the  Wady  Suweinit.  was  on  the  northern  frontier 
of  J.,  hence  instead  of  the  old  term  "from  Dan  to 
Beor-shcba,"  we  read  now  of  "from  Goba  to  Beer- 
sheba" (2  K  23  8).  Baasha,  king  of  Israel,  went 
S.  and  fortified  Ramah  (er  Rdm,  but  4  miles  from 
Jerus)  against  J.  (1  K  15  17),  but  Asa  stopped  his 


1765 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA    Judah,  Territory 

Judas  Iscanot 


work,  removed  the  fortifications  and  with  the  ma- 
terials strengthened  his  own  frontier  at  Geba  and 
Mizpah  (1  K  15  21.22).  In  the  Jordan  valley 
Jericho  was  held  by  Israel  (1  K  16  34;  2  K  2  4). 
After  the  Northern  Kingdom  fell,  the  frontier  of 
J.  appears  to  have  extended  a  little  farther  N.,  and 
Bethel  (2  K  23  15-19)  and  Jericho  (to  judge  from 
Ezr  2  34;  Neh  3  2;  7  36)  also  became  part  of  the 
kingdom  of  J.  For  the  further  history  of  this  dis- 
trict see  Judaea. 

Literature. — See    esp.    HGIIL,    chs    viii-xv;    PEF, 
III,  and  Saunders,  Intro  to  the  Survey  of  Western  Pal. 

E.  W.  G.  Masterman 
^JUDAH    AT     (AV    UPON)     THE     JORDAN 

CH"}."^  rVTirP ,  yhudhdhha-yarden):  A  place  mark- 
ing the  eastern  limit  of  the  territory  of  Naphtali 
(Josh  19  34).  It  is  generally  thought  among 
scholars  that  the  text  is  corrupt;  but  no  very  prob- 
able emendation  has  been  suggested.  Thomson 
{LB,  II,  466)  proposes  to  identify  it  with  Seiyid 
Jehxlda,  a  small  white-domed  sanctuary  about  3 
miles  to  the  S.E.  of  Tell  el-Kady. 

JUDAISM,  joo'da-iz'm.     See  Israel,  Religion 


JUDAS,  joo'das  ('IovSas,  Ioudas;  Gr  form  of 
Heb  "Judah"): 

(1)  A  Levite  mentioned  in  1  Esd  9  23  =  Judah 
(3). 

(2)  Judas  Maccabaeus,  3d  son  of  Mattathias 
(1  Mace  2  4).     See  Maccabees. 

(3)  Judas,  son  of  Chalphi,  a  Jewish  officer  who 
supported  Jonathan  bravely  at  the  battle  of  Hazor 
(1  Mace  11  70;    Ant,  XIII,  v,  7). 

(4)  A  person  of  good  position  in  Jerus  at  the  time 
of  the  mission  to  Aristobulus  (2  Mace  1  10) ;  he 
has  been  identified  with  Judas  Maccabaeus  and  also 
with  an  Essene  prophet  (Ant,  XIII,  xi,  2;  BJ,  HI, 
5). 

(5)  Son  of  Simon  the  Maccabee,  and  brother  of 
John  Ilyrcanus  (1  Mace  16  2).  He  was  wounded 
in  the  battle  which  he  fought  along  with  his  brother 
against  Cendebaeus  (1  Mace  16  1  ff;  Ant,  XIII, 
vii,  3),  and  was  murdered  by  Ptolemy  the  usurper, 
his  brother-in-law,  at  Dok  (1  Mace  16  11  ff). 

J.  Hutchison 
JUDAS,  JUDA: 

(1)  The  name  of  an  ancestor  of  Jesus  (Lk  3  30). 
In  AV  it  occurs  also  in  Lk  3  26,  but  RV  has  "Joda" 
(\YH  'IwSd,  I  odd). 

(2)  Judas  Iscariot  (see  separate  art.). 

(3)  One  of  the  brothers  of  Jesus  (Mt  13  55; 
Mk  6  3).     See  Jude. 

(4)  An  apostle,  "not  Iscariot"  (Jn  14  22).  He 
is  generally  identified  with  Lebbaeus  (Mt  10  3) 
and  Thaddaeus  (Mk  3  18).  See  Lebbaeus;  Thad- 
daeus.  He  is  called  Judas  op  James  (q.v.) 
(Lk  6  16;  Acts  1  13),  which  means  "the  son  of 
James,"  not  (AV)  "the  brother  of  James." 

(5)  A  Galilean  who  stirred  up  rebellion  "in  the 
days  of  the  enrolment"  (Acts  5  37).  See  Judas 
of  Galilee. 

(6)  One  with  whom  Paul  lodged  in  Damascus, 
whose  house  was  in  "the  street  which  is  called 
Straight"  (Acts  9  11).  Nothing  further  is  known 
of  him.  A  house  is  pointed  out  as  his,  in  a  lane  off 
the  Straight  Street. 

(7)  Judas  Barsabbas  (Acts  15  22.27.32;  see 
separate  art.).  S.  F.  Hunter 

JUDAS  BARSABBAS,  bar-sab'as  (TovSas  Bap- 

a-appds,  Ioudas  Barsabbas):  Judas  was,  with  Silas, 
a  delegate  from  the  church  in  Jerus  to  the  gentile 
Christians  of  Antioch,  Syria  and  Cilicia.  They 
were  appointed  to  convey  the  letter  containing  the 
decision  of  "the  apostles  and  the  elders,  with  the 


whole  church"  regarding  the  attitude  to  be  taken 
by  gentile  Christians  toward  the  Mosaic  law,  and 
also  to  explain  "the  same  things  by  word  of  mouth." 
They  accompanied  Paul  and  Barnabas  to  Antioch, 
and,  "being  themselves  also  prophets,"  i.e.  preachers, 
they  not  only  handed  over  the  epistle  but  stayed 
some  time  in  the  city  preaching  and  teaching.  They 
seem  to  have  gone  no  farther  than  Antioch,  for 
"they  were  dismissed  in  peace  from  the  brethren 
unto  those  that  had  sent  them  forth,"  and  it  was 
Paul  and  Silas  who  some  time  afterward  strength- 
ened the  churches  in  Syria  and  Cilicia  (Acts  15 
40.41). 

According  to  ver  34  AV,  Judas  returned  to  Jerus 
without  Silas,  who  remained  at  Antioch  and  afterward 
became  Paul's  companion  (ver  40).  The  oldest  MSS, 
however,  omit  ver  34,  and  it  is  therefore  omitted  from 
RV.  It  was  probably  a  marginal  note  to  explain  ver 
40,  and  in  time  it  crept  into  the  text.  Judas  and  Silas 
are  called  "chief  men  among  the  brethren"  (ver  22), 
probably  elders,  and  "prophets"  (ver  32). 

Barsabbas  being  a  patronymic,  Judas  was  prob- 
ably the  brother  of  Joseph  Barsabbas.  He  cannot 
be  identified  with  any  other  Judas,  e.g.  "Judas  not 
Iscariot"  (Jn  14  22).  We  hear  no  more  of  Judas 
after  his  return  to  Jerus  (Acts  15  22  ff). 

S.  F.  Hunter 

JUDAS  ISCARIOT,  is-kar'i-ot  ('IovSas  'Io-Kapu6- 
T-qs,  Ioudas  Iskai'iDtes,  i.e.  'tsh  forty  6th,  "Judas, 
man  of  Kerioth"):  One  of  the  twelve  apostles  and 
the  betrayer  of  Jesus;  for  etymology,  etc,  see 
Judas. 

/.  Life. — Judas  was,  as  his  second  name  indicates, 
a  native  of  Kerioth  or  Karioth.  The  exact  locality 
of  Kerioth  (cf  Josh  15  25)  is  doubtful,  but  it  lay 
probably  to  the  S.  of  Judaea,  being  identified  with 
the  ruins  of  el  Karjvtein  (cf  A.  Plummer,  art. 
"Judas  Iscariot"  in  II I)  B). 

He  was  the  son  of  Simon  (Jn  13  2)  or  Simon 

Iscariot  (Jn  6  71;   13  26),  the  meaning  of  Iscariot 

explaining  why  it  was  applied  to  his 

1.  Name  father  also.  The  first  Scriptural  refer- 
and  Early  ence  to  J.  is  his  election  to  the  apostle- 
History  ship   (cf   Mt  10  4;    Mk  3  19;    Lk  6 

16).  He  may  have  been  present  at 
the  preaching  of  John  the  Baptist  at  Bethany  be- 
yond Jordan  (cf  Jn  1  28),  but  more  probably  he 
first  met  Jesus  during  the  return  of  the  latter  through 
Judaea  with  His  followers  (cf  Jn  3  22).  Accord- 
ing to  the  Gospel  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  (see 
Simon  the  Cananaean),  J.  was  among  those  who 
received  the  call  at  the  Sea  of  Tiberias  (cf  Mt  4 
18-22). 

For  any  definite  allusion  to  J.  during  the  interval 

lying  between  his  call  and  the  events  immediately 

preceding    the    betrayal,    we    are    in- 

2.  Before  debted  to  St.  John  alone.  These 
the  Be-  allusions  are  made  with  the  manifest 
trayal              purpose  of  showing  forth  the  nefarious 

character  of  J.  from  the  beginning; 
and  in  their  sequence  there  is  a  gradual  develop- 
ment and  growing  clearness  in  the  manner  in  which 
Jesus  makes  prophecy  regarding  his  future  betrayer. 
Thus,  after  the  discourse  on  the  Bread  of  Life  in  the 
synagogue  of  Capernaum  (Jn  6  26-59),  when 
many  of  the  disciples  deserted  Jesus  (ver  66)  and 
Peter  protested  the  allegiance  of  the  apostles  (ver 
69),  Jesus  answered,  "Did  not  I  choose  you  the 
twelve,  and  one  of  you  is  a  devil"  (ver  70).  Then 
follows  St.  John's  commentary,  "Now  he  spake  of 
Judas  the  son  of  Simon  Iscariot,  for  he  it  was  that 
should  betray  him,  being  one  of  the  twelve"  (ver 
71),  implying  that  Judas  was  already  known  to 
Jesus  as  being  in  spirit  one  of  those  who  "went 
back,  and  walked  no  more  with  him"  (ver  66). 
But  the  situation,  however  disquieting  it  must  have 
been  to  the  ambitious  designs  which  probably 
actuated  J.  in  his  acceptance  of  the  apostleship  (cf 


Judas  Iscariot 
Jude,  Epistle  of 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1766 


below),  was  not  sufficiently  critical  to  call  for  imme- 
diate desertion  on  his  part.  Instead,  lie  lulled  his 
fears  of  exposure  by  the  fact  that  he  was  not  men- 
tioned by  name,  'and  continued  ostensibly  one 
of  the  faithful.  Personal  motives  of  a  sordid  na- 
ture had  also  influence  in  causing  him  to  remain. 
Appointed  keeper  of  the  purse,  he  disregarded  the 
warnings  of  Jesus  concerning  greed  and  hypocrisy 
(of  Mt  6  20;  Lk  12  1-3)  and  appropriated  the 
funds  to  his  own  use.  As  a  cloak  to  his  avarice, 
he  pretended  to  be  zealous  in  their  administration, 
and  therefore,  at  the  anointing  of  Jesus'  feet  by 
Mary,  he  asked  "Why  was  not  this  ointment  sold 
for  300  shillings,  and  given  to  the  poor?  Now  this 
he  said,  not  because  he  cared  for  the  poor;  but 
because  he  was  a  thief,  and  having  the  hag  took 
away  what  was  put  therein"  (Jn  12  5.6;  cf  also 
Ml  '26  7   13;  Mk  14  3-8). 

Yet.  although  by  this  craftiness  J.  concealed  for 

a  time  his  true  nature  from  the  rest  of  the  disciples, 

and    fomented    any    discontent    that 

3.  The  Be-  might  arise  among  them  (cf  Mk  14 
trayal  4),  he  now  felt  that  his  present  source; 

of  income  could  not  long  remain  secure. 
The  pregnant  won  Is  of  his  Master  regarding  the 
day  of  his  burial  (cf  Mt  26  12;  Mk  14  8;  Jn  12 
7)  revealed  to  His  betrayer  that  Jesus  already  knew 
well  the  evil  powers  that  were  at  work  against  Him; 
and  it  is  significant  that,  according  to  Mt  and  Mk, 
who  alone  of  the  synoptists  mention  the  anointing, 
J.  departed  immediately  afterward  and  made  his 
compact  with  the  chief  priests  (cf  Mt  26  14.15; 
Mk  14  10.11;  cf  also  Lk  22  3-6).  But  his  ab- 
sence was  only  temporary.  He  was  present  at  the 
washing  of  the  disciples'  feet,  there;  to  be  differen- 
tiated once  more  by  Jesus  from  the  rest  of  the 
Twelve  (cf  "Ye;  are  clean,  but  not  all"  and  "He; 
that  eatethmy  bread  lifted  up  his  heel  against  me," 
Jn  13  10.18),  but  again  without  bi'ing  named. 
It  seemed  as  if  Jesus  wisheel  to  give  Judas  every 
opportunity,  even  at  this  late  hour,  of  repenting 
and  making  his  confession.  For  the  last  time, 
when  they  had  sat  down  to  eat,  Je^sus  appealed  to 
him  thus  with  the  words,  "One  of  you  shall  betray 
me?"  (Mt  26  21;  Mk  14  18;  Lk  22  21;  Jn  13 
21).  And  at  the  end,  in  answer  to  the  anxious 
queries  of  His  disciples,  "Is  it  1?"  He  indicated  his 
betrayer,  not  by  name,  but  by  a  sign:  "He  it  is,  for 
whom  I  shall  dip  the  sop,  and  give  it  him"  (Jn  13 
26).  Immediately  upon  its  reception,  J.  le>ft  the 
supper  room;  the  opportunity  which  he  sought  for 
was  come  (cf  Jn  13  30;  Mt  26  16).  There  is 
se)ine  doubt  as  to  whether  he  actually  received  the 
eucharist  ic  bread  and  wine  previous  to  his  departure 
or  not,  but  most  modern  commentators  hold  that 
he  did  not.  On  his  departure,  J.  maele  his  way  to 
the  high  priest  s  and  1  heir  followers,  ani  I  e'oming  upon 
Je>sus  in  the  Garden  of  Gethsemane,  he  betrayed 
his  Master  with  a  kiss  (Mt  26  47-50;  Mk  14  43. 
44;   Lk  22  47;   Jn  18  2-5). 

After  the  betrayal,  Mk,  Lk  and  Jn  are  silent  as 
regards  J.,  and  the  accounts  given  in  Mt  and  Ae'ts 

of  his  remorse  and  death  vary  in  de- 

4.  His  tail.  According  to  Mt,  the  actual 
Death  condemnation  of  Jesus  awakened  Ju- 

elas'  se'iise  of  guilt,  and  beeximing  still 
more  elesponelent  at  his  repulse  by  the  chief  priests 
and  elders,  "lie  cast  ele»wn  the  pieces  of  silver  into 
the;  sanctuary,  and  departed;  and  he  went  away 
anel  hange-d  himself."  With  the  money  the  chiof 
priests  purchased  the  potter's  field,  afterward  called 
"the  fielel  of  blood,"  and  in  this  way  was  fulfilled 
the  prophecy  of  Zechariah  (11  12-14)  ascribed  by 
Matthew  to  Jeremiah  (Mt  27  3-10).  The  account 
given  in  Acts  1  16-20  is  much  shorter.  It  men- 
tions neither  Judas'  repentance  nor  the  chief  priests, 
but  simply  states  that  J.  "obtained  a  fielel  with  the 


reward  of  his  iniquity;  and  falling  headlong,  he 
burst  asunder  in  the  midst,  anel  all  his  bowels 
guslienl  out"  (ver  IS).  The  author  of  Vets  finels 
in  this  the  fulfilment  of  the  prophecy  in  i's  69  25. 
The  Vulg  rendering,  "When  he  had  hanged  himself, 
he  burst  asunder,"  suggests  a  means  of  reconciling 
the  two  accounts. 

According  to  a  legendary  account  mentioned  by 
Papias,  the  death  of  J.  was  due*  to  elephantiasis  (cf 
Hennecke,  Neulestameniliche  Apokryphen,  5).  A 
so-called  "Gospel  of  Judas"  was  in  use  among  the 
gnostic  sect  of  the  Cainite;s. 

//.    Character   and    Theories. — Much   eliscussion    and 

controversy  have  centered,  not  only  around  the'  dis- 
crepancies eff  the;  Gospel  narratives  of  .1., 
1  T^'irmA  but  also  around  his  character  anel  the 
1.  joined  ])n,hlems  connected  with  it.  Th.it  the 
the  Apostles  betrayer  of  Jesus  should  also  tie;  one  eif  the; 
to  Betrav  chosen  Twelve  lias  given  opportunity  for 
T  the  attacks  of  the  foes  of  Christianity  from 

Jesus  the  earliest  times  (cfOrig.,  Con.  (",/.,  ii.12); 

anel  the  difficulty  of  finding  any  proper 
solution  has  preivcd  so  great  that  some  have  been  in- 
duced to  re'gard  J.  as  merely  a  personification  of  the 
spirit  e>f  Judaism.  The  acceptance  of  this  view  would, 
however,  invalidate;  tlie^  historical  value  of  much  of  the 
Scriptural  writings.  Other  theories  are  put  forward 
in  explanation,  viz.  that  J.  joined  the  ape>stolic  band 
with  the;  definite  intention  of  betraying  .h'sus.  The  aim 
of  this  intention  has  a^ain  received  two  different  inter- 
pretations, both  of  which  seek  to  elevate  the  character 
of  .J.,  anel  to  free  him  from  the  charge  of  seintul  motive's 
and  cowardly  treachery.  According  to  one,  J.  was  a 
strong  patriot,  who  saw  in  Jesus  1 1 1 1 ;  foe;  of  his  race  and 
its  ancient  creeel,  anel  therefore  betrayed  Him  in  the  in- 
terests of  his  country.  This  view  is,  however,  irrecon- 
cilable with  the  rejection  of  J.  by  the  chief  priests  (cf 
Mt  27  3-10).  According  to  the;  other,  .1.  regarded  him- 
self as  a  true  servant  of  Christianity,  who  assumed  the 
role  of  traitor  to  precipitate;  the;  action  of  t lie  Messiah 
and  induce  Him  to  manifest  His  miraculous  powers 
by  calling  down  the  angels  of  God  from  heaven  to 
help  Him  (cf  Mt  26  -r,:i).  His  suicide  was  further 
due  to  his  disappointment  at  the  failure  of  Jesus  to 
fulfil  his  expectations.  This  theory  found  favor  in 
ancient  times  with  the  Cainitt^s  (cf  above;),  and  in 
modern  days  with  Dc  Quincey  anel  Bishop  Whately. 
But  the  terms  and  manner  of  denunciation  employed 
by  Jesus  in  regard  to  J.  (cf  also  Jn  17  1^)  render  ttiis 
view  also  untenable. 

Another  view  is  that  J.  was  foreordained  to  be  the 
traitor:  that  Jesus  was  conscious  from  the  first  that  Ho 
was  to  suffer  death  on  the  cross,  anel  chose 
„    -,-,  J.  because  He  knew  that  he  should  be'tray 

6.  *ore-  jjun   alKi   t)uls   fulfil   the    Divine   decrees 

ordained  (cf  Mt  26  54).  Those  holding  this  view 
to  Be  a  base  their  arguments  on  the  omniscience 

of  Jesus  implied  in  Jn  2  24,  Jesus  "knew 
all  men";  Jn  6  64,  "Jesus  knew  freini  the 
beginning  who  should  betray  him,"  and 
Jn  18  4,  "knowing  all  the  things  that  were  coming 
upon  him."  Yet  to  take  those  texts  lit.  would  mean  a 
teio  rigid  application  of  the  doctrine  of  predestination. 
It  would  treat  J.  as  a  mere  instrument,  as  a  means  and 
not  an  end  in  the  hands  of  a  higher  power:  it  would 
render  meaningless  the  appeals  anel  reproaches  maele 
to  him  by  Jesus  and  deny  any  real  existence  of  that  per- 
semal  responsibility  and  sense  of  guilt  which  it  was  Our 
Lord's  very  purpose  to  awaken  anel  stimulate  in  the 
hearts  of  His  hearers.  John  himself  wrote  after  the 
event,  but  in  the  weirds  of  Our  Lord  there  was,  as  we 
havo  seen,  a  greiwing  clearness  in  the  manner  in  which 
He  foretold  His  betrayal.  The  omniscience  e>f  Jesus  was 
greater  than  that  of  a  mere  clairvoyant  who  claimed  to 
foretell  the  exact  course  of  future  events.  It  was  the 
omniscience  of  one  who  knew  on  the  one  hanel  the'  ways 
of  His  Eternal  Father  among  men,  anel  who,  em  the 
other,  penetrated  into  the  eleepest  recesses  of  human 
character  and  beheld  thero  all  its  secret  feelings  and 
motives  and  tendencies. 

Although  a  full  discussion  of  the  character  of  J. 
would  of  necessity  involve  those  ultimate  problems 

of  Free  Will  and  Original  Sin  (West- 
3.  Betrayal  cott)  whie'h  no  thceilogy  can  ade- 
the  Result  quately  solve,  the  theory  which  re- 
of  Gradual  garels  the  betrayal  as  the  result  of  a 
Develop-  gradual  development  within  the;  soul 
ment  of  J.  serins  the  most  practical.     It  is 

significant  that  J.  alone  among  the 
disciples  was  of  southern  extraction;  and  the  elifiVr- 
ences  in  temperament  and  social  outlook,  together 
with  the;  petty  prejudices  to  which  the>se  generally 
give;  rise-,  may  explain  in  part,  though  they  dei  not 


Traitor 


1767 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Judas  Iscariot 
Jude,  Epistle  of 


justify,  his  after  treachery  -that  lack  of  inner 
.sympathy  which  existed  between  J.  and  the  rest, 
of  the  apostles.  He  undoubtedly  possessed  a 
certain  business  ability,  and  was  therefore  appointed 
keeper  of  the  purse.  But  his  heart  could  not  have 
been  clean,  even  from  the  first,  as  he  administered 
even  his  primary  charge  dishonestly.  The  cancer 
of  this  greed  spread  from  the  material  to  the  spirit- 
ual. To  none  of  the  disciples  did  the  fading  of  the 
dream  of  an  earthly  kingdom  of  pomp  and  glory 
bring  great  er  disappointment  than  to  J.  The  cords 
of  love  by  which  Jesus  gradually  drew  the  hearts 
of  the  other  disciples  to  Himself,  the  teaching  by 
which  He  uplifted  their  souls  above  all  earthly 
things,  were  as  chafing  bonds  to  the  selfishness  of  J. 
And  from  his  fettered  greed  and  disappointed  am- 
bition sprang  jealousy  and  spite  and  hatred.  It 
was  the  hatred,  not  of  a  strong,  but  of  an  essentially 
weak  man.  Instead  of  making  an  open  breach 
with  his  Lord,  he  remained  ostensibly  one  of  His 
followers:  and  this  continued  contact  with  a  good- 
ness to  which  he  would  not  yield  (cf  Swete  on  Alk 
14  10),  and  his  brooding  over  the  rebukes  of  his 
Master,  gave  ready  entrance  for  "Satan  into  his 
soul."  But  if  he  "knew  the  good  and  did  not  do 
it"  (cf  Jn  13  17),  so  also  he  was  weak  in  the  carry- 
ing out  of  his  nefarious  designs.  It  was  this  hesi- 
tancy, rather  than  a  fiendish  cunning,  which  induced 
him  to  remain  till  the  last  moment  in  the  supper 
room,  and  which  prompted  the  remark  of  Jesus 
"What  thou  doest,  do  quickly"  (Jn  13  27).  Of  a 
piece  with  this  weak-mindedness  was  his  attempt 
to  cast  the  blame  upon  the  chief  priests  and  elders 
(cf  Mt  27  3.4).  He  sought  to  set  himself  right, 
not  with  the  innocent  Jesus  whom  he  had  betrayed, 
but  with  the  accomplices  in  his  crime;  and  because 
that  world  which  his  selfishness  had  made  his  god 
failed  him  at  the  last,  he  went  and  hanged  himself. 
It  was  the  tragic  end  of  one  who  espoused  a  great 
cause  in  the  spirit  of  speculation  and  selfish  ambi- 
tion, and  who  weighed  not  the  dread  consequences 
to  which  those  impure;  motives  might  lead  him  (cf 
also  Bruce,  Training  of  the  Twelve;  Latham,  Pastor 
Pastorwn;  Stalker,  Trial  and  Death  of  Jesus  Christ). 

C.  M.  Kerr 
JUDAS  ISCARIOT,  GOSPEL  OF:  A  "Gospel 
of  Judas"  is  mentioned  by  Irenaeus  (Adv.  Haer., 
i.31),  Epiphanius  (Haer.,  xxxviii.l),  Theodoret,  etc, 
as  current  in  the  gnostic  sect  of  the  Cainites,  to 
whom  Judas  was  a  hero.  It  must  have  been  in 
existence  in  the  2d  cent.,  but  no  quotation  is  given 
from  it,  (see  Baring-Gould,  Lost  and  Hostile  Gospels, 
IH.  eh  v). 

JUDAS,  NOT  ISCARIOT  ('IotfSas,  oi^  °  'I<™a- 

picoTT|s,  Ioudas  ouch  ho  Iskariotes):  One  ot  the 
Twelve  Apostles  (Jn  14  22).  See  Judas  of 
James;  Lebbaeus;  Thaddaeus. 

JUDAS  MACCABAEUS.    See  Maccabaeus. 

JUDAS  OF  DAMASCUS.     See  Judas,  (6). 

JUDAS  OF  GALILEE  (6  TaXiXaios,  ho  Gali- 
laios):  Mentioned  in  Acts  5  37  as  the  leader  of  an 
insurrection  occasioned  by  the  census  of  Quirinius 
in  7  AD  (see  Quirinius).  He,  and  those  who 
obeyed  him,  it  is  said,  perished  in  that  revolt.  Jos 
also  repeatedly  mentions  Judas  by  this  same  name, 
"the  Galilean,"  and  speaks  of  his  revolt  (Ant, 
XVIII,  i,  6;  XX,  v,  2;  BJ,  II,  viii,  1;  xviii,  8;  VII, 
viii,  1),  but  in  Ant,  XVIII,  i,  names  him  a  Gaulo- 
nite,  of  the  city  of  Gamala.  As  Gamala  was  in  Gau- 
lonitis,  not  far  from  the  eastern  shore  of  the  Sea  of 
Galilee,  it  may  be  regarded  as  belonging  to  that 
province.  The  party  of  Judas  seems  to  have  been 
identified  with  the  Zealots.  James  Our 


JUDAS  OF  JAMES  (TovSas  'IaKci0ov,  Ioudas 
Iakdbou):  One  of  the  twelve  apostles  (Lk  6  10; 
Acts  1  13;  for  etymology,  etc,  see  Judas).  AV  has 
the  reading  "brother  of  James,"  and  RV  reads  "son 
of  James."  The  latter  is  to  be  preferred.  In  Jn 
14  22  he  is  described  as  "Judas  (not  Iscariot) ."  The 
name  corresponds  with  the  "Thaddaeus"  or  "Leb- 
baeus whose  surname  was  Thaddaeus"  of  Mt  10  3 
AV  and  Mk  3  18  (cf  Thaddaeus).  The  identifica- 
tion of  Thaddaeus  with  Judas  is  generally  accepted, 
though  Ewald  and  others  hold  that  they  were 
different  persons,  that  Thaddaeus  died  during 
Christ's  lifetime,  and  that  Judas  was  chosen  in  his 
place  (cf  Bruce,  Training  of  the  Twelve,  34).  If  the 
RV  is  accepted  as  the  correct  rendering  of  Lk  6  16 
and  Acts  1  13,  this  Judas  cannot  be  identified 
either  with  the  Juda  (Mk  6  3  AV),  Judas  (Mk  6 
3  RV),  or  Judas  (Mt  13  55),  the  brother  of  Jesus; 
or  with  the  Judas  (Jude  ver  1  RVm)  or  Jude  (Jude 
ver  1  AV),  the  brother  of  James,  whether  these  two 
latter  Judases  are  to  be  regarded  as  the  same  or 
not.  The  only  incident  recorded  of  Judas  of  James 
is  in  Jn  14  22,  where  during  Christ's  address  to  the 
disciples  after  the  last  supper  he  put  the  question, 
"Lord,  what  is  come  to  pass  that  thou  wilt  manifest 
thyself  unto  us,  and  not  unto  the  world?" 

C.  M.  Kerr 

JUDAS,  THE  LORD'S  BROTHER.     See  Jude. 

JUDDAH,  jud'a.     See  Juttah. 

JUDE,  jood  ('IovSas,  Ioudas):  Brother  of  the 
Lord,  and  author  of  the  Ep.  of  Jude.  See  Judas 
of  James  and  following  article. 

JUDE,  THE  EPISTLE  OF: 

The  Writer 

I.    Jude's  Position  in*  the  Canon 
II.     The  Occasion  of   Its  Composition 

III.  Description  of  the  Libertines  and  Apostates 

IV.  Relation  of  Jude   to   the   Second   Epistle   op 
Peter 

1.  Resemblances 

2.  Differences 

3.  Further  Contrasts 

4.  Summary 

5.  Evidence  of  Priority  of  Peter 

6.  Confirmatory  References 
V.     Date   of  the  Epistle 

VI.     The  Libertines  of  Jude's  Epistle 
Literature 

The  writer  of  this  short  ep.  calls  himself  Jude  or 
Judas  (  lovoas,  Ioudas).  His  name  was  a  common 
one  among  the  Jews:  there  were  few 
The  Writer  others  of  more  frequent  use.  Two 
among  the  apostles  bore  it,  viz.  Judas, 
mentioned  in  Jn  14  22  (cf  Lk  6  16),  and  Judas 
Iscariot.  Jude  describes  himself  as  "a  servant  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  brother  of  James"  (ver  1).  The 
James  here  mentioned  is  no  doubt  the  person  who 
is  called  "the  Lord's  brother"  (Gal  1  19),  the 
writer  of  the  ep.  that  bears  his  name.  Neither  of 
the  two  was  an  apostle.  The  opening  sentence  of 
Jude  simply  affirms  that  the  writer  is  a  "servant 
of  Jesus  Christ."  This,  if  anywhere,  should  be  the 
appropriate  place  for  the  mention  of  his  apostle- 
ship,  if  he  were  an  apostle.  The  appellation  "serv- 
ant of  Jesus  Christ"  "is  never  thus  barely  used  in 
an  address  of  tin  ep.  to  designate  an  apostle" 
(Alford).  Phil  1  1  has  a  similar  expression,  "Paul 
and  Timothy,  servants  of  Jesus  Christ,"  but  "the 
designation  common  to  two  persons  necessarily 
sinks  to  the  rank  of  the  inferior  one."  In  other  in- 
stances "servant"  is  associated  with  "apostle" 
(Rom  1  1;  Tit  1  1).  Jude  vs  17.18  speaks  of  the 
"apostles  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  that  they  said 
to  you" — language  which  an  apostle  would  hardly 
use  of  his  fellow-apostles. 

In  Mk  6  3  are  found  the  names  of  those  of  whom 
Jesus  is  said  to  be  the  brother,  namely,  James  and 


Jude,  Epistle  of     THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1768 


Joses,  and  Judas  and  Simon.  It.  is  quite  generally 
held  by  writers  thai  the  James  and  Judas  here  men- 
tioned are  the  two  whose  epp.  are  found  in  the  NT. 
It  is  noteworthy,  however,  that  neither  of  them 
hints  at  his  relationship  with  Jesus;  their  unaffected 
humility  kept  them  silent.  Jude  mentions  that  lie 
is  the  ''brother  of  James,"  perhaps  to  give  authority 
and  weight  to  his  words,  for  James  was  far  more; 
distinguished  and  influential  than  he.  The  infer- 
ence seems  legitimate  that  Jude  addresses  Chris- 
tians among  whom  James  was  highly  esteemed,  or, 
if  no  longer  living,  among  whom  his  memory  was 
sacredly  revered,  and  accordingly  it,  is  altogether 
probable  that  Jude  writes  to  the  same  class  of  read- 
ers us  James  -Jewish  Christians.  James  writes 
to  the  "Twelve  Tribes  of  tin;  Dispersion."  Jude 
likewise  addresses  a  wide  circle  of  believers,  viz.  the 
"called,  beloved  in  God  the  Father,  and  kept  for 
Jesus  Christ"  (ver  1).  While  he  does  not  designate 
a  special  and  distinct  class,  yet  as  James's  "brother," 
as  belonging  to  the  family  of  Joseph,  and  as  in  some 
true  sense  related  to  the  Lord  Jesus  Himself,  it 
seems  probable,  if  not  certain,  that  his  Ep.  was 
intended  for  Christian  Hebrews  who  stood  in  urgent 
need  of  such  testimony  and  appeal  as  Jude  offers. 

/.  Jude's  Position  in  the  Canon. — It  is  now  and 
for  a  long  while  has  been  an  assured  one.  Its  rank, 
though  not  altogether  that  of  1  Pet  and  1  Jn,  is 
high,  for  centuries  indeed  undoubted.  Almost 
from  the  beginning  of  the  Christian  era  men  every 
way  qualified  to  speak  with  authority  on  the  ques- 
tion of  genuineness  and  authenticity  indorsed  it  as 
entitled  to  a  place  in  the  NT  Scriptures.  Origen 
repeatedly  quotes  it,  in  one  place  describing  it  as 
an  "ep.  of  but  few  lines,  but  full  of  powerful  words 
of  heavenly  grace"  (Mat/.,  torn.  X,  17).  But  Origen 
knew  that  it  was  not  universally  received.  Clement 
of  Alexandria  "gave  concise  expositions  of  all  the 
canonical  Scriptures,  not  omitting  the  controverted 
books — the  Ep.  of  Jude  and  the  other  Catholic  epp." 
(quoted  by  Westcott,  Can.,  322-23  and  Salmon, 
Intro,  493).  Tertullian  (Cult.  Fein,  i.3)  in  striving 
to  establish  the  authority  of  the  Book  of  Enoch 
urges  as  a  crowning  argument  that  it  is  quoted  by 
"the  apostle  Jude."  "We  may  infer  that  Jude's  Ep. 
was  an  unquestioned  part  of  Tertullian's  Canon." 
Athanasius  inserted  it  in  his  list,  of  NT  books,  but 
Eusebius  placed  it  among  the  disputed  books  in  his 
classification.  The  Canon  of  Muratori  includes 
Jude  among  the  books  of  Scripture,  though  it  omits 
the  Epp.  of  Jas,  Pet  and  He.  This  is  one  of  the 
earliest  documents  containing  a  list  of  the  NT  books 
now  known.  By  the  great  majority  of  writers  the 
date  of  the  fragment  is  given  as  c  170  AD,  as  it 
claims  to  have  been  written  not  long  after  Pius  was 
bishop  of  Rome,  and  the  latest  date  of  Pius  is  142- 
.57  AD.  The  words  of  the  document  are,  "The 
Shepherd  was  written  very  recently  in  our  own  time 
by  Hernias,  while  his  brother  Pius  sat  in  the  chair 
of  the  Church  of  Rome."  Twenty  or  twenty-five 
years  would  probably  satisfy  the  period  indicated 
by  the  words,  "written  very  recently  in  our  own 
time,"  which  would  fix  the  date  of  the  fragment  at 
c  170  A  I).  Salmon,  however,  stronglv  inclines  to  a 
later  date,  viz.  c  200-210  AD,  as  does  Zahn. 

Zahn  (Intro  to  the  NT,  11,259,  ET),  and  Professor  Chase 
(II DH)  are  of  the  decided  opinion  that  the  Didache,  ii. 
7:  "Thou  shalt  not  hate  anyone,  but  some  thou  shalt 
rebuke,  and  for  some  thou  shalt  pray,  and  some  thou 
shalt  love  above  thine  own  soul  [or  life],"  is  founded  on 
Jude  ver  22.  Dr.  Philip  Schaff  dates  the  Didache  be- 
tween 90-100  AD.  L'Abbe  E.  Jaequier  (La  doctrine  des 
Douze  Apdtres,  1891)  is  persuaded  that  the  famous 
document  was  written  not  later  than  80  AD.  It  appears 
therefore,  more  than  probable  that  the  Ep.  of  Jude  was 
known  and  referred  to  as  Scripture  some  time  before  the 
end  of  the  1st  cent.  From  the  survey  we  have  thus 
rapidly  taken  of  the  field  in  which  the  Ep.  circulated, 
we  may  conclude  that  in  Pal,  at  Alexandria,  in  North 
Africa,  and  at  Home,  it  was  received  as  the  veritable  letter 


of  Jude,   "the  servant  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  brother  of 
James." 

The  chief  reason  why  it  was  rejected  by  some  and  re- 
garded with  suspicion  by  others  in  primitive  times  is  its 
quotation  from  the  apocryphal  Book  of  Enoch,  so  Jerome 
informs  us  (Fir.  III.,  4).  It  is  possible  that  Jude  had 
in  mind  another  spurious  writing,  viz.  the  Assumption 
of  Moses,  when  he  spoke  of  the  contention  of  Michael 
the  archangel  with  the  devil  about  the  body  of  Moses 
(ver  9).  This,  however,  is  not  quite  certain,  for  the  date 
assigned  to  that  writing  is  c  44  AD,  and  although  Jude 
might  have  seen  and  read  it,  yet  its  composition  is  so 
near  his  own  day  that  it  could  hardly  have  exerted  much 
influence  on  his  mind.  Besides,  the  brevity  of  the  Ep. 
and  its  dealing  with  a  special  class  of  errorists  would 
limit  to  a  certain  extent  its  circulation  among  Christians. 
All  this  serves  to  explain  its  refusal  by  some  and  the 
absence  of  reference  to  it  by  others. 

//.  The  Occasion  of  Its  Composition. — Jude,  after 
his  brief  introduction  (va  1.2),  explains  very  defi- 
nitely why  he  writes  as  he  does.  He  indicates  dis- 
tinctly his  anxiety  on  behalf  of  the  saints  (ver  3): 
"Beloved,  while  I  was  giving  all  diligence  to  write 
unto  you  of  our  common  salvation,  I  was  con- 
strained to  write  unto  you  exhorting  you  to  contend 
earnestly  for  the  faith  which  was  once  for  all  de- 
livered unto  the  saints."  He  had  received  very 
distressing  knowledge  of  the  serious  state  into  which 
the  Christian  brotherhood  was  rapidly  drifting, 
and  he  must  as  a  faithful  servant  of  Jesus  Christ 
exhort  them  to  stedfastness  and  warn  them  of  their 
danger.  He  had  in  mind  to  write  them  a  doctrinal 
work  on  the  salvation  common  to  all  Christians. 
Perhaps  he  contemplated  the  composition  of  a 
book  or  treatise  that  would  have  discussed  the 
great  subject  in  an  exhaustive  manner.  But  in 
face  of  the  perils  that  threatened,  of  the  evils 
already  present  in  the  community,  his  purpose  was 
indefinitely  postponed.  We  are  not  told  how  he 
became  acquainted  with  the  dangers  which  beset 
his  fellow-believers,  but  the  conjecture  is  probably 
correct  that  it  was  by  means  of  his  journeys  as  an 
evangelist.  At  any  rate,  he  was  thoroughly  con- 
versant with  the  evils  in  the  churches,  and  he  deals 
with  them  as  befitted  the  enormities  that  were 
practised  and  the  ruin  that  impended. 

The  address  of  the  Ep.  is  remarkable  for  the 
affection  Jude  expresses  for  these  saints.  Obvious- 
ly they  are  distinct  from  the  libertines  of  whom  he 
speaks  with  such  solemn  condemnation.  They 
were  the  faithful  who  kept  aloof  from  the  ungodlv 
that  surrounded  them,  and  who  held  fast  to  the 
truth  they  had  been  taught.  Jude  describes  them 
as  those  "that  are  called,  beloved  in  God  the  Father, 
and  kept  for  Jesus  Christ:  Mercy  unto  you  and 
peace  and  love  be  multiplied."  At  the  close  of  the 
Ep.  he  commends  them  "unto  him  that  is  able  to 
guard  you  from  stumbling,  and  to  set  you  before 
the  presence  of  his  glory  without  blemish  in  exceed- 
ing joy."  A  separated  and  devoted  band  they  cer- 
tainly were,  a  noble  and  trustworthy  company  of 
believers  for  whose  well-being  Jude  was  supremely 
anxious. 

///.  Description  of  the  Libertines  and  Apostates. 
— It  is  needful  to  gaze  with  steady  vision  on  the 
hideous  portrait  Jude  furnishes  of  these  depraved 
foes,  if  we  are  to  appreciate  in  any  measure  the  force 
of  his  language  and  the  corruption  already  wrought 
in  the  brotherhood.  Some  of  their  foul  teachings 
and  their  vicious  practices,  not  all,  are  here  set 
down. 

(1)  Surreptitious  foes. — "For  there  are  certain  men 
crept  in  privily  ....  ungodly  men"  (ver  4).  They 
are  enemies  who  feign  to  be  friends,  and  hence  in  reality 
are  spies  and  traitors;  like  a  stealthy  beast  of  prey  they 
creep  into  the  company  of  the  godly,  actuated  by  evil 
intent. 

(2)  Perverters  of  grace  and  deniers  of  Christ. — "Turn- 
ing the  grace  of  our  God  into  lasciviousness,  and  denying 
our  only  Master  and  Lord,  Jesus  Christ"  (ver  4).  They 
are  those  who  by  a  vile  perverseness  turn  the  grace  and 
the  liberty  of  the  Gospel  into  a  means  for  gratifying  their 
unholy  passions,  and  who  in  doctrine  and  life  repudiate 
their  Master  and  Lord. 


1709 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA    Jude, Epistle  of 


(3)  Censorious  and  arrogant  detractors. — "In  their  dream- 
ings  defile  the  flesh,  and  set  at  nought  dominion,  and 
rail  at  dignities"  (ver  8).  Destitute  of  true  reverence, 
they  rail  at  the  holiest  and  best  things,  and  sit  in  judg- 
ment on  all  rule  and  all  authority.  They  have  the  proud 
tongue  of  the  lawless:  "Our  lips  are  our  own:  who  Is 
lord  over  us?"   (Ps  12  4). 

(4)  Ignorant  calumniators  and  brutish  sensualists. — 
"These  rail  at  whatsoever  things  they  know  not:  and 
what  they  understand  naturally,  like  the  creatures  with- 
out reason,  in  these  things  are  they  destroyed"  (ver  10). 
What  they  do  not  know,  as  something  lofty  and  noble, 
they  deride  and  denounce;  what  they  know  is  that  which 
ministers  to  their  disordered  appetites  and  their  debased 
lastes. 

(5)  Hypocrites  and  deceivers. — "These  are  they  who 
are  hidden  rocks  in  your  love-feasts  when  they  feast  with 
you,  shepherds  that  without  fear  feed  themselves;  clouds 
without  water  ....  autumn  trees  without  fruit  .... 
wild  waves  of  the  sea  ....  wandering  stars,  for  whom 
the  blackness  of  darkness  hath  been  reserved  forever" 
(vs  12.13).  A  most  graphic  picture  of  the  insincerity, 
the  depravity,  and  the  doom  of  these  insolents!  And 
yet  they  are  found  in  the  bosom  of  the  Christian  body, 
even  sitting  with  the  saints  at  their  love-feasts! 

((3)  Grumblers,  fault-finders,  pleasure-seekers,  boasters, 
parasites. — "These  are  murmurers,  complainers,  walking 
after  their  own  lusts  ....  showing  respect  of  persons 
for  the  sake  of  advantage"  (ver  16).  They  impeach 
Divine  wisdom,  are  the  foes  of  peace  and  quietness,  boast 
of  their  capacities  to  manage  things,  and  yet  they  can 
be  servile,  even  sycophants,  when  thereby  advantage  is 
secured. 

(7)  Schis?natics  and  sensualists. — "These  are  they 
who  make  separations,  sensual,  having  not  the  Spirit" 
(ver  19).  It  was  characteristic  of  the  false  teachers  and 
mockers  who  had  invaded  the  Christian  church  that  they 
drew  lines  of  demarkation  between  themselves  and  others, 
or  between  different  classes  of  believers,  which  the  Holy 
Spirit  did  not  warrant,  but  which  was  the  product  of 
their  own  crafty  and  wicked  wills.  There  seems  to  be 
a  hint  in  these  words  of  incipient  Gnosticism,  that  fatal 
heresy  that  boasted  of  a  recondite  knowledge,  a  deep 
mystery  which  only  the  initiated  possessed,  of  which  the 
great  mass  of  Christians  were  ignorant.  Jude  brands 
the  pretension  as  the  offspring  of  their  own  sensuality, 
not  at  all  of  G oil's  Spirit. 

Such  is  the  forbidding  portrait  drawn  of  the 
libertines  in  the  Ep.  But  Jude  adds  other  and  even 
darker  features.  He  furnishes  a  number  of  exam- 
ples of  apostates  and  of  apostasy  which  disclose 
even  more  strikingly  the  spirit  and  the  doom  of 
them  that  pervert  the  truth,  that  deny  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  and  that  mock  at  the  things  of  God. 
These  all  mark  a  fatal  degeneracy,  a  "falling  away," 
which  bodes  nothing  but  evil  and  judgment. 
Against  the  corrupters  and  skeptics  Jude  writes 
with  a  vehemence  that  in  the  NT  is  without  a 
parallel.  Matters  must  have  come  to  a  dreadful 
pass  when  the  Spirit  of  Cod  is  compelled  to  use 
such  stern  and  awful  language. 

IV.  Relation  of  Jude  to  the  Second  Epistle  of 
Peter. — The  relation  is  confined  to  2  Pet  2 — 3  4. 
A  large  portion  of  Peter's  Ep.,  viz. 
1.  Resem-  ch  1  and  3  5-18,  bears  no  resemblance 
blances  to  Jude,  at   least  no  more  than  does 

.  Jas  or  1  Pet.  Between  the  sections 
of  2  Pet  indicated  above  and  Jude  the  parallelism 
is  close,  both  as  to  the  subjects  treated  and  the 
historical  illustrations  introduced,  and  the  lan- 
guage itself  to  some  considerable  extent  is  common 
to  both.  All  readers  must  be  impressed  with  the 
similarity.  Accordingly,  it  is  very  generally  held 
by  interpreters  that  otie  of  the  writers  copied  from 
the  other.  There  is  not  entire  agreement  as  to 
which  of  the  two  epp.  is  the  older,  that  is, 
whether  Peter  copied  from  Jude,  or  Jude  from 
Peter.  Perhaps  a  majority  favor  the  former  of  the 
two  alternatives,  though  some  of  the  very  latest 
and  most  learned  of  those  who  write  on  Intro- 
ductions to  the  NT  hold  strongly  to  the  view  that 
Jude  copied  from  2  Pet.  Reference  is  made  particu- 
larly to  Dr.  Theodore  v.  Zahn,  whose  magnificent 
work  on  Introduction  has  been  but  recently  trd 
into  Eng.,  and  who  argues  convincingly  that  Jude 
copied  from  2  Pet . 

However,  it  must  be  admitted  that  there  are  in 
the  two  epp.  as  pronounced  differences  and  diver- 


gences as  there  are  resemblances.  If  one  of  the 
two  did  actually  copy  from  the  other,  he  was  care- 
ful to  add,  subtract,  and  change  what 
2.  Differ-  he  found  in  his  "source"  as  best  suited 
ences  his  purpose.     A  servile  copyist  he  cer- 

tainly was  not.  He  maintained  his 
independence  throughout,  as  an  exact  comparison 
of  the  one  with  the  other  will  demonstrate. 

If  we  bring  them  into  close  proximity',  following 
the  example  of  Professor  Lumby  in  the  "Bible 
Comm."  (Intro  to  2  Pet),  we  shall  discover  a  marked 
difference  between  the  two  pictures  drawn  by  the 
writers.  We  cannot  fail  to  perceive  how  much 
darker  and  more  sinister  is  that  of  Jude.  The  evil, 
alarming  certainly  in  Peter,  becomes  appalling  in 
Jude.    Subjoined  are  proofs  of  t  he  fact  above  stated : 

2  Pet  2  1 

But  there  arose  falsi* 
prophets  also  among  the 
people,  as  among  you  also 
there  shall  be  false  teachers 


Jude  ver  4 
For    there   are    certain 
men  crept  in  privily  .... 


2  Pet  2  1 

who  shall  privily  bring  in 
destructive  heresies,  deny- 
ing even  the  Master  that 
bought  them  .... 

2  Pet   2  3 
And  in  covetousness  shall 
they    with    feigned    words 
make  merchandise  of   you 


Jude  ver  4 
....  ungodly  men,  turning 
the  grace  of  God  into  lasci- 
viousness,  and  denying  our 
only  Master  and  Lord, 
Jesus  Christ. 

Jude  ver  16 
....  murmurers,  com- 
plainers, walking  after  their 
own  lusts  (and  f  heir  mouth 
speaketh  great  swelling 
words),  showing  respect  of 
persons  for  the  sake  of  ad- 
vantage. 

These  contrasts  and  comparisons  between  the 
two  epp.  prove  (1)  that  in  Jude  the  false  teachers 
are  worse,  more  virulent  than  in  Peter,  and  (2)  that 
in  Peter  the  whole  description  is  predictive,  whereas 
in  Jude  the  deplorable  condition  is  actually  present . 
If  2  Pet  is  dependent  on  Jude,  if  the  apostle  cited 
from  Jude,  how  explain  the  strong  predictive  ele- 
ment in  his  opening  verses  (2  Pet  2  1-3)?  If  as 
Peter  wrote  he  had  lying  before  him  Jude's  letter, 
which  represents  the  corrupters  as  already  within 
the  Christian  community  and  doing  their  deadly 
work,  his  repeated  use  of  the  future;  tense  is  abso- 
lutely inexplicable.  Assuming,  however,  that  he 
wrote  prior  to  Jude,  his  predictions  become  per- 
fectly intelligible.  No  doubt  the  virus  was  working 
when  he  wrote,  but  it  was  latent,  undeveloped; 
far  worse  would  appear;  but  when  Jude  wrote  the 
poison  was  widely  diffused,  as  vs  12.19  clearly  show. 
The  very  life  of  the  churches  was  endangered. 


2  Pet  2  4.5 
For  if  God  spared  not 
the  angels  when  they  sinned 
....  and  spared  not  the 
ancient  world,  but  pre- 
served Noah  with  seven 
others  .... 


Jude  vs  5.6 
....  The  Lord,  having 
saved  a  people  out  of  the 
land  of  Egypt,  afterward 
destroyed  them  ....  and 
angels  that  ....  left  their 
proper  habitation  .... 


Peter  speaks  of  the  angels  that  sinned,  Jude  of 
their  apostasy.  Peter  makes  prominent  the  sal- 
vation of  Noah  and  his  family  when 
3.  Further  the  flood  overwhelmed  the  world  of  the 
Contrasts  ungodly,  while  Jude  tells  of  those  who, 
delivered  from  bondage,  afterward 
were  destroyed  because  of  their  unbelief.  He 
speaks  of  no  rescue;  we  know  of  but  two  who  sur- 
vived the  judgments  of  the  wilderness  and  who 
entered  the  Land  of  Promise,  Caleb  and  Joshua. 
Peter  mentions  the  fate  of  the  guilty  cities  of  Sodom 
and  Gomorrah,  but  he  is  careful  to  remind  us  of  the 
deliverance  of  righteous  Lot,  while  Jude  makes 
prominent  their  nameless  crimes  and  consigns  them 
to  "the  punishment  of  eternal  fire,"  but  he  is  silent 
on  the  rescue  of  Lot.  Manifestly  Jude's  illustra- 
tions are  darker  and  more  hopeless  than  Peter's. 


Jude,  Epistle  of 
Judge 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1770 


Peter  inst  ances  Balaam  as  an  example  of  one  who 
loved  the  hire  of  wrongdoing  and  who  was  rebuked 
for  Ins  transgression.  Hud  Jude  cites  three  notable 
instances  in  the  OT  to  indicate  how  far  in  apostasy 
and  rebellion  the  libertines  had  gone.  Three  words 
mark  their  course,  rising  into  a  climax,  "way," 
"error,"  "gainsaying."  They  went  in  the  way  of 
Cain,  i.e.  in  the  way  of  self-will,  of  hate,  and  the 
spirit  of  murder.  Moreover,  they  "ran  riotously 
in  the  error  of  Balaam  for  hire."  The  words  denote 
an  activity  of  viciousness  that  enlisted  all  their 
eagerness  and  all  their  might.  Balaam's  error  was 
one  that  led  into  error,  one  that  seduced  others 
into  the  commission  of  the  like  sins.  The  reference 
seems  to  be  to  the  whole  career  of  this  heathen 
prophet,  and  includes  his  betrayal  of  the  Israelites 
through  the  women  of  Moab  (Nu  31  1G).  Balaam 
is  the  prototype!  of  Jude's  libertines,  both  in  his 
covetousness  and  his  seductive  counsel.  Further- 
more, they  "perished  in  the  gainsaying  of  Korah." 
This  man  with  2">0  followers  rebelled  against  the 
Divinely  appointed  leaders  and  rulers  of  Israel, 
Moses  and  Aaron,  and  sought  to  share  their  author- 
ity in  Israel,  if  not  to  displace  them  altogether. 
Comparable  with  these  rebels  in  ancient  Israel  are 
the  treacherous  and  malignant  foes  whom  Jude  so 
vigorously  denounces. 

Peter  speaks  of  them  as  "daring,  self-willed,  they 
tremble  not  to  rail  at  dignities:  whereas  angels, 
though  greater  in  might  and  power,  bring  not  a  rail- 
ing judgment  against  them  before  the  Lord"  (vs 
10.11).  Jude  is  more  specific:  These  dreamers 
"defile  the  flesh,  and  set  at  nought  dominion,  and 
rail  at  dignities."  They  repudiate  all  authority, 
despise  every  form  of  lordship,  and  revile  those  in 
positions  of  power.  He  cites  the  contention  of 
Michael  the  archangel  with  the  devil  about  the  body 
of  Moses,  and  yet  this  loftiest  of  the  heavenly 
spirits  brought  no  railing  judgment  against  the  ad- 
versary. Jude's  description  is  more  vivid  and 
definite :  he  describes  an  advanced  stage  of  apostasy. 
Very  not  ewort  hy  is  Jude  vs  22.23.  He  here  turns 
again  to  the  loyal  and  stedfast  believers  whom  he 
addresses  at  the  beginning  of  his  letter,  and  he  gives 
them  direct  ions  how  they  are  to  deal  with  those  who 
were  ensnared  by  the  wily  foes.  (The  text  in  ver 
22  is  somewhat  uncertain,  but  the  revision  is  fol- 
lowed.) There  were  some  who  were  "in  doubt." 
They  were  those  who  had  been  fascinated  by  the 
new  teaching,  and  although  not  captured  by  it,  they 
were  engaged  in  its  study,  were  drawn  toward  it 
and  almost  ready  to  yield.  On  these  the  faithful 
were  to  have  mercy,  were  to  convince  them  of  their 
danger,  show  them  the  enormities  to  which  the  false 
system  inevitably  leads,  and  so  win  them  back  to 
Christ's  allegiance.  As  if  Jude  said,  Deal  with  the 
wavering  in  love  and  fidelity;  but  rescue  them  if 
possible. 

There  were  others  whose  peril  was  greater:  "And 
some  save,  snatching  them  out  of  the  fire."  These 
were  identified  with  the  wicked,  were  scorched  by 
the  fires  of  destruction  and  hence  almost  beyond 
reach  of  rescue;  but  if  possible  they  are  to  be  saved, 
however  scat  lied  and  blackened.  Others  still  there 
were  who  were  in  worse  state  than  the  preceding, 
who  wen;  polluted  and  smirched  by  the  foul  con- 
tamination of  the  guilty  seducers,  and  such  were  to 
be  saved,  and  the  rescuers  were  to  fear  lest  they 
should  be  soiled  by  contact  with  the  horrible  defile- 
ment. This  is  Jude's  tremendous  summary  of  the 
shameful  work  and  frightful  evils  wrought  in  the 
bosom  of  the  church  by  the  libertines.  He  dis- 
closes in  these  trenchant  verses  how  deeplv  sunk 
in  sin  the  false  teachers  were,  and  how  awful  the 
ruin  they  had  wrought.  The  description  is  quite 
unparalleled  in  2  Pet.  The  shadings  in  Jude  are 
darker  and  deeper  than  those  in  2  Pet. 


The  comparison  between   the  two  writings  war- 
rants,  we   believe,   the   following  conclusions:     (1) 
that  Peter  and  Jude  have  in  view  the 

4.  Summary  same  corrupt  parties;    (2)  that  Peter 

paints  them  as  godless  and  extremely 
dangerous,  though  not  yet  at  their  worst;  while 
Jude  sets  them  forth  as  depraved  and  as  lawless  as 
they  can  well  be;  (3)  that  Peter's  is  the  older  writing 
and  that  Jude  was  acquainted  with  what  the  apostle 
had  written. 

Stronger  evidence  than  any  yet  produced  of 
Peter's  priority  is  now  to  be  submitted,  and  here 
we  avail  ourselves  in  part  of  Zahn's  array  of  evi- 
dence. 

Jude  asserts  with  great  positiveness  that  (ver  4) 

certain  men  had  crept  in  privily  into  the  Christian 

fold,    "even    they    who    were    of    old 

5.  Evi-  written  of  beforehand  unto  this  con- 
dence  of  demnation,  ungodly  men."  Obviously 
Priority  of  Jude  is  here  speaking  of  the  enemies 
Peter              whom  he  afterward  goes  on  to  describe 

and  denounce  in  his  Ep.  He  dis- 
tinctly affirms  that  these  foes  had  been  of  old  written 
of  and  beforehand  designated  unto  "this  condem- 
nation." He  clearly  has  in  mind  an  authoritative 
writing  that  spoke  of  the  identical  parties  Jude 
himself  deals  with.  He  does  not  tell  us  whose 
writing  it  is  that  contains  the  "condemnation"  of 
the  errorists;  he  only  declares  that  there  is  such  a 
Scripture  existing  and  that  he  is  acquainted  with  it. 
Now,  to  what  writing  does  he  refer?  Not  to  any 
OT  prophecy,  for  none  can  be  found  that  answers 
to  the  words.  Nor  yet  to  the  prediction  of  Enoch 
(vs_  14.15),  for  it  speaks  of  the  advent  of  the  Lord 
in  judgment  at  the  last  day,  whereas  Jude  applies 
his  reference  to  the  ungodly  who  were  then  present 
in  the  Christian  assemblies,  corrupting  the  churches 
with  their  wicked  teaching  and  practices.  "In 
2  Pet  2 — 3  4,  we  have  a  prophecy  which  exactly 
suits,  namely,  the  announcement  that  false  teachers 
whose  theory  and  practice  exactly  correspond  to 
those  godless  bearers  of  the  Christian  name  in  Jude 
will  appear  among  a  certain  group  of  Jewish  Chris- 
tian churches"  (Zahn).  Peter's  account  of  them 
is  so  particular  that  Jude  would  encounter  no  diffi- 
culty in  identifying  them.  He  is  furnished  by  the 
apostle  with  such  characteristics  of  them,  with 
such  illustrations  and  even  words  and  phrases  that 
he  has  only  to  place  the  description  alongside  of 
the  reality  to  see  how  completely  they  match. 

It  may  be  objected  that  the  words,  "were  of  old 
written  of  beforehand,"  denote  a  long  period,  longer 
than  that  which  elapsed  between  the  two  epp. 
But  the  objection  is  groundless.  The  original  term 
for  "of  old"  (pdlai)  sometimes  indicates  but  a  brief 
space  of  time,  e.g.  Mk  15  44  (according  to  the  text 
of  Weymouth  and  Nestle,  and  RV)  relates  that 
Pilate  asked  the  centurion  if  Jesus  had  been  "any 
while"  (palai)  dead,  which  limits  the  term  to  a  few 
hours.  In  2  Cor  12  19  the  word  occurs,  and  there 
it  must  be  restricted  to  Paul's  self-defence  which 
occupies  the  part  of  the  Ep.  preceding,  and  hence 
does  not  extend  beyond  a  day  or  two.  Probably 
some  years  lie  between  the  composition  of  these  two 
epp.,  ample  time  to  justify  Jude's  use  of  the  word 
if  he  is  referring  to  2  Pet  2 — 3  4,  as  we  certainly 
believe  he  is. 

This  interpretation  of  Jude  ver  4  is  confirmed  by 
Jude  vs  17.18.     These  verses  are  intimately  con- 
nected    with     2  Pet  3  2-4.       Jude's 
6.  Confirm-  readers  are  told  to  keep  in  remem- 
atory  brance  the  words  spoken  by  the  apos- 

References  ties  of  Christ,  namely,  "In  the  last 
time  there  shall  be  mockers,  walking 
after  their  own  ungodly  lusts."  Peter  writes,  "that 
in  the  last  days  mockers  shall  come  with  mockery, 
walking  after  their  own  lusts."     The  resemblance 


1771 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Jude,  Epistle  of 
Judge 


of  the  one  passage  to  the  other  is  very  close,  indeed, 
they  are  almost  identical.  Both  urge  their  readers 
to  remember  what  had  been  said  by  the  apostles 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  both  speak  of  the 
immoral  scoffers  who  would  invade  or  had  invaded 
the  Christian  brotherhood,  lint  Peter  distinctly 
asserts  that  these  mockers  shall  appear  in  the  last 
days.  His  words  are,  "Knowing  this  first,  that  in 
the  last  days  mockers  shall  come  with  mockery, 
walking  after  their  own  lusts."  Jude  writes  that 
"in  the  last  time  there  shall  be  mockers,  walking 
after  their  own  ungodly  lusts."  The  phrases,  "the 
last  days,"  and  "the  last  time,"  denote  our  age,  the 
dispensation  in  which  we  live,  as  He  1  2  proves. 
Peter  puts  the  appearance  of  the  scoffers  in  the 
future,  whereas  Jude,  after  quoting  the  words,  sig- 
nificantly adds,  "These  are  they  who  make  separa- 
tions, sensual,  having  not  the  Spirit."  He  means, 
of  course  the  mockers  just  mentioned,  and  he  affirms 
they  are  now  present.  With  Peter  they  are  yet  to 
come  when  he  wrote,  but  with  Jude  the  prediction 
is  already  fulfilled,  so  far  as  the  scoffers  are  con- 
cerned. Therefore  Jude's  writing  is  subsequent 
to  Peter's,  and  if  there  be  copying  on  the  part  of 
either,  it  is  Jude  who  copies. 

Peter  mentions  "your  apostles,"  including  himself  in 
the  phrase,  but  Jude  docs  not  employ  the  pi.  pronoun, 
for  he  was  not  of  the  apostolic  body.  But  why  the  pi., 
"apostles"?  Because  at  least  one  other  apostle  had 
spoken  of  the  perilous  times  which  were  coming  on  the 
church  of  God.  Paul  unites  his  testimony  with  that  of 
Peter,  and  writes,  "  But  know  this,  that  in  the  last  days 
grievous  times  shall  come"  (2  Tim  3  1-5).  His  pre- 
diction is  near  akin  to  that  of  Peter;  it  belongs  apparent- 
ly to  the  same  historic  time  and  to  the  same  perilous 
class  of  evil-doers  and  corrupters.  In  2  Pet  3  15  the 
apostle  lovingly  and  tenderly  speaks  of  his  "brother 
Paul."  and  says  suggestively  that  in  his  Ep.  he  speaks 
of  these  tilings — no  doubt  about  the  scoffers  of  the  last 
days  among  the  rest.  He  certainly  seems  to  have  Paul 
in  mind  when  he  penned  the  words,  "  Knowing  this  first, 
that  in  the  last  days  mockers  shall  come." 

Here,  then,  is  positive  ground  for  the  reference  in  Jude 
ver  4  to  a  writing  concerning  those  who  had  crept  into 
the  fold  and  who  were  of  old  doomed  to  this  condemna- 
tion, with  which  writing  his  readers  were  acquainted; 
they  had  it  in  the  writing  of  the  apostles  Peter  and  Paul 
both,  and  so  were  forewarned  as  to  the  impending  danger. 
Judu's  Ep.  is  subsequent  to  Peter's. 

V.  Date  of  the  Epistle. — There  is  little  or  no 
agreement  as  to  the  year,  yet  the  majority  of  writers 
hold  that  it  belongs  to  the  latter  half  of  the  1st  cent. 
Zahn  assigns  it  to  70-75  AD;  Lumhy,  c  80  AD; 
Salmon,  before  the  reign  of  Domitian  (SI  AD); 
Sieffert,  shortly  prior  to  Domitian;  Chase,  not  later 
than  80  AD,  probably  within  a  year  or  two  of  the 
Pastoral  Epp.  Zahn  strongly  insists  on  64  AD  as 
the  date  of  Peter's  death.  If  the  2d  Ep.  bearing  his 
name  is  authentic,  the  apostle  could  not  possibly 
have  copied  from  Jude,  for  Jude's  letter  was  not  in 
existence  when  he  died.  Even  on  the  supposition 
that  he  suffered  death  65-66  AD,  there  could  have 
been  no  copying  done  save  by  Jude,  for  it  is  almost 
demonstrable  that  Jude  was  written  after  the  de- 
struction of  Jerus  in  70  AD.  If  2  Pet  is  pseudony- 
mous and  written  about  the  middle  of  the  2d  cent., 
as  some  confidently  affirm,  it  has  no  right  to  a  place 
in  the  Canon  nor  any  legitimate  relation  to  Jude. 
If  genuine,  it  antedates  Jude. 

VI.  The  Libertines  of  Jude's  Epistle. — Their 
character  is  very  forcibly  exhibited,  but  no  informa- 
tion is  given  us  of  their  origin  or  to  what  particular 
region  they  belonged.  They  bore  the  Christian 
name,  were  of  the  loosest  morals,  and  were  guilty 
of  shameful  excesses.  Their  influence  seems  to 
have  been  widespread  and  powerful,  else  Jude 
would  not  denounce  them  in  such  severe  language1. 
Their  guilty  departure  from  the  truth  must  not  be 
confounded  with  the  Gnosticism  of  the  2d  cent., 
though  it  tended  strongly  in  that  direction;  it  was 
a  lst-cent.  defection.  Were  they  newly  risen  sen- 
sualists,   without   predecessors?      To  some  extent 


their  forerunners  had  already  appeared.     Sensuality 

in  sonu!  of  its  grosser  forms  disgraced  the  church  at 
Corinth  (1  Cor  5  1-13;  6  13-20).  In  the  common 
meals  of  this  congregation  which  ended  in  the 
celebration  of  the  Lord's  Supper,  they  indulged  in 
revelry  and  gluttony,  some  of  them  even  being 
intoxicated  (1  Cor  11  17-22).  Participation  in  a 
heathen  festival  exposed  the  Christians  to  the  danger 
of  sharing  in  idolatry,  and  yet  some  of  the  Corin- 
thians were  addicted  to  it  (1  Cor  8;  10  14-32). 
In  reading  of  the  state  of  things  in  the  church  at 
Colosse,  one  perceives  how  fatal  certain  views  and 
practices  there  would  soon  become  if  suffered  to 
grow  (Col  2  16-23;  3  5-11).  Twenty  years  after 
the  probable  date  of  Jude,  in  some  of  tin:  churches 
of  Asia  Minor,  wicked  parties  flourished  and  domi- 
nated Christian  assemblies  that  wore  closely  allied 
in  teaching  and  conduct  with  the  ungodly  of  Jude. 
The  Nicolaitans,  and  the  "woman  Jezebel,  who 
calleth  herself  a  prophetess;  and  she  teacheth  and 
seduceth  my  servants  to  commit  fornication,  and  to 
eat  things  sacrificed  to  idols"  (Rev  2  20)  belong 
to  the  same  company  of  libertines  as  those1  of  Jude. 
It  should  be  no  surprise  to  us  with  these  examples 
before  us,  that  according  to  Jude  there  were  found 
in  the  bosom  of  the  Christian  community  moral 
delinquents  and  shameless  profligates  whose  con- 
duct shocks  our  sense  of  propriety  and  decency,  for 
the  like  evils,  though  not  so  flagrant,  troubled  the 
churches  in  Paul's  lifetime. 

Jude  brands  them  as  enemies  and  apostates.  He 
pronounces  their  doom  in  the  words  of  Enoch: 
"Behold,  the  Lord  came  with  ten  thousands  of 
his  holy  ones,  to  execule  judgment  upon  all"  (vs 
14.15).  It  is  generally  believed  that  this  prophecy 
of  Enoch  is  quoted  by  Jude  from  the  apocryphal 
Book  of  Enoch.  Granting  such  quotation,  that 
fact  does  not  warrant  us  to  affirm  that  la;  indorsed 
the  book.  Paul  cites  from  three  Gr  poets:  from 
Aratus  (Acts  17  28),  from  Menander  (1  Cor  15 
33;  see  Earle,  Euripides,  "Medea,"  Intro,  30, 
where  this  is  attributed  to  Euripides),  and  from 
Epimenides  (Tit  1  12).  Does  anyone  imagine  that 
Paul  indorses  all  that  these  poets  wrote?  To  the 
quotation  from  Epimenides  the  apostle  adds,  "This 
testimony  is  true:"  (Tit  1  13),  but  no  one  imagines 
he  means  to  say  the  whole  poem  is  true.  So  Jude 
cites  a  passage  from  a  non-canonical  book,  not 
because  he  accepts  the  whole  book  as  true,  but  this 
particular  prediction  he  receives  as  from  God. 
Whence  the  writer  of  Enoch  derived  it  is  unknown. 
It  may  have  been  cherished  and  transmitted  from 
generation  to  generation,  or  in  some  other  way 
faithfully  preserved,  but  at  any  rate  Jude  accepted 
it  as  authentic.  Paul  quotes  a  saying  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  (Acts  20  35)  not  recorded  in  the  Gospels,  but 
whence  he  derived  it  is  unknown.  As_  much  may 
be  said  of  this  of  Enoch  which  Jude  receives  as  true. 

Literature. — Zahn,  Intro  to  NT;  Salmon,  Intro  to 
NT;  Westcott,  Canon  of  XT;  Purves,  Apostolic  Age; 
Alford,  Gr  Test.;  Plumptre,  Comm.,  "Cambridge  Bible 
Series";  Lillie,  Comm.  on  1  and  2  1'ct;  Bigg,  ICC;  Vincent, 
Word  Studies. 

William  G.  Mooreitead 
JUDEA,  joo-de'a:   In  Ezr  5  S  for  "Judah";  thus 
RV.     In  the  NT  the  form  is  Judaea  (q.v.). 

JUDGE,  juj  (t2£T2J ,  shophet;  NT  SiKao-TTJs,  dikas- 
tes,  KpiT'/js,  kritts):  In  the  early  patriarchal  times 
the  heads  of  families  and  the  elders  of  the  tribes 
were  the  judges  (cf  Gen  38  24),  and  their  authority 
was  based  on  custom.  In  the  wilderness  Moses 
alone  was  the  judge  until  Jethro  suggested  a  scheme 
of  devolution.  On  his  advice  Moses  divided  the 
people  into  groups  of  thousands,  hundreds,  fifties, 
and  tens,  and  over  each  group  a  wise  and  good  man 
was  set  as  a  judge.  Thereafter  only  the  most  im- 
portant cases  were  brought  before  Moses  (Ex  18 


Judges, Book  of    THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1772 


13-2G;  Dt  1  9-17).  This  arrangement  ceased  to 
he  practicable  when  the  children  of  Israel  settled 
down  in  Canaan.  Although  David  took  counsel 
with  the  heads  of  thousands  and  hundreds  (1  Oh 
13  1),  it  need  not  be  assumed  that  this  was  a  con- 
tinuation of  the  plan  adopted  by  Moses.  Probably 
the  local  courts  were  not.  organized  till  the  time  of 
David.  In  the  days  of  the  .bulges  justice  was  ad- 
ministered by  those  who  had  risen  by  wisdom  or 
valor  to  that  rank  (Jgs  4  5).  An  organized  cir- 
cuit court  was  established  by  Samuel,  who  judged 
cases  himself,  and  also  made  his  sons  judges  (1  S 
7  Hi;  8  I).  After  the  monarchy  was  instituted, 
the  king  tried  all  cases,  when  requested  to  do  so  by 
the  wronged  person,  in  the  palace  gate  (1  K  7  7; 
Prov  20  8).  There  was  no  public  prosecutor 
(2  S  14  4;  15  2-6;  1  Ch  18  14;  1  K  3  10;  2  K 
15  5).  Under  David  and  Solomon  there  wore 
probably  local  courts  (1  Ch  23  4;  26  29).  Je- 
hoshaphat  organized  a  high  court  of  justice  (2  Ch 
19  <S).  The  prophets  often  complain  bitterly  that  the 
purity  of  justice  is  corrupted  by  bribery  and  false 
witness  (Isa  1  23;  5  23;  10  1;'  Am  5'  12;  6  12; 
Mic  3  11;  7  3;  Prov  6  19;  12  17;  18  5).  Even 
kirifis  sometimes  pronounced  unjust  sentences,  esp. 
in  criminal  cases  (1  S  22  6-19;  1  K  22  26;  2  K 
21  16;  Jer  36  26).  An  evil  king  could  also  bend 
local  courts  to  do  his  will,  as  may  be  gathered  from 
the  case  of  Naboth's  vineyard  (1   K  21   1-13). 

The  first  duty  of  a  judge  was  to  execute  absolute 
justice,  showing  the  same  impartiality  to  rich  and 
poor,  to  JewT  and  foreigner.  Ho  was  forbidden  to 
accept  bribes  or  to  wrest  the  judgment  of  the  poor 
(Ex  23  6-8;  Dt  16  19).  _  Ho  must  not  let  himself 
bo  swayed  bv  popular  opinion,  or  unduly  favor  the 
poor  (Ex  23  2.3). 

The  court  was  open  to  the  public  (Ex  18  13; 
Ruth  4  1.2).  Each  party  presented  his  view  of  the 
case  to  the  judge  (Dt  1  16;  25  1).  Possibly  the 
accused  appeared  in  court-  clad  in  mourning  (Zoo 
3  3).  The  accuser  stood  on  the  right  hand  of  the 
accused  (Zee  3  1;  Ps  109  6).  Sentence  was  pro- 
nounced after  the  hearing  of  the  case,  and  the 
judgment  carried  out  (Josh  7  24.25).  The  only 
evidence  considered  by  the  court  was  that  given 
by  the  witnesses.  In  criminal  cases,  not  less  than 
two  witnesses  were  necessary  (Dt  19  15;  Nu  35 
30;  Dt  17  6;  cf  Alt  18  Hi;'  2  Cor  13  1;  1  Tim 
5  19).  In  eases  other  than  criminal  the  oath  (sec 
Oath)  was  applied  (Ex  22  11;  cf  He  6  16).  The 
lot  was  sometimes  appealed  to  (Josh  7  14-18), 
esp.  in  private  disputes  (Prov  18  18).  but  this  was 
exceptional.  When  the  law  was  not  quite  definite, 
recourse  was  had  to  the  Divine  oracle  (Lev  24  12; 
Nu  15  34).  Paul.  Levertoff 

JUDGES,  juj'iz,  BOOK  OF: 

1.  Title, 

2.  Place  in  the  Canon 

3.  Contents 

(L)    Introductory,  1 — 2  5 

(2)  Central  and  Main  Portion,  2  <! — 16 

(3)  An  Appendix,  17-21 

4.  Chronology 

5.  Authorship  and  Sources 

G.    Relation  to  Preceding  Books 

7.  Relation  to  LXX  and  Other  VSS 

8.  Religious  Purpose  and  Value 
Literature 

The  Eng.  name  of  the  Book  of  Jgs  is  a  tr  of  the 

Heb  title  (D^IpSTlJ,  shoph'tlm),  which  is  reproduced 

in  the  Or  Kpiral,  Kritai,  and  the  Lat 
1.  Title  Liber    Judicum.     In    the    list    of    the 

canonical  books  of  the  OT  given  bv 
Origen  (apud  Euseb.,  ///';,  VI,  25)  the  name 
is  transliterated  2a<^arei>,  Saphateim,  which  repre- 
sents rather  "judgments"  (sh>'phutim;  Kpifiara, 
krimata)  than  "judges."  A  passage  also  is  quoted 
from    Philo    (De    Confus.    Linguarum,    26),    which 


indicates  that  he  recognized  the  same  form  of  the 
name;  compare  the  Or  title  of  "Kingdoms"  (lia- 
aiXeiai,  BasileiaL)  for  the  four  books  of  S  and  K. 

In  the  order  of  the   Heb  Canon  the   Hook  of  Jgs  in- 
variably occupies  the  7th   place,  following  immediately 
upon  Josh  and  preceding  S  and   K.      With 

2.  Place  in     tlu5S(-    il    formed    the    group    of    the   four 

the  Canon       "earlier    prophets"     (n^jlOSn    D'1X'Q3. 

nebhi'im  ri'shonim),  the  first  moiety  of  the 
2i\  great  division  of  the  Heb  Scriptures.  As  such  the 
Book  of  Jgs  was  classified  and  regarded  as  "prophetical," 
equally  with  the  other  historical  hooks,  on  the  ground 
of  the  religious  and  spiritual  teaching  which  its  history- 
conveyed.  In  the  rearrangement  of  the  books,  which 
was  undertaken  for  the  purposes  of  t  lie  (Jr  tr  and  Canon, 
Jgs  maintained  its  position  as  /th  in  order  from  the  be- 
ginning, but  the  short  historical  Hook  of  Ruth  was 
removed  from  the  place  which  it,  held  among  the  Rolls 
{meghilloth)  in  the;  3d  division  of  the  Jewish  Canon,  and 
attached  to  Jgs  as  a  kind  of  appendix,  probably  because 
the  narrative  was  understood  to  presuppose  the  same 
conditions  atid  to  have  reference  to  the  same  period  of 
time.  The  Or  order  was  followed  in  all  later  VSS,  antl 
lias  maintained  itself  in  modern  Bibles.  Origen  (loc. 
cit.)  even  states,  probably  by  a  mere  misunderstanding, 
that  Jgs  and  Ruth  were  comprehended  by  the  Jews  under 
the  one  tit  le  Saphateim. 

The  Book  of  Jgs  consists  of  3  main  parts  or 
divisions,  which  are  readily  distinguished. 

(1)  Introductory  (1—2  5).— A  brief 

3.  Contents  summary   and    recapitulation    of    the 

events  of  the  conquest  of  Western  Pal, 
for  the  most  part  parallel  to  the  narrative;  of  Josh, 
but  with  a  few  additional  details  and  some  diver- 
gences from  the  earlier  account,  in  particular 
emphasizing  (1  27-36)  the  general  failure  of  the 
Israelites  to  expel  completely  the  original  inhabit- 
ants of  the  land,  which  is  described  as  a  violation 
of  their  covenant  with  Jeh  (2  1-3),  entailing  upon 
them  suffering  and  permanent  weakness.  The 
introductory  ver  (1  1),  which  refers  to  the  death  of 
Joshua  as  having  already  taken  place,  seems  to  be 
intended  as  a  general  indication  of  the  historical 
period  of  the  book  as  a  whole;  for  some  at  least  of 
the  events  narrated  in  1 — 2  5  took  place  during 
Joshua's  lifetime. 

(2)  The  central  and  main  portion  (2  6 — 16). — 
A  series  of  narratives  of  12  "judges,"  each  of  whom 
in  turn,  by  his  devotion  and  prowess,  was  enabled 
to  deliver  Israel  from  thraldom  and  oppression,  and 
for  a  longer  or  shorter  term  ruled  over  the  people 
whom  he  had  thus  saved  from  their  enemies.  Each 
successive  repentance  on  the  part  of  the  people, 
however,  and  their  deliverance  art;  followed,  on  the 
death  of  the  judge,  by  renewed  apostasy,  which 
entails  upon  them  renewed  misery  and  servitude, 
from  which  they  are  again  rescued  when  in  response 
to  their  prayer  the  Lord  "raises  up"  for  them  another 
judge  and  deliverer.  Thus  the  entire  history  is  set 
as  it  were  in  a  recurrent  framework  of  moral  and 
religious  teaching  and  warning;  and  the  lesson  is 
enforced  that  it  is  the  sin  of  the  people,  their 
abandonment  of  Jeh  and  persistent  idolatry,  which 
entails  upon  them  calamity,  from  which  the  Divine 
long-suffering  and  forbearance  alone  makes  for 
them  a  way  of  escape. 

(a)  2  6 — 3  6:  A  second  brief  introduction,  con- 
ceived entirely  in  the  spirit  of  the  following  narra- 
tives, which  seems  to  attach  itself  to  the  close  of  the 
Book  of  Josh,  and  in  part  repeats  almost  verbally 
the  account  there  given  of  the  death  and  burial  of 
Israel's  leader  (Jgs  2  6-9  ||  Josh  24  2S-31),  and 
proceeds  to  describe  the  condition  of  t he  land  and 
people  in  the  succeeding  generation,  ascribing  their 
misfortunes  to  their  idolatry  and  repeated  neglect, 
of  the  warnings  and  commands  of  the  judges; 
closing  with  an  enumeration  of  the  peoples  left  in 
the  land,  whose  presence  was  to  be  the  test  of 
Israel's  willingness  to  obey  Jeh  and  at  the  same 
time  to  prevent  the  nation  from  sinking  into  a  con- 
dition of  lethargy  and  ease. 


1773 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA    Judges,  Book  of 


(6)  3  7—3  11:  Judgeship  of  Othniel  who  de- 
livered Israel  from  the  hand  of  Cushan-rishathaim. 

(c)  3  12-30:  Victory  of  Ehud  over  the  Moabites, 

to  whom  the  Israelites  had  been  in  servitude  18 
years.  Ehud  slew  their  king  Eglon,  and  won  for 
the  nation  a  long  period  of  tranquillity. 

(d)  3  31 :  In  a  few  brief  words  Shamgar  is  named 
as  the  deliverer  of  Israel  from  the  Philis.  The  title 
of  "judge"  is  not  accorded  to  him,  nor  is  he  said  to 
have  exercised  authority  in  any  way.  It  is  doubt- 
ful, therefore,  whether  the  writer  intended  him  to  be 
regarded  as  one  of  the  judges. 

(e)  Chs  4,5:  Victory  of  Deborah  and  Barak 
over  Jabin  the  Can.  king,  and  death  of  Sisera,  cap- 
tain of  his  army,  at  the  hands  of  Jael,  the  wife  of  a 
Kenite  chief;  followed  by  a  Song  of  Triumph,  de- 
scriptive and  commemorative  of  the  event. 

(/)  Chs  6-8:  A  7-year  oppression  at  the  hands 
of  the  Midianites,  which  is  described  as  peculiarly 
severe,  so  that  the  land  became  desolate  on  account 
of  the  perpetual  raids  to  which  it  was  subject. 
After  a  period  of  hesitation  and  delay,  Gideon  de- 
feats the  combined  forces  of  the  Midianites  and 
Amalekites  and  the  "children  of  the  east,"  i.e.  the 
wandering  Bedawin  bands  from  the  eastern  deserts, 
in  the  valley  of  Jezreel.  The  locality  and  course  of 
the  battle  are  traced  by  the  sacred  writer,  but  it 
is  not  possible  to  follow  his  account  in  detail  because 
of  our  inability  to  identify  the  places  named.  After 
the  victory,  Gideon  is  formally  offered  the  position 
of  ruler  for  himself  and  his  descendants,  but  refuses; 
nevertheless,  he  seems  to  have  exercised  a  measure 
of  restraining  influence  over  the  people  until  his 
death,  although  he  himself  and  his  family  apparently 
through  covet  ousness  fell  away  from  their  faithful- 
ness to  Jeh  (8  27.33). 

(g)  Ch  9:  Episode  of  Abimelech,  son  of  Gideon 
by  a  concubine,  who  by  the  murder  of  all  but  one 
of  his  brethren,  the  legitimate  sons  of  Gideon, 
secured  the  throne  at  Shechem  for  himself,  and  for 
3  years  ruled  Israel.  After  successfully  stamping 
out  a  revolt  at  Shechem  against  his  authority,  he  is 
himself  killed  when  engaged  in  the  siege  of  the 
citadel  or  tower  of  Thebez  by  a  stone  thrown  by  a 
woman. 

(/))  0')  10  1-5:  Tola  and  Jair  are  briefly  named 
as  successive  judges  of  Israel  for  23  and  22  years 
respectively. 

(j)  10  (5— 12  7:  Oppression  of  Israel  for  18  years 
by  the  Philis  and  Ammonites.  The  national  de- 
liverance is  effected  by  Jephthah,  who  is  described 
as  an  illegitimate  son  of  Gilead  who  had  been  on 
that  account  driven  out  from  his  home  and  had 
become  the  captain  of  a  band  of  outlaws.  Jeph- 
thah stipulates  with  the  elders  of  Gilead  that  if  he 
undertakes  to  do  battle  on  their  behalf  with  the 
Ammonites,  he  is  afterward  to  be  recognized  as  their 
ruler;  and  in  accordance  with  the  agreement,  when 
the  victory  has  been  won,  he  becomes  judge  over 
Israel  (11  9  f;   12  7).     See  Jephthah. 

(k)  (I)  (m)  12  8-15:  Three  of  the  so-called 
"minor"  judges,  Ibzan,  Elon  and  Abdon,  judged 
Israel  in  succession  for  7,  10  and  8  years  respectively. 
As  they  are  not  said  to  have  delivered  the  nation 
from  any  calamity  or  oppression,  it  is  perhaps  to 
be  understood  that  the  whole  period  was  a  time  of 
rest  and  tranquillity. 

(n)  Chs  13-16:  The  history  of  Samson  (see 
separate  art.). 

(3)  An  appendix,  chs  17-21. — The  final  section, 
in  the  nature  of  an  appendix,  consisting  of  two  nar- 
ratives, independent  apparently  of  the  main  portion 
of  the  book  and  of  one  another.  They  contain  no 
indication  of  date,  except  the  statement  4  t  repeated 
that  "in  those  days  there  was  no  king  in  Israel"  (17 
6;  18  1;  19  1;  21  25).  The  natural  inference  is 
that  the  narratives  were  committed  to  writing  in 


the  days  of  the  monarchy;  but  the  events  themselves 
were  understood  by  the  compiler  or  historian  to 
have  taken  place  during  the  period  of  the  Judges, 
or  at  least  anterior  to  the  establishment  of  the  king- 
dom. The  lawless  state  of  society,  the  violence  and 
disorder  among  the  tribes,  would  suggest  the  same 
conclusion.  No  name  of  a  judge  appears,  however, 
and  there  is  no  direct  reference  to  the  office  or  to 
any  central  or  controlling  authority.  Jos  also 
seems  to  have  known  them  in  reverse  order,  and  in 
a  position  preceding  the  histories  of  the  judges 
themselves,  and  not  at  the  close  of  the  book  (Ant, 
V,  ii,  8-12;  iii,  1;  see  E.  Konig  in  HDB,  II,  810j. 
Even  if  the  present  form  of  the  narratives  is  thus 
late,  there  can  be  little  doubt  that  they  contain 
elements  of  considerable  antiquity. 

(a)  Chs  17-18:  The  episode'  of  Micah  the 
Ephraimite  and  the  young  Levite  who  is  conse- 
crated as  priest  in  his  house.  A  war  party,  how- 
ever, of  the  tribe  of  Dan  during  a  migration  north- 
ward, by  threats  and  promises  induced  the  Levite 
to  accompany  them,  taking  with  him  the  priestly 
ephod,  the  household  goods  of  his  patron,  and  a 
costly  image  which  Micah  had  caused  to  be  made. 
These  Micah  in  vain  endeavors  to  recover  from  the 
Danites.  The  latter  sack  and  burn  Laish  in  the 
extreme  N.  of  Pal,  rebuilding  the  city  on  the  same 
site  and  renaming  it  "Dan."  There  they  set  up 
the  image  which  they  had  stolen,  and  establish  a 
rival  priesthood  and  worship,  which  is  said  to  have 
endured  "all  the  time  that  the  house  of  God  was  in 
Shiloh"  (18  31). 

(b)  Chs  19-21:  Outrage  of  the  Benjamites  of 
Gibeah  against  the  concubine  of  a  Levite  lodging 
for  a  night  in  the  city  on  his  way  from  Bethlehem 
to  the  hill  country  of  Ephraim.  The  united  tribes, 
after  twice  suffering  defeat  at  the  hands  of  the  men 
of  Benjamin,  exact  full  vengeance;  the  tribe  of  Ben- 
jamin is  almost  annihilated,  and  their  cities,  includ- 
ing Gibeah,  are  destroyed.  In  order  that  the  tribe 
may  not  utterly  perish,  peace  is  declared  with  the 
GOO  survivors,  and  they  are  provided  with  wives 
by  stratagem  and  force,  the  Israelites  having  taken 
a  solemn  vow  not  to  permit  intermarriage  between 
their  own  daughters  and  the  members  of  the  guilty 
tribe. 

The  period  covered  by  the  history  of  the  Book  of 
Jgs  extends  from  the  death  of  Joshua  to  the  death 
of  Samson,  and  adds  perhaps  a  later 
4.  Chro-        reference  in  18  31,  "all  the  time  that 
nology  the  house  of  God  was  in  Shiloh"   (cf 

1  S  1  3).  It  is,  however,  difficult, 
perhaps  impossible,  to  compute  in  years  the  length 
of  time  that  the  writer  had  in  mind.  That  he;  pro- 
ceeded upon  a  fixed  chronological  basis,  supplied 
probably  by  tradition  but  modified  or  arranged  on 
a  systematic  principle,  seems  evident.  The  diffi- 
culty may  be  due  in  part  to  the  corruption  which  the 
figures  have  suffered  in  the  course  of  the  transmis- 
sion of  the  text.  In  1  K  6  1  an  inclusive  total  of 
480  years  is  given  as  the  period  from  the  Exodus 
to  the  building  of  the  Temple  in  the  4th  year  of  the 
reign  of  Solomon.  This  total,  however,  includes 
the  40  years'  wandering  in  the  desert,  the  time  occu- 
pied in  the  conquest  and  settlement  of  the  Promised 
Land,  and  an  uncertain  period  after  the  death  of 
Joshua,  referred  to  in  the  Book  of  Jgs  itself  (2  10), 
until  the  older  generation  that  had  taken  part  in  the 
invasion  had  passed  away.  There  is  also  to  be 
reckoned  the  40  years'  judgeship  of  Eli  (1  S  4  18), 
the  unknown  length  of  the  judgeship  of  Samuel 
(7  15),  the  years  of  the  reign  of  Saul  (cf  1  S  13  1, 
where,  however,  no  statement  is  made  as  to  the 
length  of  his  reign),  the  40  years  during  which  David 
was  king  (1  K  2  11),  and  the  4  years  of  Solomon 
before  the  building  of  the  Temple.  The  recurrence 
of  the  number  40  is  already  noticeable;  but  if  for 


Judges,  Book  of     THE  i\TERXATIOXAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 

Judges,  Period  of  


1774 


the  unknown  periods  under  and  after  Joshua,  of 
Samuel  and  of  Saul,  •">()  or  00  years  he  allowed  -a 
moderate  estimate  -there  would  remain  from  the 
total  of  4S0  years  a  period  of  300  years  in  round 
numhers  for  the  duration  of  the  times  of  the  Judges. 
It  may  he  doubted  whether  the  writer  conceived  of 
the  period  of  unsettleinent  and  distress,  of  alternate 
oppression  and  peace,  as  lasting  for  so  long  a  time. 

The  chronological  data  contained  in  the  Hook  of  Jgs 
itself  arc  as  follows: 

Years 

Oppression  of  ( Jushan-rishat  haim,  king  of  Meso- 
potamia (3   S) s 

Deliverance  hv  Othniel  and  rest   (3  ID 40 

oppression  of  Kglem,  king  of  Moah  (3    14) is 

Deliverance  by  Klmd  and  rest   (3  ::<>> HO 

Oppression  of  . I abin,  king  of  Canaan  (4  3) 20 

Deliverance  hv   Barak  and  rest   (5   3  1 ) 40 

Oppression  of  Midian   (6    1) ' 

Deliverance  by  (iideon  and  rest  (8  28) 40 

Kulc  of  Abimelcch  (9   22) 3 

Judgeship  of  Tola  (10  2) 23 

Judgeship  of  .lair  (10  3j 22 

Oppression  of  the  I'hilis  and  Ammonites  (10  8).  .  IS 
Deliverance  bv  Jephthah.  and  his  judgeship  (12  7)   U 

Judgeship  of  lh/.an  (12  !)) 7 

Judgeship  of  Klem  (12    Hi 10 

Judgeship  of  Abdon  (12    14) S 

Oppression  of  the  I'hilis  (13    1  i 40 

Judgeship  of  Samson  (15   20;    16   31) 20 

A  total  of  410  years,  or,  if  the  years  of  foreign  oppression 
and  of  the  usurpation  of  Abimeleeh  are  omitted,  of  290. 

It  has  been  supposed  tltat  in  some  instances  the 
rule  of  the  several  judges  was  contemporaneous, 
not  successive,  and  that  therefore  the  total  period 
during  which  the  judges  ruled  should  be  reduced 
accordingly.  In  itself  this  is  sufficiently  probable. 
It  is  evident,  however,  that  this  thought  was  not 
in  the  mind  of  the  writer,  for  in  each  case  lie  de- 
scribes the  rule  of  the  judge  as  over  "Israel"  with 
no  indication  that  "Israel"  is  to  be  understood  in  a 
partial  and  limited  signification.  His  words  must 
therefore  be  interpreted  in  their  natural  sense,  that 
in  his  own  belief  the  rulers  whose  deeds  lie  related 
exercised  control  in  the  order  named  over  the  entire 
nation.  Almost  certainly,  however,  he  did  not 
intend  to  include  in  his  scheme  the  years  of  oppres- 
sion or  the  3  years  of  Abimelech's  rule.  If  these; 
be  deducted,  the  resultant  number  (296)  is  very 
near  tin;  total  which  the  statement  in  1  K  6  1 
suggests. 

Xo  stress,  however,  must  be  laid  upon  this  fact.  The 
repeated  occurrence  of  the  number  40,  with  its  double  and 
half,  can  hardly  be  accidental.  The  same  fact  was  noted 
above  in  connection  with  earlier  and  later  rulers  in 
Israel.  It  suggests  that  there  is  present  an  element  of 
artificiality  and  conscious  arrangement  in  the  scheme  of 
chronology,  which  makes  it  impossible  to  rely  upon  it 
as  it  stands  for  any  definite  or  reliable  historical  con- 
clusion. 

Within  the  Book  of  Jgs  itself  no  author  is  named, 
nor  is  any  indication  given  of  the  writer  or  writers 
who  art;  responsible;  for  the  form  in 
6.  Author-  which  the  book  appears;  and  it  would 
ship  and  seem  evident,  also,  that  the  3  parts  or 
Sources  divisions  of   which  the   book  is  com- 

posed are  on  a  different  footing  as 
regards  the  sources  from  which  they  are  drawn. 
The  Talmudic  tradition  which  names  Samuel 
as  the  author  can  hardly  be  seriously  regarded. 
The  historical  introduction  presents  a  form  of 
1h"  traditional  narrative  of  the  conquest  of  Pal 
which  is  parallel  to  but  not  identical  with  that 
contained  in  the  Book  of  Josh.  Brief  and  discon- 
nected as  it  is,  it  is  of  the  greatest  value  as  a  his- 
torical authority,  and  contains  elements  which  in 
origin,  if  not  in  their  present  form,  are  of  consider- 
able antiquity.  The  main  portion  of  the  book, 
comprising  the  narratives  of  the  judges,  is  based 
upon  oral  or  written  traditions  of  a  local  and  perhaps 
a  tribal  character,  the  value  of  which  it  is  difficult 
to  estimate,  but  which  undoubtedly  in  some  in- 
stances have  been  more  carefully  preserved   than 


in  others.  In  particular,  around  the  story  of  Sam- 
son there  seem  to  have  gathered  elements  derived 
from  the  folklore  and  the  wonder-loving  spirit  of 
the  countryside;  and  the  exploits  of  a  national  hero 
have  been  enhanced  and  surrounded  with  a  glamor 
of  romance  as  the  story  of  them  has  passed  from 
lip  to  lip  among  a  people  who  themselves  or  their 
forefathers  owed  so  much  to  his  prowess.  Of  this 
central  part  of  Jgs  the  Song  of  Deborah  (eh  5)  is 
the  most  ancient,  and  bears  every  mark  of  being  a 
contemporary  record  of  a  remarkable  conflict  and 
victory.  The  text  is  often  difficult,  almost,  unin- 
telligible, and  has  so  greatly  suffered  in  the  course 
of  transmission  as  in  some  passages  to  be  beyond 
repair.  As  a  whole;  the  song  is  an  eloquent  and 
impassioned  ode  of  triumph,  ascribing  to  Jeh  the; 
great  deliverance  which  has  been  wrought  for  His 
people  over  their  foes. 

The  narratives  of  Jgs,  moreover,  are;  set  in  a 
fraine'work  of  chronology  and  of  ethical  comment 
and  teaching,  which  are  probably  independent  of  one 
another.  The'  moral  exhortations  and  the  levssons 
drawn  from  hardships  and  sufferings,  which  the 
people  e>f  Israel  incur  as  the  consequence  e>f  thear 
idolatry  and  sin,  are  conceived  entirely  in  the  spirit 
e>f  Dt,  and  even  in  the  letter  anel  fe>rm  bear  a  con- 
siderable resemblance  to  the'  writings  eef  that  boe)k. 
In  the  judgment  of  some'  scholars,  therefore",  they  are 
to  be  ascribed  to  the1  same;  author  or  authors.  Of 
this,  heiwewer,  there  is  no  proof.  It  is  possible,  but 
perhaps  hardly  probable.  They  certainly  belong  to 
the  same  scdiool  of  thought,  of  clear-sighted  doctrine, 
of  reverent  piety,  anel  e>f  jealous  concern  for  the  hemor 
of  Jeh.  With  the  systean  of  chronology,  the>  figures 
anel  dates,  the  ethical  commentary  and  inference's 
would  seem  to  have  no  direct  relation.  The  former 
is  perhaps  a  later  addition,  based  in  part  at  least 
upon  tradition,  and  applied  to  existing  accounts,  in 
order  to  give  them  their  elefinite1  place  and  succes- 
sion in  the  historical  record.  Finally,  the  three 
strands  of  traditional  narrative,  moral  comment,  and 
chremedogie'al  framework  we're;  woven  into  one  whole; 
by  a  compiler  e>r  reviser  who  completed  the  book  in 
the  form  in  which  it  now  exists.  Concerning  the 
absolute  dates,  however,  at  which  these  processes 
took  place  very  little  can  be  determined. 

The  two  concluding  episodes  are  distinct,  both  in  form 
anel  character,  fre>m  the'  rest  of  the  be)e>k.  They  elo  not 
relate  the  life  or  dee-ds  e>f  a  judge-,  ne>r  do  they,  explicitly 
at  le;ast,  convey  any  moral  teaching  or  warning.  They 
are  alse)  mutually  independent.  It  wemlel  seem  there- 
fore that  they  an;  te>  be'  regarded  as  accounts  e>f  national 
e'vemts  e>r  experiences,  preserved  by  tradition,  which, 
because  they  we're  understood  te>  have  reference  to  the 
period  of  the  Judges,  were  included  in  this  book.  The 
internal  nature  e>f  the  narratives  themselves  would  sug- 
gest that  they  belong  rathe't-  to  the  earlier  than  the'  later 
part  of  the  time  during  which  the'  juelges  he'lel  rule-;  and 
their  ane'ient  character  is  similarly  attested.  There;  is 
no  clue,  however,  to  the  actual  date'  of  their  composition, 
or  te>  the>  time  e>r  circumstances  under  which  they  were 
incorporated  in  the  Iioe>k  of  Jgs. 

The  eliscussion  of  the  relation  of  the  Rook  of  Jgs 
to  the  generally  re'e-ognize'el  sources  of  the  Pent  and 

to  Josh  has  been  in  part  anticipated  in 
6.  Relation  the  previous  paragraph.  In  the  earliest 
to  Preced-  introductory  section  of  the  book,  anel 
ing  Books      in  some  of  the  historievs  of  the'   juelges, 

e'sp.  in  that  of  Gieleon  (e'hs  6-8),  it 
is  not  difficult  to  elistinguish  two  threads  of  nar- 
rative, which  have  been  combined  together  in 
the  aee:ount  as  it  now  stands;  and  by  some 
se-holars  these  arc  identified  with  J  and  E  in  the 
Pent.  The  conclusion,  however,  is  precarious  and 
uncertain,  for  the  characteristic  marks  of  the  Pent 
"sources"  are  in  great  me;asure  absent.  There  is 
more  to  be  said  for  the  view  that  regarels  the  intro- 
duction (1 — 2  5),  with  its  verbal  parallels  to  Josh 
as  ele>riveel  ultimately  from  the  history  of  JE,  fre>m 
which,    however,    very    much    has    been    omitted, 


1775 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  J^fes',  Period  of 


and  the  remainder  adapted  and  abbreviated.  Even 
this  moderate  conclusion  cannot  be  regarded  as 
definitely  established.  The  later  author  or  com- 
piler was  in  possession  of  ancient  documents  or 
traditions,  of  which  he  made  use  in  his  composite 
narrative,  but  whether  these  were  parts  of  the  same 
historical  accounts  that  are  present  in  the  books  of 
Moses  and  in  Josh  must  be;  regarded  as  undeter- 
mined. There  is  no  trace,  moreover,  in  Jgs  of  ex- 
tracts from  the  writing  or  school  of  P;  nor  do  the 
two  concluding  episodes  of  the  book  (chs  17-21) 
present  any  features  which  would  suggest  an  identi- 
fication with  any  of  the  leading  "sources"  of  the 
Pent. 

The  moral  and  religious  teaching,  on  the  other 
hand,  which  makes  the  varied  national  experiences 
in  the  times  of  the  Judges  a  vehicle  for  ethical  in- 
struction and  warning,  is  certainly  derived  from  the 
same  school  as  Dt,  and  reproduces  the  whole  tone 
and  spirit  of  that  book.  There  is  no  evidence, 
however,  to  identify  the  writer  or  reviser  who  thus 
turned  to  spiritual  profit  the  lessons  of  the  age  of 
the  Judges  with  the  author  of  Dt  itself,  but  he  was 
animated  by  the  same  principles,  and  endeavored 
in  the  same  way  to  expound  the  same  great  truths 
of  religion  and  the  Providence  of  God. 

There  arc  two  early  Or  tr3  of  the  Book  of  Jgs.  which 

seem  to  be  on  the  whole  independent  of  one  another. 

These   arc   represented    by  the  two  great 

7    Polatinn    uncial  MSS,   B  (Vatican)  and  A  (Alexan- 

T  vv  drine).      With  the   former  is  associated  a 

to  LXX  group  of  cursive  M.SS  and  the;  Sahidic  or 

and  Other  Upper  Egyp  Vs.  It  is  therefore  probable 
v       •  that  the  tr  is  of  Egvp  origin,  and  by  some 

versions  it  has  beon  identified  with  that  of  He- 
sychius.  It  has  been  shown,  moreover, 
that  in  this  book,  and  probably  elsewhere,  the  ancient 
character  of  the  text  of  B  is  not  always  maintained, 
but  in  parts  at  least  betrays  a  later  origin.  The  other 
VS  is  contained  in  A  and  the  majority  of  the  uncial 
and  cursive  MSS  of  the  Ur  texts,  and,  while  certainly 
a  real  and  independent  tr  from  the  original,  is  thought 
by  some  to  show  acquaintance  with  the  VS  of  B.  There 
is,  however,  no  definite  evidence  that  B's  tr  is  really  older. 
Some  of  the  cursives  which  agree  in  general  with  A  form 
sub-groups;  thus  the  recension  of  Lucian  is  believed  to  be 
represented  by  a  small  number  of  cursives,  the  text  of 
which  is  printed  by  Lagarde  (Librorum  VT  Canonicorum, 
Pars  Prior,  L883),  and  is  substantially  identical  witli  that 
in  the  "  Complutensian  Polyglot"  (see  ( "> .  F.  Moore, 
Critical  anil  Exegetical  Comm.  on  Jgs,  Edinburgh,  1895, 
xliii  IT).  It  is  probable  that  the  true  original  text  of  the 
LXX  is  not  represented  completely  either  by  the  one  or 
the  other  VS,  but  that  it  partially  underlies  both,  and 
may  be  traced  in  the  conflicting  readings  which  must  be 
judged  each  on  its  own  merits. 

Of  the  other  principal  Yss.  the  Old  Lat  and  the  TTexa- 
plar  Syr.  together  with  the  Armenian  and  the  Ethiopic, 
attach  themselves  to  a  sub-group  of  the  MSS  associated 
with  A.  The  Bohairic  VS  of  the  Book  of  Jgs  has  not 
hitherto  been  published,  but,  lik(;  the  rest  of  the  (IT,  its 
text  would  no  doubt  be  found  to  agree  substantially  with 
B.  Jerome's  tr  follows  closely  the  MT,  and  is  independent 
of  both  Gr  VSS;  and  the  Pesh  also  is  a  direct  rendering 
from  the  Ileb. 

Thus  the  main  purpose  of  the  Book  of  Jgs  in 
the  form  in  which  it  has  been  preserved  in  the  OT 

is  not  to  record  Israel's  past  for  its 
8.  Religious  own  sake,  or  to  place  before  the  writer's 
Purpose  contemporaries  a  historical  narrative 
and  Value      of  the  achievements  of  their  great  men 

and  rulers,  but  to  use  these  events  and 
the  national  experiences  of  adversity  as  a  text  from 
which  to  educe  religious  warning  and  instruction. 
With  the  author  or  authors  spiritual  edification  is 
the  first  interest,  and  the  facts  or  details  of  the  his- 
tory, worthy  of  faithful  records,  because  it  is  the 
history  of  God's  people,  find  their  chief  value  in 
that  they  are  and  were  designed  to  be  admonitory, 
exhibiting  the  Divine  judgments  upon  idolatry  and 
sin,  and  conveying  the  lesson  that  disobedience  and 
rebellion,  a  hard  and  defiant  spirit  that  was  for- 
getful of  Jeh,  could  not  fail  to  entail  the  same 
disastrous  consequences.  The  author  is  preemi- 
nently a  preacher  of  righteousness  to  his  fellow- 
countrymen,  and  to  this  aim  all  other  elements  in 


the  book,  whether  chronological  or  historical,  are 
secondary  and  subordinate.  In  his  narrative  he 
sets  down  the  whole  truth,  so  far  as  it  has  become 
known  to  him  through  tradition  or  written  docu- 
ment, however  discreditable  it  may  be  to  his  nation. 
There  is  no  ground  for  believing  that  he  either  ex- 
tenuates on  the  one  hand,  or  on  the  other  paints  in 
darker  colors  than  the  record  of  the  transgressions 
of  the  people  deserved.  Neither  lie  nor  they  are 
to  be  judged  by  the  standards  of  the  20th  cent., 
with  its  accumulated  wealth  of  spiritual  experience 
and  long  training  in  the  principles  of  righteousness 
and  truth.  But  he  holds  and  asserts  a  lofty  view 
of  the  character  of  Jeh,  of  the  immutability  of  His 
wrath  against  obstinate  transgression  and  of  the 
certainty  of  its  punishment,  and  yet  of  the  Divine 
pitifulness  and  mercy  to  the  man  or  nation  that 
turns  to  Him  with  a  penitent  heart .  The  Jews  were 
not  mistaken  when  they  counted  the  Book  of  Jgs 
among  the  Prophets.  It  is  prophecy,  more  than 
history,  because  it  exhibits  and  enforces  the  per- 
manent lessons  of  the  righteousness  and  justice  and 
loving-kindness  of  God. 

Literature. — A  complete1  bibliography  of  the  lit.  up 
to  date  will  be  found  in  the  Diets,  s.v.  "Judges,"  DH-, 
1893;  I1DB,  II,  1899;  KB.  II,  1901;  cf  G.  F.  Moore. 
Critical  and  Exegetical  Comm.  on  Jgs,  Edinburgh,  1895; 
SBOT,  Leipzig,  1900;  R.  A.  Watson,  "Jgs"  and  "Ruth," 
in  Expositor's  Bible,  1889;  G.  VV.  Thatcher.  ".Igs"  and 
"Ruth,"  in  Century  Bible;  S.  Oettli,  "  Das  Deuteronomium 
und  die  Biicher  Josua  und  Richter,"  in  Kurzgefasster 
Kommentar,  Miinehen,  1893;  K.  Budde.  "Das  Buch 
der  Kichter,"  in  Kurzer  Hand- Kommentar  zum  AT, 
Tubingen,  1S97;  W.  Xowack,  "Richter,"  in  lland- 
hommentar  zum   AT,    1900. 


JUDGES,  PERIOD  OF: 


A.  S.  Geden 


I.     Sources 
II.     Chronology 
III.     General  Political  Situation 

1.  The  Canaanites 

2.  Foes  Without 
IY.     Main   Events 

1.  Struggles  of  Individual  Tribes 

2.  Civil  Strife 

3.  The  Six  Invasions 

4.  Need  of  Central  Government 
V.     Religious   Conditions 

VI.     Theological  Interpretation 
Literature 

/.  Sources. — Our  chief  sources  of  information  are 
the  Book  of  Jgs  and  1  S  1-12.  The  material  con- 
tained in  these  is  not  all  of  the  same  age.  The 
oldest  part,  by  common  consent,  is  the  Song  of 
Deborah  (.Jgs  5).  It  is  a  contemporaneous  docu- 
ment. The  prose  narratives,  however,  are  also 
early,  and  are  generally  regarded  as  presenting  a 
faithful  picture  of  the  times  with  which  they  deal. 
The  Book  of  Ruth,  which  also  refers  to  this  period, 
is  probably  in  its  present  form  a  later  composition, 
but  there  is  no  adequate  ground  for  denying  to  it  a 
historical  basis  (Konig,  Einleitung,  286 1'f;  Kent, 
Student's  OT,  I,  310  f). 

//.  Chronology.  —The  period  of  the  Judges  extends 
from  the  death  of  Joshua  to  the  establishment  of  the 
monarchy.  How  long  a  time  elapsed  between  these 
limits  is  a  matter  of  wide  difference;  of  opinion.  The 
chronological  data  in  the  Book  of  Jgs,  i.e.  omitting  Eli 
and  Samuel,  make  a  total  of  410  years.  But  this  is  in- 
consistent with  1  K  6  1,  where  the  whole  period  from 
the  Exodus  to  the  4th  year  of  Solomon  is  reckoned  at 
480  years.  Various  attempts  have  been  made  to  har- 
monize these  divergent  figures,  e.g.  by  eliminating  the 
70  years  attributed  to  the  Minor  Judges  (10  1-5;  12 
7-15),  by  not  counting  the;  71  years  of  foreign  domina- 
tion, and  by  the  theory  that  some  of  the  judges  were 
contemporaneous.  It  is  probable  that  the  4S0  years 
of  1  K  6  1  was  a  round  number  and  did  not  rest  on 
exact  records.  Indeed,  it  is  doubtful  if  there  was  any 
fixed  calendar  in  Israel  before  the  time;  of  the  monarchy. 
The  only  way  then  to  determine  tin;  length  of  the  period 
of  the  Judges  is  from  tin;  date  of  tin;  Exodus.  The  com- 
mon view  is  that  the  Exodus  took  place  during  or  just 
after  the  reign  of  Merenptah  in  the  latter  half  of  the  13th 
cent.  BC.  This,  however,  leaves  hardly  more  than 
150  years  to  the  period  of  the  Judges,  for  Saul's  reign 
fell  in  the  2d  half  of  the  11th  cent.  BC.  Hence  some, 
to  whom  this  seems  too  short,  assign  the  Exodus  to  the 


Judges, Period  of  THE  [^TERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 
Judgment,  Last 


1776 


reign  of  Amenophis  TI,  about  1450  BO.  This  harmon- 
izes with  tlio  4X0  years  of  1  K  6  1,  and  is  supported  by 
Other  considerations  (J'i)T,  422-24),  Still  others  have 
connected  the  Exodus  with  the  expulsion  of  the  Hyksos 
about  1580  BC  (<i.  A.  Reisner) ;  and  this  would  fit  in 
very  well  with  the  chronological  data  in  the  Book  of  Jgs. 
The  objection  to  the  last  two  views  is  that  they  require 
a  rather  long  period  of  subjection  of  the  Israelites  in 
Canaan  to  Egypt,  of  which  there  is  no  trace  in  the  Book 
of  Jgs.     See,  further,  J  i.  does,  Book  of,  IV. 

///.    General  Political  Situation. — The  death  of 

Joshua,  left  much  laud  yet  to  be  possessed  by  the 
Israelites.     The    different    tribes    had 

1.  The  received  their  respective  allotments 
Canaanites    (Jgs  1  3),   but  the  actual  possession 

of  the  territory  assigned  each  still  lay 
in  the  fut  ure  and  was  only  gradually  achieved.  The 
Canaanites  remained  in  the  land,  and  were  for  a 
t  ime  a  serious  menace  to  the  power  of  Israel.  They 
retained  possession  of  the  plains  and  many  of  the 
fortified  cities,  e.g.  Gezer,  Harheres,  Aijalon,  Shaal- 
bim,  and  Jerus  on  flu;  northern  border  of  Judah 
(Jgs  1  21.29.35),  and  Bethshean,  Ibleam,  Taanach, 
Megiddo,  and  Dor  along  the  northern  border  of 
Manasseh    (Jgs  1  27.2S). 

Besides  these  foes  within  Canaan,  the  Israelites 
had  enemies  from  without  to  contend  with,  viz.  the 

Moabites,  Midianites,  Ammonites,  and 

2.  Foes  Philis.  The  danger  from  each  of  these 
Without         quarters,  except  that  from  the  Philis, 

was  successfully  warded  off.  The 
conflicts  in  which  the  Israelites  were  thus  involved 
were  all  more  or  less  local  in  character.  In  no  case 
did  all  the  tribes  act  together,  though  the  duty  of 
such  united  action  is  clearly  taught  in  the  Song  of 
Deborah,  at  least  so  far  as  the  10  northern  tribes 
are  concerned.  The  omission  of  Judah  and  Simeon 
from  this  ancient  song  is  strange,  but  may  not  be 
so  significant  as  is  sometimes  supposed.  The 
judges,  who  wrere  raised  up  to  meet  the  various 
emergencies,  seem  to  have  exercised  jurisdiction 
only  over  limited  areas.  In  general  the  different 
tribes  and  clans  acted  independently  of  each  other. 
Local  home  rule  prevailed.  "Every  man  did  that 
which  was  right  in  his  own  eyes"  (Jgs  17  6). 

That  Canaan  was  not  during  this  period  subdued 
and  kept  in  subjection  by  one  of  the  great  world- 
powers,  Egypt  or  Babylonia,  is  to  be  regarded  as 
providential  (HPM,  I,  214  f).  Such  subjection 
would  have  made  impossible  the  development  of  a 
free  national  and  religious  life  in  Israel.  The 
Cushan-rishathaim  of  Jgs  3  7-10  was  more  likely 
a  king  of  Edom  than  of  Mesopotamia  (Paton, 
Early  History  of  Syria  and  Palestine,  161-62). 

IV.  Main  Events. — Much  of  what  took  place 
during  this  period  is  unrecorded.     Of  the  struggles 

through   which   the   individual   tribes 

1.  Struggles  passed  before  they  succeeded  in  estab- 
of  Indi-  lishing  themselves  in  the  land,  little 
vidual  is  known.  One  interesting  episode 
Tribes  is  preserved  for  us  in  Jgs  17, 18.     A 

considerable  portion  of  the  tribe  of 
Dan,  hard  pressed  by  the  Amorites  (Jgs  1  34  f), 
migrated  from  their  allotted  home  W.  of  Judah  to 
Laish  in  the  distant  north,  where  they  put  the 
inhabitants  to  the  sword,  burnt  the  city  and  then 
rebuilt  it  under  the  name  of  Dan.  This  took  place 
early  in  the  period  of  the  Judges,  apparently  during 
the  first  generation  after  the  conquest  (Jgs  18  30). 
At  about  the  same  time  also  (Jgs  20  28)  seems 
to  have  occurred  the  war  with  Benjamin  (Jgs  19- 

21),  which  grew  out  of  an  outrage  per- 

2.  Civil  petrated  at  Gibeah  and  the  refusal 
Strife  of  the   Benjamitea  to  surrender  the 

guilty  parties  for  punishment.  The 
historicity  of  this  war  has  been  called  in  question, 
but  it  seems  to  be  attested  by  IIos  9  9;  10  9. 
And  that  civil  strife  in  Israel  was  not  otherwise 
unknown  during  this  period  is  clear  from  the  expe- 


riences of  Gideon  (Jgs  8  1-3)  and  Jephthah  (Jgs 
12  l-(>),  not  to  mention  those  of  Abimelech  (Jgs 
9).  It  is  a  current  theory  that  the  tribes  of  Simeon 
and  Levi  early  in  this  period  suffered  a  serious 
reverse  (Gen  49  5-7),  and  that  a  reflection  of  this 
event,  is  to  be  found  in  Gen  34;  but  the  data  are 
too  uncert  ain  to  warrant  any  confidence  in  this  view. 
Six  wars  with  other  nations  are  recorded  as  taking 
place  in  this  period,  and  each  called  forth  its  judge 
or  judges.     Othniel  delivered  the  Is- 

3.  The  Six  raelites  from  the  Mesopotamians  or 
Invasions       Edomites    (Jgs  3  7-11),    Ehud    from 

the  Moabites  (3  12-30),  Deborah  and 
Barak  from  the  Canaanites  (chs  4,  5),  Gideon  from 
the  Midianites  (chs  6-8),  and  Jephthah  from  the 
Ammonites  (10  6-12.17).  In  the  strife  with  the 
Philis,  which  was  not  terminated  during  this  period, 
Samson  (Jgs  13-16),  Eli  (1  S  4-6),  and  Samuel 
(1  S  7  3-14;  9  16)  figure.  Of  these  six  wars 
those  which  brought  Othniel,  Ehud  and  Jephthah 
to  the  front  were  less  serious  and  significant  than 
the  other  three.  The  conflicts  with  the  Canaanites, 
Midianites  and  Philis  mark  distinct  stages  in  the 
history  of  the  period. 

After  the  first  successes  of  the  Israelites  in  Canaan 
a  period  of  weakness  and  disintegration  set  in. 
The  Canaanites,  who  still  held  the  fortified  cities 
in  the  plain  of  Esdraelon,  banded  themselves 
together  and  terrorized  the  region  round  about. 
The  Hebrews  fled  from  their  villages  to  the  caves  and 
dens.  None  had  the  heart  to  offer  resistance  (Jgs 
6  6.8).  It  seemed  as  though  they  were  about  to 
be  subdued  by  the  people  they  had  a  short  time 
before  dispossessed.  Then  it  was  that  Deborah 
appeared  on  the  scene.  With  her  passionate  ap- 
peals in  the  name  of  Jeh  she  awakened  a  new  sense 
of  national  unity,  rallied  the  discouraged  forces  of 
the  nation,  and  administered  a  final  crushing  defeat 
upon  the  Canaanites  in  the  plain  of  Megiddo. 

But  the  flame  thus  kindled  after  a  time  went  out. 
New  enemies  came  from  without.  The  Midianites 
invaded  the  land  year  after  year,  robbing  it  of  its 
produce  (Jgs  6  1.3).  This  evil  was  suddenly  put 
an  end  to  by  the  bold  stroke  of  Gideon,  whose  vic- 
tory was  long  treasured  in  the  public  memory  (Isa 
9  4;  10  2(>;  Ps  83  9-12).  But  the  people,  _  at 
least  of  Manasseh  and  perhaps  also  of  Ephraim, 
now  realized  that  it  was  no  longer  safe  to  depend 
upon  such  temporary  leadership.  They  needed 
a  permanent  organization  to  wTard  off  the  dangers 
that  beset  them.  They  therefore  offered  the  king- 
ship to  Gideon.  He  formally  declined  it  (Jgs  8 
22.23),  but  still  set  up  a  government  at  Ophrah 
which  the  people  looked  upon  as  hereditary  (Jgs 
9  2).  He  was  succeeded  by  his  son  Abimelech, 
who,  after  slaying  all  but  one  of  his  70  brothers, 
assumed  the  title  of  king.  The  new  kingdom,  how- 
ever, was  of  short  duration.  It  ended  after  three 
years  with  the  ignominious  death  of  the  king. 

A  great  danger  was  needed  before  the  people  of 

Israel  could  be  welded  into  unity  and  made  to  see 

the  necessity  of  a  strong  central  gov- 

4.  Need  of  ernment.  This  came  eventually  from 
Central  the  Philis,  who  twice  defeated  the 
Government  Israelites  in  battle,  captured  the  ark, 

and  overran  a  large  part  of  the  country 
(1  S  4-6).  In  the  face  of  such  a  foe  as  this  it  was 
clear  that  only  a  strong  and  permanent  leadership 
of  the  whole  people  would  suffice  (1  S  9  15;  10  1); 
and  thus  the  rule  of  the  Judges  gave  way  to  the 
monarchy. 

V.  Religious  Conditions. — The  Heb  mind  to 
which  Moses  addressed  himself  was  not  a  tabula 
rasa,  and  the  Palestinian  world  into  which  the 
Israelites  entered  was  not  an  intellectual  blank. 
Formative  influences  had  for  ages  been  at  work  on 
the  Heb  mind,  and  Pal  had  long  been  inhabited  by 


1777 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Ju^ment^Last0' 


a  people  with  fixed  institutions,  customs  and  ideas. 
When  then  Israel  settled  in  Canaan,  they  had  both 
a  heathen  inheritance  and  a  heathen  environment 
to  contend  with.  It  should  therefore  occasion  no 
surprise  to  find  during  this  period  such  lapses  from 
the  purity  of  the  Mosaic  faith  as  appear  in  the 
ephod  of  Gideon  (Jgs  8  24-27),  the  images  of 
Micah  (Jgs  17-18),  and  the  sacrifice  of  Jephthah's 
daughter  (11  34-40).  In  the  transition  from  a 
nomadic  to  an  agricultural  life  it  was  inevitable1 
that  the  Hebrews  with  their  native  heathen  pro- 
clivities would  adopt  many  of  the  crude  and  even 
immoral  religious  customs  and  beliefs  of  the  people 
among  whom  they  settled.  But  the  purer  Mosaic 
faith  still  had  its  representatives.  The  worship  of 
the  central  sanctuary  at  Shiloh  remained  imageless. 
Leaders  like  Deborah  and  Samuel  revived  the  spirit 
of  Moses.  And  there  can  hardly  be  a  doubt  that 
in  many  a  quiet  home  a  true  and  earnest  piety  was 
cultivated  like  that  in  the  home  of  Elimelech  and 
Naomi. 

VI.  Theological  Interpretation. — The  Bib.  his- 
torian was  not  content  simply  to  narrate  events. 
What  concerned  him  most  was  the  meaning  lying 
back  of  them.  And  this  meaning  he  was  interested 
in,  not  for  its  own  sake,  but  because  of  its  appli- 
cation to  the  people  of  his  own  day.  Hence  inter- 
mingled with  the  narratives  of  the  period  of  the 
Judges  are  to  be  found  religious  interpretations  of 
the  events  recorded  and  exhortations  based  upon 
them.  The  fundamental  lesson  thus  inculcated 
is  the  same  as  that  continually  insisted  upon  by  the 
prophets.  The  Divine  government  of  the  world 
is  based  upon  justice.  Disobedience  to  the  moral 
law  and  disloyalty  to  Jeh  means,  therefore,  to  Israel 
suffering  and  disaster.  All  the  oppressions  of  the 
period  of  the  Judges  arose  in  this  way.  Relief  and 
deliverance  came  oidy  when  tin;  people  turned  unto 
Jeh.  This  religious  pragmatism,  as  it  is  called, 
does  not  lie  on  the  surface  of  the  events,  so  that  a 
naturalistic  historian  might  sec  it.  But  it  is  a  corre- 
late of  the  ethical  monotheism  of  the  prophets,  and 
constitutes  the  one  element  in  the  OT  which  makes 
the  study  of  Israel's  history  supremely  wort  h  while. 

Literature. — Jos,  Ant,Y,  ii-vi,  5;  Ottlcv,  Short  His- 
tory of  the  Hebrews,  101-24;  Kittel,  History  of  the  Hebrt  it's, 
II,  60f,  2d  Ger.  ed,  II,  52   1155. 

Albert  Cornelius  Knudson 

JUDGING,  juj'ing,  JUDGMENT,  juj'ment: 
Often  in  the  OT  for  "to  act  as  a  magistrate"  (Ex 
18  13;  Dt  1  16;  16  18,  etc),  justice  being  ad- 
ministered generally  by  "elders"  (Ex  18  13-27), 
or  "kings"  (1  S  8  20)  or  "priests"  (Dt  18  15); 
applied  to  God  as  the  Supreme  Judge  (Ps  9  7.8; 
10  18;  96  13;  Mic  4  3,  etc;  Ps  7  8:  "Jeh  min- 
istereth  judgment,"  vividly  describes  a  court  scene, 
with  Jeh  as  Judge). 

Often  in  the  NT,  ethically,  for  (1)  "to  decide," 
"give  a  verdict,"  "declare  an  opinion"  (Gr  krino); 

(2)  "to   investigate,"  "scrutinize"   (Gr   anakrino); 

(3)  "to  discriminate,"  "distinguish"  (Gr  diakrino). 
ForO),  see  Lk  7  43;  Acts  15  19;  for  (2)  see  1  Cor 
2  15;  4  3;  for  (3)  seel  Cor  11  31;  14  29  m.  Used 
also  forensically  in  Lk  22  30;  Acts  25  10;  and 
applied  to  God  "in  Jn  5  22;  He  10  30.  The  judg- 
ments of  God  are  the  expression  of  His  justice,  1  he 
formal  declarations  of  His  judgments,  whether  em- 
bodied in  words  (Dt  5  1  AV,  RV  "statutes"),  or 
deeds  (Ex  6  6;  Rev  16  7),  or  in  decisions  that  are 
yet  to  be  published  (Ps  36  6).  Man's  consciousness 
of  guilt  inevitably  associates  God's  judgments  as 
declarations  of  the  Divine  justice,  with  his  own  con- 
demnation, i.e.  he  knows  that  a  strict  exercise  of 
justice  means  his  condemnation,  and  thus  "judg- 
ment" and  "condemnation"  become  in  his  mind 
synonymous  (Rom  5  16) ;  hence  the  prayer  of  Ps 
143  2,  "Enter  not  into  judgment";  also,  Jn  6  29, 


"the  resurrection  of  judgment"  (AV  "damnation"); 
1  Cor  11  29,  "eateth  and  drinketh  judgment"  (AV 
"damnation").  II.  E.  Jacobs 

JUDGMENT,  DAY  OF.     See  Judgment,  Last. 

JUDGMENT  HALL,  juj'ment  hoi  (to  irpaiTcopiov, 
to  praitorion,  "Then  led  they  Jesus  ....  unto  the 
hall  of  judgment  ....  and  they  themselves  went 
not  into  the  judgment  hall"  [Jn  18  28  AV];  "Then 
Pilate  entered  into  the  judgment  hall  again"  [18 
33  AV];  "[Pilate]  went  again  into  the  judgment 
hall"  [19  9];  "He  commanded  him  to  be  kept  in 
Herod's  judgment  hall"  [Acts  23  35]): 

"Judgment  hall"  is  one  of  the  ways  in  which  AV 
translates  praitorion,  which  it  elsewhere  renders 
"Praetorium"  (Mk  15  16);  "the  common  hall" 
(Mt  27  27).  In  this  passage  ERV  renders  it 
"palace";  in  Jn  18  33;  19  9;  Acts  23  35,  "pal- 
ace" is  also  given  by  ERV;  in  I'hil  1  13,  AV  renders 
"palace,"  while  RV  gives  "the  praetorian  guard." 
Praitorion  accordingly  is  trd  in  all  these  ways, 
"Praetorium,"  "the  common  hall,"  "the  judgment 
hall,"  "the  palace,"  "the  praetorian  guard."  In 
the  passages  in  the  Gospels,  ARV  renders  uni- 
formly "Praetorium." 

The  word  originally  meant  the  headquarters  in 
the  Rom  cam]),  the  space  where  the  general's  tent 
siood,  with  the  camp  altar;  the  tent  of  the  com- 
mander-in-chief. It  next  came  to  mean  the  military 
council,  meeting  in  the  general's  tent.  Then  it 
came  to  be  applied  to  the  palace  in  which  the  Rom 
governor  or  procurator  of  a  province  resided.  In 
Jerus  it  was  the  magnificent  palace  which  Herod  the 
Great  had  built  for  himself,  and  which  the  Rom  proc- 
urators seem  to  have  occupied  when  they  came  from 
Caesarea  to  Jerus  to  transact  public  business. 

Praitorion  in  Phil  1  13  has  been  variously  ren- 
dered, "the  camp  of  the  praetorian  soldiers,"  "the 
praetorian  guard,"  etc.  For  what  is  now  believed 
to  be  its  true  meaning,  see  Praetorium. 

John  Rutherfurd 

JUDGMENT,  LAST:   In  Christian  theology  the 

Last  Judgment  is  an  act  in  which  God  interposes 

directly   into    human   history,    brings 

1.  A  Tran-    the  course  of  this  world  to  a  final  close, 
scendental     determines  the  eternal  fate  of  human 
Doctrine        beings,  and  places  them  in  surround- 
ings spiritually  adapted  to  their  final 

condition.  The  concept  is  purely  transcendental, 
and  is  to  be  distinguished  from  the  hope  that  God 
will  interfere  in  the  history  of  this  world  to  deter- 
mine it  undeviatingly  toward  good.  The  tran- 
scendental doctrine  is  possible  only  when  an  exalted 
idea  of  God  has  been  attained,  alt  hough  it  may  after- 
ward be  united  with  crasser  theories,  as  in  certain 
naive  concept  ions  of  Christianity  at  the  present  day. 
In  the  religion  of  Israel,  the  doctrine  of  the  Last 
Judgment  arose  from  "transcendentalizing"  the 
concept  of  the  "Day  of  the  Lord." 

2.  The  Just  as  hope  of  immortality  replaced 
Doctrine  in  desire  for  length  of  days  on  earth,  just 
the  Religion  as  for  "the  rejuvenation  of  Pal"  was 
of  Israel         substituted  "an  eternal  abode  in  a  new 

earth,"  so  the  ideal  of  a  military  vic- 
tory over  Israel's  enemies  expanded  into  God's 
solemn  condemnation  of  evil.  The  concept  thus 
strictly  defined  is  hardly  to  be  sought  in  the  OT,  but 
Dnl  12  1-3  may  contain  it.  The  first  unequivocal 
assertion  would  appear  to  be  in  En  91  17,  where 
the  final  state  is  contrast  ed  with  a  preceding  reign 
of  earthly  happiness.  (If  there  has  been  no  redac- 
tion in  the  latter  part  of  this  section,  its  date  is 
prior  to  1(55  BC.j  Hereafter  the  idea  is  so  preva- 
lent in  the  Jewish  writings  that  detailed  reference 
is  needless.  But  it  is  by  no  means  universal.  Writ- 
ings touched  with  Gr  thought  (En  108;    4  Mace; 


Judgment  Seat 
Judith,  Book  of 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1778 


Philo)  are  content  with  an  individual  judgment  at 
death.  A  unique  theory  is  that  of  t lie  Test .  Nil  P 
(Levi  18  S  14,  e.g.),  where  the  world  grows  into  final 
blessedness  without,  catastrophe.  But  much  more 
common  is  the  persistence  of  the  non-transcendental 
ideas,  ingrained  as  they  were  in  the  thought  of  the 
people  (even  in  Philo;  cf  his  prophecy  of  national 
earthly  glory  in  J'J.rcr  9).  This  type  of  thought 
was  so  tenacious  that  it  held  its  own  alongside  of 
the  transcendental,  and  both  points  of  view  were 
accepted  by  more  than  one  writer.  Then  the 
earthly  happiness  precedes  the  heavenly  (as  in  En 
91),  and  there  are  two  judgments,  one  by  the  Mes- 
siah and  the  other  by  Cod  (2  Esd  7;  Syr  Par  29, 
30).  So  in  Rev,  where  in  eh  19  Christ  overcomes 
the  enemies  in  battle-symbolism  and  establishes 
the  Millennium,  while  the  Last  Judgment  is  held 
by  God  (20  1  L  IT).  Otherwise  the  Messiah  is  never 
the  judge  except  in  the  Parables  of  Enoch,  where 
He  appears  as  God's  vicar  uniformly  (in  47  3  God 
fixes  the  time  of  judgment  only).  Possibly  in  Wisd 
4  ](>;  5  1  men  share  in  the  judgment-act  butother- 
wise  they  (and  angels)  appear  only  as  "assessors" 
or  as  executors  of  the  sentence.  In  Wisd  3  8, 
"judging"  is  used  in  the  OT  sense  of  "rule"  (Jgs 
3  10,  etc),  as  is  the  case  in  Mt  19  28  |  Lk  22  30; 
1  Cor  6  2.3  (in  the  last  case  with  the  word  in  two 
senses).  Further  studies  in  the  variation  of  the 
(rather  conventionally  fixed)  details  of  the  judgment 
will  interest  the  special  student  only. 

For  discussions  of  the  relevant  Bib.  passages, 
see  Day  of  the  Loud;  Esciiatology;  Parousia. 
The  doctrine  has  real  religious  value,  for  it  insists 
on  a  culmination  in  the  evolution  (or  degeneration!) 
of  the  race  as  well  as  of  the  individual.  So  it  is 
contrasted  with  the  pessimism  of  natural  science, 
which  points  only  toward  the  gradual  extinction 
of  humanity  through  the  cooling  of  the  sun. 

Literature. — Tho  variations  of  the  concept  are 
treated  fully  only  in  Volz,  Judische  Eschatoloyie.  For 
general  lit.  see  Esciiatology;  Parousia. 

Burton  Scott  Easton 
JUDGMENT  SEAT  (P%a,  bema,  "a  raised 
place,"  "platform,"  "tribune,"  Mt  27  19;  Jn  19 
13;  see  Gabbatha;  Acts  12  21  m  [text  "throne"]; 
18  12.16  ff;  25  G.17):  In  Cr  law  courts,  one  bema 
was  provided  for  the  accuser,  another  for  the  ac- 
cused ;  but  in  the  NT  the  word  designates  the  official 
seat  of  a  judge,  usually  of  the  Rom  governor;  also 
of  the  emperor  (Acts  25  10);  then  of  God  (Rom 
14  10),  of  Christ  (2  Cor  5  10).  The  word  Kpir-Jipiov, 
krittrion,  "a  tribunal,"  "bench  of  judges"  (Jas  2 
G)  occurs  also  in  1  Cor  6  2-4,  and  is  there  trd  in 
RVin  by  "tribunals."     See  also  Judge. 

JUDICIAL,  jdo-dish'al,  BLINDNESS.  See 
Blindness,  Judicial. 

JUDICIAL  COURTS.     See  Courts,  Judicial. 

JUDICIAL  HARDENING.     See  I Iarde x. 

JUDITH,  joo'dith  (for  etymology,  see  next 
article): 

(lj  A  wife  of  Esau,  daughter  of  Beeri  the  Hittite 
(Gen  26  34). 

_  (2)  The  heroine  of  the  Book  of  Jth  in  Apoc — a 
pious,  wealthy,  courageous,  and  patriotic  widow 
who  delivered  Jems  and  her  countrymen  from  the 
assault  of  Holofernes,  the  general  "of  Nebuchad- 
nezzar who  had  arranged  the  expedition  which 
aimed  at  making  Nebuchadnezzar  the  object  of 
universal  human  worship. 

The  8th  and  following  chapters  of  the  book  describe 
her  actions  which  resulted  in  the  cutting  off  of  the  head 
of  Holofernes,  the  rout  of  the  Assvr  army,  and  the  de- 
liverance of  the  Jews.      See  Judith,  Book  of. 


t  lie  Maccabean  Age 


JUDITH,  BOOK  OF: 

1.     Name 
II.     Canonicity 
III.     Contents 
IV.     Fact   ok   Fiction  ? 
V.     Date 

1 .  Probably  during 

2.  Other  Opinions 

(1 )  Invasion  of  Pompcy 

(2)  Insurrection  under  Bar  Cochba 
VI.     Original  Language 

VII.     Versions 

1.  Creek 

2.  Svriac 
!5.    Latin 

4.   Hebrew 
Literati  re 

/.  Name. — This  apocryphal  book  is  called  after 
the  name  of  its  principal  character  Judith  (n"HirV  , 
yhudhith,  "a  Jewess";  'Iov8i0,  Ioudith,  'Iov8t|9, 
Ioudith).  The  name  occurs  in  Gen  26  34  and  the 
corresponding  masc.  form  ("HIPP ,  ifhiidhi,  "a  Jew") 
in  Jer  36  14.21.23  (name  of  a  scribe).  In  other 
great  crises  in  Heb  history  women  have  played  a 
great  part  (cf  Deborah,  Jgs  5,  and  Esther).  The 
Books  of  Ruth,  Est,  Jth  and  Susannah  are  the  only 
ones  in  the  Bible  (including  the  Apoc)  called  by  the 
names  of  women,  these  women  being  the  principal 
characters  in  each  case. 

//.  Canonicity. — Though  a  tale  of  Jewish  patriotism 
written  originally  in  Heb,  this  book  was  never  admitted 
into  the  Heb  Canon,  and  the  same  applies  to  the  Book 
of  Tob.  But  both  Jth  and  Tob  wen;  recognized  as 
canonical  by  tho  Council  of  Carthage  (397  AD)  and  by 
the  Council  of  Trent  (1545  AD).  Though,  however,  all 
Romanists  include  these  books  in  their  Bible  (the  Vulg), 
Protestant  VSS  of  the  Bible,  with  very  few  exceptions, 
exclude  the  whole  of  the  Apoc  (sec;  Apocrypha).  In  t ho 
LXX  and  Vulg,  Tob  and  Jth  (in  that  order)  follow  Xeh 
and  precede  Est.  In  the  EV  of  the  Apoc,  which  un- 
fortunately for  its  understanding  stands  alone,  1  Esd, 
2  Esd,  Tob  and  Jth  occupy  the  first  place  and  in  the  order 
named.  In  Ills  tr  of  the  Apoc,  Luther,  for  some  unex- 
plained reason,  puts  Jth  at  the  head  of  the  apocryphal 
books,  Wisdom  taking  the  next  place. 

///.  Contents. — The  book  opens  with  an  account 
of  the  immense  power  of  Nebuchadnezzar,  king  of 
Assyria,  whose  capital  was  Nineveh.  (In  the  days 
of  the  real  Nebuchadnezzar,  Assyria  had  ceased  to 
be,  and  its  capital  was  destroyed.)  He  calls  upon 
the  peoples  living  in  the  western  country,  including 
Pal,  to  help  him  to  subdue  a  rival  king  whose  power 
he  feared — Arphaxad,  king  of  the  Medes  (other- 
wise quite  unknown).  But  as  they  refused  the  help 
he  demanded,  he  first  conquered  his  rival,  annexing 
his  territory,  and  then  sent  his  general  Holofernes 
to  subdue  the  western  nations  and  to  punish  them 
for  their  defiance  of  his  authority.  The  Assyr 
general  marched  at  the  head  of  an  army  132,000 
strong  and  soon  took  possession  of  the  lands  N.  and 
E.  of  Pal,  demolishing  their  idols  and  sanctuaries 
that  Nebuchadnezzar  alone  might  be  worshipped 
as  god  (chs  1-3).  He  now  directed  his  forces 
against  the  Jews  who  had  recently  returned  from 
exile  and  newly  rebuilt  and  rededicated  their  temple. 
Having  heard  of  the  ruin  of  other  temples  caused 
by  the  invading  foe,  the  Jews  became  greatly 
alarmed  for  the  safety  of  their  own,  and  fortified 
the  mountains  and  villages  in  the  south,  providing 
themselves  with  food  to  meet  their  needs  in  the 
event  of  war.  At  the  urgent  request  of  Joakim 
("Eliakim"  in  the  Vulg  and  Pesh),  the  inhabitants 
of  Bethulia  (so  the  Lat,  Eng.,  and  other  VSS,  but 
BervXova,  Betuloua  is  more  correct  according  to  the 
( ir)  and  of  Betomestham  (both  places  otherwise  un- 
known) defended  the  adjoining  mountain  passes 
which  commanded  the  way  to  Jerus.  Holofernes  at 
once  laid  siege  to  Bethulia,  and  by  cutting  off  the 
water  supply  aimed  at  starving  the  people  to  sub- 
mission. But  he  knows  little  of  the  people  he  is 
seeking  to  conquer,  and  asks  the  chiefs  who  are  with 
him  who  and  what  these  Jews  are.  Achior,  the  Am- 
monite chief,  gives  an  account  of  the  Israelites,  con- 


1779 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Judgment  Seat 
Judith,  Book  of 


eluding  that  when  faithful  to  their  Cod  they  were 
invincible,  but  that  when  they  disobeyed  Him  they 
were  easily  overcome.  Achior  is  for  this  saying 
expelled  and  handed  over  to  the  Jews.  After  hold- 
ing out  for  some  days,  the  besieged  people  insisted 
that  Onias  their  governor  should  surrender.  This 
he  promises  to  do  if  no  relief  comes  in  the  course  of 
five  days.  A  rich,  devout  and  beautiful  widow 
called  Judith  (daughter  of  Merari,  of  the  tribe  of 
Simeon  [8  1]J,  hearing  of  these  things,  rebukes  the 
murmurers  for  their  lack  of  faith  and  exhorts  them 
to  trust  in  God.  As  Onias  abides  by  his  promise 
to  the  people,  she  resolves  to  attempt  another  mode 
of  deliverance.  She  obtains  consent  to  leave  the 
fortress  in  the  dead  of  night,  accompanied  by  her 
maidservant,  in  order  to  join  the  Assyr  camp. 
First  of  all  she  prays  earnestly  for  guidance  and 
success;  then  dolling  her  mourning  garb,  she  puts 
on  her  most  gorgeous  attire  together  with  jewels 
and  other  ornaments.  She  takes  with  her  food 
allowed  by  Jewish  law,  that  she  might  have  no  neces- 
sity to  eat  the  forbidden  meats  of  the  Gentiles. 
Passing  through  the  gates,  she  soon  reaches  the 
Assyrians.  First  of  all,  the  soldiers  on  watch  take 
her  captive,  but  on  her  assuring  them  that  she  is  a 
fugitive  from  the  Hebrews  and  desires  to  put 
Holofernes  in  the  way  of  achieving  a  cheap  and 
easy  victory  over  her  fellow-countrymen,  she  is 
warmly  welcomed  and  made  much  of.  She  reiter- 
ates to  Holofernes  the  doctrine  taught,  by  Achior 
that  these;  .Jews  can  easily  be  conquered  when  they 
break  the  laws  of  their  Deity,  and  she  knows  the 
necessities  of  their  situation  would  lead  them  to 
eat  food  prohibited  in  their  sacred  laws,  and  when 
this  takes  place  she  informs  him  that  he  might  at 
once  attack  them.  Holofernes  listens,  applauds, 
and  is  at  once  capt  ured  by  her  personal  charms.  He 
agrees  to  her  proposal  and  consents  that  she  and 
her  maid  should  be  allowed  each  night  to  say  their 
prayers  out  in  the  valley  near  the  Heb  fortress. 
On  the  4th  night,  after  her  arrival,  Holofernes 
arranges  a  banquet  to  which  only  his  household 
s<  rvants  and  the  two  Jewesses  are  invited.  When 
all  is  over,  by  a  preconcerted  plan  the  Assyr  general 
and  the  beautiful  Jewish  widow  are  left  alone.  He, 
however,  is  dead  drunk  and  heavily  asleep.  With 
his  own  scimitar  she  cut  soft'  his  head,  calls  her  maid 
who  puts  it  into  tin;  provision  bag,  and  together 
they  leave  the  cam])  as  if  for  their  usual_ prayers 
and  join  their  Heb  compatriots,  still  frantic  about 
the  immediate  future.  Bui  the  sight  of  the  head 
of  their  arch  foe  puts  new  heart  into  them,  and  next 
day  they  march  upon  the  enemy  now  in  panic  at 
wliat  had  happened,  and  win  an  easy  victory. 
Judith  became  ever  after  a  heroine  in  Jewish  ro- 
mance and  poetry,  a  Heb  Joan  of  Arc,  and  the  tale 
of  the  deliverance  she  wrought  for  her  people  has 
been  told  in  many  languages.  For  lat  er  and  shorter 
forms  of  the  tale  see  VII,  4  (Heb  Midrashes). 

IV.  Fact  or  Fiction? — The  majority  of  theolo- 
gians down  to  the  19th  cent,  regarded  the  story  of 
Jth  as  pure  history;  but  with  the  exception  of  O. 
Wolf  (1861)  and  von  Gumpach,  Protestant  scholars 
in  recent  times  are  practically  agreed  that  the 
Book  of  Jth  is  a  historical  novel  with  a  purpose 
similar  to  Dnl,  Est  and  Tob.  Schiirer  classes  it 
with  "parenetic  narratives"  (pard?ietische  Erzah- 
lung).  The  Heb  novel  is  perhaps  the  earliest  of  all 
novels,  but  it  is  always  a  didactic  novel  written  to 
enforce  some  principle  or  principles.  Roman 
Catholic  scholars  defend  the  literal  historicity  of 
the  book,  though  they  allow  that  the  proper  names 
are  more  or  less  disguised.  But  the  book  abounds 
with  anachronisms,  inconsistencies  and  impossi- 
bilities, and  was  evidently  written  for  the  lesson  it 
teaches:  obey  God  and  trust  Him,  and  all  will  be 
well.     The  author  had  no  intention  to  teach  history. 


Torrey,  however,  goes  too  tar  when  he  says  (see  Jew 
Ertc,  "Book  of  Jth")  that  the  writer  aimed  at 
nothing  more  than  to  write  a  tale  that  would  amuse. 
A  tone  of  religious  fervor  and  of  intense  patriotism 
runs  through  the  narrative,  and  no  opportunity  of 
enforcing  the  claims  of  the  Jewish  law  is  lost .  Note 
esp.  what  is  taught  in  the  speeches  of  Achior  (5 
12-21)  and  Judith  (8  17-24;  cf  1110),  that, 
trusting  in  God  and  keeping  His  commandments, 
the  nation  is  invulnerable. 

According  to  the  narrative  Nebuchadnezzar  has 
been  for  12  years  king  of  Assyria  and  has  his  capital 
at  Nineveh,  though  we  know  he  never  was  or  could 
be  king  of  Assyria.  He  became  king  of  Babylon 
in  604  BC,  upon  the1  death  of  his  father  Nabopolas- 
sar,  who  in  608  had  destroyed  Assyria.  The  Jews 
had  but  recently  returned  from  exile  (4  3;  5  1'.)), 
but  were  independent,  and  Holofernes  knew  nothing 
about  them  (5  3).  Nebuchadnezzar  died  in  501 
BC  and  the  Jews  returned  under  Cyrus  in  538. 
Bethulia  to  which  Holofernes  lay  siege  was  other- 
wise quite  unknown:  it  is  probably  a  disguised 
form  of  Beth  'Elohim  or  Beth  'Eld'1}),  "house  of 
God,"  and  means  the  place  where  God  is  with  His 
people.  The  detailed  description  of  the  site  is  but 
part  of  the  writer's  art ;  it  was  the  place  which  every 
army  must  pass  on  ils  way  to  Jerus.  As  a  matter 
of  fact,  there  is  no  such  position  in  Pal,  and  least 
of  all  Shecbem,  which  Torrey  identified  with  Bethu- 
lia. We  know  nothing  besides  what  ch  1  tells  us 
of  "Arphaxad  who  reigned  over  the  Medes  in 
Ecbatana";  on  1  he  cont  rary,  in  every  other  mention 
of  the  name  it  stands  for  a  country  or  a  race  (see 
Gen  10  22.24;    11  10-13). 

V.  Date. — It  is  evident  that  this  religious  ro- 
mance was  prompted  by  some  severe  persecution 
in  which  the  faith  of  the  Jews  was 
1.  During  sorely  tried,  and  the  writer's  domi- 
the  Macca-  nant  aim  is  identical  with  that  of  the 
bean  Age  author  of  Dnl,  viz.  to  encourage  those 
suffering  for  their  religion  by  giving 
instances  of  Divine  deliverance  in  the  darkest  hour. 
"Only  trust  and  keep  the  law;  then  deliverance 
will  unfailingly  come" — that  is  the  teaching.  Jth 
might  well  have  been  written  during  the  persecution 
of  the  Maccabean  age,  as  was  almost  certainly  the 
Book  of  Dnl.  We  have  in  this  book  that  zeal  for 
orthodox  Judaism  which  marked  the  age  of  the 
Maccabees,  and  the  same  strong  belief  that  the 
war  in  which  the  nat  ion  was  engaged  was  a  holy  one. 
The  high  priest  is  head  of  the  state  (see  4  6),  as 
suiting  a  period  when  the  religious  interest  is  upper- 
most and  politics  are  merged  in  religion,  though 
some  say  wrongly  that  John  Hyrcanus  (135-106 
BC)  was  the  first  to  combine  priestly  and  princely 
dignities.  We  have  another  support  for  a  Macca- 
bean date  in  the  fact  that  Onias  was  high  priest 
during  the  siege  of  Bethulia  (4  6),  the  name  being 
suggested  almost  certainly  by  Onias  III,  who  be- 
came high  priest  in  105  (or  198)  BC,  and  who  died 
in  171  after  consistently  opposing  the  Hellenizing 
policy  of  the  Syrians  and  their  Jewish  allies. 

That  the  persecutions  of  Antiochus  Epiphancs 
(175-164  BC)  supply  as  good  a  background  for  this 
book  as  any  other  event  in  Jewish  history  is  the 
least  that  can  be  said;  but  one  may  not  be  dogmatic 
on  the  matter,  as  similar  conditions  recurred  in  the 
nation's  history,  and  there  is  no  external  or  internal 
evidence  that  fixes  the  date  definitely.  The  follow- 
ing scholars  decide  for  a  date  in  the  Maccabean  age: 
Fritzsehe,  Ewald,  Hilgenfeld,  Schiirer,  Ball,  Cornill 
and  Lohr.  The  author  was  certainly  a  resident  in 
Pal,  as  his  local  knowledge  and  interests  show;  and 
from  his  punctilious  regard  for  the  law  one  may 
judge  that  lie  belonged  to  theHasidaean  (hasidhim) 
party.  Since  he  so  often  mentions  Dothan  (Gr 
Dothac,  Dothaim)  (3  9;  4  6;   7  3.18;   8  3),  it  is 


Judith,  Book  of 
Justice 


THIO  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1780 


2.  Other 
Opinions 
about  the 
Date 


probable  thai  he  belonged  to  that  neighborhood. 
Though,  however,  the  author  wrote  in  the  time  of 
the  Maccabees,  he  seems  to  set  his  history  in  a 
framework  thai  is  some  200  years  earlier,  as  Noldeke 
(Die  alttest.  Lit.,  18G8,  9t>;  Aufsdtze  zur  persischen 
Geschichte,  1887,  78)  and  Sehiirer  ((JJV,  III.  323  ff) 
show.  In  350  BC,  Artaxerxes  Ochus  (361-338  BC) 
invaded  Phoenicia  and  Egypt,  his  chief  generals 
being  [lolofernes  (2  4,  etc)  and  Bagoas  (12  11), 
both  of  whom  are  in  Jth  officials  of  King  Nebu- 
chadnezzar and  take  part  in  the  expedition  againsl 
the  Jews.  This  was  intended  probably  to  disarm 
the  criticism  of  enemies  who  might  resent  any  writ- 
ing in  which  they  were  painted  in  unfavorable  colors. 

(1)  Invasion  of  Pompey. — That  it  was  the  invasion  of 
Pompcy  which  gave  rise  to  the  book  is  the  opinion  held 

by  < raster.  If  this  were  so.  Jth  and  the  Ps 
Sol  arose  under  the  pressure  of  the  same 
circumstances  (see  Ryle  and  James,  The 
Psalms  of  Solomon,  XL,  and  J.  Kendel 
Harris,  The  Odes  and  Psalms  of  Solomon, 
XIII).  But  in  the  Ps  Sol  the  supreme 
ruler  is  a  king  (17  22),  not  a  high  priest 
(Jth  4  6).     Besides,  anyone  who  reads  the 

Ps  Sol  and  Jth  will  feel  that  in  the  former  he  has  to  do 

with  a  different  and  later  age. 

(2)  Insurrection  under  Bar  Cochba. — TTitzig  (who  held 
that  the  insurrection  under  Bar  Cochba,  132  AD,  is 
the  event  referred  to),  Volkmar  and  Graetz  date  this 
book  in  the  days  of  the  emperor  Trajan  (or  Hadrian?). 
Volkmar  gives  himself  much  trouble  in  his  attempt  to 
prove  that  the  campaigns  of  Nebuchadnezzar  stand 
really  for  those  of  Trajan.  But  it  is  a  sufficient  refuta- 
tion of  this  opinion  that  the  book  is  quoted  by  Clement 
of  Rome  (55),  who  died  in  100  AD,  and  whose  reference 
to  the  book  shows  that  it  was  regarded  in  his  day  as 
authoritative  and  even  as  canonical,  so  that  it  must  have 
been  written  long  before. 

VI.  Original  Language.—  That  a  Heb  or  (less 
likely)  an  Aram,  original  once  existed  is  the  opinion 
of  almost  all  modern  scholars,  and  the  evidence  for 
this  seems  conclusive.  There  are  many  Hebraisms 
in  the  book,  e.g.  iv  rah  ijfj.e'pais,  en  tais  hemerais 
("in  the  days  of,"  1  7,  and  9  t  besides) ;  the  frequent 
use  of  cr(p65pa}  sphodra,  in  the  sense  of  the  Ileb 
"WQ,  me'odh,  and  even  its  repetition  (also  a  Hebra- 
ism, 4  8);  cf  tni  iro\i>  o-<p68pa!  epi  pohi  sphodra  (5 
18)  and  ttXtjOos  7ro\i>  <r<p65pa,  plfthos  polu  sphodra 
(2  17).  Note  further  the  following:  "Let  not  thy 
eye  spare,"  etc  (2  11;  cf  Ezk  5  11,  etc);  "as  I 
live"  (in  an  oath,  2  12);  "God  of  heaven"  (5  8; 
11  17);  "son  of  man,"  parallel  with  "man,"  and  in 
the  same  sense  (8  16);  "and  it  came  to  pass  when 
she  had  ceased  crying,"  etc  (10  1);  "the  priests  who 
serve  in  Jerus  before  the  face  of  our  God"  (11  13). 
In  16  3  we  have  the  words :  "For  a  god  that  shatters 
battle  is  [the]  Lord."  Now  "Lord"  without  the 
article  can  be  only  the  Heb  "Yahweh,"  read  always 
'ddhondy,  "Lord."  But  the  phrase,  "to  shatter 
battle,"  is  not  good  Gr  or  good  sense.  The  Heb 
words  shdbhath  ("to  rest";  cf  shabbdih,  "Sabbath") 
and  shdbhar  ("to  break")  are  written  much  alike, 
and  in  the  original  Heb  we  must  have  had  the 
causative  form  of  the  first  vb.:  "A  God  that  makes 
war  cease  is  [the]  Lord"  (see  Ps  46  9).  Moreover, 
the  Heb  idiom  which  strengthens  a  finite  vb.  by 
placing  a  cognate  (absolute)  infinitive  before  it  is 
represented  in  the  Gr  of  this  book  in  the  usual  form 
in  which  it  occurs  in  the  LNX  (and  in  Welsh),  viz. 
a  participle  followed  by  a  finite  vb.  (see  2  13).  The 
present  writer  has  noted  other  examples,  but  is 
prevented  by  lack  of  space  from  adding  them  here. 
That  the  original  book  was  Heb  and  not  Aram,  is 
made  extremely  likely  by  the  fact  that  the  above 
examples  of  Heb  idiom  are  peculiar  to  this  language. 
Note  esp.  the  idiom,  "and  it  came  to  pass  that,"  etc 
(2  4),  with  the  implied  "waw  consecutive,"  and 
what  is  said  above  about  11  13,  where  the.  senseless 
Gr  arose  through  Mie  confusion  of  two  similarly 
written  Heb  (not  Aram.)  words.  There  are  cases 
also  of  mistakes  in  the  Gr  text  due  to  wrong  tr  from 
the  Heb,  as  in  1  8  (where  for  "nations"  read  "cities" 


3.  Latin 


or  "mountains");  2  2  (where  for  "concluded," 
Heb  5?"1,1],  wa-yekhal,  read  "revealed,"  5JPT,  wa-ye- 
(jhal);    3'  1.9.10  (see  Fritzsche,  s.v.),  etc. 

VII.  Versions. — The  Gr  text  appears  in  three  forms: 
(1)  that  of  the  principal  Gr  uncials  (A,  B,  agreeing  closely), 
which  is  followed  in  printed  editions  of  the 
1  rropk-  LXX;  (2)  that  of  codd.  19,  10S  (Lucian's 
i.  vjreeK  text),  an  evident  revision  of  (1);  (3)  cod. 
58  which  closely  resembles  (2)  and  with 
which  the  Old  Lat  and  Pesh  agree  in  most  points. 

Then;  are  two  extant  Syr  VSS,  both  of  them  depend- 
ent on  the  Gr  text  (3)  noted  above.  The  Pesh  is  given 
in  Walton's  Polyglot  and  in  a  critically 
O  Curiop  revised  form  in  Lagarde,  Lib.  Vet.  Test 
4.  oyriac  Apor  SyTt  104_26.  The  so-called  Hexa- 
plar  Syr  text  was  made  by  Paul  of  Telia 
in  the  6th  cent. 

(1)  The  Old  Lat  seems  to  have  been  made  from  the 
Gr  text,  cod.  58  (see  above).  (2)  Jerome  made;  his  Bat 
VS  (with  which  the  Vulg  is  identical)  from 
a  lost  Chaldee  VS.  That  this  last  is  not 
the  original  text  of  the  book  is  certain,  lie- 
cause  neither  Origen  nor  his  Jewish  teachers 
knew  anything  of  a  Heb  or  Aram,  text  of  Jth. 

Several  late  Ifeb  VSS  of  the  book  have  been  found, 
no  one  of  them  with  strong  claims  to  be  considered  the 
original  text,  though  Gaster  (sec  Eli,  II, 
4    Hebrew     co'  2,642)  does  make  such  a  claim  for  the 
tvV-j       t-  MS   found,    edited    and   tr1   by   him    (see 

Mldrashes  PSBA,  XVI,  15(3-63).  The  Heb  mid- 
rashes  were  made  to  be  read  in  Jewish 
homes  and  vary  according  to  the  circumstances  of  their 
origin.  But  they  agree  in  these  points:  Proper  names 
are  often  omitted.  Jerus  is  the  scene  of  action,  the  wars 
being  those  of  the  Maccabees.  Judith  is  a  Jewish  maiden 
and  daughter  of  Ahitah,  according  to  the  Gaster  MS,  and 
she  belongs  apparently  to  the  Maccabean  family.  It 
is  Nicanor  who  is  beheaded,  the  occasion  being  the  Beast 
of  Dedication;  in  the  Gaster  MS  it  is  the  king  who  is 
killed.  Translations  of  these  midrashes  may  be  seen  in 
Jellinck,  Beth  Hammidrash,  I,  130-41;  II,  12  f;  Lepsius, 
Zeitschr.  fur  wiss.  Theologie,  1807,  337  ff;  Ball,  Speaker's 
Apor,  I,  25  ff;  Scholz,  Comm.2,  Anhange  I  and  II; 
Gaster,  op.  cit.  Gaster  argues  that  the  much  shorter 
form  of  the  tale  in  his  MS  is  older  than  the  longer  VS. 
But  if  a  writer  were  to  expand  a  short  story,  he  would 
hardly  be  likely  to  invent  several  proper  names  and  to 
change  others.  It  is  probable  that  Judith  came  to  be 
represented  as  a  pure  maiden  (a  virgin)  under  the  influ- 
ence of  the  low  conception  of  marriage  fostered  in  the 
mediaeval  Christian  church. 

Literature. — For  the  editions  of  the  Gr  text  and  for 
comms.  on  the  Apoc,  see  under  Apocryphal  Litera- 
ture. But  on  Jth  note  in  particular  the  commen- 
taries by  Fritzsche  and  Ball,  the  latter  containing  elab- 
orate bibliography.  But  the  following  must  in  addition 
be  mentioned:  Scholz,  Commentar  iiber  das  Buch  Judith 
und  iiber  Bel  und  Drache,  1806;  a  2d  ed  has  appeared; 
A.  S.  Weissmann,  Das  Buch  Judith  historisch-kritisch 
beleuchtet,  Wien,  1891;  Sehiirer,  GJV*,  III,  230-37,  with 
full  bibliography;  cf  HJP,  II,  iii,  32-37;  Pentin,  The  Apoc 
in  English  Lit.,  Judith,  1908;  and  the  relevant  articles  in 
the  Bible  diets.,  esp.  that  by  F.  C.  Porter  in  HDB. 

T.  Witton  Da  VIES 
JUEL,    joo'el    ([1]    'Iowd,    Iound;      [2]    'Iout|\, 
Ioutl) : 

(1)  1  Esd  9  34  =  "Uel"  in  Ezr  10  34. 

(2)  1  Esd  9  35  =  "Joel"  in  Ezr  10  43. 

JUGGLERY,  jug'ler-i  (\0T)Tia,  goetia):  The 
word  occurs  once  in  2  Mace  12  24  RVm  (AV 
"craft,"  RV  "crafty  guile"). 

JUICE,  jdos,  jus:  The  word  occurs  once  in  Cant 
8  2  (tr  of  O1?? ,  Ka§ls,  RVm  "sweet,  wine"),  and 
once  in  RVm  of  Job  6  6,  where  for  "the  white  of 
an  egg"  m  reads,  "the  juice  of  purslain."  LXX  has 
pTj/xacnv  Kevols,  rhhnasin  kenois,  "empty  words." 

JULIA,  jdo'li-a  ('Iou\£a,  loulia) :  The  name  of  a 
Rom  Christian  to  whom  St.  Paul  sent  greetings,  the 
wife  or  sister  of  Philologus  with  whose  name  hers 
is  coupled  (Rom  16  15).  The  name  points  to  a 
member  of  the  imperial  household. 

JULIUS,  jdo'li-us  ('IovXios,  Ioulios):  The  cen- 
turion of  the  Augustan  cohort  tinder  whose  charge 
Paul  was  sent  a  prisoner  to  Rome  (Acts  27  1.3). 
See  Army,  Roman;  Band,  Augustan. 

JUMPING,  jum'ping.     See  Games. 


1781 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Judith,  Book  of 
Justice 


JUNIAS,  joo'ni-as  or  JUNIA,  joo'ni-a  ('Iowias, 
Iounias,  'IowCa,  Iounia):  One  to  whom,  with 
Andronicus,  greetings  are  sent  by  Paul  at  the  close 
of  his  letter  to  the  Romans  (Rom  16  7).  The 
name  may  be  masc,  Juntas,  a  contraction  of  Ju- 
nianus,  or  fern.  Junia;  it  is  Iounian,  the  accus.  form, 
that  is  given.  In  all  probability  this  is  the  masc, 
Junias.  Paul  defines  the  two  as  (1)  "my  kinsmen," 
(2)  "my  fellow-prisoners,"  (3)  "who  are  of  note 
among  the  apostles,"  and  (4)  "who  also  have  been 
in  Christ  before  me." 

(1)  They  were  Jews.  Paul  calls  the  Jews  "my 
brethren,"  "my  kinsmen  according  to  the  flesh" 
(Rom  9  3).  Because  Prisca  and  Aquila,  a  Jew 
and  Jewess,  are  not  designated  as  kinsfolk,  Cony- 
beare  and  Howson  suppose  "the  epithet  to  denote 
that  the  persons  mentioned  were  of  the  tribe  of 
Benjamin." 

(2)  They  had  been  companions  of  Paul  in  some 
unrecorded  imprisonment.  The  phrase  denotes 
more  than  the  fact  that  they,  like  Paul,  had  suffered 
imprisonment  for  the  sake  of  Christ. 

(3)  This  may  mean  (a)  that  they  were  well 
known  to  the  apostolic  circle  (so  Gifford  and  Weiss), 
or  (b)  distinguished  as  apostles.  The  latter  is 
probably  correct,  "apostle"  being  used  in  a  wide 
sense  (cf  1  Cor  15  7).  The  prophetic  ministry 
of  the  early  church  consisted  of  apostles,  prophets 
and  teachers  (1  Cor  12  28;  Eph  4  11),  the 
apostles  being  missionaries  in  the  modern  sense 
(see  Lindsay,  Church  and  Ministry,  ch  iii).  Some 
apostles  were  missionaries  sent  out  by  particular 
churches    (Acts  13  2.3;    2  Cor  8  23;    Phil  2  25). 

(4)  They  were  among  the  first  converts,  "early 
disciples"  like  Mnason  of  Cyprus  (Acts  21  16). 

.  S.  F.  Hunter 
JUNIPER,  joo'ni-per  (EFH ,  rothem;  pa9fi€v, 
rhathmen,  1  K  19  4  f ,  m  "broom";  Ps  120  4,  m 
"broom";  Job  30  4  trd  "broom"):  This  is  quite 
certainly  the  Arab,  ratam  (Retama  retem,  N.O. 
Leguminosae),  a  va- 
riety of  broom  which 
is  one  of  the  most 
characteristic  shrubs  of 
the  deserts  of  Southern 
Pal  and  southward  to 
Egypt.  Though  the 
shade  it  affords  is  but 
scanty,  in  the  absence 
of  other  shrubs  it  is 
frequently  used  by 
desert  travelers  as  a 
refuge  from  the  sun's 
scorching  rays  (cf  1  K 
19  4).  The  root  yields 
good  charcoal,  giving 
out  much  heat  (Ps  120 
4).  For  people  to  be 
reduced  to  chew  it  for 
nourishment  betokens 
the  lowest  depth  of 
starvation  (Job  30  4). 
Indeed  so  hopeless  is 
this  root   as   a  source 

of  food  that  many  commentators  believe  that  the 
accepted  text  is  in  error,  and  by  altering  a  single 
letter,  substituting  n  for  H ,  they  get  a  reading, 
which  has  been  adopted  in  RVm,  "to  warm  them" 
instead  of  "their  meat,"  which  certainly  is  much 
more  probable.  E.  W.  G.  Masterman 

JUPITER,  joo'pi-ter,  ju'pi-ter  (Zevs,  Zeus): 
"Jupiter"  is  mentioned  in  2  Mace  6  2;  Acts  14 
12.13,  with  "Zeus"  in  the  RVm  in  all  cases.  In 
addition  the  Gr  stem  appears  in  Sto-n-eroCs,  diopetous, 
in  Acts  19  35,  EV  "which  fell  down  from  Jupiter"; 
but  the  word  means  "from  the  clear  sky"  (cf  "from 


Retem  Bush  (Retama  retem). 


heaven"  in  the  RVm).  "Jupiter"  was  considered 
the  Lat  equivalent  of  the  Gr  "Zeus,"  the  highest  god 
in  the  developed  Gr  pantheon,  and  Zeus  in  turn,  in 
accord  with  the  syncretism  of  the  period,  was 
identified  with  countless  deities  in  the  local  cults 
of  Asia  Minor  and  elsewhere.  So  in  Acts  14  12.13, 
"Zeus"  and  "Hermes"  are  local  deities  that  had 
been  renamed.  On  the  other  hand,  the  Zeus  of 
2  Mace  6  2  is  the  genuine  Gr  deity,  who  had  been 
adopted  as  a  special  patron  by  Antiochus  Epiphanes 
and  to  whose  temple  in  Athens  Antiochus  had  con- 
tributed largely.  The  title  "Olympius"  (2  Mace  6 
2)  is  derived  from  the  early  worship  on  Mt.  Olym- 
pus, but  had  come  to  be  thought  one  of  the  god's 
highest  appellations;  Xenios,  "protector  of  stran- 
gers," was  a  title  in  a  cult  particularly  popular  with 
travelers.  See  Abomination  of  Desolation,  and 
Smith,  HGHL,  333-34.    Burton  Scott  Easton 

JUPITER  AND  MERCURY.  See  Astrology, 
III,  1;   Mercury;  Jupiter. 

JURISDICTION,  joo-ris-dik'shun  (Ifouo-Ca, 
exousia):  The  word  exousia  is  well  known  in  NT 
Gr.  It  is  derived  from  the  word  exesti,  and  sug- 
gests the  absence  of  any  hindrance  to  an  act.  It 
contains  the  idea  of  right  and  might  (Cremer).  In 
the  NT  it  means  right,  authority,  capability  (Rom 
9  21);  power,  strength  (Mt*  9  8);  right  and 
might  (Jn  5  27).  Thus  it  gets  the  meaning  of  the 
powers  of  the  magistrate,  which  it  bears  in  later 
Gr  (Tit  3  1;  Rom  13  1-3).  And  in  this  sense 
it  is  used  in  Lk  23  7,  where  it  is  trd  "jurisdiction." 

JUSHAB-HESED,  joo'shab-he'sed  ("CH  3tn\ 
yushabh  hesedh,  "loving-kindness  is  returned"): 
Son  of  Zerubbabel.  The  name  is  probably  sym- 
bolical (1  Ch  3  20);  cf  Shear-Jashub. 

JUSTICE,  jus' t is  (nprlS  ,  cedhakah,  p"£  ,  cedhek; 
8iKaio<rvivT|,  dikaiosune):  The  original  Heb  and 
Gr  words  are  the  same  as  those  rendered  "right- 
eousness." This  is  the  common  rendering,  and  in 
about  half  the  cases  where  we  have  "just"  and 
"justice"  in  AV,  ARV  has  changed  to  "righteous" 
and  "righteousness."  It  must  be  constantly  borne 
in  mind  that  the  two  ideas  are  essentially  the  same. 
See  Righteousness. 

Justice  had  primarily  to  do  with  conduct  in  rela- 
tion to  others,  esp.  with  regard  to  the  rights  of 
•  others.  It  is  applied  to  business, 
1.  Human  where  just  weights  and  measure's  are 
Justice  demanded  (Lev  19  35.36;   Dt  25  13- 

16;  Am  8  5;  Prov  11  1;  16  11; 
Ezk  45  9.10).  It  is  demanded  in  courts,  where  the 
rights  of  rich  and  poor,  Israelite  and  sojourner,  are 
equally  to  be  regarded.  Neither  station  nor  bribe 
nor  popular  clamor  shall  influence  judge  or  witness. 
"Justice*,  justice  shalt  thou  follow"  (Dt  16  20  m; 
cf  vs  18-20;  Ex  23  1-3.6-9).  In  general  this 
justice  is  contrasted  with  that  wickedness  which 
"feared  not  God,  and  regarded  not  man"  (Lk 
18  2). 

In  a  larger  sense  justice  is  not  only  giving  to 
others  their  rights,  but  involves  the  active  duty  of 
establishing  their  rights.  So  Israel  waits  upon 
God's  justice  or  cries  out:  "The  justice  due  to  me 
[lit.  "my  justice"]  is  passed  away  from  my  God" 
(Isa  40  27).  Jeh  is  to  show  her  to  be  in  the  right 
as  over  against  the  nations.  Justice  here  becomes 
mercy.  To  "seek  justice"  means  to  "relieve  the 
oppressed,  judge  the  fatherless,  plead  for  the  widow" 
(Isa  1  17;  cf  11  4;  Jer  22  15.16;  Ps  82  2-4). 
The  same  idea  appears  in  Dt  24  12.13;  Ps  37  21.26; 
112  4-6,  where  the  tr  is  "righteous"  instead  of 
"just." 

In  this  conception  of  justice  the  full  meaning  of 


Justice 
Justification 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  RIM.E  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


17S2 


the  NT  is  not  yet  reached.  It  docs  not  mean  sin- 
lessness  or  moral  perfection.  Job  knows  the  sin 
in  his  heart  (Job  13  23.26;  7  21),  and  yet  speaks 
of  himself  as  a  just  or  righteous  man  (12  4;  13  18). 
The  Psalmist  confidently  depends  upon  the  right- 
eousness of  God  though  he  knows  that  no  man  is 
righteous  in  God's  sight  (Ps  143  1.2;  cf  7  8;  18 
20-24).  It  is  not  a  lack  of  humility  or  dependence 
upon  God  when  the  Psalmist  asks  to  be  judged 
according  to  his  righteousness.  In  relation  to  God, 
the  just,  or  righteous,  man  is  the  one  who  holds  to 
God'  and  trusts  in  Him  (Ps  33  18-22).  This  is 
not  the  later  Judaistic  legalism  with  its  merit  and 
reward,  where  God's  justice  is  simply  a  matter  of 
giving  each  man  what  he  has  earned. 

The  word  "justice"  does  not  occur  in  the  NT, 
and  in  most  cases  where  we  find  "just"  in  AV  it  is 
changed  to  "righteous"  in  ARV.  The  idea  of  jus- 
tice or  righteousness  (remembering  that  these  are 
essentially  the  same)  becomes  more  spiritual  and 
ethical  in  the  NT.  It  is  a  matter  of  character,  and 
God's  own  spirit  is  the  standard  (1  .In  3  7;  Mt 
5  4S).  The  mere  give-and-take  justice  is  not 
enough.  We  are  to  be  merciful,  and  that  to  all. 
The  ideal  is  righteousness,  not  rights.  As  Holt z- 
mann  says,  "The  keynote  of  the  Sermon  on  the 
Mount  is  justitia  and  not  jus." 

God's  justice,  or  righteousness,  is  founded  in  His 
essential  nature.  But,  just  as  with  man,  it  is  not 
something  abstract,  but  is  seen  in  His 
2.  Justice  relation  to  the  world.  It  is  His  king- 
of  God  ship  establishing  and  maintaining  the 

right.  It  appears  as  retributive  jus- 
tice, "that  reaction  of  His  holy  will,  as  grounded  in 
His  eternal  being,  against  evil  wherever  found." 
He  cannot  be  indifferent  to  good  and  evil  (Hab  1 
13).  The  great  prophets,  Isaiah,  Micah,  Amos, 
Hosea,  all  insist  upon  Jeh's  demand  for  righteous- 
ness. 

But  this  is  not  the  main  aspect  of  God's  justice. 
Theology  has  been  wont  to  set  forth  God's  justice 
as  the  fundamental  fact  in  His  nature  with  which 
we  must  reconcile  His  mercy  as  best  we  may,  the 
two  being  conceived  as  in  conflict.  As  a  matter 
of  fact,  the  Scriptures  most  often  conceive  God's 
justice,  or  righteousness,  as  the  action  of  His  mercy. 
Just  as  with  man  justice  means  the  relief  of  the 
oppressed  and  needy,  so  God's  justice  is  His  kingly 
power  engaged  on  behalf  of  men,  and  justice  and 
mercy  are  constantly  joined  together.  He  is  "a  just 
God  and  a  Saviour"  (Isa  45  21).  "I  bring  near  my 
righteousness  [or  "justice1"]  ....  and  my  salvation 
shall  not  tarry"  (Isa  46  13;  cf  Ps  51  14;  103  17; 
71  15;  116  5;  Isa  51  5.6).  The  "righteous  acts  of 
Jeh"  mean  His  deeds  of  deliverance  (Jgs  5  11). 
And  so  Israel  sings  of  the  justice,  or  judgments,  or 
righteousness  of  Jeh  (they  are  the  same),  and  pro- 
claims her  trust  in  these  (Ps  7  17;  35  23.24.28; 
36  6;  140  12.13;  50  5.6;  94  14.15;  103  6;  143  1). 

The  NT,  too,  does  not  lack  the  idea  of  retributive 
justice.  The  Son  of  Man  "shall  render  unto  every 
man  according  to  his  deeds"  (Mt  16  27;  cf  25 
14-46;  Lk  12  45-48;  Rom  2  2-16;  6  23;  2  Cor 
5  10;  Col  3  24.25;  2  Thess  1  8.9;  He  2  2.3; 
10  26-31).  But  God's  justice  is  far  more  than  this. 
The  idea  of  merit  and  reward  is  really  superseded 
by  a  higher  viewpoint  in  the  t  caching  of  Jesus.  He 
speaks,  indeed,  of  recompense,  but  it  is  the  Father 
and  not  the  judge  that  gives  this  (Mt  6  1.4.6.18). 
And  it  is  no  mere  justice  of  earth,  because  the 
reward  transcends  all  merit  (Mt  24  46.47;  Mk 
10  30;  Lk  12  37).  This  is  grace  not  desert  (Lk 
17  10).  And  the  parable  of  Mt  20  1-15  gives  at 
length  the  deathblow  to  the  whole  Judaistic  scheme 
of  merit  and  reward. 

And  God's  justice  is  not  merely  gracious,  but 
redemptive.      It   not   simply   apportions   rights,   it 


establishes  righteousness.  Thus,  just  as  in  the  OT, 
the  judge  is  the  Saviour.  The  difference'  is  simply 
here:  in  the  OT  the  salvation  was  more  national 
and  temporal,  here  it  is  personal  and  spiritual. 
But  mercy  is  opposed  to  justice  no  more  here  than 
in  1  he  ( )T.  It  is  by  t  he  forgiveness  of  sins  that  ( lod 
establishes  righteousness,  and  this  is  the  supreme 
task  of  justice.  Thus  it  is  that  God  is  at  the  same 
time  "just,  and  the  justifier  of  him  that,  hath  faith 
in  Jesus"  (Rom  3  26).  "He  is  faithful  and  right- 
eous [or  "just";  see  AV]  to  forgive  us  our  sins,  and 
to  cleanse;  us  from  all  unrighteousness"  (1  Jn  1  9). 
Literature.— See  Coram.,  and  Bib.  Theologies  under 
"Justice"  and  "Righteousness,"  and  esp.  Creruer,  Bib.- 
Theol.   Lex.   of  NT  Or. 

Harris  Franklin  Rall 
JUSTIFICATION,  jus-ti-fi-ka'shun  (p~2  ,  cedhek, 
vb.  p~^  ,  cadhek;  LNN  and  NT  8iKau.o|j.a,  dikalomu, 
8i.kcucoo-is,  dikaiosis.  vb.  8ikcu6<d,  dikaioo,  "justifica- 
tion," "to  justify,"  in  a  legal  sense,  the;  declaring 
just  or  righteous.  In  Bib.  lit.  Sikcuovv,  dikaioiiu, 
without  denying  the  real  righteousness  of  a  person, 
is  used  invariably  or  almost  invariably  in  a  declara- 
tive or  forensic  sense.  See;  Simem,  IfDB,  II,  826; 
Thayer,  Grimm,  and  Cremer  under  the  respective 
words): 

I.     The  "Writings   of  Paul 

1.  Universality  of  Sin 

2.  Perfection  of  the'  Law  of  God 

3.  Life;,  We)rk  and  Death  e>f   the;  Atoning  Saviour 

(1)  Paul's  Own  Experience 

(2)  The     Resurrection     Connected     with     the 
De-ath 

(3)  Faith,  Not  Works,  the  Means  of  Justifica- 
tion 

(4)  Baptism  Also  Eliminates! 

(5)  Elements  e>f  Justification 

(a)  Forgiveness  e>f  sins 

(b)  Declaring  or  Approving   as    Righteous 
(0)  Justification  Has  to  Do  with  the  Inelividual 

II.    The  Other  XT  Writings 

1.  The;  Synoptic  Gospels 

2.  John's  Writings 

3.  l  Peter  and  Hebrews 

4.  Epistle  of  James 

III.  The   OT 

IV.  Later   Development  or"  the    Doctrine 

1.  Apostolic  and  Early  Church  Fathers 

2.  Council  of  Trent 

3.  Luther 

4.  Schleiermacher 

5.  Meaning  and  Message;  to  the  Modern  Man 
Literature 

/.    The  Writings  of  Paul.  —  In  this  article  refer- 
ence will  first  be'  made'  to  the'  writings  of  Raul,  where 
justifie-ation    receives    its    e'lassie;    vx- 

1.  TheUni-  pression,  and  from  there  as  a  center, 
versality  the;  other  NT  writers,  and  finally  the 
of  Sin  OT,  will  be  drawn  in.     According  to 

Paul,  justification  rests  on  the  follow- 
ing presuppositions: 

The  universality  of  sin.  All  men  are  not  only 
born  in  sin  (Eph  2  3),  but  they  have  committed 
many  actual  transgressions,  which  render  them 
liable  to  condemnation.  Paul  proves  this  by  an 
appeal  to  the  OT  witnesses  (Rom  3  Off),  as  we'll 
as  by  universal  expedience,  both  of  the  heathe>n 
(1  18-32)  and  Jews  (2  17-28;  3  9). 

The  perfection  of  the  Law  of  Ge>el  and  the  neces- 
sity of  its  perfect  observance,  if  justification  is  to 

come     by    it     (3  10).     The    modern 

2.  The  notion  of  God  as  a  good-natured,  meire 
Perfection  or  less  nonchalant  ruler,  to  whom  pe>r- 
of  the  Law  feet  holiness  is  not  inexorable,  was  not 
of  God            that  of  Paul.     If  one  had  indeeel  kept 

the  law,  Clod  e'emld  not  hold  him  guilty 
(2  13),  but  such  an  obedience  never  existed.  Paul 
had  no  trouble  with  the;  law  as  such.  Those  who 
have  tried  to  find  a  difference  here  between  Gal  and 
Rom  have  failed.  The  reminder  that  the'  law  was 
ordained  by  angels  (Gal  3  19)  does  not  mean  that 
it  was  not  alse>  give'ii  by  God.  It  might  be  reckoned 
in  a  sense  among  the  elements  of  the'  world  (kosmos, 


1783 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Justice 
Justification 


4  3),  as  it  is  an  essenl  iul  pari  of  an  ordered  universe, 

but  thai:  docs  not  at-  all  mean  that  it  is  not  also 
holy,  right  and  good  (Rom  7  12).  It  was  added, 
of  course,  on  account:  of  transgressions  (Gal  3  19), 
for  it  is  only  a  world  of  intelligent,  free  spirits 
capable  of  sin  which  needs  it,  and  its  high  and 
beautiful  sanctions  make  the  sin  seem  all  the  more 
sinful  (Rom  7  13). 

It  was  fundamental  in  Paul's  thinking  that  Christ 
died  for  our  sins,  according  to  the  Scriptures  (1  Cor 

15  3).  In  due  season  He  died  for  the 
3.  The  Life,  ungodly  (Rom  5  6);  while  we  were 
Work  and  yet  sinners  He  died  for  us  (ver  8);  we 
Death  of  are  justified  in  His  blood  (ver  9),  and 
the  Atoning  it  is  through  Him  that  we  are  saved 
Saviour  from   the   wrath    (ver  9).     While  we 

were  enemies  we  were  reconciled  to 
God  through  the  death  of  His  Son  (ver  10),  being 
justified  freely  by  His  grace  through  the  redemption 
i  hal  is  in  Christ  Jesus  whom  God  set  forth  as  a  pro- 
pitiation (3  24.25).  There  is  no  reconciliation,  no 
justification,  except  through  and  by  and  for  Christ. 

(1)  Paul's  own  experience. — Paul's  own  experience  can- 
not be  left  out  of  the  account,  lie  lived  through  the 
doctrine,  as  well  as  found  it  through  illumination  of  the 
Spirit  in  the  OT.  It  was  not  that  he  had  only  outwardly 
kept  the  law.  He  had  been  jealous  for  it,  and  had  been 
blameless  in  every  requirement  of  its  righteousness 
(Phil  3  6).  What  was  borne  in  upon  him  was  how  little 
such  blamelessness  could  stand  before  the  absolute 
standard  of  God.  Just  how  far  he  was  shaken  with 
doubts  of  (his  kind  we  cannot  say  with  certainty;  but 
it  seems  impossible  to  conceive  the  Damascus  conver- 
sion scene  in  the  case  of  such  an  upright  man  and  stren- 
uous zealot  without  supposing  a  psychological  prepara- 
tion, without  supposing  doubts  as  to  whether  his  ful- 
filling of  the  law  enabled  him  to  stand  before  God. 
Now,  for  a  Pharisaically  educated  man  like  himself, 
there  was  no  way  of  overcoming  these  doubts  but  in  a 
renewed  struggle  for  his  own  righteousness  shown  in  the 
fiery  zeal  of  his  Damascus  journey,  pressing  on  even  in 
the  blazing  light  of  noonday.  This  conversion  broke 
down  his  philosophy  of  life,  his  Leb(  nsgewissht  it,  his  assur- 
ance of  salvation  through  works  of  the  law  done;  never  so 
conscientiously  and  perfectly.  The  revelation  of  the 
glorified  <  'hrist.  with  the  assurance  that  lie,  the  God-sent 
Messiah,  was  the  very  one  whom  he  was  persecuting, 
destroyed  his  dependence  on  his  own  righteousness,  a 
righteousness  which  had  led  him  to  such  shocking  conse- 
quences. Although  this  was  for  him  an  individual  ex- 
perience, yet  it  had  universal  applications.  It  showed 
him  that  there  was  an  inherent  weakness  in  the  law 
through  flesh,  that.  is.  through  the  whole  physical,  psy- 
chical and  spiritual  nature  of  man  considered  as  sinful, 
as  working  only  on  this  lower  plane,  and  that  the  law 
needed  bracing  and  illuminating  by  the  Son,  who, 
though  sent  in  the  likeness  of  tiie  flesh  of  sin,  yet  (as  an 
offering)  for  sin  condemned  sin  and  cast  it  out  (Rom  8 
3),  lo  the  end  that  the  law  might  be  fulfilled  in  those  who 
through  Him  walk  not  after  1  he  flesh  but  after  the  Spirit 
(ver  4).  That  was  the  glory  of  the  new  righteousness 
thus  revealed.  If  the,  law  .had  been  able  to  do  that,  to 
give  life,  Christ  need  not  have  come,  righteousness 
would  have  been  by  the  law  (Gal  3  21).  But  the  facts 
show  that  the  law  was  not  thus  able,  neither  the  law 
written  on  the  heart  given  to  all,  nor  the  law  given  to 
Moses  (Horn  1  IS — 3  19).  Therefore  every  mouth  is 
stopped,  and  all  flesh  is  silent  before  Cod.  On  the 
ground  of  law-keeping,  what  the  modern  man  would 
call  morality,  our  hope  of  salvation  has  been  shattered. 
The  law  has  spoken  its  judgment  against  us  ((oil  3  10). 
i:  cannot  therefore  lead  us  to  righteousness  and  life,  nor 
was  that  its  supreme  intention:  it  was  a  pedagogue  or 
tutor  ("paidagogds")  to  hail  us  to  Christ  Unit  in-  might  be 
justified  by  faith  (ver  24;  see  Ihmels  in. RE3,  10,  483-84). 
What  made  Paul  to  differ  from  his  companions  in  the 
faith  was  that  his  own  bitter  experience  under  the  reve- 
lation of  Christ  had  led  him  to  these  facts. 

(2)  The  resurrection  connected  with  the  death. — 
It  was  remarked  above  that  the  ground  of  justifi- 
cation according  to  Paul  is  the  work  of  Christ. 
This  means  esp.  His  death  as  a  sacrifice,  in  which,  as 
Ritschl  well  says  (Rechtfertigung  und  Versohnung, 
3.  AufL,  1899,  II,  157),  the  apostles  saw  exercised 
the  whole  power  of  His  redemption.  But  that  death 
cannot  be  separated  from  His  resurrection,  which 
first  awakened  them  to  a  knowledge  of  its  decisive 
worth  for  salvation,  as  well  as  finally  confirmed 
their  faith  in  Jesus  as  the  Son  of  God.  "The  ob- 
jective salvation,"   says   Ritschl    (p.    158),    "which 


was  connected  with  the  sacrificial  death  of  Christ 
and  which  continued  on  for  the  church,  was  made 
secure  by  this,  that  it  was  asserted  also  as  an  attri- 
bute of  the  resurrected  one,''  who  was  delivered  up 
for  our  trespasses,  and  was  raised  for  our  justifi- 
cation (Rom  4  25).  But  this  hist  expression  is  not 
to  be  interpreted  with  literal  preciseness,  as  though 
Paul  intended  to  distinguish  between  the  forgive- 
ness of  sins  as  brought  about  by  the  death,  and 
justification,  by  the  resurrection,  for  both  forgive- 
ness and  justification  are  identified  in  4  6-8.  It 
was  the  resurrection  which  gave  Christians  their 
assurance  concerning  Christ  (Acts  17  31);  by  that 
resurrection  He  has  been  exalted  to  the  right  hand 
of  God,  where  He  maketh  intercession  for  His  people 
(Rom  8  34),  which  mediatorship  is  founded  upon 
His  death — the  Lamb  slain  from  the  foundation  of 
the  world  (Rev  13  8  m;  cf  Gr  text). 

B.  Weiss  well  says:  "It  was  by  the  certainty  of  the 
exaltation  of  Christ  to  Messianic  sovereignty  brought 
about  by  the  resurrection  that  Paul  attained  to  faith  in 
the  saving  significance  of  His  death,  and  not  conversely. 
Accordingly,  the  assurance  that  Cod  cannot  condemn  us 
is  owing  primarily  to  the  death  of  Christ,  but  still  more 
to  His  resurrection  and  exaltation  to  Cod's  right  hand 
(Rom  8  34),  inasmuch  its  these  first  prove  that  His 
death  was  the  death  of  the  mediator  of  salvation,  who 
has  redeemed  us  from  condemnation The  ob- 
jective atonement  was  accomplished  by  the  death  of 
Christ,  but  the  appropriation  of  it  in  justification  is 
possible  only  if  we  believe  in  the  saving  significance  of 
His  death,  and  wo  can  attain  to  faith  in  that  only  as  it 
is  sealed  by  the  resurrection"  (Bib.  Theol.  of  NT.  I, 
436-37). 

(3)  Faith,  not  works,  the  means  of  justification. — 
The  means  or  condition  of  justification  is  faith 
(Rom  3  22.25.26.28,  etc)  which  rests  upon  the  pure 
grace  of  God  and  is  itself,  therefore,  His  gift  (Eph 
2  8).  This  miking  faith  the  only  instrument  of 
justification  is  not  arbitrary,  but  because,  being  the 
receptive  attitude  of  the  soul,  it  is  in  the  nature  of 
the  case  the  only  avenue  through  which  Divine 
blessing  can  come.  The  gifts  of  God  are  not  against 
the  laws  of  the  soul  which  He  has  made,  but  rather 
are  in  and  through  those  laws.  Faith  is  the  hand 
outstretched  to  the  Divine  Giver,  who,  though  He 
sends  rain  without  our  consent,  does  not  give  sal- 
vation except  through  an  appropriate  spiritual 
response.  This  faith  is  not  simply  belief  in  his- 
torical facts,  though  this  is  presupposed  as  to  the 
atoning  death  (Rom  3  25),  and  the  resurrection 
(10  9)  of  Jesus,  but  is  a  real  heart  reception  of  the 
gift  (ver  10),  and  is  therefore  able  to  bring  peace 
in  our  relation  to  God  (5  1).  The  object  of  this 
faith  is  Jesus  Christ  (3  22,  etc),  through  whom 
only  comes  the  gift  of  righteousness  and  the  reign- 
ing in  life  (5  17),  not  Mary,  not  angels,  not  doc- 
trine, not  the  church,  but  Jesus  only.  This,  to 
be  sure,  does  not  exclude  God  the  Father  as  an 
object  of  faith,  as  the  redeeming  act  of  Christ  is 
itself  the  work  of  God  (2  Cor  5  19),  whose  love 
expressed  itself  toward  us  in  this  way  (Rom  5  8). 
Faith  in  the  only  one  God  is  always  presupposed 
(1  Cor  8  6),  but-  it  was  the  apostolic  custom  rather 
to  refer  repentance  to  God  and  faith  to  Christ  (Acts 
20  21).  But  the  oneness  of  God  the  Father  and 
Christ  the  Son  in  a  work  of  salvation  is  the  best 
guaranty  of  the  Divinity  of  the  latter,  both  as  an 
objective  fact  and  as  an  inner  experience  of  the 
Christian. 

The  justification  being  by  faith,  it  is  not  by  works 
or  by  love,  or  by  both  in  one.  It  cannot  be  by 
the  former,  because  they  are  lacking  either  in  time 
or  amount  or  quality,  nor  could  they  be  accepted 
in  any  case  until  they  spring  from  a  heart  renewed, 
for  which  faith  is  the  necessary  presupposition.  It 
cannot  be  by  the;  latter,  for  it  exists  only  where  the 
Spirit  has  shed  it  abroad  in  the  heart  (Rom  5  5), 
the  indispensable  prerequisite  for  receiving  which  is 
faith.     This  does  not  mean  that  the  crown  of  Chris- 


Justification 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  RIBI/E  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


17.S4 


tianity  is  not  love,  for  it  is  (1  Cor  13  13);  it  means 
only  that  the  root  is  faith.  Nor  can  love  be  foisted 
in  as  a  partial  condition  of  justification  on  the 
strength  of  the  word  often  quoted  for  that  purpose, 
"faith  working  through  love"  (Gal  5  6).  The 
apost  le  is  speaking  here  only  of  t  hose  who  are  already 
"in  Christ,"  and  he  says  that  over  against  the 
Galatian  believers  bringing  in  a  lot  of  legal  observ- 
ances, the  only  availing  thing  is  not  circumcision 
or  its  lack,  but  faith  energizing  through  love.  Here 
the  interest,  is,  as  Ritschl  says  (II,  343),  in  the  king- 
dom of  Cod,  but  justification  proper  has  reference 
to  the  sinner  in  relation  to  Cod  and  Christ.  See 
the  excellent  remarks  of  Bruce,  St.  Paul's  Con- 
ception of  Christianity,  1894,  220-27.  At  the  same 
time  this  text,  reveals  the  tremendous  ethical  reli- 
gious force  abiding  in  faith,  according  to  St.  Paul. 
It  reminds  us  of  the  great  sentence  of  Luther  in  his 
preface  to  the  Ep.  to  the  Rom,  where  he  says: 
"Faith  is  a  Divine  work  within  us  which  changes 
and  renews  us  in  Cod  according  to  .In  1  13,  'who 
were  born  not  of  blood,  nor  of  the  will  of  the  flesh, 
nor  of  the  will  of  man,  but  of  Cod.'  This  destroys 
the  old  Adam  and  makes  new  creatures  of  us  in 
heart,  will,  disposition,  and  all  our  powers.  Oh, 
faith  is  a  living,  active,  jealous,  mighty  thing,  in- 
asmuch as  it  cannot  possibly  remain  unproductive 
of  good  works"  (Werke,  Erl.  Ausg.,  03,  12-4-25). 

(4)  Baptism  ahn  eliminated. — Not  only  are  good  works 
and  love  removed  as  conditions  or  means  of  justification 
of  the  sinner,  but  baptism  is  also  eliminated.  According 
to  Paul,  it  is  the  office  of  baptism  not  to  justify,  but  to 
cleanse,  that  is,  symbolically  to  set  forth  and  seal  the 
washing  away  of  sin  and  the  entrance  into  the  new  life 
by  a  dramatic  act  of  burial,  which  for  the  subject  and 
all  witnesses  would  mark  a  never-to-be-forgotten  era 
in  the  history  of  the  believer.  "Baptism,"  says  Weiss 
(I,  454),  "  presupposes  faith  in  Him  as  the  one  whom  tho 
church  designates  as  Lord,  and  also  binds  to  adherence 
to  Him  which  excludes  every  dependence  upon  any  other, 
inasmuch  as  He  lias  acquired  a  claim  upon  their  devotion 
by  the  saving  deed  of  His  self-surrender  on  the  cross." 
So  important  was  baptism  in  the  religious  atmosphere 
at  that  time  that  hyperbolical  expressions  wen;  used  to 
express  its  cleansing  and  illuminating  office,  but  these 
need  not  mislead  us.  We  must  interpret  them  accord- 
ing to  the  fundamental  conceptions  of  Christianity  as 
a  religion  of  the  Spirit,  not  of  magic  nor  of  material  media. 
Baptism  pointed  to  a  complete  parting  with  the  old  life 
by  previous  renewal  through  faith  in  Christ,  which  re- 
newal baptism  in  its  turn  sealed  and  announced  in  a 
climax  of  self-dedication  to  him,  and  this,  while  sym- 
bolically and  in  contemporary  parlance  of  both  Jew  and 
Gentile  called  a  new  birth,  was  probably  often  actually 
so  in  the  psychological  experience  of  the  baptized.  But 
while  justification  is  often  attributed  to  faith,  it  is  never 
to  baptism. 

(5)  Elements  of  justification. — What  are  the  ele- 
ments of  this  justification?  There  are  two:  (a) 
Forgiveness  of  sins  (Rom  4  5-8;  cf  Acts  13  38. 
39).  With  this  are  connected  peace  and  recon- 
ciliation (Rom -5  1.9.10;  cf  10  11).  (b)  The  de- 
claring or  approving  as  righteous  or  just  (Rom  3 
21-30;  4  2-9.22;  5  1.9-11.10-21,  etc).  C.  F. 
Schmid  is  perfectly  right  when  he  says  that  Paul 
(and  James)  always  uses  dikaioun  in  the  sense 
of  esteeming  and  pronouncing  and  treating  as 
righteous,  both  according  to  the  measure  of  the  law 
(Rom  2  13;  3  20)  and  also  according  to  grace 
{Bib.  Theol.  of  the  XT,  1870,  497).  The  word  is  a 
forensic  one,  and  Go: let  goes  so  far  as  to  say  that 
the  word  is  never  used  in  all  Gr  lit.  for  making 
righteous  (Comm.  on  Rom,  ET,  I,  157,  Anier.  ed, 
95).  This  is  shown  further  by  the  fact  that  it  is 
the  ungodly  who  are  justified  (Rom  4  5),  and  that 
the  justification  is  a  reckoning  or  imputation 
(logizesthai)  of  righteousness  (Rom  4  0.22),  not 
an  infusing  or  making  righteous.  The  contrast 
of  "to  justify"  is  not  '  to  be  a  sinner,"  but  is  "to 
accuse"  or  "to  condemn"  (Rom  8  33.34),  and  the 
contrast  of  "justification"  is  "condemnation" 
(5  18).  Besides,  it  is  not  the  infusing  of  a  new  life, 
of  anew  holiness,  which  is  counted  for  righteousness, 


but  it  is  faith  which  is  so  counted  (Rom  4  5;  Phil 
3  9).  That  upon  which  God  looks  when  lie  justi- 
fies is  not  the  righteousness  He  has  imparted  or  is 
to  impart,  but  the  atonement  He  has  made  in 
Christ.  It  is  one  of  the  truest  paradoxes  of  Chris- 
tianity that  unless  a  righteous  life  follows,  there  has 
been  no  justification,  while  the  justification  itself 
is  for  the  sake  of  Christ  alone  through  faith  alone. 
It  is  a  "status,  rather  than  a  character,"  says 
Stevens  (The  Pauline  Theology,  1892,  205);  '"'it 
bears  the  stamp  of  a  legal  rather  than  of  an  ethical 
conception,"  and  he  refers  to  the  elaborate  and  con- 
vincing proof  of  the  forensic  character  of  Paul's 
doctrine  of  justification,"  in  Morison,  Exposition 
oj  Romans,  ch  HI,  103-200.  An  interesting  illus- 
tration of  how  further  study  may  correct  a  wrong 
impression  is  given  by  Lipsius,  who,  in  his  Die 
Paulinische  Rechfertigungslehre,  1853,  maintained 
that  righteousness  or  justification  meant  not  "ex- 
clusively an  objectively  given  external  relation  to 
God,  but  always  at  the  same  time  a  real  inner  con- 
dition of  righteousness"  (p.  10),  whereas  in  his7^c//r- 
buch  der  evangelisch-protestardischen  Dogmeitik,  1S70, 
3.  Aufl.,  1893,  he  makes  the  righteousness  of  God 
properly  an  "objective  gift  of  grace,  not  simply 
in  the  sense  in  which  the  OT  just  one  judged  his 
position  of  salvation  as  a  gift  of  grace,  but  as  a 
righteousness  specially  reckoned  and  adjudicated 
by  way  of  grace  and  acknowledged  before  the 
judgment  (or  court,  Gericht)  of  God  (Rom  4  0;  cf 
vs  1-8.11;  3  23;  Gal  3  0).  This  is  always  the 
meaning  of  dikaioun,  dikaioiisthai,  or  dikaiosis  in 
Paul.  It  consists  in  the  not-reckoning  of  sins," 
etc  (p.  058).  Of  course  justification  is  only  a  part 
of  the  process  of  salvation,  which  includes  regen- 
eration and  sanctification,  but  these  are  one  thing 
and  justification  is  another. 

(6)  Justification  has  to  do  with  the  individual. — ■ 
Finally  it  is  asked  whether  justification  in  Paul's 
mind  has  to  do  with  the  individual  believer  or  wit  h 
the  society  or  Christian  congregation.  Ritschl 
(II,  217  f)  and  Sanday-Headlam  (The  Ep.  to  the 
Rom,  122-23)  say  the  latter;  Weiss  (I,  442),  the 
former.  It  is  indeed  true  that  Paul  refers  to  the 
church  as  purchased  with  Christ's  blood  (Acts  20 
28,  or  Cod's  blood,  according  to  the  two  oldest  MSS 
and  ancient  authorities;  cf  Eph  5  25),  and  he  uses 
the  pronoun  "we"  as  those  who  have  received  re- 
demption, etc  (Col  1  14;  Eph  2  18);_  but  it  is 
evident  on  the  other  hand  that  faith  is  an  indi- 
vidual matter,  a  thing  first  between  man  and  his 
God,  and  only  after  a  man  has  been  united  to 
Christ  by  faith  can  he  enter  into  a  spiritual  fellow- 
ship with  fellow-believers.  Therefore  the  subject 
of  justification  must  be  in  the  first  place  the  indi- 
vidual, and  only  in  the  second  place  and  by  conse- 
quence the  society.  Besides,  those  justified  are  not 
the  cleansed  and  sanctified  members  of  churches, 
but  the  ungodly  (Rom  4  5). 

As  to  the  argument  from  baptism  urged  by  Sanday- 
Headlam,  it  must  be  said  that  Paul  always  conceives 
of  baptism  as  taking  place  in  the  Christian  community 
with  believers  and  for  believers,  that  that  for  and  to 
which  they  are  baptized  is  not  justification,  but  the  death 
and  resurrection  of  Christ  (6  3.4),  and  that  the  right- 
eousness of  God  has  been  manifested  not  through  bap- 
tism but  through  faith  in  Jesus  Christ  unto  all  that  be- 
lieve (3  22),  being  justified  freely,  not  through  baptism, 
but  through  the  redemption  that  is  in  Christ  Jesus 
(ver  24).  With  Paul  baptism  has  always  a  mystical 
significance  as  symbolizing  and  externally  actualizing 
union  with  the  death  of  the  Lord,  and  would  be  both 
impossible  and  impertinent  in  the  case  of  those  not 
already  believers  in  Christ  and  thus  inwardly  united  to 
His  society. 

II.  The  Other  NT  Writings.— So  much  for  Paul. 
Let  us  now  take  a  glance  at  the  other  NT  books. 
It  is  a  commonplace  of  the  theology  that  is  called 
"modern"  or  "critical,"  that  Paul  and  not  Jesus 
is  the  founder  of  Christianity  as  we  know  it,  that 


17S5 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Justification 


the  doctrines  of  the  Divinity  of  Christ,  atonement, 
justification,  etc,  are  Paul's  work,  and  not  his  Mas- 
ter's. There  is  truth  in  this.  It  was  part  of  the 
humiliation  of  Christ  as  well  as  His  pedagogical 
method  to  live,  teach  and  act  under  the  conditions  of 
His  time  and  country,  on  the  background  of  Pal 
of  30  AD;  and  it  was  specially  His  method  to  do 
His  work  and  not  His  disciples',  to  live  a  life  of  love 
and  light,  to  die  for  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  then 
go  back  to  the  Father  that  the  Holy  Spirit  might 
come  and  lead  His  followers  into  all  truth.  A  full 
statement  of  the  doctrines  of  Christianity  on  His 
part  would  have  been  premature  (Jn  16  12),  would 
hive  been  pedagogically  unwise,  if  not  worthless. 
First  the  blade,  then  the  ear,  then  tin;  full  grain  in 
the  ear  (Mk  4  28).  It  would  also  have  been  spir- 
itually and  philosophically  impossible,  for  Chris- 
tianity was  not  a  set  of  teachings  by  Christ — but  a 
religion  springing  out  of  His  life,  death,  resurrec- 
tion, ascension,  intercession,  mediatorial  activity 
in  history  through  the  Spirit  who  works  in  His  dis- 
ciples and  on  the  world  through  and  by  that  life, 
death,  etc.  The  only  question  is  whether  the 
apostles  were  true  to  the  spirit  and  content  of  His 
teachings  in  its  moral  and  religious  outlines.  And 
esp.  in  this  matterof  justification,  a  teaching  by 
Christ  is  not  to  be  looked  for,  because  it  is  the  very 
peculiarity  of  it  that  its  middle  point  is  the  exalted 
Lord,  who  has  become  the  mediator  of  salvation  by 
His  death  and  resurrection.  Did  the  Pauline  doc- 
trine fit  into  the  concrete  situation  made  by  the 
facts  of  Christ  mentioned  above,  and  was  it  the 
necessary  consequence  of  His  self-witness?  Let  us 
look  into  the  Synoptic  Gospels. 

So  far  is  it  from  being  true,   as  Harnack  says 
{What  Is  Christianity?     2d   ed,   rev.,    New   York, 

1901,  68),  that  the  "whole  of  Jesus' 
1.  The  message  may  be  reduced  to  these  two 

Synoptic         heads:   God  as  Father,  and  the  human 
Gospels  soul  so  ennobled  that  it  can  and  does 

unite  with  Him,"  that  an  essential 
part  of  His  message  is  omitted,  viz.  that  salvation 
is  bound  up  in  His  (Christ's)  own  person.  (The 
reader  is  asked  to  verify  the  references  for  himself, 
as  space  will  not  allow  quotation.)  See  Mt  10 
37-39;  16  24-27.  Confession  of  Him  (not  simply 
of  the  Father)  determines  acknowledgment  above 
(10  32),  where  judgment  is  rendered  according  to 
our  attitude  to  Him  in  His  unfortunate  ones  (25 
35  ff).  No  sooner  was  His  person  rightly  estimated 
than  He  began  to  unfold  the  necessity  of  His  death 
and  resurrection  (16  21).  The  evening  before  that 
death  occurred,  He  brings  out  its  significance,  per- 
petuates the  lesson  in  the  institution  of  the  Supper 
(Mk  14  24),  and  reenforces  it  after  His  resurrec- 
tion (Lk  24  20).  Paul  himself  could  hardly  have 
expressed  the  fact  of  t  he  atonement  through  Christ's 
death  more  decisively  than  Mt  20  28;  26  28. 
With  this  foundation,  could  the  Christian  doctrine 
of  salvation  take  any  other  course  than  that  it 
actually  did  take?  Instead  of  referring  men  to  the 
Father,  Christ  forgives  sins  Himself  (9  2-0),  and 
He  reckons  all  men  as  needing  this  forgiveness  (6  12). 
While  the  time  had  not  arrived  for  the  Pauline 
doctrine  of  righteousness,  Jesus  prepared  the  way 
for  it,  negatively,  in  demanding  a  humble  sense  of 
sin  (5  3),  inner  fitness  and  perfection  (vs  6.8.20.48), 
and  positively  in  requiring  recourse  to  Him  by  those 
who  felt  the  burden  of  their  sins  (11  28),  to  Him 
who  was  the  rest-giver,  and  not  simply  to  God  the 
Father,  a  passage  of  which  Rom  6  1  is  an  echo. 
For  it  was  specially  to  those  to  whom,  as  to  the 
awakened  Paul,  the  law  brought  condemnation 
that  He  came,  came  to  heal  and  to  save  (Mk  2  17; 
Mt  9  13;  Lk  15  7).  It  was  for  sinners  and  to 
sinners  that  He  came  (Lk  15  2;  7  39;  19  7;  Mt 
11  19),  just  as  Paul  understood;    and  the  way  for 


their  salvation  was  not  better  law-keeping,  but 
trusting  prayer  in  the  confession  of  sin  (Lk  18  13), 
really  equivalent  to  faith,  the  humble  heart  and  a 
hunger  for  righteousness  (  =  faith).  See  Mt  5 
3.0.  He  who  brings  most  of  himself,  of  his  own 
pride  and  works,  is  the  least  likely  to  obtain  the 
kingdom  of  heaven  (18  3.4;  Mk  10  14).  Not 
only  entrance,  but  the  final  reward  itself  is  of  grace 
(Mt  19  30;  20  1-10),  a  parable  in  the  true  spirit 
of  Paul,  and  in  anticipation  of  whose  message  was 
the  promise  of  Paradise  to  the  penitent  robber  (Lk 
23  43).  At  the  very  beginning  the  message  sounded 
out,  "Repent  ye,  and  believe  in  the  gospel"  (Mk  1 
lo),  the  gospel  which  was  summed  up  in  Christ, 
who  would  gather  the  people,  not  directly  to  God 
the  Father,  but  to  Himself  (Mt  23  37).  All  this 
means  justification  through  that  faith  in  Himself, 
in  His  Divine-human  manifestation  (Mt  16  13-10), 
of  which  faith  He  expresses  Himself  with  anxiety 
in  Lk  18  8,  and  the  presence  of  which  he  greeted 
with  joy  in  Mt  8  10.  Ihmels  is  right  therefore  in 
holding  (RE*,  XVI,  490)  that  Paul's  proclamation 
was  continuous  with  the  self-witness  of  Jesus,  which 
conversely  pointed  as  a  consequence  to  the  witness 
of  Paul. 

Justification  by  faith  is  not  more  implicit  in  John's 
Gospel  than  in  the  first  three;  it  is  only  more  ex- 
plicit   (Jn  3  14- Hi).     Eternal    life    is 

2.  John's       the  blessing  secured,  but  this  of  course 
Writings         is  oidy  possible  to  one  not  under  con- 
demnation (3  30).     The  new  Sonship 

of  God  came  also  in  the  wake  of  the  same  faith 
(1  12).  The  Epp.  of  John  vary  from  Paul  in  word 
rather  than  in  substance.  The  atoning  work  of 
Jesus  is  still  in  the  background;  walking  in  the 
light  is  not  conceivable  in  those  under  condemna-* 
tion  and  without  faith;  and  the  confession  of  sins 
that  leads  to  forgiveness  seems  only  another  name 
for  the  justification  that  brings  peace  (1  Jn  1  9.10; 
cf  2  1.2).  Everything  is,  as  with  Paul  (Eph  2  7; 
Tit  3  4),  led  back  to  the  love  of  God  (1  Jn  3  1), 
who  sent  His  Son  to  be  the  propitiation  for  our  sins 
(4  10). 

Seeberg's  point  that  the  "Pauline  doctrine  of  justifi- 
cation is  not  found  in  any  other  XT   writer"   (History 
of  Doctrine,  I,  48)  is  true  when  you  em- 

3.  1  Peter  phasize  the  word  "doctrine."  Paul  gave 
anA  it  full  scientific  treatment,  the  others  pre- 
„  ,  suppose  the  fact,  but  do  not  unfold  the 
Hebrews  doctrine.  Peter's  "  Repent  ye,  and  be  bap- 
tized ....  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  "(Acts 

2  38)  is  meaningless  unless  faith  were  exercised  in  Christ. 
It  is  He  in  whom,  though  we  see  Him  not,  yet  believing, 
we  rejoice  greatly  with  joy  unspeakable  (1  Pet  1  8), 
receiving  the  end  of  our  faith,  the  salvation  of  our  souls 
(ver  9).  It  is  only,  however,  through  the  precious  blood 
as  of  a  lamb  without  blemish,  even  that  of  Christ  (ver 
19),  and  is  only  through  Him  that  we  are  believers  in  God 
ver  21).  The  familiar  expression , ' '  Come  to  Jesus, ' '  which 
simply  means  have  faith  in  Jesus  for  justification  and 
salvation,  goes  back  to  Peter  (2  4).  The  Ep.  to  the  He 
has  other  interests  to  look  after,  but  it  does  not  denv 
faith,  but  rather  exhorts  us  to  draw  near  with  a  true 
heart  in  fulness  of  faith  (10  22),  which  it  lavs  at  the 
foundation  of  all  true  religion,  thinking  and  achievement 
(ch  11  ).  The  writer  can  give  no  better  exhortation  than 
to  look  unto  Jesus  the  author  and  perfect er  of  our  faith 
(12  2),  an  exhortation  in  the  true  spirit  of  Paul,  whose 
gospel  of  faith  for  justification  is  also  summed  up  in 
4  16. 

We  come  lastly  to  the  core  of  the  matter  in  regard 

to  NT  representations  of  justification — the  famous 

passage  in  Jas  2  14-20,  which  at  first 

4.  Epistle  sight  seems  a  direct  blow  at  Paul. 
of  James       Here  we  are  met  by  the  interesting 

question  of  the  date  of  James.  As  we 
cannot  enter  into  this  (see  James,  Epistle  of),  what 
we  say  must  be  independent  of  this  question.  A 
careful  look  at  this  vigorous  and  most  valuable 
letter  (valuable  in  its  own  place,  which  is  not  that  of 
Paul's  letters,  in  comparison  with  which  it  is  a 
"right  strawy  epistle,"  as  Luther  truthfully  said 
[EH.  Ausg.,  63,  115;  see  also  pp.  156-57],  in  saying 


Justification 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  RIRLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1786 


which  he  diil  no!  mean  to  reject  il  as  useless  (straw 
lias  most  important  uses],  but  as  Riving  the  doctrine 
of  salvation,  for  which  we  must,  look  to  Paul)  will 
show  us  that  contradiction  on  the  part  of  James  to 
l'aul  is  apparent  and  not  real. 

(1)  In  this  section  .lames  uses  the  word  faith  simply 
for  intellectual  belief  in  God,  and  esp.  in  the  unity  of  Cod 
(2  11);  sec  also  context),  whereas  l'aul  uses  it  for  a  sav- 
ing trust  in  Christ.  As  Peine  well  says  (Theol.  <l.  A  7, 
Leipzig  z  1911,  000-03),  for  Paul  faith  is  the  appropriation 
of  the  life-power  of  the  heavenly  Christ.  Therefore  lie 
knows  no  faith  which  does  not  bring  forth  good  works 
corresponding  to  it.  What  does  not  come  from  faith 
is  sin  For  James  faith  is  subordination  of  man  to  the 
heavenly  Christ  (2  1),  or  it  is  the  theoretic  acknowledg- 
ment of  one  God  (2  ID).  Justification  is  for  James  a 
speaking  just  of  him  who  is  righteous,  an  analytical 
judgment.  (Feine  also  says  that  James  did  not  under- 
stand Paul,  but  he  did  not  light  him.  It  was  left  to 
Luther  through  his  deep  religious  experience  firxt  to 
understand  Paul's  doctrine  of  justification.)  (2)  James 
uses  the  word  "works"  as  meaning  practical  morality, 
going  back  behind  legalism,  behind  Pharisaism,  to  the 
position  of  the  OT  prophets,  whereas  Paul  uses  the  word 
as  meritorious  action  deserving  reward.  (3)  When 
James  is  thinking  of  a  deeper  view,  faith  stands  central 
in  Christianity  (1  3.0;  2  I;  5  15).  (4)  Paul  also  on 
his  part  is  as  anxious  as  James  vitally  to  connect  (  liris- 
tianity  and  good  works  through  faith  (1  Thess  13; 
Gal  5*  6;  1  Cor  13  2;  Rom  2  0./;  see  Mayor,  The 
Ep  of  Jag,  1S92,  lxxxviii  IV;  Pranks,  in  F)CG.  I.  919-20; 
Pindlay  in  IIDB,  1-vol  ed.  511).  (5)  The  whole  argu- 
ment of  James  is  bent  on  preserving  a  real  practical 
Christianity  that  is  not  content  with  words  merely 
(2  15-10),  but  shows  itself  in  deeds.  He  is  not  trying 
to  show,  as  Paul,  how  men  get  rid  of  their  giuit  and 
become  Christians,  but  how  they  prove  the  reality  of 
their  profession  after  they  receive  the  faith.  He  is  not 
only  writing  to  Christians,  as  of  course  Paul  was,  but 
he  was  writing  to  them  as  Christians  ("my  breth- 
ren "  ver  lli  as  already  justified  and  standing  on  the 
"faith  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ"  (ver  1),  whereas  Paul 
was  thinking  of  men.  Gentile  and  Jew,  shivering  in  their 
guilt  before  the  Eternal  Justice,  and  asking,  How  can 
we  get  peace  with  God  ?  "There  is  not."  says  Beyschlag 
(NT  Theology,  Edinburgh,  1895,  I,  307-08),  "an  objec- 
tive conflict  between  the  Pauline  and  Jacobean  doctrines; 
both  forms  of  teaching  exist  peacefully  beside  each  other. 
James  thought  of  just  ideation  in  the  simple  and  most 
natural  sense  of  justificatio  justi,  as  the  Divine  recognition 
of  an  actually  righteous  man,  and  he  thought  of  it  as  the 
final  judgment  of  ( led  upon  a  man  who  is  to  stand  in  the 
last  judgment  and  become  a  partaker  of  the  final  soteria 
i  salvation').  Paul  also  demands  as  a  requisite  for  this 
last  judgment,  and  the  final  soteria  right  works,  the  love 
that  fulfils  the  law  and  the  perfected  sanctification,  but 
he  (except  in  Rom  2  13)  does  not  apply  the  expression 
dikaiousthai  ('to  be  justified')  to  the  final  judgment  of 
God,  which  recognizes  this  righteousness  of  life  as  actual. 
He  applies  it  rather  to  that  first  sentence  of  God  with 
which  He  graciously  receives  the  believing  sinner  re- 
turning to  Him,  and  takes  him  into  fellowship  with 
Himself."  Bevschlag  rightly  insists  that  James  un- 
doubtedly taught  with  the  first  apostles  that  whoever 
believes  in  Christ,  and  is  baptized  receives  the  forgive- 
ness of  sins  (Acts  2  :s^;  3  19;  10  43),  and  that  he  would 
not  have  contested  the  Pauline  idea  of  justification  by 
grace  on  account  of  faith,  insisting  only  that  works  must 
follow.  Theologically,  the  chief  if  not  the  only  differ- 
ence is  that  James  has  not  yet  made  the  cross  of  Christ 
the  center  of  his  point  of  view,  while  the  atonement  was 
fundamental  with  all  Paul's  thinking.  See,  further, 
James,  E  pisti.k  of. 

///.  The  Old  Testament. — A  word  in  conclusion 
as  to  the  OT.  All  the  NT  writers  built  on  the  OT. 
That  there  should  be  a  cleft  or  contradiction  be- 
tween the  OT  and  what  we  call  the  NT  would  have 
been  to  them  inconceivable.  Rut  they  realized 
that  that,  was  the  early  dawn,  while  they  lived  in 
the  light  of  day.  Abraham  believed  in  Jeh;  and 
He  reckoned  it  to  him  for  righteousness  (Gen  15  6; 
Rom  4  3).  Who  does  not,  keep  all  parts  of  the 
law  all  the  time  is  condemned  (Dt  27  26  LXX; 
Oal  3  10;  ef  Rs  14;  143  2;  Rom  3  20;  see  vs 
9  20,  and  the  references  to  the  OT  in  ARV). 
The  prophets  insisted  upon  the  practical  works  of 
righteousness  "What  doth  Jeh  require  of  thee,  but 
to  do  justly,  and  to  love  kindness,  and  to  walk  hum- 
bly with  thy  Cod?"  (Mic  6  8).  No  religious  atti- 
tude or  services  could  take  the  place  of  uprightness 
of  life.  This  does  not  mean  that  the  OT  writers 
understood  that  men  were  justified  simply  by  their 
good  deeds,  for  it  was  always  believed  that  under- 


neath all  was  the  mercy  and  lovingkindness  of  (lod, 
whose  forgiving  grace  was  toward  the  broken  and 
contrite  spirit,  the  iniquities  of  whom  were  to  be 
carried  by  the  Servant  of  Jeh,  who  shall  justify 
many  (Rs  103  8-13;  85  10;  Isa  57  15;  53  11, 
and  many  other  passages). 

IV.  Later  Development. — A  brief  statement  now  on  the 
development  of  the  doctrine  in  the  Christian  church. 
It  is  humiliating  to  confess  that  the  wit- 
1  Annctnt;,-  IU'ss  immediately  after  the  apostles  (the 
1.  Apostolic  apOStolic  Fathers)  did  not  reach  the  serene 
and  Early  heights  of  Paul,  or  even  the  lower  levels 
Church  °r  llis  brethren.     There  are  passages  which 

„    ,.  remind  one  of  him,  but  one  feels  at  once 

•ratners  that    the   atmosphere   is  different.     Chris- 

tianity is  conceived  as  a  new  law  rather 
than  as  a  gospel  of  the  grace  of  God.  We  cannot  go  into 
the  reasons  for  this:  suffice  it  to  say  that  in  gentile 
Christendom  the  presuppositions  for  that  gospel  failed, 
and  the  NT  writings  were  not  yet  in  the  consciousness 
of  the  church  to  the  extent  that  they  dominated  her 
thinking.  The  fine  passage  in  Clement  of  Home  (97 
Al),  eh  xxxii:  "They  all  therefore  [i.e.  Abraham  and  other 
early  saints]  were  glorified  and  magnified,  not  through 
themselves  or  their  own  works  or  the  righteous  doings 
which  they  wrought,  but  through  His  [God's]  will.  And 
so  we,  having  been  called  through  His  will  in  Christ 
Jesus,  are  not  justified  through  ourselves  or  through  our 
own  wisdom  or  understanding  or  piety  or  works  which 
we  wrought  in  holiness  of  heart,  but  through  faith,  where- 
by the  Almighty  God  justified  all  men  that  ever  have 
been  from  the  beginning;  to  whom  be  glory  forever  and 
ever.  Amen.")  is  not  at  all  on  a  par  with  his  whole  Ep., 
as  he  coord  i  nates  faith  wit  hot  her  virtues  inch  xxxv,  makes 
hospitality  and  godliness  the  saving  virtues  for  Lot  in 
ch  xi,  couples  hospitality  and  faith  together  as  equal  for 
Haliab  inch  xii,  and  represents  forgiveness  of  sins  through 
keeping  commandments  and  love  in  ch  1.  Ignatius 
(about  110-15  AD)  speaks  in  one  place  about  Jesus 
Christ  living  for  us.  that  believing  on  His  death  we  might 
escape  death  (Trul.  2),  but  with  him  the  real  saving 
tilings  are  love,  concord,  obedience  to  bishops,  and  the 
indwelling  God  =Christ,  though  he  has  also  the  excellent 
passage:  "  None  of  these  things  is  hidden  from  you  if  ye 
be  perfect  in  vour  faith  and  love  toward  Jesus  Christ, 
for  these  things  are  the  beginning  and  end  of  life — faith 
is  the  beginning  and  love  the  end,  and  the  two  being 
found  in  unit  are  God,  while  all  things  else  follow  in  their 
train  unto  true  nobility"  (Eph  14).  The  so-called 
Barnabas  (date  uncertain)  puts  the  death  of  Christ 
Jesus  at  the  foundation  of  salvation,  which  is  expressed 
by  the  remission  of  sins  through  His  blood  (Eph  5),  the 
kingdom  of  Jesus  being  on  the  cross,  so  that  they  who  set 
their  hope  on  Him  shall  live  forever  (ch  8),  while  at  the 
time  even  believers  are  not  yet  justified  (ch  1),  for  which 
finally  a  whole  series  of  works  of  light  must  be  done  and 
works  of  darkness  avoided  (ch  19).  The  Shepherd  of 
Hernias  and  the  Ancient  Homily  =2  Clem  are  even  more 
moralistic,  where  with  whatever  praise  of  faith  we  have 
the  beginning  of  merit.  The  same  legalistic  tone  sounds 
through  that  invaluable  little  roll  found  by  Bryennios 
in  1873  and  first  published  by  him  in  Constantinople 
in  December.  1883,  The  Teaching  (Didarhe)  of  the  XII 
Apostles.  That  Catholic  trend  went  forward  till  it  is 
almost  full-fledged  as  early  as  Tertullian  (fl.  200  AD) 
and  Cyprian  (250  ADj.  See  a  full  statement  in  my 
Cyprian,  1900,  140  1L  And  thus  it,  continued  until — 
so  far  as  our  outline  is  concerned — it  struck  Augustine, 
bishop  of  Hippo  (390  ff),who  in  a  masterly  and  living 
way  united,  so  far  as  they  could  be  united,  the  Pauline 
thoughts  of  sin,  grace,  and  justification  with  the  regular 
Catholic  legalism.  His  book,  J)e  Spiritu  it  Litem  (412 
AD),  was  largely  after  Paul's  own  heart,  and  the  Reform- 
ers hailed  it  with  joy.  But,  the  Catholic,  elements  ho 
still  kept,  as  for  instance,  that  in  justification  a  good 
concupiscence  and  a  good-will  are  infused,  that  justifica- 
tion grows,  that  ourmeritsmust  be  taken  into  the  account 
even  though  they  are  God's  merits,  that  the  faith  which 
justifies  is  a  faith  which  works  by  love,  that  faith  is  the 
holding  true  what  God  (and  the  church)  says,  though 
occasionally  a  deeper  view  of  faith  is  seen,  and  that 
works  are  emphasized,  as  in  De  fide  et  operibus,  in  a 
Catholic  fashion.  With  profound  and  thoroughly 
Christian  thoughts,  Augustine  had  not  so  worked  him- 
self clear  of  his  Catholic  inheritance  that  he  could  repro- 
duce Paul  purely.  He  made  a  bridge  by  which  we  could 
go  either  back  to  Paul  or  forward  to  Aquinas.  As  Har- 
nack  well  says,  Augustine  experienced,  on  the  one  hand, 
the  last  revival  in  the  ancient  church  of  the  principle 
that  "faith  alone  saves,"  and,  on  the  other,  he  silenced 
that  principle  for  a  thousand  years.  The  very  Catholic 
theologian  who  stood  nearest  to  that  principle  overcame 
it  (Zcitschrift  f.  Thiol,  u.  Kirche,  1891,  177).  His  mis- 
understanding of  Paul's  "faith  that  worketh  through 
love"  had  momentous  consequences. 

Those  consequences  are  best  seen  in  the  decrees 
of  the  Council  of  Trent  (Session  6,  1547),  to  which 
we  now  turn,  and  which  are  the  definite  and  final 


1787 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Justification 


crystallization   of   the  mediaeval    development,  so 
far  as   that  development  was  Catholic.    (1)  Justi- 
fication is  a  translation  from  a  natural 

2.  Council     state  to  a  state  of  grace.     With  this 
of  Trent         works  prevenient  grace,  awakening  and 

assisting,  and  with  this  in  his  turn 
man  cooperates  and  prepares  himself  for  justifi- 
cation. This  cooperation  has  the  merit  of  con- 
gruity,  though  the  first  call  comes  before  any  merit. 
(2)  Faith  is  an  element  in  justification.  "Receiving 
faith  by  hearing,  they  of  free  will  draw  near  to  God, 
believing  those  things  to  be  true  which  have  been 
Divinely  revealed  and  promised."  Faith  as  a 
living  trust  in  a  personal  Saviour  for  salvation  is 
lacking.  Among  the  truths  believed  is  the  mercy 
of  God  and  that  He  wishes  to  justify  the  sinner  in 
Christ.  (3)  This  faith  begets  love  to  Christ  and 
haired  to  sin,  which  are  elements  also  of  the  justi- 
fying process.  (4)  Now  follows  justification  itself, 
"which  is  not  a  bare  remission  of  sins,  but  also 
sanctification  and  renewal  of  the  inner  man  through 
the  voluntary  reception  of  grace1  and  of  gifts." 
(5)  But  this  renewal  must  take;  place  through  bap- 
tism, which,  to  the  prepared  adult,  both  gives  and 
seals  all  the  graces  of  salvation,  forgiveness,  cleans- 
ing, faith,  hope  and  love.  (6)  Justification  is  pre- 
served by  obeying  the  commandments  and  by  good 
works,  which  also  increase  it.  (7)  In  case  it  is  lost 
- — and  it  can  be  lost,  not  by  venial,  but  by  mortal 
sin  and  by  unbelief — it  can  be  regained  by  the  sacra- 
ment of  penance.  (8)  To  get  it,  to  keep  or  regain 
it,  it  is  also  necessary  to  believe  the  doctrines  as 
thus  laid  down  and  to  be  laid  down  by  this  Council 
(see  the  decrees  in  any  ed,  or  in  Mirbt,  Quellen  zur 
Geschichte  des  Papsttums,  2.  Aufl.,  206-16,  or  in 
Buckley's  or  in  Waterworth's  translations,  and  for 
an  admirable  and  objective  summary  see  Seeberg, 
History  of  Doctrine,  II,  433-38). 

Recent  researches  in  Luther's  early  writings  have 

shown  that  almost  from  the  beginning  of  his  earnest, 

study  of  religious  questions,  he  mount- 

3.  Luther       ed  up  to  Paul's  view  of  justification  by 

faith  alone  (Loofs,  DG,  4.  Aufl.,  1906, 
696-98).  Faith  is  the  trust  in  the  mercy  of  God 
through  Christ,  and  justification  is  the  declaring 
righteous  for  His  sake,  which  is  followed  by  a  real 
making  righteous.  From  the  beginning  to  the  end 
of  his  life  as  a  religious  teacher  these  are  the  ele- 
ments of  his  doctrine.  Speaking  of  1513-15,  Loofs 
says  (p.  697):  "Upon  these  equations  [to  justify  = 
to  forgive,  grace  =  mercy  of  the  non-imputing  God, 
faith  =trust  in  His  mercy]  as  the  regulators  of  his 
religious  self-judgment,  Luther's  piety  rests,  and 
corresponding  to  them  his  view  of  Christianity, 
and  even  later"  (than  1513-15);  and  he  adds  that 
"to  reckon  as  righteous"  (reputari  justum)  must  not 
be  understood  with  Luther  as  an  opposition  "to 
make  righteous,"  for  his  "to  be  justified  without 
merits"  in  the  sense  of  "to  forgive"  (absolvi)  is  at 
the  same  time  the  beginning  of  a  new  life:  remissio 
peccati  ....  ipsa  resurrectio.  "His  constantly 
and  firmly  held  view,  even  more  deeply  understood 
later  than  in  1513-15,  that  'to  be  justified  without 
merit' = 'to  be  resurrected  [to  be  born  again]' =  ' to 
be  sanctified'  is  a  pregnant  formulation  of  his  Chris- 
tianity." So  much  being  said,  it  is  not  necessary 
to  draw  out  Luther's  doctrine  further,  who  in  this 
respect  "rediscovered  Christianity  as  a  religion," 
but  it  will  suffice  to  refer  to  the  Histories  of  Doc- 
trine (Seeberg  gives  a  full  and  brilliant  exposition), 
to  Kostlin,  Luthcrs  Theologie,  2.  Aufl.,  1901  (see 
Index  s.v.  "Rechtfertigung,"  and  I,  349),  and  esp. 
to  Thieme,  Die  sittliche  Triebkraft  des  Glaubens: 
eine  Untersuchung  zu  Luthers  Theologie.  1895,  103- 
314. 

From  Luther  and  the  other  reformers  the  NT 
doctrine    went    over    to    the    Protestant    churches 


without  essential  modification,  and  has  remained 
their  nominal  testimony  until  the  present.  A 
classic  expression  of  it,  which  may  be  taken  as 
representing  evangelical  Christendom,  is  the  11th 
of  the  39  Articles  of  Religion  of  the  Church  of  Eng- 
land: "We  are  accounted  righteous  before  God 
only  for  the  merit  of  Our  Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus 
Christ  by  faith,  and  not  for  our  own  works  or  de- 
servings:  wherefore  that  we  are  justified  by  faith 
only  is  a  most  wholesome  doctrine  and  very  full  of 
comfort,  as  more  largely  is  expressed  in  the  Homily 
of  Justification."  It  is  true  that  at  one  time  Wes- 
ley's opponents  accused  him  of  departing  from  this 
doctrine,  esp.  on  account  of  his  famous  Minute  of 
1770,  but  this  was  due  to  a  radical  misunderstand- 
ing of  that  Minute,  for  to  the  last  he  held  staunchly 
Paul's  doctrine  (for  proof  see  my  article  in  Lutheran 
Quarterly,  April,  1906,  171-75). 

A  new  point  of  view  was  brought  into  modern 

theology  by  Schleiermacher,  who  starts  from  the 

fundamental   fact   of   Christian   expe- 

4.  Schleier-  rience  that  we  have  redemption  and 
macher  reconciliation  with  Christ,  which  fact 

becomes  ours  by  union  with  Christ 
through  faith.  This  union  brings  justification  with 
other  blessings,  but  justification  is  not  considered 
as  even  in  thought  a  separate  act  based  on  Christ's 
death,  but  as  part  of  a  great  whole  of  salvation, 
historically  realized  step  by  step  in  Christ.  The 
trend  of  his  teaching  is  to  break  down  the  dis- 
tinction between  justification  and  regeneration, 
as  they  are  simply  different  aspects  of  union  with 
Christ. 

Ritschl  carried  forward  this  thought  by  emphasizing 
the  grace  of  the  heavenly  Father  mediated  in  the  first 
instance  through  the  Son  to  the  Christian  community, 
"to  which  Cod  Imputes  the  position  toward  him  of 
Christ  its  founder."  and  in  the  second  instance  to  indi- 
viduals "as  by  faith  in  the  Gospel  they  attach  them- 
selves to  this  community.  Faith  is  simply  obedience  to 
God  and  trust  in  the  revelation  of  his  grace  in  Christ." 
This  brings  sinners  into  fellowship  witli  God  which 
means  eternal  life,  which  is  here  and  now  realized,  as  the 
Fourth  Gospel  points  out,  in  lordship  over  the  world 
(cf  Franks  in  DCG,  I.  922-23).  The  judicial  or  forensic 
aspect  of  justification  so  thoroughly  in-wrought  in 
Paul's  thought  is  denied  by  Ritschl.  "In  whatsoever 
way  we  view  the  matter,"  lie  says,  "the  attitude  of  God 
in  the  act  of  justification  cannot  bo  conceived  as  that  of 
a  judge"  (Christian.  Doctrine  of  Justification  and  Re- 
conciliation, FT,  li)00,  90).  W.  X.  Clarke  agrees  with 
Schleiermacher  in  eliminating  justification  as  a  separate 
element  in  the  work  of  salvation,  and  harks  back  to  the 
Catholic  view  in  making  it  dependent  on  the  new  life 
and  Subsequent  to  it  (Christian  Theology,  407-8).  No 
book  has  had  as  much  influence  in  destroying  the  NT 
conception  of  justification  among  English-speaking 
readers  as  that  of  J.  H.  Newman,  Lectures  on  Justifica- 
tion, 1838,  3d  ed,  1874,  which  contains  some  of  the  finest 
passages  in  religious  literature  (pp.  270-73,302,338-39), 
but  which  was  so  sympathetic  to  the  Catholic  view  that 
the  author  had  nothing  essential  to  retract  when  ho 
joined  Rome  in  1845.  "Whether  we  say  we  are  justi- 
fied by  faith,  or  by  works,  or  by  sacraments,  all  these 
but  mean  this  one  doctrine  that  we  arc  justified  by  grace 
which  is  given  through  sacraments,  impetrated  by 
faith,  manifested  in  works"  (p.  303). 

Lastly,  has  the  NT  conception  of  justification 

by  faith  any  message  to  the  modern  man,  or  is  it, 

as  Lagarde  held,  dead  in  the  Protes- 

5.  Meaning  taut  churches,  something  which  went 
and  Mes-  overboard  with  the  old  doctrine  of  the 
sage  to  the  Trinity  and  of  Atonement?  After 
Modern  an  able  historical  survey,  IIoll  con- 
Man  eludes     (Die     Rechtfertigungslehre    im 

Licht  tier  Geschichte  d.  Protestantismus, 
Tubingen,  1906,  40-42)  that  there  are  two  prin- 
ciples thoroughly  congenial  to  modern  thought 
which  favor  this  doctrine,  viz.  that  of  the  sanctity 
and  importance  of  personality,  the  "I"  that  stands 
face  to  face  with  God,  responsible  to  Him  alone; 
and  second,  the  restoration  of  the  Reformation- 
thought  of  an  all-working  God.  Whoever  feels  the 
pressure  of  these  two  principles,  for  him  the  question 
of  justification  becomes  a  living  one.     "The  stand- 


Justle 
Kaph 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


L7i 


ard  on  which  he  must,  measure  himself  is  the  Abso- 
lute Cod,  and  who  can  stand  in  this  judgment  ? 
Not  simply  on  account  of  single  acts,  but  with  his 
'I'  and  even  with  his  good-willing.  For  that,  is 
just  the  curse  which  rests  upon  a  man  that  his  'I' 
is  the  thing  with  which  alone  he  wills  and  can  seek 
God,  and  that  it.  is  this  very  '1'  which  by  its  wil- 
fulness, vanity  and  self-love  poisons  all  his  willing. 
Accordingly,  it  remains  true,  what  the  Reformers 
said,  that  man  is  entirely  corrupt,  and  that  he  can 
do  no  otherwise  than  to  despair  when  the  majesty 
of  Cod  dawns  upon  him"  (p.  41).  There  is,  then, 
no  other  solution  than  the  venture;  of  faith  that  the 
same  Cod  who  crushes  our  self-deceit  lifts  up  with 
His  sovereign  grace,  that  we  live  through  Him  and 
before  Him.  Luther  is  right  that  religiously  we 
can  find  no  hold  except  on  the  Divine  act  of  grace, 
which  through  faith  in  the  Divine  love  and  power 
working  in  us  and  for  us  ever  makes  us  new  in  Christ. 
To  give  up  the  doctrine  of  justification,  says  Holl 
rightly  (p.  42),  is  to  give  up  conscious  personal 
religion.  Holl  writes  as  a  liberal,  and  he  quotes  a 
stronger  liberal  still,  Treitschke,  as  saying  that  in 
the  19th  cent,  it  was  the  orthodox  preachers  who 
proclaimed  this  doctrine,  who  built,  better  than  the 
liberals.  Nor,  says  Holl  in  another  book  (Was  hat 
die  Rechtfertigungslchre  dem  modernen  Menschen 
zusagen?  Tubingen,  1907,  20),  can  anyone  who  has 
experienced  justification  as  an  inner  transformation 
be  misled  into  moral  unconcern.  A  moral  ideal 
becomes  his,  much  stronger  and  more  compelling 
than  worldly  ethics.  The  new  attitude  toward 
Cod  constituted  by  justification  impels  to  an  unend- 
ing movement  in  the  service  of  God  and  man.  The 
doctrine  has  not  had  its  day.  It  is  a  part  of  the 
eternal  gospel.  As  long  as  sinful  man  has  to  do 
with  an  all-holy  Cod,  the  experience  of  Paul,  Luther 
and  Wesley  becomes  in  a  sense  normative  for  the 
race. 

Literature. — Besides  the  books  mentioned  in  the 
text,  the  following  on  justification  itself  may  be  consulted 
(those  marked  with  a  star  are  Protestant,  those  with  a 
dagger  are  Catholicor  High  Church  Anglican) :  (toodwin,* 
new  ed,  with  preface  by  Wesley,  1807;  Junkins,*  1839; 
Hare,*  new  ed,  1839  (1st  ed  with  preface  bv  Jackson, 
1817);  Kerwiek.t  1841;  Heurtley.t  1846  (Bampton 
Lectures  for  1845);  Mcllvaine,*  1861,  3d  ed,  1868 
(Righteousness  of  Faith,  important);  Buchanan,*  1867 
(important);  Bodv.t  1870;  Bunvan,*  new  ed,  1873; 
Harkey,*  1875;  Davies,*  1878;  Sadler.t  1888;  and 
Holden.t  1901.  Besides  these,  Laurence,  Bampton 
Lectures  for  1804,  sermon  6;  Drummond,  Apostolic 
Teaching  and  Christ's  Teaching  (see  index);  Schlatter, 
NT  Theology,  2  vols,  1909-10;  the  various  systematic 
Theologies;  Theologies  of  the  XT,  and  Comm.  may  bo 
consulted;  also  Menegoz,  Die  Itechtfertigungslehre  nach 
Paulus  und  nach  Jakobus,  1903;  Kuhl,  Die  Stellung  des 
Jakobusbriefes  z.  alttest.  (Sesetz  u.  z.  Paulinischen  Recht- 
fertigungslehre,  1905. 

Joiix  Alfked  Faulknkk 


JUSTLE,  jus"l  (p£Tp  ,  shakak):  The  word  occurs 
once  in  Nah  2  4  (in  AV  and  RV),  where  ARV  has 
"rush  to  and  fro." 

JUSTUS,  jus'tus  ('Iovo-tos,  loustos):  There  are 
three  of  this  name  mentioned  in  the  NT. 

(1)  It.  was  the  Rom  surname;  of  Joseph  Bar- 
sabbas  (q.v.)  (Acts  1  23). 

(2)  A  Corinthian  proselyte  (sebomettos  ton 
Theon),  whose  house  adjoined  the  synagogue;  and 
who  received  Paul  when  the  Jews  opposed  him 
(Acts  18  7).  He  was  probably  a  Rom  citizen,  one 
of  the  coloni,  and  so  he  would  be  of  assistance  to  the 
apostle  in  his  work  among  the  better  class  of 
Corinth.  There  is  some  disagreement  among  MSS 
regarding  the  name.  TR  gives  "Justus"  alone. 
RV  following  XE,  Vulg,  Boh,  Arm,  gives  "Titus 
Justus";  WH,  Tisch.,  B,D,  give  "Titius  Justus"; 
Cheyne  (EB,  s.v.  "Justus")  thinks  these  forms  a 
corruption  of  "Tertius  Justus,"  and  that  the;  bearer 
of  the  name  was  the;  "Tertius"  of  Rom  16  22. 
Paul  still  continued  his  lodgings  with  Aquila  and 
Priscilla,  but  made;  the  house  of  Justus  his  own 
synagogue. 

(3)  A  Jew,  Jesus  Justus,  mentioned  with  Mark 
and  Aristarchus  by  Paul  in  his  letters  to  the  Colos- 
sians  (Col  4  11),  is  a  fellow-worker  and  one  that 
had  been  a  comfort  unto  him.  S.  F.  Hunter 

JUTTAH,  jut'a  (HI??,  yuttah,  Josh  21  10;  LXX 
Tavv,  Tanil;  and  in  Josh  15  55  AV,  LNX  'I-rdv, 
Itdu,  A,  Iettd);  JUTAH,  jo7/ta,  ju'ta  ("i:-1, 
yiitah,  Josh  15  55):  A  town  in  the;  hill  country  of 
Judah,  mentioned  with  Maon,  Carmel  and  Ziph;  a 
Levitical  city  (Josh  21  10).  In  some  VSS  of  LXX 
it  occurs  ('lord,  Iota)  in  1  Ch  6  57.  In  the  Onom 
(266  49;  133  10)  a  large  village  called  "Juttah"  is 
described  as  18  Rom  miles  from  Eleutheropolis. 
This  agrees  with  the  position  of  Yutta,  a  large  and 
prosperous  Moslem  village,  3,740  ft.  above  sea-level, 
5|  miles  8.  of  Hebron  and  15J  miles  from  Beit 
Jebrln  (Eleutheropolis).  There  are  many  rock-cut 
tombs  and  ancient  winepresses  all  around  the  village. 

Reland  (Pal,  870)  suggested  (and  many  others 
have  followed  him)  that  the  ttoXls  'lovSa,  -polis 
louda,  trd  "city  of  Judah,"  in  Lk  1  39,  should  be 
pdlis  Iouta,  "the  city  Yuta."  The  tr  "city  of  Ju- 
dah" is  suspicious,  because  Iouda  is  without  the 
article,  which  is  usually  put  before  the  name  of  a 
district;  the  interchange  of  t  and  d  is  a  very  common 
one.  Dr.  Paterson,  resident  many  years  in  Hebron, 
states  that  there  is  a  local  Moslem  tradition  in  the 
district  that  Yutta  was  the  home  of  John  the  Bap- 
tist.    For  Yutta'see  PEF,  III,  310,  Sh  XXI. 

E.  W.  G.  Masterman 


K 


KAB,  kab  QJ5,  kabh,  "something  hollowed  out," 
2  1(6  25;  AV  Cab):  A  Heb  dry  measure  and 
liquid  measure  equal  to  about  2  quarts.  See 
Weights  and  Measures. 

KABZEEL,  kab'ze-el,  kab'zel  (bg^JJ,  kabhc"cl 
"[whom]  God  collects"):  One  of  the  "uttermost 
cities"  of  Judah  toward  the  border  of  Edom  in  the 
S.  (Negeb)  (Josh  15  21).  It  was  the  native;  place 
of  Benaiah,  the  son  of  Jehoiada,  one  of  David's 
mighty  men  (2  S  23  20;  1  Ch  11  22).  "Jekab- 
zeel  and  the  villages  thereof,"  one  of  the  places 
re-inhabited  by  the  men  of  Judah  (Neh  11  25), 
appears  to  be  the  same  place.  The  site  is  un- 
known. 


KADESH,  ka'desh  (TZTlp,  kadhesh;  KaS^s, 
Kadts,  Ps  29  8;   Jth  1  9).     See  Kadesh-barnea. 

KADESH-BARNEA,  ka'desh-bar'nC-a  («~j3 
y?"l3 ,  kadhesh  barrte"*;  Ka5t|s,  Kadis):  Mentioned 
10  t;  called  also  "Kadesh"  simply.  The  name 
perhaps  means  "the  holy  place  of  the  desert  of 
wandering."  There  are  references  to  Kadesh  in 
early  history.  At  En-mishpat  ("the  same  is 
Kadesh")  Chedorlaomer  and  his  allies  smote  the 
Amalekite  and  Amorite.  Abraham  dwelt  near 
Kadesh,  and  it  was  at  Beer-lahai-roi  between  Ka- 
desh and  Bered  that  the  Angel  of  Jeh  appeared 
to  Hagar  (Gen  14  7;  16  14;  20  1).  It  was  an 
important    camp    of    the    Israelites    during    their 


17S9 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Justle 
Kaph 


wanderings,  and  seems  to  have  been  their  head- 
quarters for  38  years  (Dt  1  2;  2  14;  Jth  5  14). 
There  the  returning  spies  found  the  camp  (Nu  13 
26);  there  Miriam  died  and  was  buried  (Nu  20  1); 
from  thence  messengers  were  sent  to  the  king  of 
Edom  (Nu  20  14;  Jgs  11  10  ff).  There  the  people 
rebelled  because  of  the  want  of  water,  and  Moses 
brought  water  from  the  rock  (Nu  20  2ff);  it  was 
called  therefore  Meribath — or  Meriboth-Kadesh 
(Nu  27  14;  Ezk  47  19;  48  28).  It  was  situated 
in  the  wilderness  of  Zin  (Nu  20  1;  33  36.37)  in 
the  hill  country  of  the  Amorites  (Dt  1  19),  11 
days'  journey  from  Horeb,  by  the  way  of  Mt.  Seir 
(Dt  1  2),  "in  the  uttermost"  of  the  border  of  Edom 
(Nu  20  16),  and  on  the  southern  border,  probably 
the  S.E.  corner,  of  Judah  (Ezk  47  19;  cf  Jth  1  9). 
See  Cobern,  Homiletic  Review,  April  and  May,  1914. 

S.  F.  Hunter 
KADESH  IN  GALILEE.    See  Kedesh,  3. 

KADESH  ON  THE  ORONTES,  6-ron'tez  (in 
MT  of  2  S  24  6,  under  the  corrupt  form  □"'PnP 
^TIHn  ,  tahtim  hodhshl,  which  should  be  corrected 
from  the  LNX  [Luc.]  reading:  els  ttjv  -yTjv  Xjt- 
ti€1|jl  Ko,8tjs,  eis  ten  gen  Chettieim  Kadts,  "to  the 
land  of  the  Hittites  unto  Kadesh,"  into  Y~!$- 
mplj?  Q^P.nn,  'ereg  ha-hittim  kddheshdh.  Ewald 
and  others,  fixing  the  northern  ideal  boundary  of 
Israel  at  the  sources  of  the  Jordan,  would  read  "Her- 
mon"  for  hodhshl,  but  the  conjectures  of  Thenius  and 
Hitzig  of  a  reference  to  the  northern  Kadesh  are 
fully  confirmed  by  the  reading  given) :  Kadesh  was 
the  southern  capital  of  the  Hittites,  and  was  situated 
on  the  upper  waters  of  the  Orontes,  80  miles  N.  of 
Damascus.  It  is  now  represented  by  a  large  mound 
5  miles  S.  of  what,  till  the  Middle  Ages,  was  called  the 
Lake  of  Kades,  but  now  the  Lake  of  Horns.  Here 
Thothmes  III  of  Egypt  (fl.  1650  BC),  after  the 
battle  of  Megiddo,  met  and  received  hostages  from 
the  Assyrians,  and  here  too  Rameses  II  defeated 
Hatesar,  king  of  the  Hittites  (c  1320  BC),  and  con- 
cluded with  him  a  treaty,  which  wras  formally  in- 
scribed on  a  disk  of  silver.  The  incidents  of  the 
battle  are  depicted  on  the  walls  of  the  Ramesseum, 
and  an  Egyp  epic  records  the  heroic  deeds  of  Rame- 
ses. Under  the  name  Kadytis,  it  is  mentioned  as 
being  taken  bv  Pharaoh-necoh  (Herod,  ii.  159)  in 
609  BC.  In  the  only  Bible  reference  (2  S  24  6), 
it  is  named  as  the  northern  limit  of  the  census  made 
by  David.  W.  M.  Christie 

KADMIEL,  kad'mi-el  (bNPtt"j3,  kadhmi'el,  "be- 
fore God,"  "priest"[?];  "Cadmiel"  in  ||  lists  in  1  Esd 
5  26.58  AV;  omitted  in  LXX  B;  A  reads  kai  Kad- 
mition):  A  Levite  (Ezr  2  40;  Neh  7  43),  founder 
of  a  family  whose  descendants  returned  from  captiv- 
ity with  Zerubbabel  (Ezr  2  1;  Neh  7  43;  12  1.8). 
He  is  named  among  those  who  praise  God  for  the 
return  (Neh  9  4.5;  12  24);  was  of  those  who  "set 
forward"  the  work  of  the  Lord's  house  (Ezr  3  9; 
1  Esd  6  26.58),  and  is  again  mentioned  with  those 
who  "seal"  the  new  Return  Covenant  (Neh  10 
28  ff)  after  the  reestablishment  of  worship  (Neh 
10  1.9). 

KADMONITE,  kad'mon-it  CPEttJ?,  kadhmonl; 
K«5|itovaioi,  Kedmbnaioi,  signifies  "the  Easterner," 
or,  less  probably,  "one  of  the  ancient  race"):  The 
Kadmonites  are  mentioned  in  Gen  15  19  along 
with  the  Kenites  and  Kenizzites  of  Edom,  and  are 
doubtless  the  same  as  "the  children  of  the  east," 
whose  wisdom  was  celebrated  (1  K  4  30).  !"P2"]p, 
kedhemdh,  "the  East,"  was  a  son  of  Ishmael  (Gen 
26  15;  cf  ver  6).  In  an  Egyp  story  describing  the 
adventures  of  a  political  refugee  who  fled  from 
Egypt  in  the  time  of  the  XHth  Dynasty,  it  is  said 


that   he  found  a  refuge  in  Canaan  in  the  laud  of 
Kaduma  or  Kedem.  A.  H.  Sayce 

KAIN,  kan  (^pH ,  ha-kayin;  AV  Cain) :  A  town 
in  the  hill  country  of  Judah  (Josh  15  57).  There 
is,  too,  apparently  a  reference  to  this  place  in  Nu 
24  21.22: 

"And  he  looked  on  the  Kenite,  and  took  up  his  para- 
ble, and  said, 

Strong  is  thy  dwelling-place, 
And  thy  nest  is  set  in  the  rock. 
Nevertheless  Kain  shall  be  wasted, 
Until  Asshur  shall  carry  thee  away  captive." 

This  place  has  been  very  doubtfully  identified 
as  the  ruin  Yukin,  a  place  on  a  lofty  hill  S.E.  of 
Hebron,  overlooking  the  wilderness  of  Judah;  the 
tomb  of  Cain  is  shown  there.  See  PEF,  III,  312, 
Sh  XXI.  E.  VY.  G.  Mastekman 

KAIN  OPp,  kayin):  A  clan  name,  AV  "the 
Kenite"  (Nu  24  22;  Jgs  4  11).  In  the  first  pas- 
sage RV  has  "Kain"  and  m  "the  Kenites":  in  the 
second,  RV  has  "the  Kenite"  in  text  and  m  Kain." 
Cf  preceding  article. 

KALLAI,  kal'S-i,  kal'i  pbp,  kallay,  }/  bp,  kal, 
"swift"):  A  priest  among  those  who  returned  with 
Zerubbabel  (Neh  12  1).  He  represented  the  family 
of  Sallai  (Neh  12  20). 

KAMON,  ka'mon  QTOp ,  kdmon;  AV  Camon): 
The  place  where  Jair  was  buried  (Jgs  10  3-5).  It 
is  possibly  represented  either  by  Kamm  or  Kumeim, 
ruins  which  lie  about  6  and  7  miles  respectively  to 
the  S.S.E.  of  Umm  Keis.  See  further  Havvoth- 
jair.  The  ruins  of  Kamm,  about  200  yds.  square, 
crown  a  small  elevation,  and  point  to  an  important 
place  in  the  past.  There  are  large  rock-hewn  cis- 
terns to  the  S.  Among  the  ruins  of  Kumein,  which 
are  not  considerable,  a  few  mud  huts  are  built, 
occupied  today  by  about  200  souls  (Schumacher, 
Northern  'Ajlun,  137). 

KANAH,  ka'na  (H!p  ,  kanah,  "reeds"): 

(1)  The  name  of  a  "brook,"  i.e.  wddy,  or  "tor- 
rent bed,"  which  formed  part  of  the  boundary 
between  Ephraim  and  Manasseh  (Josh  16  8;  17  9). 
The  border  of  Ephraim  went  out  westward  from 
Tappuah  to  the  brook  Kanah,  ending  at  the  sea; 
the  border  of  Manasseh  from  Tappuah,  which  be- 
longed to  Ephraim,  "went  down  unto  the  brook  of 
Kanah,  southward  of  the  brook."  There  seems  no 
good  reason  to  doubt  the  identification  of  "the 
brook  Kanah"  with  the  modern  Wddy  Kanah. 
The  transition  from  the  heavy  k  to  the  lighter  k  is 
easy,  so  the  phonetic  difficulty  is  not  serious.  The 
stream  rises  in  the  S.W.  of  Shechem,  flows  through 
Wddy  Ishkar,  and,  joining  the  lAujeh,  reaches  the 
sea  not  far  to  the  N.  of  Jaffa.  Guerin,  influenced, 
apparently,  by  the  masses  of  reeds  of  various  kinds 
which  fill  the  river,  argues  in  favor  of  Nahr  el-Fdlik, 
to  the  N.  of  Arsuf.  He  identifies  it  with  Nahr  el- 
Kasab,  "river  of  reeds,"  mentioned  by  Behaed-Din, 
the  Moslem  historian.  But  this  last  must  be  iden- 
tified with  Nahr  el-Mafjir,  13  miles  farther  N.,  too 
far  N.  for  "the  brook  Kanah." 

(2)  A  town  on  the  northern  boundary  of  Asher 
(Josh  19  28),  probably  identical  with  the  village 
of  Kana,  about  7  miles  S.E.  of  Tyre  (SWP,  I,  51, 
64,  Sh  I).  W.  Ewing 

KAPH,  kaf  (3.  D.  1\,  1):  The  11th  letter  of  the 
Heb  alphabet;  transliterated  in  this  Encyclopaedia 
as  k,  with  daghesh,  and  kh  (  =  German  ch)  without 
daghesh.  It  came  also  to  be  used  for  the  number 
20.     For  name,  etc,  see  Alphabet. 


Kareah 
Kenezite 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1790 


KAREAH,  ka-re'a  (£!"!£  >  b&r&fy,  "bald  head"): 
The  father  of  Johanan  and  Jonathan,  who  after  tli(> 
fall  of  Jerus  joined  Gedaliah  at,  Mizpah  (2  Iv  25 
23;  Jer  40  8). 

KARIATHIARIUS,  ka-ri-ath-i-a'ri-us  (KapiaGi. 
apios,  KuridthinrUh;  15  reads  Kartatheiareios;  AV 
Kiriathiarim  1 1  Esd  5  19])  =  Kiriath-jearim  in  Neh 
7  29. 

KARKA,  kiir'ka  (!~i"£~ipn  ,  ha-karkcVah— with  t  he 
art.  and  !"i  locale;  AV  Karkaa):  A  place  in  the  S.  of 
Judah,  between  Addar  and  W'Culy  d-Arlsh  (Josh 
15  3).  Onom  speaks  of  a  village  in  Judah  lying 
toward  the  wilderness,  named  Akarka.  1 1  cannot 
now  he  identified.  The  name  means  "the  pave- 
ment," or  "ground." 

KARKOR,  kar'kor  C'?lp- ,  karkor):  An  uni- 
dentified place  where  Gideon  surprised  and  over- 
whelmed the  remnants  of  the  army  of  Zeba  and 
Zalmunnah  (Jgs  8  10  fr).  It  probably  corre- 
sponds to  Karkar  mentioned  by  Shalmaneser  II, 
S.  of  Hamath  (KB,  1,  173). 

KARTAH,  kar'ta  (HI-Hp  ,  kartah) :  A  city  in  the 
territory  of  Zebulun,  assigned  to  the  Levites  (Josh 
21  34).'  It  is  not  identified.  Possibly  it  is  a  vari- 
ant of  Kattath,  or  of  Kahtan  (q.v.). 

KARTAN,  kar'tan  C)FHp,  kartari):  A  city  in  the 
territory  of  Naphtali,  given  to  the  Gershonite 
Levites  (Josh  21  32).  It  is  called  Kiriathaim  in 
1  Ch  6  76.  Kartan  may  be  a  contraction  of  this. 
Cheyne  (KB,  s.v.)  suggests  that  both  names  may 
be  corruptions  from  "Chinnereth."  Neither  is 
mentioned  in  Josh  19  32.38,  in  the  list  of  Naph- 
talite  cities,  while  Chinnereth  is. 

KATTATH,  kat'ath  (IHipp. ,  kattath):  A  city  in  the 
territory  of  Zebulun,  named  with  Iphtah-el,  Na- 
halel,  and  Shimron  (Josh  19  1.")),  perhaps  to  be 
identified  with  Kitron  (Jgs  1  30),  from  which 
Zebulun  did  not  expel  the  Canaanites;  and  with 
Kartah  (Josh  21  34),  which  was  given  to  the; 
Merarite  Levites.  The  Bab  Talm  (Meg.  6a)  identi- 
fies Kattath  with  Sepphoris,  the  modern  Seffuriyeh 
(but  see  Neubauer,  Geographie  da  Talmud,  191). 
The  Jerus  Talm  takes  it  as  identical  with  Ketunith, 
Kuteineh,  to  the  W.  of  Esdraelon.  It  should 
probably,  however,  be  sought  near  to  Shimron,  the 
modern  Semuniyeh.  A\  .  Ewing 

KEDAR,  ke'dar  CHip-,  kedhdr;  Kr]8ap,  Keddr): 

Second  in  order  of  the  sons  of  Ishmael  (Gen  25 
13  !|  1  Ch  1  29).  The  name  occurs  as  typical  of  a 
distant  eastern  country  in  opposition  to  the  lands 
of  the  Mediterranean  (Jer  2  10).  The  author  of 
Second  Isa  introduces  this  tribe  in  company  with 
Nebaioth,  and  both  are  represented  as  owners  of 
flocks  (Isa  60  7).  Evidence  of  their  nomadic 
habits  appears  in  Jer  49  2S.29,  where  they  are 
classed  among  the  B'ne-Keilhcjn,  and  mention  is 
made  of  their  flocks,  camels,  tents,  curtains  and 
furniture.  They  are  spoken  of  (Isa  42  11)  as 
dwelling  in  hagerim  ("villages"),  from  which  it 
would  appear  that  they  were  a  somewhat  settled 
tribe,  corresponding  to  1  he  Arab,  hadariya  or  "town- 
dwellers,"  as  distinct  from  wabariya  or  "nomads." 
Ezekiel  (27  21)  gives  another  hint  of  their  pastoral 
nature  where,  in  his  detailed  picture  of  the  wealth 
of  Tyre,  Kedar  and  Arabia  provide  the  Tyrians 
with  lambs,  rams  and  goats.  The  fame  of  the  tribe 
is  further  reflected  in  Isa  21  16.17  (the  only  allu- 
sion to  their  might  in  war),  and  in  the  figurative 
references  to  their  tents  (Ps  120  5;  Cant  15).     In 


this  last  passage  where  the  tents  are  made  symbolic; 
of  dark  beauty,  the  word  kadhar  ("to  be  black") 
may  have  been  in  the  writer's  mind. 

The  settlements  of  Kedar  were  probably  in  (lie  N.W. 
of  Arabia,  not  far  from  tin;  borders  of  Pal.  Assyr  in- 
scriptions have  thrown  light  upon  the  history  of  the  tribe. 
There  Kedar  is  mentioned  along  with  the  Arabs  and 
Nebaioth,  which  decides  its  identity  with  Kedar  of  the 
OT,  and  there  is  found  also  an  account  of  tin;  conflicts 
between  tlie  tribe  and  King  Assurbanipal  (see  Margo- 
liouth  in  II DB). 

Of  the  Ishmaelite  tribes,  Kedar  must  have  been 
one  of  the  most  important.,  and  thus  in  later  times 
the  name  came  to  be  applied  to  all  the  wild  tribes  of 
the  desert.  It  is  through  Kedar  (Arab,  keidar) 
that  Muslim  genealogists  trace;  the  descent  of  Mo- 
hammed from  Ishmael.  A.  S.  Fulton" 

KEDEMAH,  ked'e-ma,  ke-de'ma  (TSffTp.,  kedhe- 
mah,  "eastward"):  Son  of  Ishmael  (Gen  25  16), 
head  of  a  clan  (1  Ch  1  31).     See  Kadmoxite. 

KEDEMOTH,  ked'e-moth,  ke-de'moth  (FW£  , 
kcdhemoth,  "eastern  parts"):  From  the  wilderness 
to  which  this  town  gave  its  name,  Moses  sent  mes- 
sengers to  Sihon,  king  of  the  Amorites  in  Heshbon 
(Dt  2  26).  It  was  given  by  Moses  to  the  tribe  of 
Reuben  (Josh  13  IS),  and  assigned  to  the  Merarite 
Levites  (21  37;  1  Ch  6  79).  It  must  probably 
l>e  sought  on  the  upper  course  of  the  Arnon.  Buhl 
(GAP,  268)  suggests  that  it  may  be  identified  with 
Umm  er-Re§as.     See  Jahaz. 

KEDESH,    ke'desh     (T2J-J5,     kedhesh;     KdS^s, 

Katies) : 

(1)  One  of  the  "uttermost  cities"  of  Judah 
"toward  the  border  of  Edom  in  the  S."  (Josh  15 
23).  Possibly  it  is  to  be  identified  with  Kadesh- 
BARNEA  (q.v.);  otherwise  it  is  strange  that  this 
hitter  should  be  omitted  from  the  list.  Dillmann 
would  identify  it  with  Kddus,  to  the  S.  of  Hebron, 
mentioned  by  Mukaddasi. 

(2)  A  town  in  the  territory  of  Issachar,  given  to 
the  Gershonite  Levites  (1  Ch  6  72).  In  the  list  of 
Joshua  (21  28)  its  place  is  taken  by  Kishion  (q.v.). 
Conder  suggests  identification  with  Tell  Abu  Kades, 
near  Megiddo. 

(3)  Kedesh-naphtali,  the  famous  city  of  refuge 
in  the  uplands  of  Naphtali.     It  is  called  "Kedesh," 

simply,  in  Josh  12  22,  etc;  Kedesh- 
Kedesh-  naphtali  in  Jgs  4  6;  Tob  1  2;  Ke- 
naphtali  desh  in  Galilee  in  Josh  20  7,  etc.     It 

was  assigned  to  the  Gershonite  Levites 
(1  Ch  6  76).  From  the  name  "holy,"  we  gather 
that  it  was  a  sanctuary  from  old  time.  It  was 
therefore  a  place  of  asylum,  and  only  preserved 
its  ancient  character  in  this  respect  when  chosen 
as  one  of  the  cities  of  refuge.  It  was  the  home  of 
Barak,  and  here  his  host  assembled.  When  the 
Assyrians  invaded  the  land  under  Tiglath-pileser, 
it  was  among  the  first  cities  to  be  captured,  and  its 
inhabitants  were  deported  (2  K  15  29).  Near 
Kedesh  was  fought  the  great  battle  between  Jona- 
than the  Maccabee  and  Demetrius  (1  Mace  11  63 
ft).  Jos  says  that  in  his  time  it  belonged  to  the 
Tyrians,  lying  between  their  land  and  that  of  Gali- 
lee (.1///,  XIII,  v,  6;  BJ,  II,  xviii,  1;  IV,  ii,  3,  etc). 
Onom  places  it  20  miles  from  Tyre,  near  to  Paneas. 
It  is  represented  by  the  modern  village  of  Kedes, 
which  lies  on  the  plateau  to  the  W.  of  el-Huleh.  It 
crowns  a  tell  which  runs  out  in  a  low  ridge  into  the 
little  plain  to  the  W.  Near  the  fountain,  which 
rises  under  the  ridge  to  the  N.,  are  the  most  inter- 
esting of  the  ancient  remains.  There  are  many 
fine  sarcophagi,  some  of  them  being  used  as  water- 
ing-troughs. From  its  lofty  situation,  Kedesh 
commanded  a  spacious  view  over  a  richly  varied 


1791 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Kareah 
Kenezite 


landscape,  with  smiling  cornfields,  and  hills  clothed 
with  oak  and  terebinth.  W.  Ewing 

KEDESH  (1  Mace  11  63.73,  A,  K^Ses,  Rides; 
AY  Cades):  Scene  of  a  battle  between  Judas  Mac- 
cabaeus  and  the  forces  of  Demetrius.  See  Kedesh- 
naphtali,  under  Kedesh,  3. 


KEDESH-NAPHTALI,     ke'desh-naf'ta-ll. 
Kedesh,  3. 


See 


KEEPER,  kep'er,  KEEPERS  (mostly  from  TQTS  , 
shamar;  4>uAcdj,  phulax):  The  word  is  used  of 
keepers  of  sheep,  vineyards,  doors,  prisons  (in  Gen 
39  21  ff,  sar;  ef  Acts  5  23),  etc.  In  Eccl  12  3, 
"The  keepers  of  the  house  shall  tremble,"  the  allu- 
sion is  to  the  decay  of  bodily  powers,  the  "keepers" 
being  specially  the  arms,  which  had  become  feeble 
through  age. 

KEHELATHAH,  ke-he-lfi'tha,  ke-hel'a-tha 
(nn*r"ipp ,  k 'heldthdh,  "gathering,"  "assembly"):  A 
desert  camp  of  the  Israelites  between  Rissah  and 
Mt.  Shepher  (Nu  33  22.23).  Situation  is  unknown. 
See  Wanderings  oe  Israel. 

KEILAH,  ke-l'la  (p^7p, ,  If'lldh;  K6£i\d|x, 
Keeil&m) : 

(1)  A  city  of  the  Shephelah  mentioned  (Josh  15 
44)  along  with  Nezib,  Achzib  and  Mareshah.  Among 
those  who  repaired  the  walls  of  Jerus  was  "Hasha- 
biah,  the  ruler  of  half  the  district  of  Keilah,  for  his 
district.  After  him  repaired  their  brethren,  Bavvai 
the  son  of  Henadad,  the  ruler  of  half  the  district  of 
Keilah"  (Neh  3  17.18). 

It  is,  however,  from  the  story  of  the  wandering  of 

David  that  we  have  most  information  regarding 

this  place.     It  was  a  city  with  gates 

1.  David       and     bars     (1  S  23  7).     The     Philis 
and  Keilah.    came  against   it   and  commenced  rob- 
bing    the     threshing-floors.       David, 

after  twice  inquiring  of  Jeh,  went  down  with  his 
600  men  (ver  13)  and  "fought  with  the  Philis,  and 
brought  away  their  cattle,  and  slew  them  with  a 
great  slaughter."  Said  hearing  that  David  and 
his  men  were  within  a  fortified  town  "summoned 
all  the  people  to  war,  to  go  down  to  Keilah,  to  be- 
siege' David  and  his  men"  (ver  8).  Then  David 
asked  Abiathar  the  priest  to  bring  him  an  ephod, 
and  he  inquired  of  Jeh  whether,  if  Saul  came,  the 
men  of  Keilah  would  surrender  him  to  save  that 
city;  hearing  from  Jeh,  "They  will  deliver  thee 
up,"  he  and  all  his  men  escaped  from  Keilah  and 
went  into  the  wilderness.  The  reputed  strength  of 
Keilah  is  confirmed  by  its  mention  in  5  tablets  in 
the  Am  Tab  under  the  name  of  Kilta  (qilti,  Petrie) 
with  Gedor,  Gath,  Rabbah  and  Gezer. 

Although  other  identifications  were  proposed  by 
the  older  topographers,  there  is  now  a  general  con- 
sensus of  opinion  that  tin.'  site  of  this 

2.  Identifi-    city  is  Khurbet  Kild   (Jos,    Ant,   YI, 
cation  xiii,  1,  in  his  account  of  David's  ad- 
venture calls  the  place  "Killa").     It 

is  a  hill  covered  with  ruins  in  the  higher  part  of 
Wddy  es  Sur,  1,575  ft.  above  sea-level,  whose  ter- 
raced sides  are  covered  with  cornfields.  The 
Onom  (Lat  text)  states  that  it  was  8  miles  from 
Eleutheropolis,  which  is  about  tin;  distance  of  Kh. 
Kild  from  Beit  Jibrln.  licit  Nusib  (Nezib)  is  a 
couple  of  miles  away,  and  Tell  Sandahannah  (Mare- 
shah) but  7  miles  to  the  \V.  (Josh  15  44).  An 
early  Christian  tradition  states  that  the  prophet 
Habakkuk  was  buried  at  Keilah. 

(2)  The  Garmite  (q.v.),  1  Ch  4  19;  see  PEF, 
314,  Sh  XXL 

E.  W.  G.  Masterman 


KELAIAH,  ke-la'ya,  ke-Ii'a  (>TOp. ,  kelayah, 
"swift  for  Jeh"[?] ;  KcoXios,  Kolios,  B,  Kcovos,  Konos) : 
One  of  the  priests  who  had  "foreign  wives"  (Ezr  10 
23,  also  "Kelita").  In  ||  list  of  1  Esd  9  23,  he 
again  has  a  double  name — "Colius"  and  "Calitas." 
A  "Kelita"  is  named  as  helping  Ezra  at  the  ex- 
pounding of  the  law  (Neh  8  7;  cf  1  Esd  9  48,  "Ca- 
litas"), and  also  among  the  signatories  of  the 
covenant  (Neh  10  9;  for  nature  of  covenant  see 
vs  28 ff).  They  may  not,  however,  be  the  same 
person. 

KELITA,  kel'i-ta,  ke-ll'ta  (SttpVp),  kHlta' 
"dwarf").     See  Kelaiah. 

KEMUEL,  kem'n-el,  ke-mu'el  (bXWjP ,  k'mucl, 
"God's  mound") : 

(1)  Nephew  of  Abraham  (Gen  22  21),  father  of 
Aram,  whom  Ewald  identifies  with  Ram  of  Job  32 
2;  but  cf  Gen  10  22,  where  Aram  is  described  as 
one  of  the  children  of  Shem.  They  may  not  be  the 
same  person. 

(2)  Prince  of  Ephraim,  one  of  the  land  commis- 
sioners who  divided  Canaan   (Nu  34  24). 

(3)  A  Levite,  father  of  Hashabiah,  one  of  the 
tribal  princes  of  David's  time,  a  ruler  among  the 
Levites  (1  Ch  27  17). 

KENAN,  ke'nan  Ojpp. ,  kenan;  Keuv&v,  Kaindn) : 
A  son  of  Enosh,  the  son  of  Scth  (Gen  5  9.10.12.13. 
14;  1  Ch  1  2).  AV  form  (except  in  1  Ch  1  2), 
is  "Cainan." 

KENATH,  ke'nath  (n:p,  kendth;  Kad9,  Kadth, 
Kaandth  in  LXX,  A) :  A  city  in  Bashan,  taken  along 
with  its  "daughters,"  i.e.  "villages"  from  the  Amor- 
ites  by  Nobah  who  gave  it  his  own  name  (Nu  32 
42).     It  was  recaptured  by  Geshur  and  Aram  (1  Ch 

2  23).  It  is  probably  identical  with  the  modern 
Kanawdt,  which  is  built  on  the  site,  and  largely  from 
the  materials  of  an  ancient  city.  It  lies  about  16 
miles  to  the  N.  of  Bosra  eski  Sham,  the  Bostra  of  the 
Romans,  on  both  sides  of  Wddy  Kanawdt,  where, 
descending  from  the  slopes  of  Jd>d  ed-Druze,  it 
plunges  over  a  precipice,  forming  a  picturesque 
waterfall.  On  the  plateau  above  t  he  modern  village, 
there  is  a  striking  collection  of  Rom  and  Christian 
remains,  the  shapely  forms  of  many  columns  lend- 
ing distinction  to  the  scene.  One  large  building  is 
associated  with  the  name  of  the  patriarch  Job — 
Makdm  Ayyub.  The  position  commands  a  spa- 
cious and  interesting  view  over  the  whole  of  the 
Haurdn.  The  identification  has  been  rejected  by 
Socin  (Baedeker,  Pal3,  207),  but  his  reasons  are 
not,  given.  Moore  (Jgs,  222)  also  rejects  it,  but  for 
reasons  that  are  not  convincing.  W.  Ewing 

KENAZ,  ke'naz,  KENEZ,  ke'nez  (T3]?,  k°naz, 
"hunting"): 

(1)  A  "duke"  of  Edom,  grandson  of  Esau  (Gen 
36  11.15.42;    1  Ch  1  36.53). 

(2)  Father  of  Othniel    (Josh  15  17;    Jgs  1  13; 

3  9.11;    1  Ch  4  13). 

(3)  The  unidentified  kr>*az  of  1  Ch  4  15,  who 
appears  to  be  a  descendant  of  (2).  There  is,  how- 
ever, some  difficulty  with  the  passage  here. 

KENEZITE,  ke'nez-it  H5]2 ,  k'nizzl;  Kcvetcuos, 
Kenezaios):  AV  in  Gen  15  19  and  RV  uniformly, 
spell  "Kenizzite."  The  Kenezites  were  the  clan 
whose  name-father  was  Kenaz  (q.v.).  Their  land, 
along  with  that  of  their  Canaanite  tribes,  was 
promised  to  Abram  (Gen  15  19).  To  this  clan 
belonged  Jephunneh,  the  father  of  Caleb  (Nu  32  12; 
Josh  14  6.14).  It  had  evidently  been  absorbed 
bv  the  tribe  of  Judah.     If  the  Kenezites  went  down 


Kenites 
Key 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1792 


with  Jacob  into  Egypt,  they  may  have  beeome  iden- 
tified with  his  family  there. 

KENITES,  ke'nits  (^H,  ha-kenl,  ^^T\,  ha- 
kenl;  in  Nu  24  22  and  Jgs  4  11,  "pj? ,  kayin; 
ol  Kevaioi,  hoi  Kenaioi,  ol  Kivcuoi,  hoi  Kinaioi): 
A  tribe  of  nomads  named  in  association  with  various 
other  peoples.  They  are  first  mentioned  along  with 
the  Kadmonites  and  Kenizzites  among  the  peoples 
whose  land  was  promised  to  Abram  (Gen  15  19). 
Balaam,  seeing  them  from  the  heights  of  Moab, 
puns  upon  their  name,  which  resembles  the  Heb 
ken,  "a  nest,"  prophesying  their  destruction 
although  th'eir  nest  was  "set  in  the  rock" — possibly 
a  reference  to  Sela,  the  city.  Moses'  father-in-law, 
Jethro,  is  called  "the  priest  of  Midian"  in  Ex  3  1; 
18  1 ;  but  in  Jgs  1  Hi  he  is  described  as  a  Kenite, 
showing  a  close  relation  between  the  Kenites  and 
Midian.  At  the  time  of  Sisera's  overthrow,  Heber, 
a  Kenite,  at  "peace"  with  Jabin,  king  of  Hazor, 
pitched  his  tent  far  N.  of  his  ancestral  seats  (Jgs 
4  17).  There  were  Kenites  dwelling  among  the 
Amalekites  in  the  time  of  Saul  (I  S  15  6).  They 
were  spared  because  they  had  "showed  kindness  to 
all  the  children  of  Israel,  when  they  came  up  out  of 
Egypt."  David,  in  his  answer  to  Achish,  links  the 
Kenites  with  the  inhabitants  of  the  S.  of  Judah 
(27  10).  Among  the  ancestors  of  the  tribe;  of 
Judah,  the  Chronicler  includes  the  Kenite  Ham- 
math,  the  father  of  the  Rechabites  (1  Ch  2  55). 
These  last  continued  to  live  in  tents,  practising  the 
ancient  nomadic  customs  (Jer  35  Off). 

The  word  keni  in  Aram,  means  "smith."  Pro- 
fessor Sayce  thinks  they  may  really  have  been  a 
tribe  of  smiths,  resembling  "the  gipsies  of  modern 
Europe,  as  well  as  the  traveling  tinkers  or  black- 
smiths of  the  Middle  Ages"  (HDB,  s.v.).  This 
would  account  for  their  relations  with  the  different 
peoples,  among  whom  they  would  reside  in  pursuit 
of  their  calling. 

In  Jos  they  appear  as  Kenetldes,  and  in  Ant,  IV, 
vii,  3  he  calls  them  "the  race  of  the  Shechemites." 

W.    EwiNG 

KENIZZITE,  ken'i-zit.     See  Kenezite. 

KENOSIS,  kC-no'sis:  The  word  "kenosis" 
(iciviocns,  kenosis)  has  entered  theological  language 
from  Phil  2  7,  where  in  the  sentence  he  "emptied 
himself"  the  Grvb.  is  ekendsen.  "Kenosis,"  then,  the 
corresponding  noun,  has  become  a  technical  term 
for  the  humiliation  of  the  Son  in  the  incarnation, 
but  in  recent  years  has  acquired  a  still  more  techni- 
cal sense,  i.e.  of  the  Son's  emptying  Himself  of 
certain  attributes,  esp.  of  omniscience. 

(1)  The  theological  question  involved  was  one 
about  as  far  as  possible  from  the  minds  of  the  Chris- 
tians of  the  apostolic  age  and  appar- 
1.  The  NT  ently  one  that  never  occurred  to  St. 
Paul.  For  in  Phil  2  7  the  only  "emp- 
tying" in  point  is  that  of  the  (external)  change 
from  the  "form  of  God"  to  the  "form  of  a  servant." 
Elsewhere  in  the  NT  it  is  usually  taken  as  a  matter 
of  course  that  Christ's  knowledge  was  far  higher 
than  that  of  other  men  (Jn  2  24  is  the  clearest 
example).  But  passages  that  imply  a  limitation  of 
that  knowledge  do  exist  and  are  of  various  classes. 
Of  not  much  importance  are  the  entirely  incidental 
references  to  the  authorship  of  OT  passages  where 
the  traditional  authorship  is  considered  erroneous, 
as  no  other  method  of  quotation  would  have  been 
possible.  Somewhat  different  are  the  references  to 
the  nearness  of  the  Parousia  (esp.  Mt  10  23;  24 
29).  But  with  these  it  is  always  a  question  how 
far  the  exact  phraseology  has  been  framed  by  the 
evangelists  and,  apart  from  this,  how  far  Christ 
may  not  have  been  consciously  using  current 
imagery    for    the    impending   spiritual    revolution, 


although  knowing  that  the  details  would  be  quite 
different  (see  Parousia).  Limitation  of  knowl- 
edge may  perhaps  be  deduced  from  the  fact  that 
Christ  could  be  amazed  (Mt  8  10,  etc),  that  He 
could  be  really  tempted  (esp.  He  4  15),  or  that  He 
possessed  faith  (He  12  2;  see  comm.).  More 
explicitly  Christ  is  said  to  have  learned  in  Lk  2  52; 
He  5  8.  And,  finally,  in  Mk  13  32  ||  Mt  24  36, 
Christ  states  categorically  that  He  is  ignorant  of  the 
exact  time  of  the  Parousia. 

(2)  An  older  exegesis  felt  only  the  last  of  these 
passages  as  a  real  difficulty.  A  distinction  con- 
structed between  knowledge  naturally  possessed 
and  knowledge  gained  by  experience  (i.e.  although 
the  child  Jesus  knew  the  alphabet  naturally,  He  was 
obliged  to  learn  it  by  experience)  covered  most  of 
the  others.  For  Mk  13  32  a  variety  of  explana- 
tions were  offered.  The  passage  was  trd  "neither 
the  Son,  except  the  Father  know  it,"  a  tr  that  can 
be  borne  by  the  Gr.  But  it  simply  transfers  the 
difficulty  by  speaking  of  the  Father's  knowledge 
as  hypothetical,  and  is  an  impossible  tr  of  Mt  24  30, 
where  the  word  "only"  is  added.  The  explanations 
that  assume  that  Christ  knew  the  day  but  had  no 
commission  to  reveal  it  are  most  unsatisfactory, 
for  they  place  insincere  words  in  His  mouth;  "It 
is  not  for  you  to  know  the  day"  would  have  been  the 
inevitable  form  of  the  saying  (Acts  1  7). 

(1)  Yet  the  attempt  so  to  misinterpret  the  verses 
is  not  the  outcome  of  a  barren  dogmatic  prejudice, 

but  results  from  a  dread  lest  real  injury 
2.  Dog-  be  done  to  the  fundamentals  of  Chris- 

matic  tian  consciousness.     Not  only  does  the 

mind  of  the  Christian  revolt  from 
seeing  in  Christ  anything  less  than  true  God,  but 
it  revolts  from  finding  in  Him  two  centers  of 
personality — Christ  was  One.  But  as  omniscience 
is  an  essential  attribute  of  God,  it  is  an  essential 
attribute  of  the  incarnate  Son.  So  does  not  any 
limitation  of  Christ's  human  knowledge  tend  to 
vitiate  a  sound  doctrine  of  the  incarnation?  Cer- 
tainly, to  say  with  the  upholders  of  the  kenosis  in 
its  "classical"  form  that  the  Son,  by  an  exercise  of 
His  will,  determined  to  be  ignorant  as  man,  is  not 
helpful,  as  the  abandonment  by  God  of  one  of  His 
own  essential  attributes  would  be  the  prepos- 
terous corollary.  (2)  Yet  the  Bib.  data  are  explicit, 
and  an  explanation  of  some  kind  must  be  found. 
And  the  solution  seems  to  lie  in  an  ambiguous  use 
of  the  word  "knowledge,"  as  applied  to  Christ  as 
God  and  as  man.  When  we  speak  of  a  man's 
knowledge  in  the  sense  discussed  in  the  kenotic 
doctrine,  we  mean  the  totality  of  facts  present  in 
his  intellect,  and  by  his  ignorance  we  mean  the  ab- 
sence of  a  fact  or  of  facts  from  that  intellect.  Now 
in  the  older  discussions  of  the  subject,  this  intel- 
lectual knowledge  was  tacitly  assumed  (mystical 
theology  apart)  to  be  the  only  knowledge^  worthy 
of  the  name,  and  so  it  was  at  the  same  time  also 
assumed  that  God's  knowledge  is  intellectual  also 
— "God  geometrizes."  Under  this  assumption 
God's  knowledge  is  essentially  of  the  same  kind  as 
man's,  differing  from  man's  only  in  its  purity  and 
extent.  And  this  assumption  is  made  in  all  dis- 
cussions that  speak  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Son  as 
God  illuminating  His  mind  as  man.  (3)  Modern 
critical  epistemology  has,  however,  taught  roan  a 
sharp  lesson  in  humility  by  demonstrating  that  the 
intellect  is  by  no  means  the  perfect  instrument 
that  it  has  been  assumed  to  be.  And  the  faults  are 
by  no  means  faults  due  to  lack  of  instruction,  evil 
desires,  etc,  but  are  resident  in  the  intellect  itself, 
and  inseparable  from  it  as  an  intellect.  Certain 
recent  writers  (Bergson,  most  notably)  have  even 
built  up  a  case  of  great  strength  for  regarding  the 
intellect  as  a  mere  product  of  utilitarian  develop- 
ment,  with  the  defects  resulting  naturally  from  such 


1793 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Kenites 
Key 


an  evolution.  More  esp.  does  this  restriction  of  the 
intellect  seem  to  be  true  in  religious  knowledge,  even 
if  the  contentions  of  Kant  and  (esp.)  Ritschl  be  not 
fully  admitted.  Certain  it  is,  in  any  case,  that  even 
human  knowledge  is  something  far  wider  than  intel- 
lectual knowledge,  for  there  are  many  things  that  we 
know  that  we  never  could  have  learned  through  the 
intellect,  and,  apparently,  many  elements  of  our 
knowledge  are  almost  or  quite  incapable  of  transla- 
tion into  intellectual  terms.  Omniscience,  then, 
is  by  no  means  intellectual  omniscience,  and  it  is 
not  to  be  reached  by  any  mere  process  of  expansion 
of  an  intellect.  An  "omniscient  intellect"  is  a  con- 
tradiction in  terms.  (4)  In  other  words,  God's 
omniscience  is  not  merely  human  intellectual  knowl- 
edge raised  to  the  infinite  power,  but  something 
of  an  entirely  different  quality,  hardly  conceivable 
to  human  thought — as  different  from  human  intel- 
lectual knowledge  as  the  Divine  omnipotence  is 
different  from  muscular  strength.  Consequently, 
the  passage  of  this  knowledge;  into  a  human  intellect 
is  impossible,  and  the  problem  of  the  incarnation 
should  l)e  stated:  What  effect  did  Divine  omnis- 
cience in  the  person  have  on  the  conscious  intellect 
of  the  manhood?  There  is  so  little  help  from  the 
past  to  be  gained  in  answering  this  question,  that  it 
must  remain  open  at  present — if,  indeed,  it  is  ever 
capable  of  a  full  answer.  But  that  ignorance  in  the 
intellect  of  the  manhood  is  fully  consistent  with 
omniscience  in  the  person  seems  to  be  not  merely 
a  safe  answer  to  the  question  as  stated,  but  an  in- 
evitable answer  if  the  true  humanity  of  Christ  is  to 
be  maintained  at  all. 

Literature. — Sanday's  Christology  and  Personality, 
1911,  and  La  Zouche,  The  Person  of  Christ  in  Modern 
Thought,  1912,  are  among  the  latest  discussions  of  the 
subject,  with  very  full  references  to  the  modern  literature. 

Burton  Scott  Easton 

KERAS,  ke'ras  (Kipas,    Kiras):    In  1  Esd  5  29, 

the  head  of  a  family  of  temple-servants,  called 
"Keroz"  in  Ezr  2  44;  Neh  7  47. 

KERCHIEF,  ker'chif  (ninEC'a ,  mispahoth;  em- 
PoXaia,  epibdlaia):  Occurs  only  in  Ezk  13  18.21,  in 
a  passage  which  refers  to  some  species  of  divination. 
Their  exact  shape;  or  use  is  unknown.  They  wen;  ap- 
parently long  veils  or  coverings  put  over  the  heads 
of  those  consulting  the  false  prophetesses  and 
reaching  down  to  the  feet,  for  they  were  for  "per- 
sons of  every  stature." 

KEREN-HAPPUCH,  ker'en-hap'uk,  ke'ren- 
hap'uk  (TpEn  "pp  ,  keren  happukh,  "horn  of  anti- 
mony," i.e.  beautifier;  LXX  'Ap.a\6eias  ta'pas, 
Arnaltheias  kiras):  The  3d  daughter  of  Job  (Job 
42  14),  born  after  his  restoration  from  affliction. 
Antimony,  producing  a  brilliant  black,  was  used 
among  the  Orientals  for  coloring  the  edges  of  the  eye- 
lids, making  the  eyes  large  and  lustrous.  Hence  the 
suggestiveness  of  this  name  of  an  article  of  the  ladies' 
toilet ,  a  little  horn  or  receptacle  for  the  eye-paint. 

KERIOTH,  ke'ri-oth,  -5th  (nTHR  ,  Ifrlyoth): 

(1)  A  city  of  Moab,  named  with  Beth-meon  and 
Bozrah  (Jer  48  24.41).  Here  was  a  sanctuary  of 
Chemosh,  to  which  Mesha  says  (M  S,  1.  13)  he 
dragged  "the  altar  hearths  of  Davdoh."  It  may 
possibly  be  represented  by  the  modern  Kuraiat, 
between  Diban  and  ^AtMrus.  Some  (e.g.  Driver  on 
Am  2  2)  think  it  may  be  only  another  name  for 
Ar-Moab.  Buhl  (GAP,  270)  would  identify  it 
with  Kir  of  Moab  (Kerak).  No  certainty  is  yet 
possible. 

(2)  A  city  of  Judah  (Josh  15  25;  RV  Kerioth- 
hezhon  [q.v.]),  possibly  the  modern  el-Kuryatain, 
to  the  N.E.  of  Tell  'Arad.  W.  Ewing 


.  KERIOTH-HEZRON,  ke'ri-oth-hez'ron  (nTHR 
"p-ffin ,  kerlyoth  heqron;  Josh  15  25  says,  "The 
same  is  Hazor";  AV  "Kerioth  and  Hezron  which 
is  Hazor"):  One  of  the  cities  in  the  "south" 
of  Judah.  Robinson  (BR,  II,  101)  identifies  it 
with  the  ruined  site  of  Kuryatain,  4|  miles  N. 
of  Tell  lArdd.  It  has  been  suggested  that  Kerioth 
was  the  birth  place  of  Judas  Iscariot  (q.v.).  Cf 
Kerioth,  2. 

KERNEL,  kur'nel  (DWirj ,  harcannim,  EV  "ker- 
nels"; LXX  reads  slemphullon  used  by  Aristopha- 
nes as  =  olives  from  which  oil  has  been  pressed, 
later,  in  same,  of  raisin  pulp):  Mentioned  in  Nu  6 
4  along  with  3T ,  zagh,  trd  "husks."  This  tr,  "ker- 
nels" or  "grape  stones,"  is  from  the  Tg  and  Talm, 
but  is  doubtful,  and  it  may  be  the  word  should  be 
tr(1  "sour  grapes." 

KEROS,  ke'ros  (O'TJJ,  keros,  "fortress"[?]):  One 
of  the  Nethinim  (Ezr  2  44;  Neh  7  47),  an  order 
appointed  to  the  liturgical  offices  of  the  temple. 
See  Nethinim. 

KESIL,  ke'zil  (Orion).     See  Astronomy. 

KESITAH,  kes'i-ta,  ke-se'ta  (rVEPtt?]? ,  k'sltdh). 
Sec  Piece  of  Money. 

KETAB,  ke'tab  (K^rdp,  Ketdb):  Ancestor  of  a 
family  of  Nethinim  (I  Esd  5  30). 

KETTLE,  ket"l:  In  EV  only  in  1  S  2  14  for 
dudh,  "a  vessel  for  cooking."  The  same  word 
in  2  Ch  35  13  is  rendered  "caldrons,"  and  in 
Job  41  20  (Heb  12),  "pot."  Ps  81  0  (Heb  7)  (AV 
"pots")  belongs  rather  to  another  signification  of 
the  word  (RV  "basket,"  for  carrying  clay  or 
bricks). 

KETURAH,  kc-tu'ra,  ke-too'ra  (TTVlBpJ,  k'turah; 
X«TTovpa,  Chettoura,  "incense"):  The  second  wife 
of  Abraham  (Gen  25  1;  1  Ch  1  32  f).  Accord- 
ing to  the  Bib.  tradition,  he  contracted  this  second 
marriage  after  the  death  of  Sarah  (cf  Gen  23),  and 
very  likely  after  the  marriage;  of  Isaac  (cf  Gen  24). 
It  is  not  improbable  that ,  as  some  writers  have  sug- 
gested, this  change  in  the  life  of  his  son  prompted 
Abraham  to  remarry  in  order  to  overcome  the  feel- 
ing of  lonesomeness  caused  by  Isaac's  entering  the 
state  of  matrimony. 

1  Ch  1  32  (and  also  Gen  25  0)  shows  us  that 
K.  was  not  considered  to  be  of  the  same  dignity  as 
Sarah  who,  indeed,  was  the  mother  of  the  son  of 
promise,  and,  for  obvious  reasons,  the  sons  of 
Abraham's  concubines  were  separated  from  Isaac. 
She  was  the  mother  of  0  sons  representing  Arab 
tribes  S.  and  E.  of  Pal  (Gen  25  1-6),  so  that, 
through  the  offspring  of  Keturah  Abraham  became 
"the  father  of  many  nations."        William  Baur 

KEY,  ke  (nrffi'Q,  maphteah,  an  "opener";  cf 
K\eis,  kleis,  "that  which  shuts"):  Made  of  wood, 
usually  with  nails  which  fitted  into  correspond- 
ing holes  in  the  lock,  or  rather  bolt  (Jgs  3  25). 
Same  is  rendered  "opening"  in  1  Ch  9  27.  See 
House. 

Figurative:  Used  fig.  for  power,  since  the  key  was 
some-times  worn  on  the  shoulder  as  a  sign  of  official 
authority  (Isa  22  22).  In  the  NT  it  is  used 
several  times  thus  fig.:  of  Peter:  "the  keys  of  the 
kingdom  of  heaven"  (Mt  16  19);  of  Christ,  in 
Rev,  having  the  "keys  of  death  and  of  Hades" 
(1  18),  also  having  "the  key  of  David"  (3  7).  An 
angel  was  given  "the  key  of  the  pit  of  the  abyss"  (9 


Keys,  Power  of     THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1794 


1;   20   1).     Our   Lord    accused  the  teachers  of    the 
law  of  His  day  of  taking  away  "the  key  of  knowl- 


Egyplian  Key. 

edge"  from  men,  that  is,  locking  the  doors  of  truth 
against  them  (Lk  11  52;    cf  Mt  23    13). 

Edward  Bagby  Pollard 
KEYS,  kez,  POWER  OF: 

I.     The    Problems   Involved 

1.  The  Keys;   and  the  Binding  and  Loosing 

2.  Meaning  of  the  Statements 

3.  How   Peter  Is  Related  to  These  Powers 

4.  Is    the    Primary    Idea    That    of    Position    and 
Authority  ? 

II.     Views   Maintained 

1.  Agent  of  the  Power 

2.  Nat  are  of  the  Power 
:;.  scope  of  t  lie  Power 

III.  Data  for  Deciding  the  Questions  Involved 

1.  Passages  Employing  the  Terms  •'Key,"  "Bind- 
ing and  Loosing" 

2.  Related  Passages 

3.  Examples  of  Exercise  of  This  Power 

IV.  Conclusion 

1.  Nature:  of  the  Power 

2.  Agent  of  the  Power 

3.  Scope  of  the  Power 

There  is  no  more  stubbornly  contested  conception 
in  Christian  terminology.  The  thought  connects 
itself  immediately  with  Mt  16  19,  but  it  is  hardly 
correct,  to  say  that  it  originates  there,  for  the  con- 
troversy is  one  that  grows  out  of  the  conflict  of 
forces  inherent,  in  the  institutional  development  of 
religion  and  of  society.  It  must  have  arisen,  in 
any  event,  if  there  had  been  no  such  word  as  that 
in  Mt  16  19,  although  not  in  the  same  terms  as  it 
is  now  found.  Since  the  Reformation  it  has  been 
recognized,  by  Catholic  and  Protestant,  that  on  the 
interpretation  of  this  passage  depends  the  authority 
of  the  Church  of  Rome  and  its  exclusive  claims,  so 
far  as  their  foundation  in  Scripture  is  concerned; 
while  on  the  other  hand  there  is  involved  the  "va- 
lidity" of  the  "sacraments,"  "ordinances"  and 
"orders"  of  Protestantism  and  the  very  hope  of 
salvation  of  Protestants. 

/.  The  Problems  Involved. — The  crucial  passage 
has  two  declarations,  commonly  spoken  of  as 
promises  to  Peter:  to  him  Christ  will 
1.  The  give    the    keys    of    the    kingdom    of 

Keys;  and  heaven;  whatsoever  he  shall  bind  on 
the  Binding  earth  shall  be  bound  in  heaven,  while 
and  Loosing  whatsoever  he  shall  loose  on  earth 
shall  be  loosed  in  heaven.  How  are 
the  facts  of  having  committed  to  him  the  keys  and 
the  function  of  binding  and  loosing  related?  Are 
they  two  forms  of  one  declaration?  Is  the  first 
general,  and  the  second  a  specific  sphere  of  its  appli- 
cation? 

Both  statements  are  made  in  figurative  terms. 
That  of  the  keys  is  supposed  to  be  drawn  from  the 
duties  of  the  chief  steward  of  a  house,  or  establish- 
ment .  The  idea  of  the  keys  of  a  city  turned 
over  to  some  distinguished  person  is  advanced,  but 
is   hardly    to   be   considered.     We   need,   then,  to 


know  the  functions  of  the  chief  steward  and  how 

they  apply  to  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  and  to  Peter 

as   its   steward.     What   was   Peter  to 

2.  Meaning  bind  and  loose,  men  or  things,  per- 
of  the  sons  or  teachings?  Numerous  examples 
Statements    could  be  cited  of  the  use  of  these;  terms 

to  signify  forbidding  (binding)  and  per- 
mitting (loosing)  conduct  as  legitimate  under  the 
law  of  the  OT  (Lightfoot,  McClintock  and  Strong, 
Schaff-Herzog,  Hastings,  etc).  The  strict  school 
of  Shamniai  bound  many  things  loosed  by  the  laxer 
school  of  Hillel  (Broadus,  Mt).  Is  this  conclusive 
that  Jesus  is  here  giving  Peter  authority  for  "lay- 
ing down  the  law  for  his  fellow-disciples,"  "author- 
ity to  say  what  the  law  of  God  allows,  and  what  it 
forbids,"  "the  power  of  legislation  for  the  church"? 
(Cf  Mason  in  II DB,  IV,  30.) 

Ecclesiastical  contentions  turn  esp.  on  Peter's 
relation  to  these  words  of  Jesus.     Do  they  signify 

powers  and  "privileges"  conferred  on 

3.  How  Peter,  exclusively  or  representatively? 
Peter  Is  An;  they  official  or  personal?  Do 
Related  to  they  belong  to  other  apostles,  and  to 
These  other  officers  besides  apostles?  Can 
Powers           the  powers  be  exercised  by  individuals 

or  by  the  church  alone?  If  any  be- 
sides Peter  have  these;  powers,  do  they  pass  to  them 
from  Peter,  and  how? 

What  seems  to  the  writer  a  fundamental  question 

here  is  either  passed  over  very  lightly  or  entirely 

omitted  in  the  discussions  of  this  sub- 

4.  Is  the  ject.  Did  Jesus  mean  by  these  words 
Primary  to  confer  on  Peter,  or  on  anyone  to 
Idea  That  whom  they  may  apply,  authority,  or 
of  Position  obligation;  privilege,  or  responsibility? 
and  Does  He  promise  position,  or  does  He 
Authority?     impose  duty?     These  alternatives  are 

not  necessarily  exclusive,  but  the  inter- 
pretation of  the  thought  will  be  determined  in  no 
small  measure  by  when;  the  si  ress  is  laid. 

//.  Views  Maintained. — The  possibilities  have 
been  exhausted  in  the  interpretations  and  appli- 
cations advocated.  It  is  not  possible 
1.  Agent  of  to  classify  on  lines  of  the  creeds,  ex- 
the  Power  cept  very  generally,  for  then;  is  little 
uniformity  of  view  existing  within  the 
various  communions. 

(1)  Generally  speaking,  the  Roman  Catholic 
church  gives  to  Peter  a  unique  position.  Her 
theologians  also  agree  that  all  the  powers  and  privi- 
leges of  Peter  descend  to  his  successors  in  the 
vicarate  of  Christ.  When  the  question  is  raised 
of  the  extension  of  these  prerogatives  beyond  Peter 
and  the  popes,  all  sorts  of  views  are  held,  concern- 
ing both  the  fact  and  the  method  of  that  extension. 

(2)  Among  Protestants  there  is  general  agree- 
ment that  the  church  is  the  agent  of  this  power,  but 
there  is  not  uniformity  as  to  the  nature  of  the  au- 
thority or  the  manner  of  its  exercise. 

(3)  Some  think  that  Peter  has  no  peculiar  rela- 
tion to  the  keys;  that  these  words  were  spoken  to 
him  only  as  the  first  who  gave  expression  to  that 
conception  and  experience,  on  the;  basis  of  which 
Jesus  commits  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  to  any  be- 
liever in  Him  as  the  Christ  of  God. 

We  may  summarize  the  more  important  views 
as  to  Peter  thus:  (a)  the  power  committed  to  him 
alone  and  exercised,  (i)  at  Pentecost,  or  (ii)  at 
Pentecost,  Caesarea  and  other  places;  (b)  the  power 
committed  to  Peter  and  to  the  other  apostles,  in- 
cluding Paul,  discharged  by  them,  and  descended 
to  no  others;  (c)  the  power  conferred  on  Peter 
officially  and  on  his  official  successors;  (d)  the  power 
conferred  on  Peter  and  the  other  apostles  and  to 
such  as  hold  their  place  in  the  church;  (e)  that  the 
power  belongs  to  Peter  as  representative  of  the 
church,  and  so  to  the  church  to  be  exercised  (i)  by 


1795 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA     Keys,  Power  of 


the  officials  of  the  church,  (ii)  by  the  officials  and 
those  to  whom  they  commit  it,  (iii)  by  all  priests 
and  persons  allowed  to  represent  the  church,  de 
facto,  (iv)  by  the  church  in  its  councils,  or  other 
formal  and  official  decisions,  (v)  by  the  church  in  a 
less  formal  way  than  (iv),  (vi)  by  all  members  of 
the  church  as  representing  it  without  specific  com- 
mission; (/)  that  it  belongs  to  the  Christian  as  such, 
and  so  is  imposed  upon,  or  offered  to,  all  Christians. 
There  is  general — not  absolute — agreement  that 
the  holder  of  the  keys  is  to  admit  men  into  the 
kingdom.      It  is  not  agreed   that  the 

2.  Nature  holder  of  the  keys  may,  or  can,  deter- 
of  the  mine  who  are  members  of  the  kingdom. 
Power  Both    sides    are    taken.      Some    think 

that  the  power  is  that  of  announcing 
authoritatively  the  conditions  of  entrance,  while 
others  insist  that  the  holder  of  the  keys  also  deter- 
mines what  individuals  have  accept ed  t  he  condit  ions. 

(1)  There  is  strong  support  for  the  view  that  the 
primary  function  of   the   keys  lies  in   determining 

the   teaching  of   the   kingdom,   main- 

3.  Scope  of   taining  purity  of  doctrine.    Emphasis 
the  Power      is  laid  on  the  use  of  the  neuter,  "what- 
soever"— not  ''whomsoever" — with  the 

binding  and  loosing.  This  would  lead,  however,  to 
the  secondary  and  implied  function  of  declaring  who 
had  or  had  not  accepted  the  teaching  of  the  kingdom. 

(2)  In  the  Roman  Catholic  church  we  find  insist- 
ence on  distinguishing  between  the  general  authority 
of  the  keys  in  all  affairs  of  the  church  and  religion, 
and  the  binding  and  loosing  which  they  specifically 
apply  to  absolution.  Only  on  this  last  are  Catho- 
lics in  full  agreement.  That  t  he  church  administers 
salvation  is  held  by  Rom  and  Gr  Catholics  and  by 
not  a  few  Protestants,  although  Protestants  do  not, 
as  a  rule,  claim  exclusive  power  in  salvation  as  do 
the  others.  Absolution  is  held  to  be  a  general 
(derived)  priestly  function,  while  the  authority  of 
the  keys  resides  in  the  pope  alone. 

(3)  Eminent  Catholic  authorities  admit  that 
the  Fathers  generally  understood  tin1  keys  to  sig- 
nify the  power  of  forgiving  sins,  and  that  they 
seldom  make  any  reference  to  the  supremacy  of 
Peter.  But  they  claim  that  rarely  the  Lathers  do 
take  "Christ's  promise  in  the  fuller  meaning  of  the 
gift  of  authority  over  the  church."  Suarez  was 
the  first  to  develop  the  doctrine  that  it  conferred  on 
Peter  and  his  successors  authority  in  its  widest  sense, 
administrative  and  legislative. 

(4)  The  extension  of  the  authority  of  the  keys 
to  include  civil  matters  is  a  contention  of  the  Rom 
church,  shared  in  modified  form  by  some  Protes- 
tants. Indeed  the  relation  of  ecclesiastical  to  civil 
authority  must  be  said  still  to  be  awaiting  clear 
definition  in  Protestantism.  Macedo  (De  Clavibus 
Petri)  claims  the  theologians  of  the  church  for  the 
civil  authority  of  tin;  keys.  Joyce  in  the  Catholic 
Enc  affirms  that  he  is  unable  to  verify  this  claim, 
but,  on  the  contrary,  finds  that  the  opponents  of 
the  extension  of  the  authority  of  the  church  to 
civil  matters  use  Mt  16  19  in  support  of  their  posi- 
tion on  the  ground  that  to  Peter  were  committed  the 
keys  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  not  of  the  kingdoms 
of  this  world. 

///.  Data  for  Deciding  the  Questions  Involved. — 
We  must  first,   examine  the  Scriptures  employing 

the  terms  we  seek  to  define.  (1)  Mt 
1.  Passages  16  19,  the  crucial  passage,  is  part  of  a 
Employing  paragraph  over  which  there  is  no  end  of 
the  Terms  controversy.  The  incident  at  Caesarea 
"Key,"  Philippi  was  understood  then  and  after- 

"Binding"  ward  to  mark  an  epoch  in  the  life 
and  "Loos-  and  teaching  of  Jesus.  Having  elicit- 
ing" ed  Peter's  confession,  Jesus  pronounces 

a  benediction  on  him  because  his  in- 
sight represented  a  Divinely  mediated  experience 


of  fundamental  significance  in  His  own  plan  and 
mission.  Jesus  goes  on  to  say:  "And  I  also  say 
unto  thee,  that  thou  art  Peter  ["a  stone"],  and  upon 
this  rock  I  will  build  my  church;  and  the  gates  of 
Hades  shall  not  prevail  against  it"  (ver  18).  The 
controversy  rages  about  "Peter"  (-n-eVpos,  petros) 
and  the  "rock"  (-n-expa,  pelra),  "gates  of  Hades," 
and  "prevail  against  it."  Are  the  church  to  be 
built  on  the  rock  and  the  kingdom  whose  keys  are 
to  be  given  to  Peter  the  same?  Such  a  shifting 
of  figure  is  not  conclusive  against  the  thought. 
Perhaps  the  church  is  the  organic  form  of  the  king- 
dom, its  personal  content  and  expression  on  earth 
at  any  given  time.  This  church  exists  wherever 
men  consciously  accept  and  are  included  in  the 
kingdom.  The  kingdom  will  always  embrace  in- 
fluences, institutions,  individuals,  not  be  reckoned 
in  any  organized  or  visible  church.  The  church 
has  never  had — in  the  nature  of  the  case  can  never 
have — one  complete  organization  including  all  the 
organized  life  of  the  kingdom,  or  even  of  the  church. 
Any  claims  to  this  are  contradicted  by  facts  obvious 
at  every  moment  of  history.  The  change  in  figure 
from  ver  18  to  ver  19  is  not  conclusive  against  sup- 
posing the  church  to  be  built  in  him.  But  it  seems 
far  better  to  understand  that  Peter  is  the;  first  stone 
in  the  building,  while  the  foundation  is  that  vital 
experience  in  which  Peter  came  to  know  Jesus  as 
the  Christ,  the  Son  of  Cod.  On  this  is  erected  the 
church,  out  of  those  living  stones  (Xidoi  fibres,  lithoi 
zonles,  1  Pet  2  4)  that  know  and  confess  Jesus  the 
Christ.  The  transition  is  thus  easy  to  giving  Peter 
the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  and  the  reason 
for  giving  them  to  him  rather  than  to  any  other  may 
be  found  in  the  fact  that  he  is  now  the  first  so  to 
enter  into  the  kingdom  as  to  be  fitted  for  church 
functions. 

It  is  not  needful  to  determine,  for  our  purpose, 
the  exact  meaning  of  "gates  of  Hades"  and  their  not 
prevailing  against  the  church  (cf  various  comms.). 
It  is  clear  that  the  church  is  to  persist  in  the  life 
of  the  world  and  so  the  kingdom  will  not  lack  or- 
ganized and  aggressive  expression.  Nor  does  the 
relation  of  binding  and  loosing  depend  at  all  upon 
the  critical  question  of  reading  or  omitting  "and" 
between  the  two  parts  of  the  verse.  The  conviction 
could  hardly  be  escaped  that  the  latter  function  is 
intimately  related  to  the  former,  and  is  cither  di- 
rectly or  indirectly  involved  within  it. 

(2)  The  pi.  "keys,"  occurs  elsewhere  only  in  Rev 
1  18,  where  the  Christ  represents  Himself  as  hold- 
ing the  keys  of  death  and  of  Hades.  The  word 
"Hades"  might  connect  this  with  Mt  16  19.  The 
immediate  occasion  for  the  statement  is  that  He 
who  was  dead,  is  alive;  He  has  not  only  overcome 
death  in  His  own  person  but  has  conquered  it  and 
its  realm,  so  that  they  can  no  more  have  power  ex- 
cept as  subject  to  Him,  since  He  holds  their  keys. 
Men  on  earth  will  either  fall  under  the  power  of 
death  and  Hades  or  they  must  enter  the  kingdom  of 
heaven.  If  the  living  Christ  has  the  keys  of  the 
kingdom  in  the  hands  of  Peter,  or  other  friends,  and 
holds  t he  keys  of  its  enemies  in  His  own  hands,  the 
work  will  go  on  wit  h  success.  It  is  not  certain  that 
the  two  passages  can  properly  be  so  closely  con- 
nected, but  they  thus  afford  just  the  assurance  that 
is  contained  for  the  churches  in  Rev. 

(3)  In  Rev  3  7  Christ  appears  in  the  character, 
"he  that  is  holy,  he  that  is  true,  he  that  hath  the 
key  [sing.]  of  David,  he  that  openeth  and  none  can 
shut,  and  that  shutteth  and  none  openeth."  The 
idea  is  not  restricted  but  indicates  mastery  over  all 
things  in  the  Messianic  kingdom,  its  own  operations 
and  all  forms  of  opposition.  In  the  next  verse,  as 
a  specific  instance,  He  has  set  before  the  church  at 
Philadelphia  an  open  door  (opportunity  and  prog- 
ress) which  none  can  shut.     Cf  as  to  this  Eph  1  22. 


Keys,  Power  of 
Kidneys 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


179G 


(4)  It  seems  to  be  taken  for  granted  that  Jesus, 
in  Mt  16  19,  had  direct  reference  to  lsa  22  22, 
yet  the  passage  is  not  Messianic  except  in  a  general 
sense  and  on  the  assumption  that  the  power  of  Jen 
over  the  nations  in  the  OT  is  wielded  by  the  Christ 
in  the  NT  (see  Jehovah;  Loud).  Eliakim  is  to 
have  absolute  power,  holding  the  key  of  the  house 
of  David.  The  use  of  the  words  "open"  and  "shut," 
as  well  as  the  general  conception,  connects  the 
passage  rather  with  ReV  3  7. 

(o)  Rev  9  1;  20  1  are  to  be  taken  together. 
"The  key  of  the  pit  of  the  abyss"  in  the  hands  of 
the  angel  or  angels  signifies,  in  these  specific  cir- 
cumstances, the  same  power  as  that  indicated  in 
1  IS. 

(ti)  Tn  Lk  11  52  Jesus  pronounces  a  woe  upon 
the  "lawyers"  who  had  "taken  away  the  key  of 
knowledge"  from  the  people,  neither  entering  in  nor 
allowing  those  about  to  go  in,  to  enter.  The  knowl- 
edge of  God  and  Divine  things  was  in  the  control, 
in  great  measure,  of  these  scribes.  This  connects 
the  figure  directly  with  the  idea  of  Mt  16  19,  and 
the  connection  is  emphasized  by  comparing  Mt 
23  2  f ;  and  is  made  definite  by  the  word  of  Jesus 
in  Mt  13  52  with  which  is  to  be  compared  Lk  12 
42,  where  it  would  not  be  allowable  to  suppose  that 
Jesus  meant  to  limit  the  idea  of  "the  faithful  and 
wise  steward"  to  Peter.  This  passage  with  the 
references  seems  to  be  highly  important  for  our 
subject- 
Light  is  to  be  drawn  from  several  passages  that 
do  not  use  the  exact  terms  of  Mt  16  19,  but  that 

deal  with  the  same  general  ideas. 
2.  Related  (1)  Mt  18  18  places  the  respon- 
Passages  sibility  for  binding  and  loosing  on  all 
disciples  (18  1),  and  the  reason  is  ex- 
plained in  the  assured  presence  of  the  Christ  Him- 
self in  any  company  of  two  or  three  who  have  come 
together  in  prayer  touching  any  matter  in  His  name, 
i.e.  as  His  representatives.  The  immediate  refer- 
ence is  to  matters  of  discipline  in  the  effort  to  rescue 
any  "brother"  from  sin.  The  passage  is  to  be 
taken  of  sin  generally,  for  the  reading  "against 
thee"  (ver  15)  is  to  be  rejected,  in  spite  of  both 
revised  VSS.  The  reference  of  binding  and  loosing 
here  to  the  man  is  conclusive  against  limiting  the 
idea  in  16  19  to  teaching  (cf  also  Lk  17  Iff).  It 
is  also  to  be  noted  that  the  responsibility  is  placed 
upon  the  individual  Christian  to  cooperate  with 
others  when  necessary. 

(2)  Mt  9  8  shows  that  the  multitude  recognized 
that  God  had  given  power  on  earth  to  pronounce 
forgiveness  of  sins,  and  apparently  they  do  not 
limit  this  power  to  the  Divine  Person,  for  they  do 
not  vet  know  Him  as  such. 

(3)  Jas  5  14  ff  recognizes  the  value  of  elders,  and 
probably  of  others  also,  in  securing  the  forgiveness 
of  them  that  have  sinned. 

(4)  What  one  must  regard  as  the  proper  starting- 
point  for  studying  this  subject  is  Jn  20  21  ff.  Ap- 
pearing to  ten  of  the  apostles  and  to  others  on  the 
first  night  after  the  resurrection,  Jesus  says:  "As 
the  Fat  her  sent  me,  even  so  send  I  you.  And  when 
he  had  said  this,  he  breathed  on  them,  and  saith 
unto  them,  Whose  soever  sins  ye  forgive,  they  are 
forgiven  unto  them;  whose  soever  ye  retain,  they 
are  retained."  By  comparing  this  with  the  corre- 
sponding account  in  Lk  24  we  see  that  Jesus  is 
directing  that  they  shall  carry  on  His  work  (see  also 
Jn  14  12  1  1;  15  15.16),  that  He  teaches  them  at 
length  of  the  nature  of  His  work  as  seen  in  the  OT, 
and  that  the  method  of  their  work  is  to  be  preach- 
ing repentance  and  remission  of  sins  in  His  name 
among  all  nations.  Significant  for  our  purpose  are 
the  presence  of  others  than  the  apostles,  thegift  of 
the  Holy  Spirit,  His  own  self-projection  in  His 
messengers,  and  the  solemn  statement  that  the  sins 


of  men  will  be  retained  or  forgiven  as  it  is  done 
through  these  followers. 

(1)  It  is  remarkable  that  there  is  no  distinct 
reference  to  this  authority  of  the  keys  in  the  records 

of  the  work  of  the  apost les  and  ot hers 
3.  Examples  in  the  NT.  Their  consciousness  seems 
of  Exercise  most  of  nil  to  have  been  dominated 
of  This  by  the  fact  that  they  were  witnesses  of 

Power  Jesus,    and    this   corresponds   exactly 

with  the  point  of  emphasis  in  all  the 
various  forms  and  occasions  of  the  giving  of  the  com- 
mission (see  Acts  2  32;  3  15;  4  33;  5  32;  10  39.41; 

13  31;  1  Pet  5  1;  cf  Carver,  Missions  in  the  Piano} 
the  Ages).     It  is  said  of  Paul  and  Barnabas  (Acts 

14  27)  that  after  their  first  missionary  journey  they 
rehearsed  to  the  church  at  Antioch  "all  things  that 
God  had  done  with  them,  and  that  he  had  opened 
a  door  of  faith  unto  the  Gentiles."  At  Pentecost  and 
at  other  times  Peter  was  the  chief  speaker,  and  so 
opened  the  door  of  the  kingdom.  Referring  to  his 
preaching  to  Cornelius  and  his  friends,  Peter  reminds 
the  saints  in  the  conference  at  Jerus  (Acts  15)  that 
God  made  choice  among  them,  that  by  his  mouth 
the  Gentiles  should  hear  the  word  of  God  and  be- 
lieve, but  this  was  said  by  way  of  conciliating  the 
Jewish  party  and  not  as  claiming  any  priority  in 
authority.  It  was  Philip,  the  deacon-evangelist, 
who  first  preached  to  the  Samaritans  (Acts  8),  and 
some  "men  of  Cyprus  and  Cyrene,  who,  when  they 
were  come  to  Antioch,  spake  unto  the  Greeks  also, 
preaching  the  Lord  Jesus"  (Acts  11  20),  the  first 
example  of  "opening  a  door  of  faith"  to  full  heathen. 
Peter  appears  in  the  Jerus  conference  with  no 
authority  above  that  of  other  apostles  and  elders. 
By  reference  to  Gal  2  we  see  that  Paul  was  here 
only  as  a  matter  of  prudence  and  fraternity,  not 
recognizing  any  authority  to  legislate  for  his 
churches  or  his  ministry.  The  decision  there 
reached  is  promulgated  as  that  of  the  bret  hren  as  a 
body,  loosing  all  the  law  of  Moses  save  four  matters 
that  were  "necessary"  on  account  of  fundamental 
morals  and  of  the  universal  presence  of  Jews  in 
every  city  (Acts  15  20  f.28f).  In  the  sense  of 
teaching  Christian  conduct  all  Paul's  letters  are 
examples  of  binding  and  loosing. 

(2)  As  to  binding  and  loosing  sins  Peter  speaks 
in  the  cases  of  Ananias  and  Sapphira  (.Vets  5), 
Simon  Magus  (ch8),  and  in  deciding  upon  the  bap- 
tism of  Cornelius  and  his  household  (lO  48).  Paul 
speaks  with  equal  boldness  in  the  judgment  of 
Elymas  (13  10),  where  we  are  told  that  he  was 
under  the  Spirit;  passes  upon  the  faith  of  a  dozen 
men  at  Ephesus,  and  requires  their  new  baptism 
after  instruction  (19  3-7);  commands  the  church 
at  Corinth  to  turn  over  to  Satan  the  incestuous 
man  (1  Cor  5  5;  cf  1  Tim  1  20),  and  later  urges 
the  man's  restoration  to  loving  fellowship,  declaring 
that  he  has  been  forgiven  (2  Cor  2  5  ff).  Obscure 
men  like  Philip  (Acts  8)  and  Ananias  of  Damascus 
in  the  case  of  Paul  himself  (Acts  9)  exercised  the 
same  sort  of  judgment  as  to  the  forgiveness  and 
reception  of  men  into  the  fellowship. 

IV.  Conclusion. — We  sum  up  what  seems  to  be 
the  teaching  of  Scripture.     We  conclude  that  the 

power  is  not  a  special  privilege  and 
1.  Nature  extraordinary  authority,  but  a  re- 
of  the  sponsibility  intrusted  by  Jesus  Christ 

Power  as  the  method  of  extending  His  work. 

There  is  in  it  nothing  magical,  mys- 
terious, or  arbitrary;  not  ecclesiastical  or  official, 
but  spiritual  and  primarily  personal.  The  keys  of 
the  kingdom  of  heaven  are  first  of  all  the  gospel  of 
salvation  through  Jesus  Christ.  By  this  means 
men  are  admitted  into  the  kingdom.  The  fully 
attested  method  of  using  thekeys  is  that  of  wit- 
nessing personally  to  an  experience  of  Jesus  Christ. 
He  was  conferring  power  for  saving  and  not  for 


1797 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Keys,  Power  of 
Kidneys 


barring  from  salvation.  Let  it  be  borne  in  mind 
always  that  Jesus  was  offering  Peter  not  power 
but  duty,  not  privilege  but  responsibility.  Neither 
of  these  terms,  "power"  and  "privilege,"  that  have 
come  to  be  associated  with  the  gift  of  the  keys  occurs 
with  that  gift  in  the  words  of  the  Master.  The 
keys  are  primarily  for  admitting  to  the  kingdom  of 
heaven,  not  for  barring  from  the  church. 

The  holder  of  the  keys  is  any  man  with  that  ex- 
perience that  called  forth  from  Jesus  the  assurance 
that    Peter    should    have    the    keys. 

2.  Agent  Such  a  man  will  be  in  fellowship  and 
of  the  cooperation  with  like  men,  in  a  church, 
Power             and  the  Spirit  of  Jesus  will  be  present 

in  them,  so  that  their  decisions  and 
their  testimony  will  be  His  as  well  as  theirs.  There 
is  a  corporate,  or  church,  agency,  therefore,  and  the 
man  who  would  ignore  that  lacks  the  experience  or 
the  Spirit  needful  for  the  use  of  the  keys.  Yet  the 
church  is  newer  to  overshadow  or  exclude  the  indi- 
vidual responsibility  and  authority. 

It  is  to  be  understood  that  the  keys  of  the  king- 
dom  of   heaven   confer  no   political   authority   or 

power,  save  that  of  holy  and  redemp- 

3.  Scope  tive  influence.  The  kingdom  of  Jesus 
of  the  is  not  of  this  world.  Its  power  is 
Power            spiritual  and  is  to  be  exercised  always 

primarily  in  the  saving  of  men.  Men 
do  not  need  to  be  locked  out  of  the  kingdom.  They 
are  out,  and  too  contented  to  remain  so.  It  does 
happen  that  evil  men  seek  to  take  possession  of  the 
kingdom  for  evil  ends,  and  then  it  is  that  the  au- 
thority rests  in  spiritual  men  to  exclude.  Men  that 
are  to  be  brought  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven  are 
now  in  sin,  and  where  the  duty  of  releasing  them  is 
not  discharged  by  Christians,  the  sinners  are  left 
bound  in  their  sins. 

There  is  also  involved  of  necessity  the  duty  of 
declaring  not  only  the  conditions  of  entrance  into  the 
kingdom,  but  the  courses  of  conduct  appropriate 
to  the  kingdom.  It  is  thus  that  binding  and  loosing 
in  teaching  devolve  upon  the  holders  of  the  keys. 
To  that  extent,  and  in  that  sense,  alone,  is  there  the 
power  of  "legislating"  within  the  kingdom.  This 
is  only  interpreting  and  applying  the  principles  that 
are  given  us  in  the  Scriptures.  See  further  Ab- 
solution; Imposition  of  Hands;  Peter;  Rock. 
William  Owen  Carver 

KEZIAH,  ke-zi'a  (ftp?]},  kqVah,  "cassia"; 
KacrCa,  Kn.v.a,  A,  Kassia) :  The  2d  daughter  of  Job 
(Job  42  14),  born  after  his  restoration  from  afflic- 
tion. The  word  "cassia"  became  a  feminine  name 
from  the  fragrance  of  the  flower. 

KEZIZ,  ke'ziz  ("fSp ,  keglg).     See  Emek-keziz. 
KHAN,  kiin,  kan.     See  Inn. 

KIBROTH-HATTAAVAH,     kib-roth-ha-ta'a-va, 

kib-roth-  (rHXnn  n~np,  kibhroth  ha-la'&wdh,  "the 
graves  of  greed"):  A  desert  camp  of  the  Israelites, 
one  day's  journey  from  the  wilderness  of  Sinai. 
There  the  people  lusted  for  flesh  to  eat,  and,  a  great 
number  of  quails  being  sent,  a  plague  resulted; 
hence  the  name  (Nu  11  34;  33  16;   Dt  9  22). 

KIBZAIM,  kib-za'im,  kib'za-im.     See  Jokmeam. 

KICK  fXaKTito),  laktizo):  In  the  famous  vision 
on  the  road  to  Damascus  the  unseen  voice  said  to 
Saul:  "Why  persecutest  thou  me?  It  is  hard  for 
thee  to  kick  against  t Ik;  goad"  (Acts  9  4f;  26  14). 
The  words  are  omitted  from  the  best  MSS  in  9  4. 
This  was  a  familiar  proverb  in  both  Gr  and  Lat  lit., 
and  refers  to  the  severer  goading  received  by  an  ox 
which  kicks  back  at  the  goad  used  to  guide  or  urge 


him  on.  The  words  seem  to  mean  that  Paul's 
paroxysm  of  persecution  was  a  painful  as  well  as 
profitless  resistance  to  the  pricks  of  conscience  by 
which  God  was  leading  him  into  the  light. 

KID:  (1)  "HS,  g*dhi  (Ex  23  19,  etc);  (2)  fem. 
pdhlyah  (ls&  li  6,  etc);  (3)  D"«H?  i*a ,  ydhl  Hzzlm, 
EV  "kid,"  lit.  "kid  of  the  goats,"  AVm  (Jgs 
6  19,  etc);   (4)  T7,  Vz,  lit.  "goat"  (Dt  14  21;  1  K 

20  27);  (5)  U^y  Tyto  ,  s'Hr  Hzzlm,  AV  "kid  of  the 
goats,"  RV  "he-goat"' (Gen  37  31;  Lev  9  3,  etc); 
(6)  €pi<}>os,  eriphos  (Lk  15  29).     See  Goat. 

KIDNAPPING,  kid'nap-ing  (MANSTEALING)  : 
The  term  itself  occurs  only  in  the  NT  {avdpairoSt.aTTis, 
andrapodistis  ="manstealer")  in  1  Tim  1  10.  The 
crime  was  directly  forbidden  in  the  Heb  law  (Ex 

21  16;  Dt  24  7),  and  was  made  punishable  with 
death. 

KIDNEYS,  kid'niz  (always  in  the  pi.:  fiV'bS, 
kHayolh;  vc<j>pot,  nephroi;  Lat  renes,  whence  the 
Eng.  "reins"):  "Reins"  and  "kidneys"  are  syno- 
nyms, but  AV  undertook  a  distinction  by  using 
the  former  word  in  the  figurative,  the  latter  in  the 
literal  passages.  ERV  has  followed  AV  exactly, 
but  ARV  has  retained  "reins"  only  in  Job  16  13; 
Lam  3  13;  Rev  2  23,  elsewhere  substituting 
"heart,"  except  in  Ps  139  13,  where  "inward  parts" 
is  used.  AV  and  ERV  also  have  "reins"  for  D^VO , 
halaqmjim,  in  Isa  11  5  (ARV  "loins").  The 
physiological  function  of  the  kidneys  is  not  referred 
to  "in  the  Bible,  but  has  been  introduced  (quite 
wrongly)  by  AVm  to  Lev  15  2;  22  4. 

(1)  The  kidneys  owe  their  importance  in  the 
Bible  partly  to  the  fact  that  they  are  imbedded  in 
fat,  and  fat  of  such  purity  that  "fat  of  the  kid- 
neys" was  a  proverbial  term  for  surpassing  excel- 
lence (Dt  32  14m).  Eor  the  visceral  fat  was  the 
part  of  the  animal  best  adapted  for  sacrificial  burn- 
ing, and  hence  came  to  be  deemed  peculiarly  sacred 
(Lev  7  22-25;  1  S  2  16).  Accordingly,  the  kid- 
neys with  the  fat  surrounding  them  were  burned 
in  every  sacrifice  in  which  the  entire  animal  was  not 
consumed,  whether  in  peace  (Lev  3  4.10.15;  9  19), 
sin  (Ex  29  13;  Lev  4  9;  8  10;  9  10),  or  trespass 
(Lev  7  4)  offerings;  cf  the  "ram  of  consecration" 
(Ex  29  22;  Lev  8  25).  So  in  Isa  34  6,  "fat  of 
the  kidneys  of  rams"  is  chosen  as  a  typical  sacrifi- 
cial term  to  parallel  "blood  of  lambs  and  goats." 
(2)  The  position  of  the  kidneys  in  the  body  makes 
them  particularly  inaccessible,  and  in  cutting  up 
an  animal  they  are  the  last  organs  to  be  reached. 
Consequently,  they  were  a  natural  symbol  for  the 
most  hidden  part  of  a  man  (Ps  139  13),  and  in  Job 
16  13  to  "cleave  the  reins  asunder"  is  to  effect  the 
total  destruction  of  the  individual  (cf  19  27;  Lam 
3  13).  This  hidden  location,  coupled  with  the 
sacred  sacrificial  use,  caused  the  kidneys  to  be 
thought  of  as  the  seat  of  the  innermost  moral  (and 
emotional)  impulses.  So  the  reins  instruct  (Ps 
16  7)  or  are  "pricked"  (Ps  73  21),  and  God  can 
be  said  to  be  far  from  the  reins  of  sinners  (Jer 
12  2).  In  all  of  these  passages  "conscience"  gives 
the  exact  meaning.  So  the  reins  rejoice  (Prov  23 
16),  cause  torment  (2  Esd  5  34),  or  tremble  in 
wrath  (1  Mace  2  24).  And  to  "know"  or  "try 
the  reins"  (usually  joined  with  "the  heart")  is  an 
essential  power  of  God's,  denoting  His  complete; 
knowledge  of  the  nature  of  every  human  being 
(Ps  7  9;  26  2;  Jer  11  20;  17  10;  20  12;  Wisd 
1  6;  Rev  2  23).  See  Fat;  Psychology;  Sac- 
rifice. Cf  RS2,  379-SO,  and  for  Gr  sacrificial  paral- 
lels Journal  of  Philology,  XIX  (1890),  46.  The  an- 
atomical relations  are  well  exhibited  in  the  plate  in 
tiliOT,  "Leviticus."  Burton  Scott  Easton 


Kidron 

King,  Kingdom 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1798 


KIDRON,  kid'ron  (KeSpwv,  Kedrdn;  AV  Cedron) : 
A  place  which,  in  obedience  to  Antiochus  Sidetes, 
Cendebaeus  fortified  (1  -Mace  15  39  ff),  to  which, 
when  defeated,  he  fled,  hotly  pursued  by  John  and 
Judas,  sons  of  Simon  the  Maccabee,  who  burned 
the  city  (16  4ff).  It  is  named  along  with  Jamnia 
(Yebna)  and  Azotus  (Esdud).  It  is  possibly  iden- 
tical with  katrah,  a  village  about  3  miles  S.W.  of 
xdkir  (Ekron). 

KIDRON,  THE  BROOK  (flTlp  ^n? ,  nahal 
ki<lhron;  in  Jn  18  1  [AV  Cedron],  6  x€lM-^PP0V5 
xciv  KeSpcov,  ho  cheimdrrhous  ton  Kedrdn,  according 
to  RVm,  the  last  two  words  arc  to  be  considered 
as  meaning  "of  the  cedars."  The  Heb  word  has 
been  very  generally  accepted  as  from  "TjJ? ,  kddhar, 
"to  become  black,"  but  it.  is  an  attractive  sugges- 
tion [Chcyne]  that  it  may  be  a  phonetic  varia- 
tion of  yr\  v.5 ,  gidderon,  "a  spot  for  inclosures  for 
cattle,"  of  which  latter  there  must  have  been  many 
around  the  now  buried  caves  which  lay  at  the  base  of 
the  cliffs  around  the  spring  Gihon) : 

The  Nahal  Kidhron  is  the  valley  known  today 
as  the  Wddy  Sitti  Miriam,  which  lies  between  the 

eastern  walls  of  Jerus  and  the  Mount 
1.  Wady  of  Olives.  It  commences  in  the  pla- 
Sitti  teau  to  the  N.  of  the  city,  and  after 

Miriam  making  a  wide  sweep  S.E.,  under  the 

name  Wady  el  Joz  ("Valley  of  the 
Walnuts"),  passes  S.  until  level  with  the  south- 
eastern corner  of  the  temple-area  where  its  bed  is 


Kidron,  Lookin 


spanned  by  an  old  bridge;  here  the  bottom  of  the 
valley,  40  ft.  beneath  the  present  surface  level,  is  400 
ft.  below  the  temple-platform.  From  this  point 
it  narrows  and  deepens  gradually,  bending  slightly 
W.  of  S.,  and,  after  receiving  the  Tyropceon  valley, 
joins  a  little  farther  S.W.  with  the  Valley  of  Hinnom 
to  form  the  Wddy  en  Ndr.  which  winds  on  through 
the  "wilderness  of  Judaea''  to  the  Dead  Sea.  Where 
the  three  valleys  run  together  is  a  large  open  space 
filled  with  gardens  (the  King's  Gardens,  q.v.), 
which  are  kept  irrigated  all  the  year  round  by  means 
of  the  overflow  waters  from  the  xAin  Silw&n  (see 
Silo  am).  It  is  where  the  Hinnom  valley  runs  into 
the  Kidron  that  some  would  locate  Topheth  (q.v.). 
Except  at  the  irrigated  gardens,  the  ravine  is  a  dry 
valley  containing  water  only  during  and  immedi- 
ately after  heavy  rain,  but  in  ancient  times  the  rocky 
bottom — now  buried  beneath  many  feet  of  rich 
soil — must  have  contained  a  little  stream  from 
Gihon  for  at  least  s.nne  hundreds  of  yards.  This 
was  the  "brook  that  flowed  through  the  midst  of 
the  land"  (2  Ch  32  4).  The  length  of  the  valley 
from  its  head  to  Blr  Eyyub  is  2  J  miles. 

Since  the  4th  cent.  AD,  this  valley  has  been 
known  as  the  Valley  of  Jehoshaphat  (q.v.),  and 
from  quite  early  times  it  was  a  favorite  situation 
for  interments   (2  K  23  4.6.12;  2  Ch  34  4.5);    it 


is  by  Moslem  and  Jewish  tradition  the  scene  of  the 

last  judgment,  and  was  known  to  the  Moslems  in 

the  Middle  Ages  as  Wddy  Jehannum; 

2.  Tradi-  see  Gehenna.  It  is  probable  that  the 
tions  "graves  of  the  common  people,"  where 

King  Jehoiakim  cast  the  body  of  the 
prophet  Uriah,  were  here  (Jer  26  23),  and  it  has 
been  suggested,  with  less  probability,  that  here  too 
may  have  been  the  scene  of  Ezekiel's  vision  of  the 
"valley  of  dry  bones"  (Ezk  37;  cf  Jer  31  40). 

The  Fields  of  Kidron  (2  K  23  4),  though  gen- 
erally identified  with  the  open,  lower  part  of  this 

valley,  where  it  is  .joined  by  the  Tyro- 

3.  The  pceon  valley,  may  more  probably  have 
Fields  of  been  in  the  upper  part  where  the  wide 
Kidron  expanded    valley    receives    the    name 

Wddy  el  Joz;  this  part  is  actually  on 
the  road  to  Bethel. 

The  most  dramatic  scene  associated  with  the 
Kidron   is   that   recorded   in   connection   with   its 

earliest    Scriptural   mention     (2  S  15 

4.  Histori-  23),  when  David,  flying  before  his 
cal  Asso-  rebellious  son  Absalom,  here  stood  on 
ciations  the  Jerus  side  of  the  valley  while  all 

his  adherents  passed  over.  "And  all 
the  country  wept  with  a  loud  voice,  and  all  the 
people  passed  over:  the  king  also  himself  passed 
over  the  brook  Kidron  ....  toward  the  way  of 
the  wilderness."  The  passing  over  this  brook  ap- 
pears to  have  been  viewed  as  the  solemn  abandon- 
ment of  the  Jerus  territory  (cf  1  K  2  37).  In  1  K 
15  13;  2  Ch  15  16,  we  read  that  Asa  burnt  at 
the  brook  Kidron  "an  abominable  image  for  an 
v\sherah"  which  Maacah,  his  mother,  had  set  up. 
In  the  reforms  of  Hezekiah,  "all  the  uncleanness 
that  they  found  in  the  temple  of  Jeh"  was  carried 
by  the  Levites  to  the  brook  Kidron  (2  Ch  29  16); 
"All  the  altars  for  incense  took  they  away,  and  cast 
them  into  the  brook  Kidron"  (30  14).  This  local- 
it  y  was  again  used  in  the  reforms  of  Josiah  when  the 
king  "brought  out  the  Asherah  from  the  house  of 
Jeh,  without  Jerus,  unto  the  brook  Kidron,  and 
burned  it  at  the  brook  Kidron,  and  beat  it  to  dust, 
and  cast  the  dust  thereof  upon  the  graves  of  the  com- 
mon people"  (2  K  23  6).  The  same  treatment  was 
given  to  the  vessels  made  for  Baal,  the  Asherah  and 
the  host  of  heaven  (ver  4),  and  the  two  idolatrous 
altars  of  Manasseh  (ver  12).  Jos  {Ant,  IX,  vii, 
3)  states  that  Athaliah  was  slain  in  the  valley  of 
Kidron,  but  this  does  not  quite  tally  with  the  ac- 
count (2  K  11  16).  It  was  a  valley  associated 
with  graves  and  the  ashes  of  abominations,  but  it 
was  prophesied  that  it  should  be  "holy  unto  Jeh" 
(Jer  31  40).  Twice  it  is  mentioned  simply  as  "the 
valley,"  nahal  (2  Ch  33  14;  Neh  2  15).  Very 
different  from  these  earlier  scenes  is  the  last 
Scriptural  reference  (Jn  18  1),  when  Jesus  "went 
forth  with  his  disciples  over  the  brook  Kidron"  for 
His  last  hours  of  spiritual  struggle  and  prayer 
before  the  turmoil  of  the  end. 

E.  W.  G.  Marterman 
KILAN,    ki'lan    (KiXdv,    Kildn;     AV    Ceilan): 
Mentioned  with  Azetas  in  1  Esd  5  15;    their  sons 
returned  among  the  exiles  with  Zerubbabel.     The 
names  do  not  appear  in  the  lists  of  Ezr  and  Neh. 

KIMAH,  ki'ma  (Pleiades).     See  Astronomy. 

KIN.     See  Kindred. 

KIN,  NEXT  OF.     See  Kinsman. 

KINAH,  kl'na  (<Vp,  kinah):  An  unidentified 
town  on  the  southern  boundary  of  Judah,  toward 
Edom  (Josh  15  22).  The  word  klndh  means 
"elegy,"  "dirge,"  "lament  for  the  dead."  The 
name,  however,  may  have  been  derived  from  the 


1799 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Kidron 

King,  Kingdom 


Kenites,  "C^p. ,  who  had  settlements  in  the  S.  (1  S 
27  10,  etc). 

KINDNESS,  kind'nes  ("OH  ,  hesedh;  xpt1°"t6ti1s, 
chrestotes):  ''Kindness"  in  the  OT  is  (with  one  ex- 
ception) the  tr  of  hesedh,  "kindness,"  ''favor," 
"mercy,"  etc,  used  chiefly  of  man  but  also  of  God 
(Gen  20  13;  40  14;  1  S  15  G;  20  14.15;  2  S 
9  3;  Nt'li  9  17;  Ps  141  5;  Isa  54  8.10,  etc); 
tobh,  "good,"  is  once  so  trd  (2  S  2  G).  In  the  NT 
chrestotes,  "usefulness,"  "beneficence,"  is  rendered 
"kindness"  4  t  in  AV  (2  Cor  6  G;  Eph  2  7;  Col 
3  12;  Tit  3  4,  and  in  Gal  5  22  RV);  see  Gentle- 
ness; Goodness.  Philanthropia,  "love  of  man- 
kind," is  trd  "kindness"  (Acts  28  2),  and  Phila- 
delphia, "love of  the  brotherhood"  (2  Pet  1  7,  ERV 
"love  of  the  brethren,"  ARVm  "Gr,  love  of  the 
brethren"). 

For  "  kindness "  (Ps  31  21)  RVhas  "lpvingkindness," 
and  ARV  in  other  places  where  the  reference  is  to  Cod; 
for  "shew,"  "shewed  kindness"  (Josh  2  12)  "deal," 
"dealt  kindly" ;  for  "The  desire  of  man  is  his  kindness" 
(Prov  19  22)  ARV  has  "That  which  maketh  a  man  to  be 
desired  is  his  kindness,"  ERV  "The  desire  of  man  is  [tho 
measure  of]  his  kindness,"  like  ARV  in  m;  for  "merci- 
ful kindness"  (Ps  117  2)  AKV  has  "lovmgkindness," 
ERV  "mercy";  both  have  " lovingkindness "  (Ps  119 
76);  for  "of  great  kindness"  (Neh  9  17;  Joel  2  13; 
Jon  4  2)  ARV  has  "abundant  in  lovingkindness." 
ERV  "plenteous  in  mercy";  RV  has  "kindness"  for 
"mercy"  ((Jen  39  21);  for  "pity"  (Job  6  14);  for 
"goodness"  (Prov  20  <>) ;  "favor  and  kindness"  ARV, 
for  "grace  and  favor"  (Est  2  17).  See  Lovingkindness; 
Mekcy. 

W.  L.  Walker 

KINDRED,  kin'dred:  Several  words  are  rendered 
"kindred"  in  AV.  FIX,  'ah,  "brother,"  was  used 
loosely  among  Hebrews  for  a  member  of  the  same 
tribe  or  family,  a  relative;  and  isonce  trd  "kindred" 
(1  Ch  12  29  AV).  Once  also  somewhat  loosely 
as  the  tr  of  KP"±113,  modhcfath,  lit.  "acquaintance" 
(Ruth  3  2;  cf  same  root  in  2  1,  rendered  "kins- 
man"); once,  for  the_  figurative  expression,  "men 
of  thy  redemption"  (i-12553,  g"'ullah,  referring  to  the 
law  of  the  redemption  of  land  by  kinsmen,  Lev  25 
25).  The  two  most  common  words  for  kindred  are: 
(\)trhva,moledheth,  "related  by  birth"  (Gen  12  1; 
24  4.7;  31  3.13;  32  9;  43  7;  Nu  10  30;  Est  2 
10.20;  8  6);  (2)  nrffiflhp,  mishpdhah,  "family" 
(Gen  24  38.40.41;  Josh  6  23;  Ruth  2  3;  1  Ch 
16  28;  Job  32  2;  Ps  22  27;  96  7). 

In  the  NT  (several  times),  ytvos,  genos,  "kindred 
by  birth,"  so,  of  same  family,  tribe  or  race  (Acts  4 
6;  7  13.19  RV  "race");  so  also  o-vyytveia,  sug- 
geneia  (Lk  1  61;  Acts  7  3.14).  In  AV  4>v^v, 
phuli,  "tribe,"  rendered  "kindred"  (Rev  17;  5  9; 
7  9;  11  9;  13  7;  14  6),  but  better  "tribe"  as  in 
RV.  TTarpia,  pa/rid,  rendered  "kindred"  in  Acts 
3  25,  is  better  "families,"  as  in  RV. 

Edward  Bagby  Pollard 

KINE,  kin:  (1)  CSbK,  'Maphlm,  pi.  of  Db$, 
'eleph,  "ox,"  or  "cow,"  'ARV  "cattle,"  AV  and 
ERV  "kine"  (Dt  7  13;  28  4.18.51);  (2)  np3 , 
bdkar,  "ox"  or  "cow,"  ARV  "herd,"  AV  and  ERV 
"kine"  (Dt  32  14;  2  S  17  29);  (3)  rTflS,  parolh, 
pi.  of  {"HE,  pdrdh,  "young  cow"  or  "heifer,"  RV 
"kine"  in  Gen  41  2-27;  1  S  6  7-14;  Am  4  1; 
in  Gen  32  15,  ARV  has  "cows."  See  Cattle; 
Cow. 

KING,  KINGDOM,  king'dum: 

I.     Kino 

1.  Etymology  and  Definition 

2.  Earliest  Kings 

3.  Biblical  Signification  of  the  Title 
II.     Kingdom 

1.  Israel's  Theocracy 

2.  Period  of  Judges 

3.  Establishment  of  the  Monarchy 


4.  Appointment  of  King 

5.  Authority  of  tho  King 

6.  Duties  of  the  King 

7.  The  Symbols  of  Royal  Dignity 

8.  Maintenance  and  Establishment 

(1)  Income 

(2)  The  Royal  Court 

9.  Short  Character  Sketch  of  Israel's  Kingdom 

LlTERATUUE 

/.  King. — The    Heb    word    for    king     is     ^*">2, 

melekh;  its  denominative  t|?p  ,  mdlakh,  "to  reign," 

"to  be  king."     The  word  is  apparently 

H     _,,  derived  from  the    V    mlkh  which   de- 

1.  Ety- 
mology and  notes:  (1)  in  the  Arab.  ( JULo  ,  vb.,  and 
Definition  s    ' 

dLLo  ,  n.),  "to  possess,"  "foreign,"  in- 
asmuch as  the  possessor  is  also  lord  and  ruler; 
(2)  in  the  Aram.  (T^"l2),  and  Assyr  "counsel," 
and  in  the  Syrian  "to  consult";  cf  Lat  consul. 

If,  as  has  been  suggested,  the  root  idea  of  "king" 
is  "counsellor"  and  not  "ruler,"  then  the  rise  of  the 
kingly  ofhee  and  power  would  be  due  to  intellectual 
superiority  rather  than  to  physical  prowess.  And 
since  the  first  form  of  monarchy  known  was  that 
of  a  "city-state,"  the  oflice  of  king  may  have 
evolved  from  that  of  the  chief  "elder,"  or  intellec- 
tual head  of  the  clan. 

The  first  king  of  whom  we  read  in  the  Bible  was 

Nimrod   (Gen  10  8-10),  who  was  supposedly  the 

founder    of    the    Bab    empire.     His- 

2.  Earliest  torical  research  regarding  the  kings 
Kings  of   Babylonia  and  Egypt  corroborates 

this  Bib.  statement  in  so  far  as  the 
ancestry  of  these  kings  is  traced  back  to  the  earliest 
times  of  antiquity.  According  to  Isa  19  11,  it 
was  the  pride  of  the  Egyp  princes  that  they  could 
trace  their  lineage  to  most  ancient  kings.  The  Ca- 
naanites  and  Philis  had  kings  as  earlv  as  the  times 
of  Abraham  (Gen  14  2;  20  2).  Thus  also  the 
Edomites,  who  were  related  to  Israel  (Gen  36  31), 
the  Moabites,  and  the  Midianites  had  kings  (Nu 
22  4;   31  8)  earlier  than  the  Israelites. 

In  Gen  14  18  we  read  of  Melchizedek,  who  was 
a  priest,  and  king  of  Salem.  At  first  the  extent  of 
the  dominion  of  kings  was  often  very  limited,  as 
appears  from  70  of  them  being  conquered  by  Adoni- 
bezek  (Jgs  1  7),  31  by  Joshua  (Josh  12  7  ff),  and 
32  being  subject  to  Ben-hadad  (1  K  20  1). 

The  earliest  Bib.  usage  of  this  title  "king,"  in 
consonance  with  the  general  oriental  practice,  de- 
notes an  absolute  monarch  who  exer- 

3.  Biblical  cises  unchecked  control  over  his  sub- 
Significa-  jects.  In  this  sense  the  title  is  applied 
tion  of  the  to  Jeh,  and  to  human  rulers.  No  con- 
Title  stitutional  obligations  were  laid  upon 

the  ruler  nor  were  any  rest  rictions  put 
upon  his  arbitrary  authority.  His  good  or  bad 
conduct  depended  upon  his  own  free  will. 

The  title  "king"  was  applied  also  to  dependent 
kings.  In  the  NT  it  is  used  even  for  the  head  of  a 
province  (Rev  17  12).  To  distinguish  him  from 
the  smaller  and  dependent  kings,  the  king  of  Assyria 
bore  the  title  "king  of  kings." 

//.  Kingdom. — The  notable  fact  that  Israel 
attained  to  the  degree  of  a  kingdom  rather  late, 
as  compared  with  the  other  Sem  nations,  does  not 
imply  that  Israel,  before  the  establishment  of  the 
monarchy,  had  not  arrived  at  the  stage  of  consti- 
tutional government,  or  that  the  idea  of  a  king- 
dom had  no  room  in  the  original  plan  of  the  founder 
of  the  Heb  nation.  For  a  satisfactory  explana- 
tion we  must  take  cognizance  of  the  unique  place 
that  Israel  held  among  the  Sem  peoples. 

It  is  universally  recognized  that  Israel  was  a 
singular  community.  From  the  beginning  of  its 
existence  as  a  nation  it  bore  the  character  of  a  re- 
ligious and  moral  community,  a  theocratic  common- 


King,  Kingdom     THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1800 


wealth,  having  Jch  Himself  as  the  Head  and  Ruler. 
The  theocracy  is  not  to  be  mistaken  for  a  hierarchy, 

nor  can  it  strictly  be  identified  with 

1.  Israel's     any  existent  form  of  political  organiza- 
Theocracy      tion.     It    was   rather  something  over 

and  above,  and  therefore  independ- 
ent of  the  political  organization.  It  did  not  super- 
sede the  tribal  organization  of  Israel,  but  it 
supplied  the  centralizing  power,  constituting  Israel 
a  nation.  In  lieu  of  a  strong  political  center, 
the  unifying  bond  of  a  common  allegiance  to  Jeh, 
i.e.  the  common  faith  in  Him,  the'  Cod  of  Israel, 
kept  the  tribes  together.  The  consciousness  that 
Jeh  was  Israel's  king  was  deeply  rooted,  was  a 
national  feeling,  and  the  inspiration  of  a  true  pa- 
triotism (Ex  16  18;  19  6;  Jgs  5).  Jeh's  king- 
ship is  evinced  by  the  laws  He  gave  to  Israel,  by 
the  fact  that  justice  was  administered  in  His  name 
(Ex  22  28),  and  by  His  leading  and  aiding  Israel 
in  its  wars  (Ex  14  14;  15  3;  Nu  21  14;  1  S  18 
17;  25  28).  This  decentralized  system  which 
characterized  the  early  government  of  Israel  politi- 
cally, in  spite  of  some  great  disadvantages,  proved 
advantageous  for  Israel  on  the  whole  and  served  a 
great  providential  purpose.  It  safeguarded  the 
individual  liberties  and  rights  of  the  Israelites. 
When  later  the  monarchy  was  established,  they 
enjoyed  a  degree  of  local  freedom  and  self-control 
that  was  unknown  in  the  rest  of  the  Sem  world; 
there  was  home  rule  for  every  community,  which 
admitted  the  untrammeled  cultivation  of  their 
inherited  religious  and  social  institutions. 

From  the  political  point  of  view  Israel,  through 
the  absence  of  a  strong  central  government,  was 
at  a  great  disadvantage,  making  almost  impossible 
its  development  into  a  world-empire.  But  this 
barrier  to  a  policy  of  self-aggrandizement  was  a 
decided  blessing  from  the  viewpoint  of  Israel's 
providential  mission  to  the  world.  It  made  pos- 
sible the  transmission  of  the  pure  religion  in- 
trust ed  to  it,  to  later  generations  of  men  without 
destructive  contamination  from  the  ungodly  forces 
with  which  Israel  would  inevitably  have  come  into 
closer  contact,  had  it  not  been  for  its  self-contained 
character,  resulting  from  the  fashion  of  a  state  it 
was  providentially  molded  into.  Only  as  the 
small  and  insignificant  nation  that  it  was,  could 
Israel  perform  its  mission  as  "the  depository  and 
perpetuating  agency  of  truths  vital  to  the  welfare 
of  humanity."  Thus  its  religion  was  the  central 
authority  of  this  nation,  supplying  the  lack  of  a 
centralized  government .  Herein  lay  Israel's  unique- 
ness and  greatness,  and  also  the  secret  of  its 
strength  as  a  nation,  as  long  as  the  loyalty  and 
devotion  to  Jeh  lasted.  Under  the  leadership  of 
Moses  and  Joshua  who,  though  they  exercised  a 
royal  authority,  acted  merely  as  representatives 
of  Jeh,  the  influence  of  religion  of  which  these  lead- 
ers were  a  personal  embodiment  wras  still  so  strong 
as  to  keep  the  tribes  united  for  common  action. 
But  when,  after  the  removal  of  these  strong  leaders, 
Israel  no  longer  had  a  standing  representative  of 
Jeh,  those  changes  took  place  which  eventually 
necessitated  the  establishment  of  the  monarchy. 

In  the  absence  of  a  special  representative  of  Jeh, 

His  will  as  Israel's  King  was  divined  by  the  use  of 

the  holy  lot  in  the  hand  of  the  highest 

2.  Period       priest.     But  the  lot  would  not  supply 
of  Judges      the  place  of  a  strong  personal  leader. 

Besides,  many  of  the  Israelites  came 
under  the  deteriorating  influence  of  the  Can.  wor- 
ship and  began  to  adopt  heathenish  customs.  The 
sense  of  religious  unity  weakened,  the  tribes  became 
disunited  and  ceased  to  act  in  common,  and  as  a 
result  they  were  conquered  by  their  foes.  Jeh 
came  to  their  assistance  by  sending  them  leaders, 
who  released   the  regions  where  they  lived  from 


foreign  attacks.  But  these  leaders  were  not  the 
st  rong  religious  personalities  t  hat  Moses  and  Joshua 
had  been;  besides,  they  hud  no  official  authority, 
and  their  rule  was  only  temporary  and  local,  it 
was  now  that  the  need  of  a  centralized  political 
government  was  felt,  and  the  only  type  of  per- 
manent organization  of  which  tin;  age  was  cog- 
nizant was  the  kingship.  The  crown  was  offered 
to  Gideon,  but  he  declined  it,  saying:  "Jeh  shall 
rule  over  you"  (Jgs  8  22.23).  The  attempt  of  his 
son,  Abimelech,  to  establish  a  kingship  over  Shechem 
and  the  adjacent  country,  after  the  Canaanitic 
fashion,  was  abortive. 

The  general  political  condition  of  this  period  is 
briefly  and  pertinently  described  by  the  oft-recur- 
ring statement  in  Jgs:  "In  those  days  there  was  no 
king  in  Israel:  every  man  did  that  which  was  right 
in  his  own  eyes." 

Not  until  the  time  of  Samuel  was  a  formal  king- 
dom established  over  Israel.  An  attempt  to  ameli- 
orate conditions  by  a  union  of  civil 
3.  Estab-  and  religious  functions  in  the  hands 
lishment  of  Eli,  the  priest,  had  failed  through 
of  the  the  degeneracy  of  his  sons.     Similarly 

Monarchy  the  hopes  of  Israel  in  a  hereditary 
judgeship  had  been  disappointed 
through  the  corruption  of  the  sons  of  Samuel.  The 
Philis  were  threatening  the  independence  and  hope 
of  Israel.  Its  very  existence  as  a  distinct  race,  and 
consequently  the  future  of  Jeh's  religion,  impera- 
tively demanded  a  king.  Considering  that  it  was 
the  moral  decline  of  the  nation  that  had  created 
the  necessity  for  a  monarchy,  and  moreover  that 
the  people's  desire  for  a  king  originated  from  a  purely 
national  and  not  from  a  religious  motive,  the  un- 
willingness of  Samuel,  at  first,  to  comply  with  the 
demand  for  a  king  is  not  surprising.  Even  Jeh 
declared:  "They  have  not  rejected  thee  but  they 
have  rejected  me,"  etc.  Instead  of  recognizing 
that  they  themselves  were  responsible  for  the  fail- 
ures of  the  past,  they  blamed  the  form  of  govern- 
ment they  had,  and  put  all  their  hopes  upon  a  king. 
That  it  was  not  the  monarchy  as  such  that  was 
objectionable  to  Jeh  and  His  prophet  is  evidenced 
by  the  fact  that  to  the  patriarchs  the  promise  had 
been  given:  "Kings  shall  come  out  of  thy  loins" 
(Gen  17  6;  35  11).  In  view  of  this  Moses  had 
made  provision  for  a  kingship  (Dt  17  14-20). 
According  to  the  Mosaic  charter  for  the  kingship, 
the  monarchy  when  established  must  be  brought 
into  consonance  with  the  fact  that  Jeh  was  Israel's 
king.  Of  this  fact  Israel  had  lost  sight  when  it 
requested  a  kingship  like  that  of  the  neighboring 
peoples.  Samuel's  gloomy  prognostications  were 
perfectly  justified  in  view  of  such  a  kingship  as 
they  desired,  which  would  inevitably  tend  to  selfish 
despotism  (1  S  8  11  f).  Therefore  God  directs 
Samuel  to  give  them  a  king — since  the  introduction 
of  a  kingship  typifying  the  kingship  of  Christ  lay 
within  the  plan  of  His  economy — not  according  to 
their  desire,  but  in  accordance  with  the  instructions 
of  the  law  concerning  kings  (Dt  17  14-20),  in 
order  to  safeguard  their  liberties  and  prevent  the 
forfeiture  of  their  mission. 

According  to  the  Law  of  Moses  Jeh  was  to  choose 
the  king  of  Israel,  who  was  to  be  His  representative. 
The  choice  of  Jeh  in  the  case  of  Saul 
4.  Appoint-   is  implied  by  the  anointing  of  Saul  by 
ment  of  Samuel  and  through  the  confirmation 

King  of  this  choice  by  the  holy  lot  (1  S  10 

1-20).  This  method  of  choosing  the 
king  did  not  exclude  the  people  altogether,  since 
Saul  was  publicly  presented  to  them,  and  acknowl- 
edged as  king  (1  S  10  24).  The  participation  of 
the  people  in  the  choice  of  their  king  is  more  pro- 
nounced in  the  case  of  David,  who,  having  been 
designated  as  Jeh's  choice  by  being  anointed  by 


1801 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


King,  Kingdom 


Samuel,  was  anointed  again  by  the  elders  of  Israel 
before  he  actually  became  king  (2  S  2  4). 

The  anointing  itself  signified  the  consecration 
to  an  office  in  the  theocracy.  The  custom  of 
anointing  kings  was  an  old  one,  and  by  no  means 
peculiar  to  Israel  (Jgs  9  8.15).  The  hereditary 
kingship  began  with  David.  Usually  the  firstborn 
succeeded  to  the  throne,  but  not  necessarily.  The 
king  might  choose  as  his  successor  from  among  his 
sons  the  one  whom  he  thought  best  qualified. 

The  king  of  Israel  was  not  a  constitutional 
monarch  in  the  modern  sense,  nor  was  he  an  auto- 
crat  in   the   oriental    sense.     He  was 

5.  Author-  responsible  to  Jeh,  who  had  chosen 
ity  of  the  him  and  whose  vicegerent  and  servant 
King  he   was.     Furthermore,   his   authority 

was  more  or  less  limited  on  the  re- 
ligious side  by  the  prophets,  the  representatives  of 
Jeh,  and  in  the  political  sphere  by  the  "elders," 
the  representatives  of  the  people,  though  as  king 
lie  stood  above  all.  Rightly  conceived,  his  kingship 
in  relation  to  Jeh,  who  was  Israel's  true  king,  im- 
plied that  he  was  Jeh's  servant  and  His  earthly  sub- 
stitute. In  relation  to  his  subjects  his  kingship 
demanded  of  him,  according  to  the  Law,  "that  his 
heart  be  not  lifted  up  above  his  brethren"  (Dt  17  20). 
In  a  summary  way  the  king  was  held  responsible 
for  all  Israel  as  the  Lord's  people.     His  main  duty 

was  to  defend  it  against  its  enemies, 

6.  Duties  and  for  this  reason  it  devolved  upon 
of  the  King   him  to  raise  and  maintain  a  standing 

army;  and  it  was  expected  of  him  that 
he  be  its  leader  in  case  of  war  (1  S  8  20).  In 
respect  to  the  judiciary  the  king  was  a  kind  of 
supreme  court,  or  court  of  final  appeal,  and  as  such, 
as  in  the  days  of  Solomon,  might  be  approached 
by  his  most  humble  subjects  (2  S  15  2;  1  K  3 
16  ff).  Legislative  functions  he  had  none  and  was 
himself  under  the  law  (1  K  21  4;  Dt  17  19). 
The  king  was  also  in  a  way  the  summus  episcopus 
in  Israel.  His  very  kingship  was  of  an  entirely 
religious  character  and  implied  a  unity  of  the 
heavenly  and  earthly  rule  over  Israel  through  him 
who  as  Jeh's  substitute  sat  "upon  the  throne  of  the 
kingdom  of  Jeh  over  Israel"  (1  Ch  17  14;  28  5; 
29  23),  who  was  "Jeh's  anointed"  (1  S  24  10; 
26  9;  2  S  1  14),  and  also  bore  the  title  of  "son 
of  Jeh"  and  "the  first-born,"  the  same  as  Israel  did 
(Ex  4  22;  Hos  11  1;  2  S  7  14;  Ps  89  27;  2  7). 
Thus  a  place  of  honor  was  assigned  to  the  king  in 
the  temple  (2  K  11  4;  23  3;  Ezk  46  1.2);  be- 
sides, he  officiated  at  the  national  sacrifices 
(esp.  mentioned  of  David  and  Solomon).  He 
prayed  for  his  people  and  blessed  them  in  the  name 
of  Jeh  (2  S  6  18;  24  25;  1  K  3  4.8;  8  14.55.62; 
9  25).  Apparently  it  was  the  king's  right  to  ap- 
point and  dismiss  the  chief  priests  at  the  sanctu- 
aries, though  in  his  choice  he  was  doubtless  re- 
stricted to  the  Aaronites  (1  Ch  16  37.39;  2  S  8 
17;  1  K  2  27.35).  The  priesthood  was  under  the 
king's  supervision  to  such  an  extent  that  he  might 
concern  himself  about  its  organization  and  duties 
(1  Ch  15  10.23.24;  16  4-6),  and  that  he  was 
responsible  for  the  purity  of  the  cult  and  the  main- 
tenance of  the  order  of  worship.  In  general  he  was 
to  watch  over  the  religious  life  and  conduct  of  his 
people,  to  eradicate  the  high  places  and  every  form 
of  idolatry  in  the  land  (2  K  18  4).  Ezk  45  22 
demands  of  the  prince  that  he  shall  provide  at  the 
Passover  a  bullock  for  a  sin  offering  for  all  the 
people;. 

The  marks  of  royal  dignity,  besides  the  beautiful 
robes  in  which  the  king  was  attired  (1  K  22  10), 
were:  (1)  the  diadem  (""IT! ,  nezcr)  and  the  crown 
(TT\Vy,  <dtarah,2  S  1  10;  "2  K  11  12;  2  S  12  30), 
the    headtire;     (2)    the    scepter    (I3Dt?,    shebhet), 


7.  The 
Symbols  of 
Royal 
Dignity 


8.  Mainte- 
nance and 
Establish- 
ment 


originally  a  long,  straight  staff,  flu;  primitive  sign 
of  dominion  and  authority  ((Jen  49  10;  Nu 
24  17;  Isa  14  5;  Jer  48  17;  I's 
2  9;  45  7).  Saul  had  a  spear  (1  S 
18  10;  22  0);  (3)  the  throne  (KE2, 
kiss/,  1  K  10  18-20),  the  symbol  of 
majesty.  Israel's  kings  also  had  a 
palace  (1  K  7  1-12;  22  39;  Jer  22 
14),  a  royal  harem  (2  S  16  21),  and  a  body- 
guard (2  S  8  IS;    15  IS). 

(1)  Income. — (a)  According  to  the  custom  of 
the  times  presents  were  expected  of  the  subjects 

(1  S  10  27;  16  20)  and  of  foreigners 
(2S  8  2;  1  K  6  1  ff;  10  25;  2  Ch  32 
23),  and  these  often  took  the  form  of 
an  annual  tribute.  (6)  In  time  of 
war  the  king  would  lay  claim  to  his 
share  of  the  booty  (2  S  8  11;  12  30; 
1  Ch  26  27).  (c)  Various  forms  of  taxes  were  in 
vogue,  as  a  part  of  the  produce  of  the  land  (1  K  9 
11;  1  S  17  25),  forced  labor  of  the  Canaanites 
(1  K  9  20;  2  Ch  2  16)  and  also  of  the  Israelites 
(1  K  5  13;  11  28;  12  4),  the  first  growth  of  the 
pasture  lands  (Am  7  1),  toll  collected  from  cara- 
vans (1  K  10  15).  (d)  Subdued  nations  had  to 
pay  a  heavy  tribute  (2  K  3  4).  (e)  The  royal 
domain  often  comprised  extensive  possessions  (1  Ch 
27  25-31). 

(2)  The  royal  court. — The  highest  office  was  that 
of  the  princes  (1  K  4  2),  who  were  the  king's  ad- 
visers or  counsellors.  In  2  K  25  19  and  Jer  52 
25  they  are  called  "they  that  saw  the  king's  face" 
(cf  also  1  K  12  6,  "stood  before  Solomon").  The 
following  officers  of  King  David  are  mentioned: 
the  captain  of  the  host  (commander-in-chief),  the 
captain  of  the  Cherethites  and  the  Pelethites  (body- 
guard), the  recorder  (chronicler  and  reminder),  the 
scribe  (secretary  of  state),  the  overseer  of  the  forced 
labor,  the  chief  ministers  or  priests  (confidants  of 
the  king,  usually  selected  from  the  roval  family) 
(2  S  8  16-18;  20  23-26). 

During  the  reign  of  Solomon  other  officers  were 
added  as  follows:  the  overseer  over  the  twelve 
men  "who  provided  victuals  for  the  king  and  his 
household"  (1  K  4  5.7),  the  officer  over  the  house- 
hold (1  K  4  6;  18  3)  (steward,  the  head  of  the 
palace  who  had  "the  key"  in  his  possession,  Isa  22 
22);  the  king's  friend  (1  K  4  5;  1  Ch  27  33)  is 
probably  the  same  as  the  king's  servant  mentioned 
among  the  high  officials  in  2  K  22  12.  It  is  not 
stated  what  his  duties  were.  Minor  officials  are 
servants,  cupbearer  (1  K  10  5),  keeper  of  the  ward- 
robe (2  K  22  14;  10  22),  eunuchs  (chamberlains, 
not  mentioned  before  the  division  of  the  kingdom) 
(1  K  22  9;    2  K  8  6). 

No  higher  conceptions  of  a  good  king  have  ever 
been  given  to  the  world  than  those  which  are  pre- 
sented in  the  representations  of  king- 
ship in  the  OT,  both  actual  and  ideal. 
Though  Samuel's  characterization  of 
the  kingship  was  borne  out  in  the 
example  of  a  great  number  of  kings  of 
Israel,  the  Divine  ideal  of  a  true  king 
came  as  near  to  its  realization  in  the 
case  of  one  king  of  Israel,  at  least,  as  possibly  no- 
where else,  viz.  in  the  case  of  David.  Therefore 
King  David  appears  as  the  type  of  that  king  in 
whom  the  Divine  ideal  of  a  Jeh-king  was  to  find 
its  perfect  realization;  toward  whose  reign  the 
kingship  in  Israel  tended.  The  history  of  the  king- 
ship in  Israel  after  David  is,  indeed,  characterized 
by  that  desire  for  political  aggrandizement  which 
had  prompted  the  establishment  of  the  monarchy, 
which  was  contrary  to  Israel's  Divine  mission  as 
the  peculiar  people  of  the  Jeh-king.  When  Israel's 
kingdom  terminated  in  the  Bab  exile,  it  became  evi- 
dent that  the  continued  existence  of  the  nation  was 


9.  Short 
Character 
Sketch  of 
Israel's 
Kingdom 


King,  Christ  as     THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1802 


possible  even  without  a  monarchical  form  of  govern- 
ment. Though  a  kingdom  was  established  again 
under  the  Maccabees,  as  a  result  of  the  attempt  of 
Antiochus  to  extinguish  Israel's  religion,  this  king- 
dom was  neither  as  perfectly  national  nor  as  truly 
religious  in  its  character  as  the  Davidic.  It  soon 
became  dependent  on  Home.  The  kingship  of  Herod 
was  entirely  alien  to  the  true  Israelitish  conception. 
It  remains  to  be  said  only  that  the  final  attempt 
of  Israel  in  its  revolt  against  the  Bom  Empire,  to 
establish  the  old  monarchy,  resulted  in  its  down- 
fall as  a  nation,  because  it  would  not  learn  the 
lesson  that  the  future  of  a  nation  does  not  depend 
upon  political  greatness,  but  upon  the  fulfilment  of 
its  Divine  mission. 

Literature. — J.  P.  McCurdv,  History,  Prophecy  and 
the  Monument*;  Riehm,  Handwortcrbuch  des  bibl.  Alter- 
tums;    IIDH;    Kinzler,  Bibl.  A  T. 

S.  I).  Press 
KING,  CHRIST  AS: 

I.     The  Reality  or  Christ's  Kingship 

1.  The  OT  Foreshadowings 

In  the  Psalms  and  Prophets 

2.  The  Gospel  Presentation 

(1)  Christ's  Claim  to  Be  Kins 

(2)  Christ's  Acceptance  of  the  Title 

(:<)   Christ  Charged  and  Condemned  as  King 

(4)  The    Witness    of    the    Resurrection    and    of 
Apostolic  Preaching 

(5)  The  Testimony  of  the  Epistles  and  Apoc- 
alypse 

II.     Christ's  Title  to  Kingship 

1.  By  Birth 

2.  By  Divine  Appointment 
'.i.  By  Conquest 

•I.   By  the  Free  Choice  of  His  People 
III.     The  Nature  of  Christ's   Kingship 

1.  Spiritual 

2.  Universal 

(1)  Kingdom  of  Grace,  of  Power 

(2)  Kingdom  of  Glory 

3.  Eternal 

/.  The  Reality  of  Christ's  Kingship. — There  can 
be  no  question  but  that  Christ  is  set  before  us  in 
Scripture  as  a  king.  The  very  t  itle  Christ  or  "Mes- 
siah" suggests  kingship,  for  though  the  priest  is 
spoken  of  as  "anointed,"  and  full  elucidation  of  the 
title  as  applied  to  Jesus  must  take  account  of  His 
threefold  office  of  prophet,  priest  and  king,  yet 
generally  in  the  OT  it  is  the  king  to  whom  the 
epithet  is  applied. 

We  may  briefly  note  some  of  the  OT  predictions  of 

Christ  as  king.     The   first  prediction  which  represents 

the  Christ  as  having  dominion  is  that  of 

1.  The  OT     Jacob    concerning    the    tribe    of    Judah: 

p__  "Until  Shiloh  come;    and  unto  him  shall 

y  j       .  the  obedience  of  the  peoples  be"  (Gen  49 

Shadowmgs    10);     then   kingly   dignity    and   dominion 

arc  suggested  by  the  star  and  scepter  in 

Balaam's  prophecy    (Nu  24   15-17).     As  yet,   however, 

Israel  has  no  king  but  (lod,  but  when  afterward  a  king  is 

given  and  the  people  become  familiar  with  the  idea,  the 

prophecies  all  more  or  less  have  a  regal  tint,  and  the 

coming  one  is  preeminently  the  coming  king. 

In  the  Pus  and  Prophets. — We  can  only  indicate  a  few 
of  the  many  royal  predictions,  but  these  will  readily 
suggest  others.  In  Ps  2  the;  voice  of  Jeh  is  heard  above 
all  the  tumult  of  earth,  declaring,  "Yet  I  have  set  my 
king  upon  my  holy  hill  of  Zion."  So  in  Pss  24,  45,  72, 
89  and  110  we  have  special  foreshadowings  of  the  Mes- 
sianic king.  The  babe  that  Isaiah  sees  born  of  a  virgin 
is  also  the  "Prince  of  Peace"  (Isa  9  6.7),  of  the  increase 
of  whose  government  there  shall  be  no  end,  and  as  the 
prophet  gazes  on  him  he  joyfully  exclaims:  "Behold,  a 
king  shall  reign  in  righteousness "  (Isa  32  1).  Jeremiah, 
the  prophet  of  woe,  catches  bright  glimpses  of  his  coming 
Lord,  and  with  rapture  intensified  by  the  surrounding 
sorrow  cries:  "Behold,  the  days  come,  saith  Jeh,  that  I 
will  raise  unto  David  a  righteous  Branch,  and  he  shall 
reign  as  king  and  deal  wisely,  and  shall  execute  justice 
and  righteousness  in  the  land"  (23  5).  Ezekiel,  dwelling 
amid  his  wheels,  sees  in  the  course  of  Providence  many 
revolutions,  but  they  are  all  to  bring  about  the  dominion 
of  Christ:  "I  will  overturn,  overturn,  overturn  .... 
until  he  come  whose  right  it  is;  and  I  will  give  it  him" 
(21  27).  Daniel  sees  the  rise  and  progress,  the  decline 
and  fall  of  many  mighty  empires,  but  beyond  all  he  sees 
the  Son  of  man  inheriting  an  everlasting  kingdom  (7  13). 
Hosea  sees  the  repentant  people  of  Israel  in  the  latter 
days  seeking  Jeh  their  God,  and  David  (the  greater 
David)  their  king  (3  5).  Micah  sees  the  everlasting 
Ruler  coming  out  of  Bethlehem  clad  in  the  strength  and 


majesty  of  .Teh,  who  shall  "be  great  unto  the  etids  of  the 
earth"  (5  1).  Zechariah,  exulting  in  His  near  approach, 
cries:  "Rejoice  greatly,  ()  daughter  of  Zion;  shout,  O 
daughter  of  Jerus:  behold,  thy  king  cometh  unto  thee" 
(9  '.)),  and  he  follows  His  varied  course  t  hrough  gloom  and 
through  glory,  until  the  strong  conviction  is  born  in  his 
heart  and  expressed  in  the  glowing  words:  "Jeh  shall 
be  King  over  all  the  earth"  (14  '■>)■  The  more  extreme! 
higher  critics  would,  of  course,  deny  that  these  are  direct 
predictions  of  Jesus  Christ,  but  most,  if  not  all,  would 
admit  that  they  are  ideal  representations  which  were  only 
fully  realized  in  Jesus  of  Nazareth. 

The  Gospels  present  Christ  as  king.  Mt,  trac- 
ing His  genealogy,  gives  special  prominence  to  His 

royal  lineage  as  son  of  David.  He 
2.  The  tells  of  the  visit  of  the  Magi  who  in- 

Gospel  quire  for  the  newborn  king  of  t  he  Jews, 

Presenta-  and  the  scribes  answer  Herod's  ques- 
tion tion  by  showing  from  Micah's  prophecy 

that  the  Christ  to  be  born  in  Bethle- 
hem would  be  a  "governor,"  and  would  rule,  "be 
shepherd  of  my  people  Israel"  (2  5.6).  Lk's 
account  of  the  Nativity  contains  the  angel's  dec- 
laration that  the  child  to  be  born  and  named  Jesus 
would  occupy  the  throne  of  David  and  reign  over 
the  house  of  Jacob  forever  (1  32. 33).  In  John's 
account  of  the  beginning  of  Christ's  ministry,  one 
of  Bis  early  disciples,  Nathanael,  hails  Him  as 
"King  of  Israel"  (1  49),  and  Jesus  does  not  repu- 
diate the  title.  If  Mark  has  no  such  definite  word, 
he  nevertheless  describes  the  message  with  which 
Jesus  opens  His  ministry  as  the  "gospel"  of  "the 
kingdom  of  God"  (1  14.15).  The  people  nurtured 
in  the  prophetical  teaching  expect  the  coming  one 
to  be  a  king,  and  when  Jesus  seems  to  answer  to 
their  ideal  of  the  Messiah,  they  propose  taking  Him 
by  force  and  making  Him  king  (Jn  6  15). 

(1)  Christ's  claim  to  be  king. — Christ  Himself 
claimed  to  be  king.  In  claiming  to  be  the  Messiah 
He  tacitly  claimed  kingship,  but  there  are  specific 
indications  of  the  claim  besides.  In  all  His  teach- 
ing of  the  kingdom  it  is  implied,  for  though  He 
usually  calls  it  the  "kingdom  of  God"  or  "of 
heaven,"  yet  it  is  plain  That  He  is  the  administ  rat  or 
of  its  affairs.  He  assumes  to  Himself  the  highest 
place  in  it.  Admission  into  the  kingdom  or  ex- 
clusion from  it  depends  upon  men's  attitude  toward 
Him.  In  His  explanation  of  the  parable  of  the 
Tares,  He  distinctly  speaks  of  His  kingdom,  identi- 
fying it  with  the  kingdom  of  God.  "The  Son  of 
man  shall  send  forth  his  angels,  and  they  shall  gather 
out  of  his  kingdom  all  things  that  cause  stumbling, 

and  them  that  do  iniquity Then  shall  the 

righteous  shine  forth  as  the  sun  in  the  kingdom  of 
their  Father"  (Mt  13  41-43).  He  speaks  of  some 
seeing  "the  Son  of  man  coming  in  his  kingdom" 
(Mt  16  28),  of  the  regeneration,  "when  the  Son  of 
man  shall  sit  on  the  throne  of  his  glory"  (Mt  19 
28),  of  Himself  under  the  guise  of  a  nobleman  who 
goes  "into  a  far  country,  to  receive  for  himself  a 
kingdom,"  and  does  receive  it  (Lk  19  12-15). 

(2)  Christ's  acceptance  of  the  title. — When  the 
mother  of  John  and  James  comes  asking  that  her 
two  sons  may  occupy  the  chief  places  of  honor  in 
His  kingdom,  He  does  not  deny  that  He  is  a  king 
and  has  a  kingdom,  while  indicating  that  the  places 
on  His  right  and  left  hand  are  already  determined 
by  the  appointment  of  the  Father  (Mt  20  21-23). 
He  deliberately  takes  steps  to  fulfil  the  prediction 
of  Zee:  "Behold,  thy  king  cometh,"  and  He  ac- 
cepts, approves  and  justifies  the  hosannas  and  the 
homage  of  the  multitude  (Mt  21  1-16;  Mk  11; 
Lk  19;  Jn  12).  In  His  great  picture  of  the  coming 
judgment  (Mt  25),  the  Son  of  man  sits  upon  the 
throne  of  His  glory,  and  it  is  as  "the  king"  that  He 
blesses  and  condemns.  The  dying  thief  prays, 
"Bemember  me  when  thou  comest  in  thy  king- 
dom" (Lk  23  42),  and  Jesus  gives  His  royal  re- 
sponse which  implies  full  acceptance  of  the  position. 


1803 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA     King,  Christ  as 


(3)  Christ  charged  and  condemned  as  king. — His 
claim  throughout  had  been  so  definite  that  His 
enemies  make  this  the  basis  of  their  charge  against 
Him  before  Pilate,  that  He  said  that  "he  himself 
is  Christ  a  king,"  and  when  Pilate  asks,  "Art  thou 
the  King?"  He  answers,  "Thou  savest,"  which  was 
equivalent  to  "yes"  (Lk  23  2.3).  In  the  fuller 
account  of  Jn,  Jesus  speaks  to  Pilate  of  "my  king- 
dom," and  says  "Thou  savest  that  I  am  a  king. 
To  this  end  have  I  been  born"  (Jn  18  37).  His 
claim  is  perpetuated  in  the  superscription  of  the 
cross  in  the  three  languages:  "This  is  the  King  of 
the  Jews,"  and  although  the  priests  wished  it  to  be 
altered  so  as  to  detract  from  His  claim,  they  yet 
affirm  the  fact  of  that  claim  when  they  say:  "Write 
not,  The  King  of  the  Jews;  but,  that  he  said,  I  am 
King  of  the  Jews"  (Jn  19  21).  The  curtain  of  His 
earthly  life  falls  upon  the  king  in  seeming  failure; 
the  taunt  of  the  multitude,  "Let  the  Christ,  the 
King  of  Israel,  now  come  down  from  the  cross" 
(Mk  15  32),  meets  with  no  response,  and  the  title 
on  the  cross  seems  a  solemn  mockery,  like  the 
elaborate,  cruel  jest  of  the  brutal  soldiers  clothing 
Him  with  purple,  crowning  Him  with  thorns  and 
hailing  Him  King  of  the  Jews. 

(4)  The  witness  of  the  resurrection  and  of  apos- 
tolic preaching. — But  the  resurrection  throws  new 
light  upon  the  scene,  and  fully  vindicates  His  claims, 
and  the  sermon  of  Peter  on  the  day  of  Pentecost 
proclaims  the  fact  that  the  crucified  one  occupies 
the  throne.  "Let  all  the  house  of  Israel  therefore 
know  assuredly,  that  God  hath  made  him  both  Lord 
and  Christ,  this  Jesus  whom  ye  crucified"  (Acts  2 
3(1).  The  early  preaching  of  the  apostles,  as  re- 
corded in  the  Acts,  emphasizes  His  lordship,  His 
kingship;  these  men  were  preachers  in  the  literal 
sense — heralds  of  the  king. 

(5)  The  testimony  of  the  Epistles  and  Apocalypse. 
— We  need  not  consider  in  detail  the  testimony  of 
the  Epp.  The  fact  that  Christ  is  king  is  every- 
where implied  and  not  infrequently  asserted.  He 
is  "Lord  of  both  the  dead  and  the  living"  (Rom  14 
9).  He  is  risen  "to  rule  over  the  Gentiles"  (Rom 
15  12).  "He  must  reign,  till  he  hath  put  all  his 
enemies  under  his  feet"  (1  Cor  15  25).  He  is  at 
the  right  hand  of  Cod  "above  all  ride,  and  author- 
ity," etc  (Eph  1  20-22).  Evil  men  have  no 
"inheritance  in  the  kingdom  of  Christ  and  God" 
(Eph  5  5),  and  believers  are  "translated  into  the 
kingdom  of  the  Son  of  his  love"  (Col  1  Li).  Ib- 
has  been  given  the  name  that  is  above  every  name 
"that  in  the  name  of  Jesus  every  knee  should  bow," 
etc  (Phil  2  9-11).  Those  who  suffer  with  Christ 
are  to  "reign  with  him"  (2  Tim  2  12),  at  "his 
appearing  and  his  kingdom"  (2  Tim  4  1),  and  He 
will  save  them  "unto  his  heavenly  kingdom"  (2 
Tim  4  IS);  "the  eternal  kingdom  of  our  Lord  and 
Saviour  Jesus  Christ"  (2  Pet  1  11).  Of  the  Son 
it  is  said:  "Thy  throne,  O  God,  is  for  ever  and 
ever"  (He  1  8),  and  He  is  a  King-Priest  "after  the 
order  of  Melehizedek"  (He  7  17). _  In  the  Apoca- 
lypse, appropriately,  the  predominant  aspect  of 
Christ  is  that  of  a  king.  He  is  the  "ruler  of  the 
kings  of  the  earth"  (Rev  1  5),  "King  of  the  ages" 
(Rev  15  3),  "King  of  kings"  (17  14;  19  16), 
"and  he  shall  reign  for  ever  and  ever"  (11  15). 
The  reality  of  Christ's  kingship  is  thus  placed  be- 
yond all  doubt. 

//.  Christ's  Title  to  Kingship. — After  the  analogy 
of    earthly    kingships  it  might  be  said  that  Jesus 

Christ  is  a  king  by  birth.  He  was 
1.  By  Birth   born    a    king.     His    mother,  like   His 

reputed  father,  "was  of  the  house  and 
family  of  David"  (Lk  2  4).  The  angel  in  an- 
nouncing His  birth  declares  that  He  will  occupy 
the  throne  of  His  father  David.  The  Pharisees 
have   no   hesitation   in   affirming   that   the   Christ 


would  be  Son  of  David  (Mt  22  45;  Mk  12  35; 
Lk  20  41).  Frequently  in  life  He  was  hailed  as 
"Son  of  David,"  and  after  His  ascension,  Peter 
declares  that  the  promise  God  had  made  to  David 
that  "of  the  fruit  of  his  loins  he  would  set  oik;  upon 
his  throne"  (Acts  2  30)  was  fulfilled  in  Jesus  of 
Nazareth;  while  Paul  declares  that  the  gospel  of 
Cod  was  "concerning  his  Son,  who  was  born  of  the 
seed  of  David  according  to  the  flesh"  (Rom  1  3). 
So  that  on  the  human  side  He  had  the  title  to  king- 
ship as  son  of  David,  while  on  the  Divine  side  as 
Son  of  God  He  had  also  the  right  to  the  throne. 

David  was  king  by  Divine  choice  and  appoint- 
ment,   and  this  was  the   ideal   in   the  case  of  his 
successors.     The   figment   of    "Divine 

2.  By  Di-  right" — by  virtue  of  which  modern 
vine  Ap-  kings  have  claimed  to  ruh — was,  in  (lie 
pointment      first   instance,    a   reminiscence   of   the 

Bib.  ideal.  But  the  ideal  is  realized 
in  Christ.  Of  the  coming  Messianic  King,  Jeh 
said:  "Yet  I  have  set  my  king  upon  my  holy  hill 
of  Zion"  (Ps  2  0),  and  the  great  proclamation  of 
Pentecost  was  an  echo  of  that  decree:  "Let  all  the 
house  of  Israel  therefore  know  assuredly,  that  God 
hath  made  him  both  Lord  and  Christ,  this  Jesus 
whom  ye  crucified"  (Acts  2  30),  while  the  apostle 
declares  that  "Cod  highly  exalted  him,  and  gave 
unto  him  the  name  which  is  above  every  name" 
(Phil  2  0),  and  again  and  again  the  great  OT  word 
of  Jeh  is  applied  to  Christ:  "Sit  thou  on  my  right 
hand,  till  I  make  thine  enemies  the  footstool  of  thy 
feet"   (He   1   13). 

Often  in  the  olden  times  kingship  was  acquired 
by   conquest,   by  superior  prowess.     According  to 

one  etymology  of  our  word  "king,"  it 

3.  By  Con-  means  the  "able  man,"  "the  one  who 
quest  can,"   and   everyone  remembers  Car- 

lyle's  fine  passage  thereon.  In  t  he  high- 
est sense,  this  is  true  of  Christ,  who  establishes  His 
sway  over  men's  hearts  by  His  matchless  prowess, 
the  power  of  His  infinite  love  and  the  charm  of 
His  perfect  character. 

Except  in  the  most  autocratic  form  of  kingship, 
some  place  has  been  given  to  the  suffrage  of  the 

people,   and  the  other  phases  of  the 

4.  By  the  title  have  been  confirmed  and  ratified 
Free  Choice  by  the  voice  of  the  people  as  they  cry, 
of  His  "God  save  the  king!"  and  no  king  is 
People            well  established  on  the  throne  if  he  is 

not  supported  by  the  free  homage  of 
his  subjects.  Christ  as  king  wins  the  love  of  His 
people,  and  they  gladly  acknowledge  His  sway. 
They  are  of  one  heart  to  make  Him  king. 

///.  The  Nature  of  Christ's  Kingship. — We 
know  that  the  Jews  expected  a  material  kingdom, 
marked  by  earthly  pomp  and  state;  a  kingdom  on 
the  lines  of  the  Davidic  or  Solomonic  kingdom,  and 
others  since  have  made  the  same  mistake-. 

The  Scriptures  plainly  declare,  Christ  Himself 
clearly  taught,  that  His  kingship  was  spiritual. 
"My  kingdom,"  said  He,  "is  not  of 
1.  Spiritual  this  world"  (Jn  18  30),  and  all  the 
representations  given  of  it  are  all  con- 
sistent with  this  declaration.  Some  have  empha- 
sized the  preposition  ek  here,  as  if  that  made  a 
difference  in  the  conception:  "My  kingdom  is  not. 
of  this  world."  Granted  that  the  preposition  indi- 
cates origin,  it  still  leaves  the  statement  an  assertion 
of  the  spirituality  of  the  kingdom,  for  if  it  is  not 
from  this  kosmos,  from  this  earthly  state  of  things, 
it  must  be  from  the  other  world — not  the  earthly 
but  the  heavenly;  not  the  material  but  the  spirit  ual. 
The  whole  context  shows  that  origin  here  includes 
character,  for  Christ  adds,  "If  my  kingdom  were  of 
this  world,  then  would  my  servants  fight,  that  I 
should  not  be  delivered  to  the  Jews."  Because  it  is 
of  an  unworldly  origin,  it  is  not  to  be  propagated  by 


King,  Christ  as 
Kingdom  of  God 


TIIK  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1804 


worldly  means,  and  Ihe  non-use  of  worldly  means 
declares  it  to  be  of  an  unworldly  character.  So 
that  to  assert  that  Christ  means  that  His  kingdom 
was  not  to  arise  out  of  this  world,  but  to  come  down 
from  heaven,  is  not  at  all  to  deny,  but  rather,  in- 
deed, to  declare  its  essential  spirituality,  its  unworld- 
liness,  its  otherworldliness. 

Throughout  the  NT,  spirituality  appears  as  the 
prevailing  characteristic  of  Christ's  reign.  Earthly 
kingdoms  are  based  upon  material  power,  the  power 
of  the  sword,  the  power  of  wealth,  etc,  but  the 
basal  factor  of  Christ's  kingdom  is  righteousness 
(Ml  5  20;  6  33;  Rom  14  17;  He  1  8,  etc). 
The  riding  principle  in  earthly  kingdoms  is  selfish 
or  sectional  or  national  aggrandizement;  in  the 
kingdom  of  Christ  it  is  Inttli.  Christ  is  king  of 
truth.  "Art  thou  a  king  then?"  said  Pilate.  "I 
am,"  said  Christ  (for  that  is  the  force  of  ''thou  say- 
est  that  I  am  a  king").  "To  this  end  have  I  been 
born,  and  to  this  end  am  1  come  into  the  world,  that 
I  should  bear  witness  unto  the  truth,"  and  He  adds, 
"Every  one  that  is  of  the  truth  heareth  my  voice" 
(Jn  18  37).  Elsewhere  He  says:  "I  am  the  .  .  .  . 
truth"  (.In  14  G),  and  at  the  head  of  the  armies  of 
heaven  He  still  wears  the;  title  "Faithful  and  True" 
(Rev  19  11);  but  if  righteousness  and  truth  occupy 
such  a  prominent  place  in  His  kingdom,  it  follows 
that  it  must  be  distinguished  by  its  spirituality. 
His  immediate  subjects  are  spiritual  men  and 
women;  its  laws  are  spiritual;  its  work  is  spiritual; 
all  the  forces  emanating  from  it,  operating  through 
it,  centering  in  it,  are  spiritual. 

The  Jewish  idea  of  the  Messiah's  reign  was  a 
narrow  national  one.  For  them  it  meant  the  glori- 
fication of  the  sons  of  Abraham,  the 
2.  Uni-  supremacy  of  Judaism  over  all  forms 

versal  of  faith  and  all  systems  of  philosophy; 

the  subjection  to  Jewish  sway  of  the 
haughty  Roman,  the  cultured  Greek  and  the  rude 
barbarian.  The  Messiah  was  to  be  a  greater  king 
than  David  or  Solomon,  but  still  a  king  after  the 
same  sort;  much  as  the  limits  of  the  kingdom  might 
extend,  it  wTould  be  but  an  extension  on  Jewish 
lines;  others  might  be  admitted  to  a  share  in  its 
privileges,  but  they  would  have  to  become  natural- 
ized Jews,  or  occupy  a  very  subordinate  place.  The 
prophetic  ideal,  however,  was  a  universal  kingdom, 
and  that  was  the  conception  indorsed  and  empha- 
sized by  Christ.  (For  the  prophetic  ideal  such  pas- 
sages may  be  noted  as  Pss  2,  22,  72;  Isa  11  10;  Dnl 
7  13.14,  etc.)  Of  course,  the  predictions  have  a 
Jewish  coloring,  and  people  who  did  not  apprehend 
the  spirituality  might  well  construe  this  amiss;  but, 
closely  examined,  it  will  be  found  that  the  prophets 
indicate  that  men's  position  in  the  coming  kingdom 
is  to  be  determined  by  their  relation  to  the  king, 
and  in  that  we  get  the  preparation  for  the  full  NT 
ideal.  The  note  of  universality  is  very  marked 
in  the  teaching  of  Christ.  All  barriers  are  to  be 
broken  down,  and  Jews  and  Gentiles  are  to  share 
alike  in  the  privileges  of  the  new  order.  "Many 
shall  come  from  the  east  and  the  west,  and  shall 
sit  down  with  Abraham,  and  Isaac,  and  Jacob,  in 
the  kingdom  of  heaven"  (Mt  8  11),  and  stranger 
still  to  the  Jewish  ear:  "The  sons  of  the  kingdom 
shall  be  cast  forth  into  the  outer  darkness"  (Mt  8 
12).  In  the  parables  of  the  kingdom  (Mt  13),  the 
field,  in  which  is  sown  the  good  seed  of  the  kingdom, 
is  the  world,  and  the  various  other  figures  give  the 
same  idea  of  unlimited  extent.  The  same  thought 
is  suggested  by  the  declaration,  "Other  sheep  I 
have,  which  are  not  of  this  fold"  (Jn  10  10),  also 
by  the  confident  affirmation:  "I,  if  I  be  lifted  up 
from  the  earth,  will  draw  all  men  unto  myself" 
(Jn  12  32),  and  so  with  many  other  statements  of 
the  Gospels. 

The  terms  of  the  commission  are  enough  to  show 


the  universal  sovereignty  which  Christ  claims  over 
men:  "Go  ye  therefore,"  He  says,  as  possessing 
all  authority  in  heaven  and  on  earth,  "and  make 
disciples  of  all  the  nations"  (Mt  28  19),  coupled 
with  tin;  royal  assurance,  "Ye  shall  be  my  witnesses 
.  .  .  .  unto  the  uttermost  part  of  the  earth"  (Acts 
1  8).  The  Book  of  Acts  shows,  in  the  carrying  out 
of  t  he  commission,  the  actual  widening  of  the  borders 
of  Christ's  kingdom  to  include  believers  of  all  na- 
tions. Peter  is  taught,  and  announces  clearly,  the 
great  truth  that  Gentiles  are  to  be  received  upon 
the  same  terms  as  the  Jews.  But  through  Paul  as 
the  apostle  of  the  Gentiles  this  glorious  truth  is 
most  fully  and  jubilantly  made  known.  In  the 
dogmatic;  teaching  of  his  Epp.  he  shows  that  all 
barriers  are  broken  down,  the  middle  wall  of  the 
fence  between  Jew  and  Gentile  no  longer  exists. 
Those  who  were  aliens  and  strangers  are  now  made 
nigh  in  Christ,  and  "are  no  more  strangers  and 
sojourners,  but  ye  are  fellow-citizens  with  the  saints, 
and  of  the  household  of  God"  (Eph  2  19).  That 
household,  that  commonwealth,  is,  in  Pauline  lan- 
guage, equivalent  to  the  kingdom,  and  in  the  same 
Ep.  he  describes  the  same  privileged  position  as 
being  an  "inheritance  in  the  kingdom  of  Christ  and 
God"  (5  5).  The  Saviour's  kingdom  cannot  be 
bounded  by  earthly  limits,  and  all  attempts  to  map 
it  out  according  to  human  rules  imply  a  failure  to 
recognize  the  true  Scriptural  idea  of  its  universality. 

(1)  Kingdom  of  grace — of  power. — Most  of  what 
we  have  said  applies  to  that  phase  of  Christ's  king- 
dom which  is  generally  called  his  kingdom  of  grace; 
there  is  another  phase  called  the  kingdom  of  power. 
Christ  is  in  a  special  sense  king  in  Zion,  king  in  His 
church — that  is  universal  in  conception  and  des- 
tined to  be  so  in  reality — but  He  is  also  king  of  the 
universe.  He  is  "head  over  all  things";  Eph  1 
22;  Col  1  18,  and  other  passages  clearly  intimate 
this.  He  rules  over  all.  He  does  so  not  simply  as 
God,  but  as  God-man,  as  mediator.  It  is  as  me- 
diator that  He  has  the  name  above  every  name;  it 
is  as  mediator  that  He  sits  upon  the  throne  of  uni- 
versal power. 

(2)  Kingdom  of  glory. — There  is  also  the  phase  of 
the  kingdom  of  glory.  Christ's  reign  now  is  truly  glori- 
ous. The  essential  spirituality  of  it  implies  itsglory, 
for  as  the  spiritual  far  surpasses  the  material  in  value, 
so  the  glory  of  the  spiritual  far  transcends  the  glory 
of  the  material.  The  glory  of  worldly  pomp,  of 
physical  force,  of  human  prowess  or  genius,  must 
ever  pale  before  the  glory  of  righteousness,  truth, 
spirituality.  But  Christ's  kingdom  is  glorious  in 
another  sense;  it  is  a  heavenly  kingdom.  It  is  the 
kingdom  of  grace  into  which  saved  sinners  now 
enter,  but  it  is  also  the  kingdom  of  heavenly  glory, 
and  in  it  the  glorified  saints  have  a  place.  Entrance 
into  the  kingdom  of  grace  in  this  earthly  state 
secures  entrance  into  the  kingdom  of  glory.  Right- 
ly does  the  church  confess:  "Thou  art  the  King  of 
Glory,  O  Christ."  The  kingdom  is  yet  to  assume 
an  externally  glorious  form.  That  is  connect  ed 
with  the  appearing  of  Christ  (2  Tim  4  1),  the 
glory  that  shall  be  revealed,  the  heavenly  kingdom. 
The  kingdom  in  that  stage  cannot  be  entered  by 
flesh  and  blood  (1  Cor  15  50),  man  in  his  mortal- 
ity— but  the  resurrection  change  will  give  the  fit- 
ness, when  in  the  fullest  sense  the  kingdom  of  this 
world  shall  have  "become  the  kingdom  of  our  Lord, 
and  of  his  Christ"  (Rev  11  15). 

It  would  be  easy  to  multiply  quotations  in  proof  of 
this.  The  great  passage  in  Dnl  7  emphatically  de- 
clares it.  The  echo  of  this  is  heard  in 
3.  Eternal  the  angel's  announcement:  "He  shalL 
reign  over  the  house  of  Jacob  for  ever; 
and  of  his  kingdom  there  shall  be  no  end"  (Lk  1  33). 
The  reign  of  1,000  years  which  so  greatly  occupies 
the  thoughts  of  so  many  brethren,  whatever  we  may 


1805 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA    King  Christ  as 

Kingdom  of  God 


decide  as  to  its  nature,  is  but  an  episode  in  the  reign 
of  Christ.  He  is  reigning  now,  He  shall  reign  forever. 
Rev  11  15,  above  quoted,  is  often  cited  as  applying 
to  the  millennium,  but  it  goes  on  to  say  "and  he  shall 
reign  [not.  for  1,000  years  simply,  but]  for  ever  and 
ever."  So,  many  of  the  glowing  predictions  of  the 
OT,  which  are  often  assigned  to  the  millennium,  indi- 
cate no  limit,  but  deal  with  the  enduring  and  eternal. 

The  difficult  passage  in  1  Cor  15  24-28  must  be 
interpreted  in  the  light  of  those  declarations  con- 
cerning the  eternity  of  Christ's  reign.  It  is  evi- 
dently as  mediator  that  He  delivers  up  the  kingdom 
to  the  Father.  The  dispensation  of  mediator  comes 
to  an  end.  All  has  been  done  according  to  the  pur- 
pose of  redemption.  All  the  ransomed  are  finally 
gathered  home.  He  sees  of  the  travail  of  His  soul 
and  is  satisfied.  Obdurate  enemies  are  subdued. 
God's  glory  has  been  fully  vindicated.  The  Son 
becoming  subject  to  the  Father,  God  governs  di- 
rectly and  is  all  in  all.  But  the  Son  in  some  sense 
still  reigns  and  through  Him  Cod's  glory  will  ever 
shine,  while  the  kingdom  eternally  rests  upon 
redemption. 

We  may  summarize  bv  saying  that  Christ  is  king 
of  truth,  king  of  salvation  (Mt  21  5;  Zee  9  9); 
king  of  grace;  king  of  peace  (Lk  19  38;  He  7  2); 
king  of  righteousness  (He  1  8;  7  2);  king  of  glory 
(Mt  25  31-34);  king  eternal;  king  of  saints,  king 
of  the  ages;  king  of  kings  (Rev  19  16).  "Upon 
his  head  are  many  diadems"  (Rev  19  12).  See 
also  Christ,  Offices  of.      Archibald  M'Caig 

KING  OF  THE  JEWS:  The  title  applied  in 
mockerv  of  Jesus,  and  put  bv  Pilate  on  His  cross 
(Mt  27  29.37  ||  Mk  15  26,  etc).  See  Jesus  Christ; 
King,  Christ  as. 

KINGDOM  OF  GOD  (OF  HEAVEN),  THE 
(tj  BacriAeia  t»v  ovpavuv — toO  0€ov,  he  basileia  ton 
ourandn — tod  theou): 

I.     Meaning   and  Origin   of  the   Term 

1.  Place  in  the  Gospels 

2.  "  Kingdom  of  Heaven"  and  "  Kingdom  of  God  " 
■A.    Relation  to  the  OT  (Daniel,  etc* 

II.     Its  Use  by  Jesus — Contrast  with  Jewish  Con- 
ceptions 

1.  Current  Jewish  Opinions 

2.  Relation  of  Jesus  to  Same 

:5.  Growing  Divergence  and  Contrast 
4.   Prophetic  Character  of  the  ••Temptation" 
.r>.   Modern    "Futuristic"    Hypothesis    (J.    Weiss, 
Schweitzer) 

0.  Weakness  of  This  View 

7.   Positive  Conceptions  of  Jesus 

III.  The  Idea   in   Histoky 

1.  Apostolic  and  Post-apostolie  Age 

2.  Karly  Christian  Centuries 
'A.    Reformation  Period 

4.   Later  Ideas 

IV.  Place   in  Theology 

1.  Danger  of  Exaggeration 

2.  Elements  of  Living  Power  in  Idea 
Literature 

The  "kingdom  of  God"  is  one  of  the  most  remark- 
able ideas  and  phrases  of  all  time,  having  begun  to 
be  used  very  near  the  beginnings  of  history  and 
continuing  in  force  down  to  the  present  day. 

/.  Meaning  and  Origin  of  the  Term. — Its  use  by 
Jesus  is  by  far  its  most  interesting  aspect;    for,  in 

the  Synoptists,  at  least,  it  is  His 
1.  Place  in  watchword,  or  a  comprehensive  term 
the  Gospels  for  the  whole  of  His  teaching.     Of  this 

the  ordinary  reader  of  Scripture  may 
hardly  be  aware,  but  it  becomes  evident  and  sig- 
nificant to  the  student.  Thus,  in  Mt  4  23,  the 
commencement  of  the  ministry  is  described  in  these 
words,  "And  Jesus  went  about  in  all  Galilee,  teach- 
ing in  their  synagogues,  and  preaching  the  gospel 
of  the  kingdom,  and  healing  all  manner  of  disease 
and  all  manner  of  sickness  among  the  people";  and, 
somewhat  later,  in  Lk  8  1,  the  expansion  of  His 
activity  is  described  in  the  following  terms,  "And 


it  came  to  pass  soon  afterwards,  that  he  went  about 
through  cities  and  villages,  preaching  and  bringing 
the  good  tidings  of  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  with 
him  the  twelve."  When  the  Twelve  are  sent  forth 
by  themselves,  the  purpose  of  their  mission  is,  in 
Lk  9  2,  given  in  these  words,  "And  he  sent  them 
forth  to  preach  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  to  heal  the 
sick."  In  Mt  13  11,  the  parables,  which  formed 
so  large  and  prominent  a  portion  of  His  teaching,  are 
denominated  collectively  "the  mysteries  of  the 
kingdom  of  heaven";  and  it  will  be  remembered 
how  many  of  these  commence  with  the  phrase,  "The 
kingdom  of  heaven  is  like." 

In  these  quotations,  and  in  others  which  might 

easily   be  adduced,   it   will  be  observed   that   the 

phrases    "the    kingdom,"    "the    king- 

2.  "King-  dom  of  God,"  "the  kingdom  of 
dom  of  heaven"  are  used  interchangeably. 
Heaven"  The  last  of  the  three,  "the  kingdom  of 
and  "King-  heaven,"  is  confined  to  the  First  Gos- 
dom  of  pel,  which  does  not,  however,  always 
God"              make  use  of  it ;    and  it  is  not  certain 

what  may  have  been  the  reason  for 
the  substitution.  The  simplest  explanation  would 
be  that  heaven  is  a  name  for  God,  as,  in  the  parable 
of  the  Prodigal  Son,  the  penitent  says,  "I  have 
sinned  against  heaven,"  and  we  ourselves  might 
say,  "Heaven  forbid!"  It  is  not,  however,  im- 
probable that  the  true  meaning  has  to  be  learned 
from  two  petitions  of  the  Lord's  Prayer,  the  one  of 
which  is  epexegetic  of  the  other,  "Thy  kingdom 
come.  Thy  will  be  done  on  earth,  as  it  is  in  heaven." 
Here  the  disciples  are  instructed  to  pray  that  the 
kingdom  of  God  may  come,  but  this  is  equivalent 
to  the  petition  that  the  will  of  God  may  be  done  on 
earth;  Jesus  is,  however,  aware  of  a  region  in  the 
universe  where  the  will  of  God  is  at  present  being 
perfectly  and  universally  done,  and,  for  reasons  not 
difficult  to  surmise,  He  elevates  thither  the  minds 
and  hearts  of  those  who  pray.  The  kingdom  of 
heaven  would  thus  be  so  entitled  because  it  is 
already  realized  there,  and  is,  through  prayer  and 
effort,  to  be  transferred  thence  to  this  earth. 

Although,  however,  the  phrase  held  this  master- 
position  in  the  teaching  of  Jesus,  it  was  not  of  His 
invention.     It    was    employed    before 

3.  Relation  Him  by  John  the  Baptist,  of  whom  we 
to  OT  read,  in  Mt  3  1  f,  "And  in  those  days 
(Daniel,  etc)  cometh    John   the   Baptist,   preaching 

in  the  wilderness  of  Judaea,  saying, 
Repent  ye;  for  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  at  hand." 
Indeed,  the  phrase  is  far  older;  for,  on  glancing 
toward  the  OT,  we  come  at  once,  in  Did  2  44,  to  a 
passage  where  the  young  prophet,  explaining  to  the 
monarch  the  image  of  gold,  silver,  iron  and  clay, 
which,  in  his  dream,  he  had  seen  shattered  by  "a 
stone  cut  out  without  hands,"  interprets  it  as  a 
succession  of  world-kingdoms,  destined  to  be  de- 
stroyed by  "a  kingdom  of  God,"  which  shall  last 
forever;  and,  in  his  famous  vision  of  the  "son  of 
man"  in  7  14,  it  is  said,  "There  was  given  him 
dominion,  and  glory,  and  a  kingdom,  that  all  the 
peoples,  nations,  and  languages  should  serve  him: 
his  dominion  is  an  everlasting  dominion,  which  shall 
not  pass  away,  and  his  kingdom  that  which  shall  not 
be  destroyed." 

These  passages  in  Dnl  form  undoubtedly  the 
proximate  source  of  the  phrase;  yet  the  idea  which 
it  represents  mounts  far  higher.  From  the  first 
the  Jewish  state  was  governed  by  laws  believed 
to  be  derived  directly  from  heaven;  and,  when  the 
people  demanded  a  king,  that  they  might  be  like 
other  nations,  they  were  reproached  for  desiring 
any  king  but  God  Himself.  With  this  sublime  con- 
ception the  actual  monarchy  was  only  a  com- 
promise, the  reigning  monarch  passing  for  Jeh's 
representative  on  earth.     In  David,  the  man  after 


Kingdom  of  God    THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1S06 


Cod's  own  heart,  the  compromise  was  not  unsatis- 
factory; in  Solomon  it  was  still  tolerable;  hut  in  t  lie 
majority  of  the  kings  of  both  Jndah  and  Israel  it 
was  a  dismal  and  disastrous  failure.  No  wonder 
that  the  pious  sighed  and  prayed  that  Jeh  might 
take  to  Himself  His  great  power  and  reign,  or  that 
the  prophets  predicted  the  coming  of  a  ruler  who 
would  be  far  nearer  to  God  than  the  actual  kings 
and  of  whose  reign  there  would  be  no  end.  Even 
when  the  political  kingdom  perished  and  the  people 
were  carried  away  into  Babylon,  the  intelligent,  and 
truly  religious  among  them  did  not  cease  to  cherish 
the 'old  hope,  and  the  very  aspect  of  the  world- 
powers  then  and  subsequently  menacing  them  only 
widened  their  conceptions  of  what  that  kingdom 
must  be  which  could  overcome  them  all.  The 
return  from  Babylon  seemed  a  miraculous  confirma- 
tion of  their  faith,  and  it  looked  as  if  the  day  long 
prayed  for  were  about  to  dawn.  Alas,  it  proved  a 
day  of  small  things.  The  era  of  the  Maccabees 
was  only  a  transitory  gleam;  in  the  person  ot  Herod 
the  Great  a  usurper  occupied  the  throne;  and  the 
eagles  of  the  Romans  were  hovering  on  the  horizon. 
Still  Messianic  hopes  flourished,  and  Messianic 
language  filled  the  mouths  of  the  people. 

//.   Its  Use  by  Jesus  —Contrast  with  Jewish  Con- 
ceptions.—-Sehi'irer,   in   his   History  of  the  Jewish 
People  in   the    Time   of   Jesus    Christ 
1.  Current     (11,  11,  126  i'f),  has  drawn  up  a  kind 
Jewish  of  Messianic  creed,  in  no  fewer  than 

Opinions  eleven  articles,  which  he  believes  was 
extensively  diffused  at  this  period. 
The  Sadducees,  indeed,  had  no  participation  in 
these  dreams,  as  they  would  have  called  them,  being 
absorbed  in  money-making  and  courtiership;  but 
the  Pharisees  cherished  them,  and  the  Zealots 
received  their  name  from  the  ardor  with  which  they 
embraced  them.  The  true  custodians,  however,  of 
these  conceptions  were  the  Prosdechomenoi,  as 
they  have  been  called,  from  what  is  said  of  them  in 
t  lie  NT,  that  they  "waited  for  the  kingdom  of  Cod." 
To  this  class  belonged  such  men  as  Nicodemus  and 
Joseph  of  Arimathsea  (Lk  23  51),  but  it  is  in  the 
beginning  of  the  Gospel  of  Lk  that  we  are  intro- 
duced to  its  most  numerous  representatives,  in  the 
groups  surrounding  the  infant  Baptist  and  the 
infant  Saviour  (Lk  2  25.38);  and  the  truest  and 
amplest  expression  of  their  sentiments  must  be 
sought  in  the  inspired  hymns  which  rose  from  them 
on  this  occasion.  The  center  of  their  aspirations, 
as  there  depicted,  is  a  kingdom  of  Cod— not,  how- 
ever, of  worldly  splendor  and_  force,  but  of  right- 
eousness and  peace  and  joy  in  the  Holy  Ghost; 
beginning  in  humility,  and  passing  to  exaltation 
only  through  the  dark  valley  of  contrition. 

Such  was  the  circle  in  which  both  the  Baptist 
and  Jesus  were  reared,  and  it  was  out  of  this  atmos- 
phere that  the  conception  of  the 
2.  Relation  kingdom  of  Cod  came  into  their  minds, 
of  Jesus  It  has  frequently  been  said  that,  in 
to  Same  making  use  of  this  term,  Jesus  accom- 
modated Himself  to  the  opinions  and 
language  of  His  fellow-countrymen;  and  there  is 
truth  in  this,  because,  in  order  to  secure  a  footing 
on  the  solid  earth  of  history,  He  had  to  connect  His 
own  activity  with  the  world  in  which  He  found 
Himself.  Yet  the  idea  was  native  to  His  home  and 
His  race,  and  therefore  to  Himself;  and  it  is  not 
improbable  that  He  may  at  first  have  been  un- 
aware of  the  wide  difference  between  His  own 
thoughts  on  the  subject  and  those  of  His  con- 
temporaries. 

When,  however,  He  began,  in  the  course  of  His 
ministry,  to  speak  of  the  kingdom  of  Cod,  it  soon 
became  manifest  that  by  Him  and  by  His  con- 
temporaries it  was  used  in  different  senses;  and 
this  contrast  went  on  increasing  until  there  was  a 


great,    gulf    fixed    between    Him   and   them.     The 
difference  cannot  better  be  expressed  than  by  say- 
ing, as  is  done  by  B.  Weiss,  that  He 

3.  Growing  and  they  laid  the  accent  on  different 
Divergence  halves  of  the  phrase,  they  emphasizing 
and  "the  kingdom"  and  He  "of  God." 
Contrast         They  were  thinking  of  the  expulsion  of 

the  Romans,  of  a  Jewish  king  and  court, 
and  of  a  world-wide  dominion  going  forth  from  Alt. 
Zion;  He  was  thinking  of  righteousness,  holiness 
and  peace,  of  the  doing  of  the  will  of  God  on  earth 
as  it  is  done  in  heaven.  So  earthly  and  fantastic 
were  the  expectations  of  the  Jewish  multitude  that 
He  had  to  escape  from  their  hands  when  they  tried 
to  take  Him  by  force  and  make  Him  a  king.  The 
authorities  never  acknowledged  the  pretensions  of 
One  who  seemed  to  them  a  religious  dreamer,  and, 
as  they  clung  to  their  own  conceptions,  they  grew 
more  and  more  bitter  against  One  who  was  turning 
the  most  cherished  hopes  of  a  nation  into  ridicule, 
besides  threatening  to  bring  down  on  them  the 
heavy  hand  of  the  Roman.  And  at  last  they 
settled  the  controversy  between  Him  and  them  by 
nailing  Him  to  a  tree. 

At  one  time  Jesus  had  felt  the  glamor  of  the 

popular  Messianic  ideas,  and  at  all  times  He  must 

have  been  under  temptation  to  aceom- 

4.  Prophetic  modate  His  own  ideas  to  the  prej- 
Character  udices  of  those  on  whose  favor  His 
of  the  success  seemed  to  be  dependent.  The 
"Temp-  struggle  of  His  mind  and  will  with  such 
tation"            solicitations  is   embodied   in   what   is 

called  the  Temptation  in  the  Wilder- 
ness (Mt  4  1-11).  There  He  was  tempted  to 
accept  the  dominion  of  the  world  at  the  price  of 
compromise  with  evil;  to  be  a  bread-king,  giving 
pattern  el  circenses;  and  to  curry  favor  with  the 
multitude  by  some  display,  like  springing  from  the 
pinnacle  of  the  temple.  The  incidents  of  this  scene 
look  like  representative  samples  of  a  long  experience; 
but  they  are  placed  before  the  commencement  of 
His  public  activity  in  order  to  show  that  He  had 
already  overcome  them;  and  throughout  His  min- 
istry He  may  be  said  to  have  been  continually  de- 
claring, as  He  did  in  so  many  words  at  its  close, 
that  His  kingdom  was  not  of  this  world. 

It  is  very  strange  that,  in  spite  of  this,  He  should 
be  believed,  even  by  Christian  scholars,   to  have  held 

a  purely  futuristic  and  apocalyptic  view 
K  Mnrlprn  °f  the  kingdom  Himself.  He  was  all  the 
u, ,  muuciu  tjme  oxpectmg(  it  is  said,  that  the  heavens 
"Futuristic"  would  open  and  the  kingdom  descend  from 
Hypothesis  heaven  to  earth,  a  pure  and  perfect  work 
,r  Woi„  of  Cod.  This  is  exactly  what  was  ex- 
tj.  weiib,  pected  by  the  Jewish  multitude,  as  is 
Schweitzer)   stated  in  Lk  19  H;    and  it  is  precisely 

what  the  authorities  believed  Him  to  be 
anticipating.  The  controversy  between  Him  and  them 
was  as  to  whether  Jeh  would  intervene  on  His  behalf  or 
not;  and,  when  no  intervention  took  place,  they  be- 
lieved they  were  justified  in  condemning  Him.  The 
premises  being  conceded,  it  is  difficult  to  deny  the  force 
of  their  argument.  If  Jesus  was  all  the  time  looking  out 
for  an  appearance  from  heaven  which  never  arrived, 
what  better  was  He  than  a  dreamer  of  the  ghetto  ? 

It  was  by  Johannes  Weiss  that  this  hypothesis  was 
started  in  recent  times;    and  it  has  been  worked  out  by 

Schweitzer  as  the  final  issue  of  modern 
R  Weak-  speculation  on  the  life  of  Christ  (see  his 
o.    vvcais.  fhe  Quest  of  the  HisloricalJesus).     But  in 

neSS  01  opposition  to  it  can  be  quoted  not  a  few 

This  View      sayings  of  Jesus  which  indicate  that,  in 

His  view,  the  kingdom  of  God  had  al- 
readv  begun  and  was  making  progress  during  His 
earthly  ministry,  and  that  it  was  destined  to  make 
progress  not  by  catastrophic  and  apocalyptic  interference 
with  the  course  of  Providence,  but,  as  the  grain  grows— 
first  the  blade,  then  the  ear,  after  that  the  full  corn  in 
the  ear  (Mk  4  2(>-29).  Of  such  sayings  the  most 
remarkable  is  Lk  17  20f,  "And  being  asked  by  the  Phar- 
isees when  the  kingdom  of  God  cometh,  he  answered 
them  and  said,  The  kingdom  of  God  cometh  not  with 
observation:  neither  shall  they  say,  Lo,  herel  or.  There! 
for  lo,  the  kingdom  of  God  is  within  you."  "Observa- 
tion "  in  this  quotation,  is  an  astronomical  term,  de- 
noting  exactly    such    a   manifestation   in   the   physical 


1807 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Kingdom  of  God 


heavens  as  Jesus  is  assumed  to  have  been  looking  for; 
so  that  He  denies  in  so  many  words  the  expectation 
attributed  to  Him  by  those  representatives  of  modern 
scholarship. 

In  the  nature  of  the  case  the  kingdom  must  have 
been  growing  from  stage  to  stage  during  His  earthly 
ministry.  He  Himself  was  there, 
7.  Positive  embodying  the  kingdom  in  His  person; 
Conceptions  and  the  circle  gathered  around  Him 
of  Jesus  partook  of  the  blessings  of  the  king- 
dom. This  circle  might  have  grown 
large  enough  to  be  coextensive  with  the  country; 
and,  therefore,  Jesus  retained  the  consciousness  of 
being  the  Messiah,  and  offered  Himself  in  this  char- 
acter to  His  fellow-countrymen  by  the  triumphal 
entry  into  Jerus.  But  the  citizens  of  the  kingdom 
had  to  enter  it  one  by  one,  not  in  a  body,  as  the 
Jews  were  expecting.  Strait  was  the  gate;  it  was 
the  narrow  gate  of  repentance.  Jesus  began  by 
repeating  the  initial  word  of  the  teaching  of  His 
forerunner;  and  He  had  too  much  reason  to  con- 
tinue repeating  it,  as  the  hypocrisy  and  worldliness 
of  Pharisees  and  Sadducees  called  for  denunciation 
from  His  lips.  To  the  frailties  of  the  publicans 
and  sinners,  on  the  contrary,  He  showed  a  strange 
mildness;  but  this  was  because  He  knew  the  way 
of  bringing  such  sinners  to  His  feet  to  confess  their 
sins  themselves.  To  the  penitent  He  granted 
pardon,  claiming  that  the  Son  of  man  had  power 
on  earth  to  forgive  sins.  Then  followed  the  expo- 
sition of  righteousness,  of  which  the  Sermon  on  the 
Mount  is  a  perfect  specimen.  Yet  it  commences 
with  another  watchword — that  of  blessedness,  tin; 
ingredients  of  which  are  set  forth  in  all  their  com- 
prehensiveness. In  the  same  way,  in  other  pas- 
sages, He  promises  "rest,"  "peace,"  and  the  like; 
and  again  and  again,  where  He  might  be  expected 
to  employ  the  term  "kingdom  of  God,"  He  substi- 
tutes "life"  or  "eternal  life."  Such  were  the  blessings 
He  had  come  into  the  world  to  bestow;  and  the 
most  comprehensive  designation  for  them  all  was 
"the  kingdom  of  God." 

It  is  true,  there  was  always  imperfection  attach- 
ing to  the  kingdom  as  realized  in  His  lifetime,  be- 
cause He  Himself  was  not  yet,  made  perfect.  Stead- 
ily, from  the  commencement  of  the  last  stage  of  His 
career,  He  began  to  speak  of  His  own  dying  and 
rising  again.  To  those  nearest  Him  such  language 
was  at  the  time  a  total  mystery;  but  the  day  came 
when  His  apostles  were  able  to  speak  of  His  death 
and  ascension  as  the  crown  and  glory  of  His  whole; 
career.  When  His  life  seemed  to  be  plunging  over 
the  precipice,  its  course  was  so  diverted  by  the 
providence  of  God  that,  by  dying,  He  became  the 
Redeemer  of  mankind  and,  by  missing  the  throne 
of  the  Jews,  attained  to  that  of  the  universe,  be- 
coming King  of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords. 

///.  The  Idea  in  History. — After  the  death  of 
Jesus,  there  soon  ensued  the  destruction  of  the  Jew- 
ish state;  and  then  Christianity  went 
1.  Apos-  forth  among  the  nations,  where  to 
tolic  and  have  spoken  of  it  as  a  kingdom  of  God 
Post-apos-  would  have  unnecessarily  provoked 
tolic  Age  hostility  and  called  forth  the  accusa- 
tion of  treason  against  the  powers  that 
be.  Hence  it  made  use  of  other  names  and  let 
"the  kingdom  of  God"  drop.  This  had  commenced 
even  in  Holy  Scripture,  where,  in  the  later  books, 
there  is  a  growing  infrequency  in  the  use  of  the  term. 
This  may  be  alleged  as  proof  that  Jesus  was  being 
forgotten;  but  it  may  only  prove  that  Christianity 
was  then  too  much  alive  to  be  trammeled  with 
words  and  phrases,  even  those  of  the  Master,  being 
able  at  every  stage  to  find  new  language  to  express 
its  new  experience. 

In  the  early  Christian  centuries,  "the  kingdom  of 
God"  was  used  to  designate  heaven  itself,  in  which 


from   the  first   the   development   of   the   kingdom 

was  to  issue;    this,  in  fact,  being  not  infrequently 

the  meaning  of  the  phrase  even  in  the 

2.  Early         mouth    of    Jesus.      The    Alexandrian 
Christian        thinkers  brought  back  the  phrase  to 
Centuries       designate  the  rule  of  God  in  the  con- 
science of  men.     St.  Augustine's  great 

work  bears  a  title,  De  Ciritate  Dei,  which  is  a  tr  of 
our  phrase;  and  to  him  the  kingdom  of  God  was  the 
church,  while  the  world  outside  of  the  church  was 
the  kingdom  of  Satan.  From  the  time  of  Charle- 
magne there  were  in  the  world,  side  by  side,  two 
powers,  that  of  the  emperor  and  that  of  the  pope; 
and  the  history  of  the  Middle  Ages  is  the  account  of 
the  conflict  of  these  two  for  predominance,  each  pre- 
tending to  struggle  in  the  name  of  God.  The  ap- 
proaching termination  of  this  conflict  may  be  seen 
in  Wycliffe's  great  work  De  Dominio  Diuino,  this 
title  also  being  a  tr  of  our  phrase. 

During   the   struggles   of   the   Reformation   the 

battles  of  the  faith  were  fought  out  under  other 

watchwords;  and  it  was  rather  among 

3.  Refor-  such  sectaries  as  the  Baptists,  that 
mation  names  like  Fifth  Monarchy  and  Rule 
Period            of  the  Saints  betrayed  recollection  of 

the  evangelic  phraseology;  but  how 
near,  then  and  subsequently,  the  expression  of 
men's  thoughts  about  authority  in  church  and  state 
came  to  the  language  of  the  Gospels  could  easily  be 
demonstrated,  for  example,  from  the  Confessions  and 
Books  of  Discipline  of  the  Scottish  church. 

The   very  phrase,    "the  kingdom  of   God,"  re- 
appeared at  the   close  of  the  Reformation  period 
among  the  Pietists  of  Germany,  who,  as 

4.  Later  their  multiplying  benevolent  and  mis- 
Ideas  sionary  act  ivities  overflowed  thenarrow 

boundaries  of  the  church,  as  it  was 
then  understood,  spoke  of  themselves  as  working 
for  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  found  this  more  to  their 
taste  than  working  for  the  church.  The  vague  and 
humanitarian  aspirations  of  Rationalism  sometimes 
assumed  to  themselves  the  same  title;  but  it  was 
by  Ritschl  and  his  followers  that  the  phrase  was 
brought  back  into  the  very  heart  of  theology.  In 
the  system  of  Ritschl  there  are  two  poles — the  love 
of  God  and  the  kingdom  of  God.  The  love  of  God 
enfolds  within  itself  God's  purpose  for  the  world, 
to  be  realized  in  time;  and  this  progressive  realiza- 
tion is  the  kingdom  of  God.  It  fulfils  itself  esp.  in 
the  faithful  discharge  of  the  duties  of  everyone's 
daily  vocation  and  in  the  recognition  that  in  the 
course  of  Providence  all  things  are  working  together 
for  good  to  them  that  love  (hid. 

IV.  Place    in    Theology. — There    are    those    to 

whom  it  appears  self-evident  that  what  was  the 

leading  phrase  in  the  teaching  of  Jesus 

1.  Danger  must  ahvays  be  the  master-word  in 
of  Exag-  theology;  while  others  think  this  to 
geration         be  a  return  from  the  spirit  to  the  letter. 

Even  Jesus,  it  may  be  claimed,  had 
this  phrase  imposed  upon  Him  quite  as  much  as 
He  chose  it  for  Himself;  and  to  impose  it  now 
on  theology  would  be  to  entangle  the  movements 
of  Christian  thought  with  the  cerements  of  the 
dead. 

This  is  an  interesting  controversy,  on  both  sides 
of  which  much  might  be  said.     But  in  the  phrase 

''the  kingdom  of  God"  there  are  ele- 

2.  Elements  ments  of  living  power  which  can  never 
of  Living  pass  away.  (1)  It  expresses  the  social 
Power  in  side  of  Christianity.  A  kingdom  im- 
Idea  plies     multitude     and    variety,     and, 

though  religion  begins  with  the  indi- 
vidual, it  must  aim  at  brotherhood,  organization  and 
expansion.  (2)  It  expresses  loyalty.  However 
much  kings  and  kingdoms  may  fail  to  touch  the 
imagination  in   an  age  of  the  world  when  many 


Kingdom  of  Israel 
Kings,  Books  of 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1808 


countries  have  become  or  are  becoming  republican, 
the  strength  to  conquer  and  to  endure  will  always 
have  to  be  derived  from  contact  with  personalities. 
God  is  the  king  of  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  the  Son 
of  God  is  His  vicegerent;  and  without  the  love  of 
God  the  Father  and  the  grace  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  no  progress  can  be  made  with  the  Christian- 
ization  of  the  world.  (3)  It  keeps  alive  the  truth, 
suggested  by  Jesus  in  the  Lord's  Prayer,  that  the 
doing  of  the  will  of  God  on  earth  is  the  one  thing 
needful.  This  is  the  true  end  of  all  authority  in 
both  church  and  state,  and  behind  all  efforts  thus 
directed  there  is  at  work  the  potency  of  heaven. 
(4)  It  reminds  all  generations  of  men  that  their  true 
home  and  destiny  is  heaven.  In  not  a  few  of  Our 
Lord's  own  sayings,  as  has  been  remarked,  our 
phrase  is  obviously  only  a  name  for  heaven;  and, 
while  His  aim  was  that  the  kingdom  should  be  es- 
tablished on  earth.  He  always  promised  to  those 
aiding  in  its  establishment  in  this  world  that  their 
efforts  would  be  rewarded  in  the  world  to  come. 
The  constant  recognition  of  a  spiritual  and  eternal 
world  is  one  of  the  unfailing  marks  of  genuine 
Christianity. 

Liter  mure. — See  the  works  on  NT  Theology  by 
Weiss.  Beyschlag,  Holtzmann,  Peine,  Schlatter,  Weinel, 
Stevens.  Sheldon;  and  on  the  Teaching  of  Jesus  by 
Wendt,  Dalman,  Bruce;  Candlish,  The  Kingdom  of  God; 
Robertson,  Regnum  Dei;    Stalker,   The  Ethic  of  Jesus. 

James  Stalker 
KINGDOM   OF  ISRAEL.     See   Israel,   King- 
dom OF. 

KINGDOM  OF  JUDAH.  See  Judah,  King- 
dom OF. 

KING'S  DALE.     See  Dale,  King's. 

KING'S  GARDEN  {&12TT}1,  gan-ha-mclekh) : 
In  Neh  3  15,  mention  is  made  of  "the  pool  of 
Shelah  by  the  king's  garden";  in  2  K  25  4;  Jer 
52  7,  "All  the  men  of  war  fled  by  night  by  the  way 
of  tlie  gate  between  the  two  walls,  which  was  by  the 
king's  garden";  see  also  Jer  39  4.  The  "king's 
winepresses"  (Zee  14  10),  which  must  have  been 
to  the  extreme  S.  of  the  city,  were  clearly  in  this 
neighborhood.  The  references  all  point  to  the  one 
situation  in  Jerus  where  it  is  possible  for  gardens 
to  flourish  all  the  year  round,  namely,  the  part  of 
the  Kidron  valley  below  the  Tyropoeon  which  is 
watered  by  the  overflow  from  the  Pool  of  Siloam 
(see  Siloam).  Here  the  vegetable  gardens  of  the 
peasants  of  Siloam  present  an  aspect  of  green  fresh- 
ness unknown  elsewhere  in  Jerus. 

E.  W.  G.  Masterman 

KING'S  MOTHER:  The  queen-dowager  occu- 
pied a  very  important  position  at  the  court  of 
the  kings  of  Israel,  e.g.  Bathsheba  (1  K  2  19); 
Maacah  (15  13);  Athaliah  (2  Ch  22  2);  and  Ne- 
hushta  (2  K  24  8;  Jer  13  18).  See  Queen;  Queen 
Mother. 

KING'S  POOL  (T^Gn  P3"0,  b'rekhath  ha- 
melekh) :  This  is  possibly  the  Pool  of  Siloam  (Neh 
2  14),  and  may  have  been  so  named  as  being  near 
to  the  "king's  garden." 

KING'S  VALE  (i}12rrp'Q? ,  'emek  ha-mdekh; 
LXX  in  Gen  reads  to  pedion  ["the  plain"]  baxUeos, 
in  2  S,  he  koilds  ["valley"]  tou  basileos;  AV  King's 
Dale):  The  place  where  the  king  of  Sodom  met 
Abram  (Gen  14  17).  and  the  situation  of  Absalom's 
monument  (2  S  18  18).  It  was  identical  with  the 
Vale  of  Shaveh,  and  was  evidently  near  Salem,  the 
city  of  Melchizedek  (Gen  14  17).  If  Salem  (q.v.) 
is  Jerus,  then  Absalom's  pillar  was  also  near  that 
city.    Jos  writes  {Ant,  VII,  x,  3),  "Absalom  had 


erected  for  himself  a  marble  pillar  in  the  king's  dale, 
two  furlongs  [stadia]  from  Jerus,  which  he  named 
Absalom's  Hand."  In  all  probability  this  "pillar" 
was  a  rough  upright  stone — a  maccebhah — but  its 
site  is  lost.  The  traditional  Gr-Egyp  tomb  of 
perhaps  100-200  years  BC  which  has  been  hewn  out 
of  the  rock  on  the  eastern  side  of  the  Kidron  valley 
is  manifestly  misnamed  "Absalom's  pillar,"  and 
the  Kidron  ravine  (nahal)  cannot  be  the  King's 
Vale   Qcmek).  E.  W.  G.  Masterman 

KINGS,  BOOKS  OF: 

I .     Title 
II.     Scope 

III.  Character  of  Books  and  Position  in  Hebrew 
Canon 

1.  Purpose 

2.  Character  of  Data 

IV.  Historical  Value 

1.  Treatment  of  Historical  Data 

2.  Chronology 

3.  Value  of  Assyrian  Kecords 

4.  Plan 

V.     Composition 

1.  Nature  of  the  Books 

2.  Sources 

:■!.    Kent's  Scheme 
4.  J  and  E 
VI.      Date 
Literature 

/.  Title. — The  Heb  title  reads,  C1? *"Q  ,  mHakhim, 
"kings,"  the  division  into  books  being  based  on  the 
LXX  where  the  Books  of  Kings  are  numbered  3d 
and  4th,  the  Books  of  Kingdoms  (BaaiXeiwv, 
Basileion),  the  Books  of  Samuel  being  numbered 
respectively  1st  and  2d.  The  separation  in  the  Heb 
into  2  Books  of  Kings  dates  to  the  rabbinic  Bible  of 
Daniel  Bomberg  (Venice,  1516-17),  who  adds  in  a 
footnote,  "Here  the  non-Jews  [i.e.  Christians]  begin 
the  4th  Book  of  Kings."  The  Heb  Canon  treats 
the  2  Books  of  S  as  one  book,  and  the  2  Books  of 
K  as  one.  Hence  both  AV  and  RV  read  incor- 
rectly, "The  First  Book  of  Kings,"  even  the  use  of 
the  article  being  superfluous. 

//.  Scope. — The  Books  of  K  contain  47  chs 
(I,  22  chs;  II,  25  chs),  and  cover  the  period  from 
the  conspiracy  of  Adonijah  and  the  accession  of 
Solomon  (975  BC)  to  the  liberation  of  Jehoiachin 
after  the  beginning  of  the  Exile  (561  BC).  The 
subject-matter  may  be  grouped  under  certain  heads, 
as  the  last  days  of  David  (1  K  1 — 2  11);  Solomon 
and  his  times  (1  K  2  12—11  43);  the  Northern 
Kingdom  to  the  coming  of  Assyria  (1  K  12  16 — 
2  K  17  41)  (937-722  BC),  including  9  dynastic 
changes;  the  Southern  Kingdom  to  the  coming  of 
Babylon  (1  K  12  1—2  K  25  21,  the  annals  of  the 
two  kingdoms  being  given  as  ||  records  until  the  fall 
of  Israel)  (937-586  BC),  during  which  time  but  one 
dynasty,  that  of  David,  occupied  the  throne;  the 
period  of  exile  to  561  BC  (2  K  25  22-30).  A 
simpler  outline,  that  of  Driver,  would  be:  (1)  Solo- 
mon and  his  times  (1  K  1-11) ;  (2)  Israel  and  Judah 
to  the  fall  of  Israel  (1  K  12—2  K  17);  Judah  to 
the  fall  of  Jerus  (586  BC),  and  the  captivity  to  the 
liberation  of  Jehoiachin  (561  BC)  (2  K  18-25). 

"Above  all,  there  are  three  features  in  the  history, 
which,  in  the  mind  of  the  author,  are  of  prime  importance 
as  shown  by  the  prominence  he  gives  them  in  his  narra- 
tive. (1)  The  dynasty  of  David  is  invested  with  pe- 
culiar dignity.  This  had  two  aspects.  It  pointed  back 
to  the  Divine  election  of  the  nation  in  the  past,  and  gave 
the  guaranty  of  indefinite  national  perpetuity  in  the 
future.  The  promise  of  'the  sure  mercies  of  David' 
was  a  powerful  uniting  influence  in  the  Exile.  (2)  The 
Temple  and  its  service,  for  which  the  writer  had  such 
special  regard,  contributed  greatly  to  the;  phase  of  na- 
tional character  of  subsequent  times.  With  all  the  draw- 
backs and  defacements  of  pure  worship  here  was  the 
stated  regular  performance  of  sacred  rites,  the  develop- 
ment and  regulation  of  priestly  order  and  ritual  law, 
which  stamped  themselves  so  firmly  on  later  Judaism. 
(3)  Above  all,  this  was  the  period  of  bloom  of  OT 
prophecy.  Though  more  is  said  of  men  like  Elijah  and 
lilisha,  who  have  left  no  written  words,  we  must  not 


1809 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Kingdom  of  Israel 
Kings,  Books  of 


forgot  the  desires  of  preexilian  prophets,  whose  writings 
have  come  down  to  us — men  who,  against  the,  opposi- 
tion of  rulers  and  the  indifference  of  the  people,  testi- 
fied to  the  moral  foundation  on  which  the  nation  was  con- 
stituted, vindicated  Divine  righteousness,  rebuked  sin, 
and  held  up  the  ideal  to  which  the  nation  was  called." — 
Robertson,  Temple  BD,  369  f. 

///.  Character  of  Books  and  Position  in  Hebrew 
Canon. — The  Books  of  K  contain  much  historical 
material,  yet  the  historical  is  not  their  primary 
purpose.  What  in  our  Eng.  Bibles  pass  for  his- 
torical books  are  in  the  Heb  Canon  prophetic  books, 
the  Books  of  Josh,  Jgs,  1  S,  2  S,  1  K  and  2  K  being 
classed  as  the  "Earlier  Prophets." 

The  chief  aim  of  these  books  is  didactic,  the  im- 
parting of  great  moral  lessons  backed  up  by  well- 
known  illustrations  from  the  nation's 

1.  Purpose    history    and    from    the    lives    of    its 

heroes  and  leaders.  Accordingly,  we 
have  here  a  sort  of  historical  archipelago,  more  con- 
tinuous than  in  the  Pent,  yet  requiring  much 
bridging  over  and  conjecture  in  the  details. 

The  historical  matter  includes,  in  the  case  of  the 
kings  of   Israel,   the  length  of  the  reign   and  the 

death;     in   the   case   of   the   kings   of 

2.  Charac-  Judah  there  are  included  also  the  age 
ter  of  Data    at  the  dateof  accession,  the nameof  the 

mother,  and  mention  of  the  burial. 
The  beginnings  of  the  reigns  in  each  case  are  dated 
from  a  point  in  the  reign  of  the  contemporary  ruler, 
e.g.  1  K  15  1:  "Now  in  the  18th  year  of  king 
Jeroboam  the  son  of  Nebat  began  Abijam  to  reign 
over  Judah." 

IV.  Historical    Value. — These   books   contain    a 

large  amount  of  authentic,  data,  and,  along  with  the 

other  books  of  this  group  which  con- 

1.  Treat-  stitute  a  contemporaneous  narrative, 
ment  of  Josh,  Jgs,  1  S,  2  S,  must  be  accorded 
Historical  high  rank  among  ancient  documents. 
Data  To  be  sure  the  ethical  and  religious 

value  is  first  and  highest,  nevertheless 
the  historical  facts  must  be  reckoned  at  their  true 
worth.  Discrepancies  and  contradictions  are  to 
be  explained  by  the  subordination  of  historical  de- 
tails to  the  moral  and  religious  purpose  of  the  books, 
and  to  the  diversity  of  sources  whence  these  data 
are  taken,  that  is,  the  compilers  and  editors  of  the 
Books  of  K  as  they  now  stand  were  working  not  for 
a  consistent,  continuous  historical  narrative,  but 
for  a  great  ethical  and  religious  treatise.  The  his- 
torical material  is  only  incidental  and  introduced 
by  way  of  illustration  and  confirmation.  For  the 
oriental  mind  these  historical  examples  rather  than 
the  rigor  of  modern  logic  constitute  the  unanswer- 
able argument. 

There  cannot  be  as  much  said  relative  to  the  chrono- 
logical value  of  the  books.     Thus,  e.g.,  there  is  a  ques- 
tion  as  to  the  date  of  the  close  of   Ahaz' 

2.  Chro-  reign.  According  to  2  K  18  10,  Samaria 
noloey  fell  in  the  6th  year  of  Hezekiah's  reign. 

The  kings  who  followed  Hezekiah  aggre- 
gate 110  years;  586+110+20  (Hezekiah,  2  K  18  2)  = 
725.  But  in  2  K  18  13  we  learn  that  Sennacherib's 
invasion  came  in  the  14th  year  of  Hezekiah's  reign. 
Then  701  +14  =71.5.  With  this  last  agrees  the  account 
of  Hezekiah's  sickness  (2  K  20)-  In  explanation 
of  2  K  18  13,  however,  it  is  urged  by  some  that  the 
writer  has  subtracted  the  15  years  of  2  K  20  6  from  the 
29  years  of  Hezekiah's  reign.  Again,  e.g.  in  1  K  6  1, 
we  learn  that  Solomon  began  to  build  the  temple  480 
years  "after  the  children  of  Israel  wore  come  out  of  the 
land  of  Egypt"  (LXX  here  reads  440  years).  This 
would  make  between  Moses  and  David  12  generations  of 
40  years  each.  But  counting  the  Exodus  in  the  reign  of 
Merenptah,  1225-1215  BC,  and  the  beginning  of  the 
erection  of  the  temple  975  BC,  or  after,  we  could  not 
make  out  more  than  (1225-975)  250  years.  Further, 
if  the  total  length  of  reigns  in  Israel  and  Judah  as  re- 
corded in  the  ||  accounts  of  K  be  added  for  the  two  king- 
doms, the  two  amounts  do  not  agree.  And,  again,  it  is 
not  certain  whether  in  their  annals  the  Hebrews  pre- 
dated or  post-dated  the  reigns  of  their  kings,  i.e.  whether 
the  year  of  a  king's  death  was  counted  his  last  year  and 
the  "first  year  of  his  successor's  reign,  or  whether  the 
following  year  was  counted  the  first  year  of  the  succeed- 


ing king  (cf  Curtis  in  IIDB,  I,  400,  1,  f ;  Marti  in  EB,  I 
coll.  777  ft). 

The    Babylonians    and    Assyrians    wore 

3.  Value  more  skilled  and  more  careful  chronologers, 
of  Assyrian  autl  ic  is  ^y  reference  to  their  accounts  of 
u  a  tne  same  (>r  of  contemporary  events  that 
Kecoras           a  sure  footing  is  found.    Hence,  the  value;  of 

such  monuments  as  those  of  Shalmaneser 
IV  and  Sennacherib — and  here  mention  should  be  made 
also  of  the  Moabite  Stone. 

The  plan  of  the   books  is  prevailinglv 

4.  Plan  chronological,   although  at  times  the  ma- 

terial is  arranged  in  groups  (e.g.  2  K  2  1 
— 8   15,  the  Elisha  stories). 

V.    Composition. — The   Books  of    K  are   of   the 
nature  of  a  compilation.     The,  compiler  has  fur- 
nished a  framework  into  which  he  has 

1.  Nature  arranged  the  historical  matter  drawn 
of  the  from  other  sources.  There  are  chrono- 
Books             logical    data,    citations  of  authorities, 

judgments  on  the  character  and  deeds 
of  the  several  rulers,  and  moral  and  religious  teach- 
ings drawn  from  the  attitude  of  the  rulers  in  matters 
of  religion,  esp.  toward  heathen  cults.  The  point 
of  view  is  that  of  the  prophets  of  the  national  party 
as  one  against  foreign  influence.  "Both  in  point  of 
view  and  in  phraseology  the  compiler  shows  himself 
to  be  strongly  influenced  by  Dt."  (The  principal 
editor  is  styled  RD,  i.e.  Deuteronomic  Redactor.) 
The  Deuteronomic  law  was  the  touchstone,  and 
by  his  loyalty  to,  or  apostasy  from,  that  standard, 
each  king  stands  approved  or  condemned.  This 
influence  also  appears  in  passages  where  the  editor 
takes  liberties  in  the  expansion  and  adaptation  of 
material.  There;  is  marked  recurrence  of  phrases 
occurring  elsewhere  chiefly  or  even  wholly  in  Dt, 
or  in  books  showing  Deuteronomic  influence  (Bur- 
ney  in  HDB,  II,  859  f).  In  2  K  17  we  have  a  test 
of  the  nation  on  the  same  standards;  cf  also  1  K 
2  3  f;  9  1-9;  2  K  14  6;   Dt  24  16. 

In  numerous  instances  the  sources  are  indicated, 
as  "the  book  of  the  acts  of  Solomon"  (1  K  11  41), 

"the  chronicles  of  the  kings  of  Judah" 

2.  Sources     (1   K  14  29),    "the   chronicles  of   the 

kings  of  Israel"  (1  K  15  31).  A 
score  or  more  of  these  sources  are  mentioned  by 
title  in  the  several  books  of  the  OT.  Thus  "the 
history  of  Samuel  the  seer,"  "the  history  of  Nathan 
the  prophet,"  "the  history  of  Gad  the  seer"  (1  Ch 
29  29);  "the  prophecy  of  Ahijah  the  Shilonite," 
"the  visions  of  Iddo  the  seer  concerning  Jeroboam 
the  son  of  Nebat"  (2  Ch  9  29;  cf  2  Ch  12  15; 
13  22;  20  34;  32  32).  Thus  the  "book  of  the 
kings  of  Israel"  is  mentioned  17  t  (for  all  kings  ex- 
cept Jehoram  and  lloshea);  the  "book  of  the 
chronicles  of  the  kings  of  Judah"  is  mentioned  15  t 
(for  all  except  Ahaziah,  Athaliah,  Jehoahaz,  Je- 
hoiachin  and  Zedekiah).  Whether  the  compiler 
had  recourse  to  the  archives  themselves  or  to  a  work 
based  on  the  archives  is  still  a  question. 

Kent,  Student's  OT  (II,  chart,  and  pp.  ix-xxvi),  gives 
the  following  scheme  for  showing  the  sources: 

(1)   Early  stories  about  the  Ark  (c  950 

3.  Kent  S  BC  or  earlier),  Saul  stories  and  David 
Scheme  stories   (950-900  BC)   were  united   (c  850 

BC)  to  make  early  Judaean  Saul  and 
David  stories.  With  these  last  were  combined  (c  600 
BC)  popular  Judaean  David  stories  (c  700  BC),  later 
Ephraimite  Samuel  narratives  (c  650  BC),  and  very  late 
popular  prophetic  traditions  (650-600  BC)  in  a  first 
edition  of  the  Books  of  S. 

(2)  Annals  of  Solomon  (c  950  BC),  early  temple 
records  (950-900  BC),  were  united  (c  800  BC)  with 
popular  Solomon  traditions  (850-800  BC)  in  a  "Book  of 
the  Acts  of  Solomon."  A  Jeroboam  history  (900-850 
BC),  an  Ahab  history  (c  800  BC),  and  a  Jehu  history 
(c  750  BC)  were  united  witli  the  annals  of  Israel  (after 
950  to  c  700  BC)  in  the  "Chronicles  of  the  Kings  of 
Israel"  (700  or  after).  Early  Ephraimite  Elisha  narra- 
tives (SOO-750  BC),  influenced  by  a  Samaria  cycle  of 
Elisha  stories  (750-700  BC)  and  a  Gilgal  cycle  of  Elisha 
stories  (700-650  BC),  were  joined  about  600  BC  with  the 
"Book  of  the  Acts  of  Solomon"  and  the  "Chronicles  of 
the  Kings  of  Israel"  in  a  "first  edition  of  the  Books  of 
Kings." 

(3)  The  first  edition  of  S,  the  first  edition  of  K  and 


Kings'  Sepulchres 
Kiriath-j  earim 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1810 


Isa  stories  (before  .r>.">()  BC)  were  united  (c  550  BO)  in  a 
final  revision  of  S  and  K. 

(4)  From  "annals  of  Judah"  (before  900  to  050  BC  or 
after),  temple  records  (before  S50  to  after  050  BC),  and 
a  Hezekiah  history  (e  050  BC) ,  was  drawn  material  for 
the  "  Chronicles  of  the  kings  of  Judah"  (c  000  BC). 

(5)  From  this  last  work  and  the  final  revision  of  S 
and  K  was  taken  material  for  a  "Midhrash  of  the  Book  of 
the  kings  of  Israel  and  Judah"  (e  300  BC),  and  from  this 
work,  the  final  revision  of  S  and  K,  and  a  possible  temple 
history  (after  400)  -itself  from  the  final  revision  of  S 
and   K— came  the  Books  of  Oh  (c  250  BO). 

The  distinctions  between  the  great  documents  of  the 
Pent    do    not    appear    so    clearly    here.      The    summary, 

("epitome")  is  the  work  of  a  Jewish  re- 
ft.   T  and  E      dactor;     the   longer    narratives    (e.g.    I    K 

17—2  K  8;  13  14-21)  "are  written  in  a 
bright  and  chaste  Heb  style,  though  some  of  them 
exhibit  slight  peculiarities  of  diction,  due,  doubtless  (in 
part),  to  their  North  Israelifish  origin"  (E).  The  writers 
of  these  narratives  are  thought  to  have  been  prophets,  in 
most  cases  from  the  Northern  Kingdom. 

VI.  Date. — There  are  numerous  data  bearing; 
on  the  date  of  K,  and  indications  of  different  dates 
appear  in  the  books.  The  closing  verses  bring 
down  the  history  to  the  37th  year  of  the  Captivity 
(2  K  25  27);  yet  the  author,  incorporating  hi.s 
materials,  was  apparently  not  careful  to  adjust  the 
dates  to  his  own  time,  as  in  1  K  8  8;  12  19;  2  K 
8  22;  16  6,  which  refer  to  conditions  that  passed 
away  with  the  Exile.  The  work  was  probably 
composed  before  the  fall  of  Jerus  (oSO  BC),  and 
was  revised  during  or  shortly  after  1  he  Exile,  and 
also  supplemented  by  the  addition  of  the  account 
of  the  downfall  of  the  Judaean  kingdom.  There 
are  traces  of  a  post-exilic  hand,  as,  e.g.,  the  mention 
of  "the  cities  of  Samaria"  (1  K  13  32),  implying 
that  Samaria  was  a  province,  which  was  not  the 
ease  until  after  the  Exile.  The  existence  of  altars 
over  the  land  (1  Iv  19  10),  and  the  sanctuary  at 
Carmel,  were  illegal  according  to  the  Deuteronomic 
law,  as  also  was  the  advice  given  to  Elisha  (2  K  3 
19)  to  cut  down  the  fruit  trees  in  time  of  war  (Dt 
20  19). 

Literature. — K.  Budde,  Das  Burh  der  Riehter, 
Mohr,  Leipzig;  John  Skinner,  "Kings,"  in  New  Century 
Bible,  Frowde.  New  York;  C.  F.  Burney,  Xotes  on  the 
Heb  Text  of  the  Boohs  of  K,  Clarendon  Press,  Oxford, 
1903;  K.  Kittel,  Die  Bilcher  der  Konige,  Vandenhoeck 
and  Ruprecht,  Leipzig,  1900;  I.  Benzinger,  Die  B ticker 
der  Konioe,  Mohr,  1899;  C.  F.  Kent,  Student's  OT, 
Seribner.  1005;  S.  R.  Driver.  Intro  to  the  Lit.  of  the  OT, 
Scribner,  new  rev.  ed,  1910;  J.  E.  McFadyen,  Intro 
to  the  <>T,  Armstrong,  New  York.  1900;  Carl  II.  Oornill, 
Einleitung  in  die  kanonischen  Bilcher  AT,  Mohr,  0th  ed, 
1908;  A.  F.  Kirkpatriek,  The  Divine  Library  of  the  OT, 
Macmillan,  1891. 

Wallace  N.  Stearns 

KINGS'  SEPULCHRES  (2  Ch  21  20) .  See  Jeru- 
salem, VIII. 

KINSFOLK,  kinz'fok.     Sec  Kindred. 

KINSMAN,  kinz'man,  KINSWOMAN,  kinz'- 
woom-an:  Most  frequently  of  the  *X3 ,  go' el,  the 
one  who  had  a  right  to  "redeem";  referring  to  the 
custom  of  avenging  the  blood  of  a  slain  kinsman; 
hence,  a  blood  relative  (Nu  5  8;  Ruth  2  20;  3 
9.12;  4  1.3.6.8.14;  cf  "performing  the  part  of  a 
kinsman,"  Ruth  3  13);  in  Ruth  2  1,  better  ren- 
dered "acquaintance."  Also  Slips ,  karobh,  one  near, 
rendered  "kinsman"  (Ps  38  11);  probably  better, 
"neighbor."  Once,  "iX'iT  ,  she'er,  "flesh  kin,"  ren- 
dered "kinsman"  (Nu  27  11;  cf  Lev  18  6;  25  49; 
20  19;  21  2,  rendered  "kin").  <Tvyyev/;s,  suggene's, 
"of  same  race"  (cf  (rvyyivua,  suggeneia,  "kindred"), 
used  of  blood  relationship  of  varying  degrees  of 
nearness  (Lk  14  12;  Jn  18  26;  Acts  10  24;  Rom 
9  3;    16  7.11.21).     Rendered  "kin"  in  Mk  6  4. 

Kinswoman:  "ISST?  ,  .slider,  "kin  by  blood,"  or  "by 
flesh"  (cf  above;  also  Lev  18  12  f;  also  cf  18  6, 
"near,  of  kin"  AV);  also  same  root,  fern,  form, 
rPXTI!1 ,  sha'drdh  (Lev  18  17),  is  trd  "kinswoman." 
In  Prov  7  4,  "Call  understanding  thy  kinswoman" 


might  be  more  accurately  rendered,  "thy  familiar 
friend," RVm  (from  3HT52,  modha,  "acquaintance"); 
cf  similar  rendering  of  modhaKath,  under  Kindred. 
Lk  1  36  RV,  "kinswoman"  (o-vyyevls,  suggenis), 
AV  "cousin"  (suggenes);  same  is  rendered  "kins- 
folk" (1  5<SRV).  Edward  Bagby  Pollard 

KIR,  kur,  kir  (Tp  ,  kir) :   The  meaning  of  Kir  is 

"inclosure"  or  "walled  place,"  and  it  is  therefore 

doubtful   whether   it   is   a   place-name 

1.  Meaning  in  the  true  sense  of  the  word.     In  2  K 

16  9  it  is  mentioned  as  the  place 
whither  Tiglath-pileser  IV  carried  the  Syrian 
(Aramaean)  captives  which  he  deported  from 
Damascus  after  he  had  taken  that  city.  In  Am  1 
5  the  prophet  announces  that  the  people  of  Syria 
(Aram)  shall  go  into  captivity  unto  Kir,  and  in 
9  7  it  is  again  referred  to  as  the  place  whence  the 
Lord  had  brought  the  Syrians  (Aramaeans)  as 
Israel  had  been  brought  out  of  Egypt,  and  the 
Philis  from  Caphtor. 

Except  in  one  MS  (LXN,  A),  where  it  appears 
as  the  Libyan  Cyrene  (2  K  16  9),  it  is  never  ren- 
dered  in   the  LXX  as  a  place-name. 

2.  How  Thus  the  place  whence  the  Syrians 
Rendered  were  brought  (Am  9  7)  is  not  Kir, 
in  LXX  but  "the  deep"  or  "the  ditch"  (LXX 

e/c  (360pov,  ek  bothrou,  "pit"),  probably 
a  tr  of  some  variant  rather  than  of  the  word  "Kir" 
itself.  Comparing  the  Assyr-Bab  kirn  (for  qiru), 
"wall,"  "inclosure,"  "interior,"  or  the  like,  Kir 
might  have  the  general  meaning  of  a  place  parted 
off  for  the  reception  of  exiled  captives.  Parallels 
would  be  Kir  Moab,  "the  inclosure  of  Moab,"  Kir 
litres  or  Kir  Hareseth,  "the  inclosure  of  brick" 
(LXX  hoi  lithoi  toil  toichou).  It  seems  probable 
that  there  was  more  than  one  place  to  which  the 
Assyrians  transported  captives  or  exiles,  and  if  their 
practice  was  to  place  them  as  far  as  they  could  from 
their  native  land,  one  would  expect,  for  Palestinian 
exiles,  a  site  or  sites  on  the  eastern  side  of  the  Tigris 
and  Euphrates. 

In  Isa  22  5  occurs  the  phrase,  "a  breaking  down 
of  the  walls,  and  a  crying  to  the  mountains"  (mekar- 

kar  kir  we-shdaX  'el  hd-hdr — "asurround- 

3.  An  ing  of  the  wall,"  etc,  would  be  better), 
Emendation  and  the  mention  of  kir  and  shu"''  here 
of  Isa  22:5    has  caused  Eried.  Delitzsch  to  suggest 

that  we  have  to  read,  instead  of  kir, 
koa,  combined  with  shoa,  as  in  Ezk  23  23.  Follow- 
ing this,  but  retaining  kir,  Cheyne  translates  "Kir 
undermineth,  and  Shoa'  is  at  the  mount,"  but  others 
accept  Delitzsch's  emendation,  Winckler  conjectur- 
ing that  the  rendering  should  be  "Who  stirreth  up 
Koa*  and  Shoa1  against  the  mountain"  (Alttest. 
Untersuchungen,  177).  In  the  next  verse  (Isa  22  6) 
Kir  is  mentioned  with  Elam — a  position  which  a 
city  for  western  exiles  would  require. 

The  mention  of  Elam  as  taking  the  quiver,  and 
Kir  as  uncovering  the  shield,  apparently  against 
a.    <2  \A'  "tne  vaney  °f  the  vision"  (in  or  close 

4.  somiers  to  jei.us^  impiies  that  soldiers  from 
ol  jut  in  these  two  places,  though  one  might 
Assyrian  expect  them  to  be  hostile  to  the  As- 
Army  Syrians  in  general,  were  to  be  found 
in  their  armies,  probably  as  mercenaries.  See  Fried. 
Delitzsch,  Wo  lag  das  Paradiesf  233;  Schrader, 
COT,  425.  T.  G.  Pinches 

KIR  OF  MOAB  pSttlfl  "Vp ,  kir  mo'dbh;   LXX 
has  to  T€ixos,  to  teichos,  "the  wall,"  "fortress") :  The 
name,   at  least  in   this  form,  appears 
1.  Identi-      only  once  (Isa  15  1)  as  that  of  a  city 
fication  in   Moab.     It  is  named  with  Ar  of 

Moab,  with  which  possibly  it  may  be 
identical,  since  Kdr  or  %r  is  the  Heb  equivalent  of 


1811 


Till]  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Kings'  Sepulchres 
Kiriath-jearim 


the  Moabite  Kir.  The  Tg  hence  reads  "Kerak  in 
Moab."  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  Kerak 
here  intended  is  represented  by  the  modern  town 
of  that  name,  with  which,  consequently,  Kir  Moab 
is  almost  universally  identified.  It  must  always 
have  been  a  place  of  importance.  It  is  mentioned 
as  Charakmdba  (Xapa/c/x&pa)  in  the  Acts  of  the 
Council  of  Jerus  (536  AD)  and  by  the  early  geog- 
raphers. It  dominated  the  great  caravan  road 
connecting  Syria  with  Egypt  and  Arabia.  The 
Crusaders  therefore  directed  attention  to  it,  and 
held  possession  from  1 1(57  till  it  fell  again  into  the 
hands  of  the  Moslems  under  Saladin,  1188.  The 
Chroniclers  speak  of  it  as  in  el  Belkd,  and  the  chief 
city  of  Arabia  Secunda.  Under  the  title  of  Petra 
Deserti  the  Crusaders  founded  here  a  bishop's  see. 
The  Gr  bishop  of  Petra  still  has  his  seat  in  Kerak. 

Kerak  stands  upon  a  lofty  spur  projecting  west- 
ward from   the   Moab   plateau,   with    Wady    KAin 
Franjy  on  the  S.,  and  Wady  el-Kerak 
2.   Descrip-   on  the  N.,  about    10  miles  from  the 
tion  Dead  Sea.     The  sides  of  the  mountain 

sink  sharply  into  these  dee])  ravines, 
which  unite  immediately  to  the  W.,  and,  as  Wady 
el-Kerak,  the  great  hollow  runs  northwestward  to 
the  sea.  It  is  a  position  of  great  natural  strength, 
being  connected  with  the  uplands  to  the  E.  only  by 
a  narrow  neck.  It  is  3,370  ft.  above  the  level  of  the 
sea.  The  mountains  beyond  the  adjacent  valleys 
are  much  higher.  The  place  was  surrounded  by  a 
strong  wall,  with  five  towers,  which  can  still  be 
traced  in  its  whole  length.  The  most  northerly 
tower  is  well  preserved.  The  most  interest ing  build- 
ing at  Kerak  is  the  huge  castle  on  the  southern  side. 
It  is  separated  from  the  adjoining  hill  on  the  right 
by  a  large  artificial  moat;  and  it  is  provided  with  a 
reservoir.  A  moat  also  skirts  the  northern  side  of 
the  fortress,  and  on  the  E.  the  wall  has  a  sloped  or 
battered  base.  The  castle  is  then  separated  from 
the  town.  The  walls  are  very  thick,  and  are  well 
preserved.  Beneath  the  castle  is  a  chapel  in  which 
traces  of  frescoes  are  still  visible.  In  days  of  an- 
cient warfare  the  place  must  have  been  practically 
impregnable.  It  could  be  entered  only  by  two 
roads  passing  through  rock-cut  tunnels.  The  main 
danger  must  always  have  been  failure  of  water 
supply.  There  are  springs  immediately  outside 
the  city;  but  those  alone  would  not  be  sufficient. 
Great  cisterns  were  therefore  constructed  in  the  town 
and  also  in  the  castle.  The  half-nomadic  inhabit- 
ants of  Kerak  today  number  some  1,140  families 
(Musil,  Arabia  Petraea,  III,  97).  The  Gr  church 
claims  about  2,000  souls;  the  rest  are  Moslems. 
They  are  wild  and  fearless  people,  not  greatly  in- 
clined to  treat  strangers  with  courtesy  and  kindness. 
In  the  spring  of  1911  the  town  was  the  center  of  a 
rising  against  the  government,  which  was  not 
quelled  until  much  blood  had  been  shed. 

W.    EWING 

KIRAMA,  ki-ra'ma,  kir'a-ma  (Kipajid,  Kiramd; 
AV  Cirama):  The  people  of  K.  returned  with 
Zerubbabel  from  Babylon  (1  Esd  5  20);  the 
"Ramah"  of  Ezr  2  26  (q.v.). 

KIR-HARESETH,  kur-har'e-seth,  -ha-re'seth 
(nimn— l^p  ,  klr-hdreseth,  Isa  16  7;  in  2  K  3  25 
AV  reads  Kir-haraseth  [pausal  form]) ;  KIR-HERES 
ftenn  "Pp,  klr  heres,  Jer  48  31.36;  in  Isa  16  11 
A V  reads  Kir-haresh  [pausal  form]):  Modern 
scholars  unanimously  identify  this  city  with  Kir 
of  Moab.  In  Jehoram's  invasion  of  Moab  it  alone 
withstood  his  attack;  and  on  the  city  wall  the  king 
of  Moab  sacrificed  his  son  (2  K  3  25  ff).  It  was 
obviously  the  capital,  i.e.  Kir  Moab.  The  name 
is  generally  taken  to  mean  "city  of  the  sun." 
Cheyne,  however,  points  out  (EB,  s.v.):     (1)  that 


this  explanation  was  unknown  to  the  ancients; 
(2)  that  "kir"  is  nowhere  supposed  to  mean  "city," 
except  in  the  compound  names  Kir-heres,  Kir- 
hareseth,  and  Kir  Moab;  (3)  that  hercs,  "sun," 
nowhere  has  a  fern,  ending,  and  (4)  that  Isa  16 
7  (LXX  and  Aq.)  indicates  d  and  not  r  in  the  second 
part  of  the  name  (Aecred,  Deseth).  He  suggests, 
therefore,  that  we  should  possibly  read  rnlHn  rP~ip, 
kiryath  hadhdshah,  "new  city."  W.  Ewing 

KIRIATH,  kir'i-ath  (D^p,  kiryath,  "city";  AV 
Kirjath):  Mentioned  (Josh  18  28)  as  a  city  of 
Benjamin  ;  has  been  identified  with  Kuriet  el 
KEnab,  "town  of  grapes,"  a  prosperous  town  on  the 
highroad  between  Jerus  and  Jaffa;  it  is  sometimes 
spoken  of  by  the  inhabitants  as  Kurieh.  It  is, 
however,  generally  thought  that  Kiriath  here  stands 
for  Kiriath-jearim  (q.v.).  See  PEF,  III,  132, 
Sh  XVII. 

KIRIATHAIM,  kir-i-a-tha'im  (OiITnp,  kiryd- 
thaylm,  "two  cities";  AV  Kirjathaim): 

(1)  A  city  in  the  uplands  of  Moab  formerly  held 
by  Sihon,  and  given  by  Moses  to  Reuben,  who  is 
said  to  have  fortified  it  (Nu  32  37;  Josh  13  19). 
It  is  named  along  with  Elealeh  and  Nebo  in  the 
former  passage,  and  with  Sibmah  in  the  latter.  It 
was  in  the  hands  of  Moab  in  Mesha's  time,  and  he 
claims  to  have  fortified  it  (MS,  1.  10).  For  Jeremiah 
(48  1.23)  and  Ezekiel  (25  9)  it  is  a  Moabite  town. 
Onom  identifies  it  with  Coraitha,  a  Christian  vil- 
lage 10  Rom  miles  W.  of  Madeba.  This  is  the 
modern  Karaiydt,  about  11  miles  W.  of  Madeba, 
and  5  miles  E.  of  Machaerus.  This,  however,  may 
represent  Kerioth,  while  the  towns  with  which  it 
is  named  would  lead  us  to  look  for  Kiriathaim  to  the 
N.  of  Wady  Zerkd  AlaHn.  From  this  city  was 
named  Shaveh-kiriathaim,  "the  plain  of  Kiria- 
thaim" (Gen  14  5). 

(2)  A  city  in  the  territory  of  Naphtali,  assigned 
to  the  Gershonite  Levites  (1  Ch  6  76),  correspond- 
ing to  "Kartan"  in  Josh  21  32.  W .  Ewing 

KIRIATH-ARBA,  kir-i-ath-ar'ba.     See  Hebron. 

KIRIATH-ARIM,  kir-i-ath-a'rim  (Ezr  2  25). 
See  Kiriath-jearim. 


KIRIATH-BAAL,  kir-i-ath-ba'al. 

JEARIM. 


See  Kiriath- 


KIRIATH-HUZOTH,  kir-i-ath-hu'zoth,  k.-hu'zoth 
(ri"12£n  rVyip ,  kiryath  hucoth,  "city  of  streets"; 
LXX  reads  iroXeis  eira.viX.etov,  poleis  epauledn,  "city 
of  villages,"  from  which  we  may  infer  a  reading 
rrn^n ,  h&ceroth,  for  msn ,  hucoth;  AV  Kirjath- 
huzoth) :  A  place  to  which,  after  their  meeting, 
Balak  and  Balaam  went  together  (Nu  22  39). 
They  met  at  "the  City  of  Moab"  (ver  36),  which 
is  probably  identical  with  Kir  of  Moab  (q.v.); 
Kiriath-huzoth  was  probably  therefore  not  far  from 
that  city.  Some  would  identify  it  with  Kiriathaim; 
some  with  Kerioth;   as  yet  there  is  no  certainty. 

KIRIATH-JEARIM,  kir-i-ath-je'a-rim,  k.-jg-a'rim 
(D'HIP'rPnp ,  kiryath-y^arim,  "city  of  thickets"; 
LXX  f|  iroXis  'Iapeifi,  he  polls  Iareim;  AV  Kirjath- 
jearim) :  One  of  the  four  chief  cities  of  the  Gibeon- 
ites  (Josh  9  17);  a  city  of  Judah  (Josh  15  60), 
evidently  an  ancient  Sem  "high  place,"  hence  the 
name  "Kiriath-Baal"  (ib);  it  was  one  of  the  places 
on  the  border  line  between  Judah  and  Benjamin 
(Josh  18  14.15;  15  11  [where  it  is  called  "Baalah"]; 
cf  1  Ch  13  6).  It  is  mentioned  as  in  Judah  (Josh 
15  60;    18  14;    Jgs  18  12),  but  if  Kiriath  (q.v.) 


Kiriath-jearim 
Kiss 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1812 


is  identical  with  it,  it-  is  mentioned  as  belonging  to 
Benjamin  (Josh  18  28;   in  2  S  6  2,  Baale-judah). 

Jgs  18   12  records  that  the  men  of  Dan  set  forth 
out  of  Zorah  and  Eshtaol  and  encamped  in  Mahan- 

eh-dan  behind  (W.  of)  Kiriath-jearim. 
1.  Scrip-  (InJgs  13  25  Mahaneh-dan  ["the  camp 
ture  Refer-  of  Dan"]  is  described  as  between  Zorah 
ences  and  Eshtaol;   see  Mahaneh-dan.)    To 

this  sanctuary  the  ark  of  Jeh  was 
brought  from  Beth-shemesh  by  the  people  of  Kiriath- 
jearim,    and    they    "brought    it    into    the   house  of 


Ruined  Church  at  Kuriet. 

Abinadab  in  the  hill  [in  "Gibeah"],  and  sanctified 
Eleazar  his  son  to  keep  the  ark  of  Jeh"  (I  S  7  1). 
Here  it  abode  twenty  years  (ver  2;  2  S  6  2-4;  cf  1 
Ch  13  6;  2  Ch  1  4).  Clearly  it  was  in  the  hills 
somewhere  to  the  E.  of  Beth-shemesh. 

The  prophet  Uriah-ben-Shemaiah,  killed  by  Jehoi- 
akim,  belonged  to  Kiriath-jearim  (Jer  26  20  f). 

In  Ezr  2  25  (cf  Neh  7  29),  this  place  occurs 
under  the  name  "Kiriath-arim."  In  1  Esd  5  19 
the  name  occurs  as  "Kiriathiarius." 

The  exact  position  of  this  important  Israelite 
sanctuary  has  never  been  satisfactorily  settled. 
Some  of  the  data  appear  to  be  contra- 
2.  Position  dictory.  For  example,  Jos  (Ant,  VI, 
i,  4)  says  it  was  a  city  in  the  neigh- 
borhood of  Beth-shemesh,  while  Eusebius  and 
Jerome  (Onom)  speak  of  it  ("Cariathiareim")  in 
their  day  as  a  village  9  or  10  miles  from  Jerus  on  the 
way  to  Lydda.  But  it  is  open  to  doubt  whether 
the  reputed  site  of  their  day  had  any  serious  claims. 
Any  suggested  site  should  fulfil  the  following  condi- 
tions: (1)  It  must  harmonize  with  the  boundary 
line  of  Judah  and  Benjamin  between  two  known 
points — the  "waters  of  Nephtoah,"  very  generally 
supposed  to  be  Llfla,  and  Chesalon,  certainly 
Kesla  (Josh  15  10).  (2)  It  should  not  be  too  far 
removed  from  the  ether  cities  of  the  Gibeonites — 
Gibeon,  Chephirah  and  Beeroth — but  those  places, 
which  are  all  identified,  are  themselves  fairly  widely 
apart.  (3)  Mahaneh-dan  (''the  camp  of  Dan",) 
is  described  as  between  Zorah  and  Eshtaol,  and 
was  W.  of  Kiriath-jearim;  this,  and  the  statement 
of  Jos  that  it  was  in  the  neighborhood  of  Beth- 
shemesh,  makes  it  probable  that  the  site  was  near 
the  western  edge  of  the  mountains  of  Judah. 
Zorah  (now  Sara'),  Eshtaol  (now  Eshu*a)  and  Beth- 
shemesh  (now  xAin  Shems),  are  all  within  sight  of 
each  other  close  to  the  Vale  of  Sorek.  (4)  The  site 
should  be  a  sanctuary  (or  show  signs  of  having  been 
such),  and  be  at  least  on  a  height  (Gibeah,  1  S  7 
1  m).  (5)  The  name  may  help  us,  but  it  is  as  well 
to  note  that  the  first  part  of  the  name,  in  the  form 
"Kirathiarius"  (1  Esd  5  19),  appears  to  have  sur- 
vived the  exile  rather  than  the  second. 

The  first  suggested  identification  was  that  of 
Robinson  (BR,  II,  11,12),  viz.  Kuriet  el  KEnab,  the 
"town  of  grapes,"  a  flourishing  little  town  about 
9  miles  W.  of  Jerus  on  the  carriage  road  to  Jaffa. 
The  district  around  is  still  fairly  well  wooded  (cf 


yeKarlm  =  "thickets").       This    village    is  commonly 
known  as  Abu  Ghdsh,  from  the   name  of  a   robber 

chieftain  who,  with  his  family,  flour- 
3.  Sug-  ished  there  in  the  first  half  of  the  last 

gested  cent ury.     Mediaeval  ecclesiastical  tra- 

Identifi-         dition  has  made  this  place  the  Anathoth 
cations  of  Jer,  and  a  handsome  church  from  the 

time  of  the  Crusades,  now  thoroughly 
repaired,  exists  here  to  mark  this  tradition.  This 
site  suits  well  as  regards  the  border  line,  and  the 
name  Kuriet  is  the  exact  equivalent  of  Kiriath;  it 
also  fits  in  with  the  distance  and  direction  given 
in  the  Onom.,  but  it  cannot  be  called  satisfactory  in 
all  respects.  Soba,  in  the  neighborhood,  has,  on 
account  of  its  commanding  position,  been  selected, 
but  except  for  this  one  feature  it  has  no  special 
claims.  The  late  Colonel  Conder  has  very  vigor- 
ously advocated  the  claims  of  a  site  he  discovered 
on  the  south  side  of  the  rugged  Wfiuly Ismaeln,  called 
Khurbet  KErma,  pointing  out  truly  that  xErma  is 
the  exact  equivalent  of  *Arim  (Ezr  2  25).  Un- 
fortunately the  2d  part,  of  the  name  would  appear 
from  the  references  in  1  Esd  and  in  Onom  to  be  that 
part  which  was  forgotten  long  ago,  so  that  the 
argument  even  of  the  philological — the  strongest — ■ 
grounds  cannot  be  of  much  value.  The  greatest 
objections  in  the  minds  of  most  students  are  the 
unsuit ability  of  the  position  to  the  requirements  of 
the  Judah-Benjamin  frontier  and  its  distance  from 
the  other  Gibeonite  cities. 

The  present  writer  suggests  another  site  which, 
in  his  opinion,  meets  at  least  some  of  the  require- 
ments better  than  the  older  proposals.  Standing 
on  the  hill  of  Beth-shemesh  and  looking  N.W.,  with 
the  cities  of  Zorah  (Sur'ah)  and  Eshtaol  (Eshu'a)  full 
in  view,  a  lofty  hill  crowned  by  a  considerable 
forest  catches  the  eye.  The  village  a  little  below 
the  summit  is  called  Beit  Mahsir,  and  the  hilltop 
itself  is  the  shrine  of  a  local  saint  known  as  Sheikh 
el  Ajam.  So  "holy"  is  the  site,  that  no  trees  in  this 
spot  are  ever  cut,  nor  is  fallen  brushwood  removed. 
There  is  a  Wely  or  sanctuary  of  the  saint,  and 
round  about  are  scores  of  very  curious  and  appar- 
ently ancient  graves.  Southward  from  this  site 
the  eye  follows  the  line  of  Judaean  hills — probably 
the  Mt.  Jearim  of  Josh  15  10 — until  it  strikes  the 
outstanding  point  of  Kesla  (Chesalon),  some  2  miles 
to  the  S.  If  the  ark  was  taken  here,  the  people  of 
Beth-shemesh  could  have  followed  its  progress 
almost  the  whole  way  to  its  new  abode.  Although 
the  name,  which  appears  to  mean  "besieged"  or 
"confined,"  in  no  degree  helps,  in  all  the  other  re- 
spects (see  2  above),  this  site  suits  well  the  condi- 
tions of  Kiriath-jearim. 

Literature.— See    PKFS,    187S,    196-99;     PEF,    III, 
43-52;  IIGHL,  225  f;  BR,  II,  11  f;  Buhl,  GAP,  Index. 
E.  \V.  G.  Masterman 

KIRIATH-SANNAH,  kir-i-ath-san'a  (Hf  0  n^p , 
kiryath  sannah;  AV  Kirjath  Sannah) :  In  Josh  15  49 
it  is  called  "Debir,"  and  is  identical  with  Kiriath- 
sepher  (q.v.).  As  7r6Xis  ypa/j./j-droji',  polls  grammd- 
ton,  "city  of  books,"  is  the  reading  in  LXX,  the 
most  natural  explanation  is  that  DSC ,  sannah,  is 
a  copyist's  error  for  "IDC ,  sepher,  but  Sayce  con- 
siders this  an  ancient  Can.  name  meaning  "city 
of  instruction,"  and  that  it  occurs  in  the  Am  Tab 
in  the  form  "Bit'  sani." 

KIRIATH-SEPHER,  kir-i-ath-se'fer  ("ISO  rpnp  , 
kiryath  sepher;  trci  by  many,  as  if  it  were  Heb,  as 
"house  of  books."  LXX  iroXis  -ypanfiaTuv,  polls 
grammdton;  AV  Kirjath  Sepher;  other  suggestions 
have  been  made:  "border-town"  [Moore]  or  "toll- 
town"  [G.  A.  Smith]):  In  two  ||  passages  (Josh 
15  15  f;  Jgs  1  11  f),  it  is  mentioned  as  identical 
with  Debir  (q.v.),  which  has  been  frequently 
identified  with  edh-Dhaheriych.     Sayce  would  place 


1813 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Kiriath-jearim 
Kiss 


Kiriath-sepher   to   the  W.   of   Gath.     See  PEFS, 
1893,  33-35. 

KIRJATH,  kur'jath,  kir'jath.     See  Kiriath. 

KIRJATH-ARBA,  kur-jath-ar'ba,  kir-jath-ar'ba. 
See  Kiriath- arba. 

KIRJATH-BAAL,  kur-jath-ba'al,  kir-jath-ba'al. 
See  Kiriath-jearim. 

KIRJATHAIM,  kur-ja-tha'im,  kir-ja-tha'im.    See 

KlRIATHAIM. 

KISEUS,  kis-e'us  (Kio-evs,  Kiseus;  LXX,  B 
[Swete]  reads  Keisaios;  AV  Cisai) :  The  great- 
grandfather of  Mordecai  (Ad  Est  11  2).  Sec 
Kish,  (.5). 

KISH,  kish  (tthp,  kish;  KCs,  Kis,  KtCs,  Keis, 
"bow,"  "power"):  The  name  of  five  persons  men- 
tioned in  the  Bible: 

(1)  The  son  of  Abiel  and  the  father  of  Saul,  the 
first  king  of  Israel.  He  was  of  the  tribe  of  Benja- 
min, of  the  family  of  the  Matrites  (1  S  9  1;  14  51; 
cf  Acts  13  21;  1  S  10  21).  According  to  1  Ch  8 
33  and  9  39,  "Ner  begat  K."  By  reading  "Ner 
begat  Abner"  (cf  1  S  14  51;  1  Ch  26  28),  tin; 
difficulty  is  at  least  partly  overcome.  In  1  Ch  12 
1,  K.  is  also  mentioned  as  the  father  of  Saul,  and 
again  in  2  S  21  14,  we  are  told  that  the  sepulchcr 
of  K.  was  located  in  the  country  of  Benjamin,  in 
Zela.  His  place  of  residence  seems  to  have  been 
at  Gibeah. 

(2)  Another  K.  is  mentioned  (1  Ch  8  29  f ; 
9  35  f)  as  the  son  of  Jeiel  and  his  wife  Maacah.  He 
is  usually  supposed  to  be  the  uncle  of  Saul's  father. 

(3)  A  Levite,  the  son  of  Mahli  the  Merarite 
(1  Ch  23  21  f;   cf  24  29). 

(4)  Another  Merarite  Levite  in  the  time  of  Heze- 
kiah  (2  Ch  29  12). 

(5)  The  great-grandfather  of  Mordecai,  of  the 
tribe  of  Benjamin  (Est  2  5).  William  Baur 

KISHI,  kish'T  CW^p,  blshl,  "snarer,"  "fowler"): 
Father  of  Ethan,  one  of  the  singers  David  "set  over 
the  service  of  song"  in  the  house  of  the  Lord  (1  Ch 
6  31);  the  "Kushaiah"  of  1  Ch  15  17  (cf  1  Ch  6 
44). 

KISHION,  kish'i-on,  kish'yon  (fHpp ,  kishyon): 
A  city  in  the  territory  of  Issachar  (Josh  19  20), 
given  to  the  Gcrshonite  Levites  (21  28;  AV  wrongly 
"Kishon").  The  ||  passage  in  1  Ch  6  72  reads 
"Kedesh"  instead  of  Kishion."  The  true  reading 
is  probably  "plE"]?  ,  kidhshon.  Conder  suggests  a 
likely  identification  with  Tell  Abu  Kedes,  not  far 
from  Taanach. 

KISHON,  kl'shon,  kish'on  ( |TETp ,  kishon; 
Keio-cov,  Kelson):  The  "watercourse"  or  "torrent 
stream"  along  the  banks  of  which  the  great  battle 
was  fought  between  Israel,  led  by  Deborah  and 
Barak,  and  the  army  of  Sisera,  in  the  waters  of  which 
so  many  perished  (Jgs  4  7,  etc).  It  is  probably 
mentioned  earlier  as  "the  brook  that  is  before 
Jokneam"  (Josh  19  11;  see  Jokneam).  It  appears 
again  as  the  scene  of  Elijah's  slaughter  of  the 
prophets  of  Baal  (1  K  18  40).  "The  torrent"  par 
excellence  in  the  district  is  the  modern  el-Mukatta\ 
a  stream  which  drains  all  the  plain  of  Esdraelon  to 
the  W.  of  the  watershed — a  line  drawn  from  Iksdl 
to  Nain,  and  thence  to  el-Fuleh  and  ZerHn.  All  the 
water  E.  of  this  line,  from  the  Nazareth  hills,  Tabor 
and  Little  Hermon,  flows  down  Wady  csh-Shcrrdr 
and    Nahr  Jalud  into  the  Jordan.     The  Kishon 


collects  the  streams  from  the  western  slopes  of  Gil- 
boa  in  the  rainy  season;  and  the  water  from  the 
strong  spring  at  Jenln.  Contributions  also  come 
from  the  copious  fountains  in  the  neighborhood 
of  Megiddo.  At  Sa^adiyeh,  again,  some  3  miles 
E.  of  Haifa,  its  volume  is  largely  increased  by 
springs  rising  at  the  base  of  Carniel,  on  the  edge  of 
the  plain  of  Acre.  From  Jenln  in  the  S.E.,  the 
deep  torrent  bed  follows  a  westerly  direction,  with 
numerous  windings  cutting  the  plain  in  two,  until 
it  reaches  the  pass  at  the  northeastern  base  of 
Carmel.  Through  the  gorge  between  the  moun- 
tain and  the  hills  of  Galilee  it  reaches  the  plain  of 
Acre.  From  SaKa<liyeh  it  flows  in  a  deep  sluggish 
stream  through  the  marsh-land  to  the  sea  near 
Haifa.  In  this  part  the  crocodile  is  said  to  have 
been  seen  at  times. 

In  the  summer  season  the  water  from  the  springs  is 
largely  absorbed  by  irrigation,  and  the  upper  reaches  of 
the  river  are  soon  dry.  The  bed  runs  along  the  bottom 
of  a  trench  some  20  ft.  deep  through  the  plain.  It  is 
easily  crossed  at  the  fords  by  those  who  know  how  to 
avoid  the  localities  of  the  springs.  In  time  of  heavy 
rains  the  trench  is  swiftly  filled,  and  the  soft  soil  of  the 
plain  goes  to  mud.  Remembering  this,  it  is  easy  to 
understand  the  disaster  that  overwhelmed  the  heavily 
armed  cavalry  and  chariots  of  Sisera.  The  chief  ford 
for  long  was  to  the  W.  of  the  gorge  where  the  stream 
issues  into  the  plain  of  Acre,  on  the  highway  from  Haifa. 
to  Nazareth.  Here  it  is  now  spanned  by  a  substantial 
bridge,  while  the  railway  crosses  a  little  higher  up. 
At  the  mouth  of  the  river  it  is  generally  easily  forded 
on  the  sand  bank  thrown  up  by  the  waves  beating  against 
the  current  of  the  stream.  The  main  traffic  here  is  now 
carried  by  a  wooden  bridge. 

The  phrase  nahal  kedhumim  in  Jgs  5  21  is  not 
easy  of  interpretation.  EV  translates,  "that  an- 
cient river";  G.  A.  Smith,  "torrent  of  spates"; 
while  others  think  it  may  refer  to  a  stream  other 
than  the  Kishon.  Guthe  suggests  that  both  names 
may  be  derived  from  those  of  places  adjoining  the 
river.  Kishon  may  possibly  mean  the  "tortuous" 
stream,  referring  to  the  windings  of  its  course. 

W.  Ewing 

KISLEV,  kis'lef  ("ibp? ,  kidew;  AV  Chisleu,  RV 
"Chislev"):  The  9th  month  of  the  Jewish  year, 
corresponding  to  December.  The  word  is  found 
in  Neh  1  1  and  Zee  7  1.  The  derivation  is  un- 
certain.    See  Calendar. 

KISS  (pt^Z ,  nashak;  (JuXcw,  phileb,  KaTa<j>iX^ 
kataphileo,  (j>(\Tj(ia,  philetna):  The  kiss  is  common 
in  eastern  lands  in  salutation,  etc,  on  the  cheek,  the 
forehead,  the  beard,  the  hands,  the  feet,  but  not 
(in  Pal)  the  lips  (Cheyne,  EB,  s.v.  "Salutations"). 
In  the  Bible  there  is  no  sure  instance  of  the  kiss  in 
ordinary  salutation.  We  have  in  the  OT  nashak, 
"to  kiss,"  used  (1)  of  relatives  (which  seems  the  origin 
of  the  practice  of  kissing;  cf  Cant  8  1,  "Oh  that 
thou  wert  as  my  brother  ....  I  would  kiss  thee; 
yea,  and  none  would  despise  me");  Gen  27  20.27 
(Isaac  and  Jacob);  29  11  (Jacob  and  Rachel);  33  4 
(Esau  and  Jacob);  45  15  (Joseph and  his  brethren); 
48  10  (Jacob  and  Joseph's  sons);  50  1  (Joseph  and 
his  father);  Ex  4  27  (Aaron  and  Moses);  18  7 
(Moses  and  Jethro,  united  with  obeisance);  Ruth 
1  9.14  (Naomi  and  her  daughters-in-law — a  fare- 
well);^ 2  S  14  33  (David  and  Absalom);  1  K  19 
20  (Elisha  and  his  parents — a  farewell);  see  also 
Gen  29  13;  31  28.55;  Tob  7  0;  10  12.  (2)  Of 
friendship  and  affection;  cf  1  S  20  41  (David  and 
Jonathan);  2  S  15  5  (Absalom  and  those  who 
came  to  him);  19  39  (David  and  Barzillai — a  fare- 
well); 20  9  (Joab  and  Amasa);  Brov  27  6  ("the 
kisses  [neshikdh\  of  an  enemy");  1  Esd  4  47  ("the 
king  stood  up,  and  kissed  him").  (3)  Of  love;  cf 
Cant  1  2,  "Let  him  kiss  me  with  the  kisses  [n€shl- 
kah]  of  his  mouth";  Prov  7  13  (of  the  feigned  love 
of  "the  strange  woman").  (4)  Of  homage,  perhaps; 
cf  1  S  10  1  (Samuel  after  anointing  David  king); 


Kite 
Know 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1814 


(ion  41  40,  "Unto  thy  word  shall  all  my  people  be 
ruled,"  RVni  "order  themselves,"  or  "do  homage," 
AVm  "Heb  be  armed  or  kiss"  (nashajc);  Bs  2  12, 
"Kiss  the  son"  (ARV),  ERVm  "Sonic  versions 
render,  'Lay  hold  of  [or  receive]  instruction'; 
others,  'Worship  in  purity'";  some  ancient  VSS 
give  'Kiss  for,  do  homage]  purely.'  (5)  Of  idolatrous 
practices;  cf  1  K  19  IS;  Hos  13  2  (of  8  5.0;  10 
5);  Jot)  31  27,  probably,  "kissing  the  hand  to  the 
sun  or  moon"  (cfvs26.27).  See  Adoration.  (6)  A 
figurative  use  may  be  seen  in  Ps  85  10;Prov  24  20; 
Ezk  3  13,  where  "touched"  is  nashak  (see  AVm). 
(7)  In  Ad  list  13  13  we  have  "I  could  have  been 
content  ....  to  kiss  the  soles  of  his  feet,"  and  in 
Ecclus  29  5,  "Till  he  hath  received,  he;  will  kiss  a 
man's  hands" — -marks  of  self-humiliation  or  abase- 
ment. 

In  the  NT  we  have  phileo,  "to  kiss,"  "to  be 
friendly,"  and  kataphileo,  "to  kiss  thoroughly," 
"to  be  very  friendly" — the  first  in  Mt  26  48;  Mk 
14  44;  Lk  22  47,  "of  the  kiss  with  which  Judas 
betrayed  his  Master.  This  was  probably  meant 
to  betaken  as  an  expression  of  special  regard,  which 
is  expressed  by  the  kataphileo  of  Mt  26  40;  Mk  14 
45;  the  same  word  is  used  of  the  woman  who  kissed 
the  feet  of  Christ  (Lk  7  38.45);  of  the  father's 
greeting  of  the  returning  prodigal  (15  20);  and  of 
the  farewell  to  Paul  of  the  Ephesian  Christians 
(Acts  20  37);  philema,  "a  kiss,"  "a  mark  of  friend- 
ship," is  used  by  Our  Lord  as  that  which  Simon 
omitted  to  give  him  (which  may  refer  to  ordinary 
hospitality),  but  which  the  woman  had  bestowed 
so  impressively  (Lk  7  45);  of  the  kiss  of  Judas  (Lk 
22  48) ;  and  of  the  "holy  kiss"  wherewith  Christ  ians 
greeted  each  other,  which,  according  to  the  general 
usage  we  have  seen,  would  be  as  the  members  of 
one  family  in  the  Lord,  or  as  specially  united  in 
holy  love  (Rom  16  10;  1  Cor  16  20;  2  Cor  13  12; 
1  Thess  5  26;  1  Bet  5  14).  There  is  reason  to 
believe  that,  as  a  rule,  men  only  thus  greeted  men, 
and  women,  women.  In  the  Apos  Const  (3d  cent.) 
it  is  so  enjoined.  W.  L.  Walker 

KITE,  kit  ("?X,  'ayyah;  Iktivos,  ikt'inos;  Lat 
Milvus  ictinus  or  rcgalis):  A  medium-sized  member 
of  the  hawk  tribe  (see  Hawk).  This  bird  is  27  in. 
long,  of  bright  reddish-brown  color,  has  sharply 
pointed  wings  and  deeply  forked  tail.  It  is  supposed 
to  have  exceptionally  piercing  eyes.  It  takes  moles, 
mice,  young  game  birds,  snakes  and  frogs,  as  well 
as  carrion  for  food.  Its  head  and  facial  expression 
are  unusually  eagle-like.  It  was  common  over 
Bal  in  winter,  but  bred  in  the  hills  of  Galilee  and 
rough  mountainous  places,  so  it  was  less  conspicu- 
ous in  summer.  It  is  among  the  lists  of  abomina- 
tions (see  Lev  11  14  and  Dt  14  13).  It  is  notable 
that  this  is  the  real  bird  intended  by  Job  to  be  used 
as  that  whose  eye  could  not  trace  the  path  to  the 
silver  mine: 

"  That  path  no  bird  of  prey  knoweth, 
Neither  hath  the  falcon's  eye  seen  it"  (Job  28  7). 

The  word  used  here  in  the  original  Heb  is  'ayyah, 
which  was  the  name  for  kite.  Our  first  translators 
used  "vulture";  our  latest  efforts  give  "falcon,"  a 
smaller  bird  of  different  markings,  not  having  the 
kite's  reputation  for  eyesight. 

Gene  Stratton-Porter 
KITHLISH,    kith'lish    (tthbnS ,    kithllsh).     See 
Chitlish. 

KITRON,  kit'ron  ("pntpp,  kitron):  An  unidenti- 
fied place  in  Zebulun,  not  possessed  by  the  tribe 
(Jgs  1  30).  It  may  be  identical  with  Kattath  of 
Josh  19  15.  In  the  Talm  it  is  identified  with 
Sepphoris,  which  is  represented  by  the  modern 
village  of  Seffuriyeh. 


KITTIM,  kit'im  (D"1!??,  kiltlm,  Isa  23  12;    Jer 

2   10;    D^r??,  kittiyim,  apparently  pi.  of  kiUl  [not 
found,    but    cf    (4)    below];      KTpioi, 

1.  Two  Kitioi,  Kitioi,  Kitioi,  Ki^Tiei^,  Ke- 
Usages  of  tielm,  Jer  2  10;  Xtr-ru^n,  Chettieim, 
the  Name      Xcttuiv,     Chellicin):      In     Gen   10   4 

the  word  is  applied  to  the  descendants 
of  Javan,  and  indicates,  therefore,  the  Gr-Lat  races, 
whose;  territory  extended  along  the  coasts  of  the 
Mediterranean,  and  included  its  islands.  By  the 
side  of  Kittim  are  mentioned  Elishah,  Tarshish,  and 
Dodanim  (  =  Rodanim  of  1  Ch  1  7),  generally  ex- 
plained respectively  as  Sicily  with  Southern  Italy, 
Spain  and  Rhodes.  In  its  narrower  sense;  Kit  tint 
appears  simply  to  have  stood  for  the  island  of  Cyprus 
— it  is  mentioned  between  Bashan  (  =  Bal)  and  tin; 
isles  of  Elishah  in  Ezk  27  6.7,  and  with  this  Isa  23 
1.12  agree,  Kit  tim  occurring  in  these  passages  be- 
tween Tarshish,  Tyre  and  Sidon. 

The  oldest  etymology  is  apparently  that  of  Jos, 

who    connects    Kit  tim    with    the    well-known    old 

Cypriote   city   Kit  ion    (Citium)   (Ant, 

2.  In  Its  I,  vi,  1),  testifying  to  the  settling  of 
Limited  the  Kit  tim  on  the  island.  This  word 
Sense              he    further    connects   with    Chethima, 

from  Chethimus,  and  states  that  it 
was  on  account  of  Cyprus  being  the  home  of  those 
people  that  all  islands  were  called  Chethim  by  the 
Heb.  The  derivation  of  an  ancient  Chethim  from 
Chethimus,  however,  would  make  the  m  to  bc^  a 
radical,  and  this,  with  the  substitution  of  Ch  (=  Kh) 
for  K,  renders  his  proposed  etymology  somewhat 
doubtful. 

The  statement  of  Jos,  that  "all  islands,  and  the 
greatest  part  of  the  sea-coast,  are  called  Chethim 

[=Kittim]  by  the  Hebrews,"   on   the 

3.  In  Its  other  hand,  must  be  taken  as  the  tes- 
Extended  timony  of  one  well  acquainted  with  the 
Sense  opinions  of  the  learned  world  in  his 

time.  In  Jer  2  10  and  Ezk  27  6 
the  isles  of  Kittim  arc  expressly  spoken  of,  and  this 
confirms  the  statement  of  Jos  concerning  the  ex- 
tended meaning  of  the  name.  This  would  explain 
its  application  to  the  Rom  fleet  in  Dnl  11  30  (so 
the  Vulg),  and  the  Macedonians  in  1  Mace  1  1 
(Xerrtei'/x,  Chettieim)  and  8  5  (Kitians).  In  the 
latter  passage  the  Gr  writer  seems  to  have  been 
thinking  more  of  the  Cyprian  Kition  than  of  the 
Heb  Kittim. 

According    to    Herodotus    (vii.90),   Cyprus    was 

colonized   from   Greece,   Phoenicia,    and   Ethiopia. 

Referring    to    the    plundering    of   the 

4.  Coloniza-  temple  of  Aphrodite  at  Askalon  by 
tion  of  the  .Scythians  (i.105),  he  states  that  her 
Cyprus  temple  in  Cyprus  was  an  offshoot  from 

that  ancient  foundation,  as  reported 
by  the  Cyprians  themselves,  _Phoenicians<  having 
founded  it  at  Cythera,  on  arriving  from  Syria.  The 
date  of  the  earliest  Phoen  settlements  in  Cyprus  is 
unknown,  but  it  has  been  suggested  that  they  were 
anterior  to  the  time  of  Moses.  Naturally  they 
brought  with  them  their  religion,  the  worship  of  the 
moon-goddess  At  argatis  (Derceto)  being  introduced 
at  Paphos,  and  the  Phoen  Baal  at  Kition.  If 
Kition  be,  then,  a  Sem  word  (from  the  same  root 
as  the  Heb  Kittim),  it  has  been  transferred  from  the 
small  band  of  Phoen  settlers  which  it  at  first  desig- 
nated, to  the  non-Sem  Japhethites  of  the  W.  Kition 
occurs  in  the  Phoen  inscriptions  of  Cyprus  under  the 
forms  K(i)t(t)  and  K(i)t{t)i,  the  latter  being  by  far 
the  more  common  (CIS,  I,  i,  10,11,14,19,  etc). 

The  early  history  of  Cyprus  is  uncertain.  Accord- 
ing to  the  Assyr  copy  of  Sargon  of  Agade's  omens, 
that  king  (about  3800  BC  in  the  opinion  of  Naboni- 
dus;  2800  BC  in  the  opinion  of  many  Assyriolo- 
gists)  is  said  to  have  crossed  "the  sea  of  the  setting 
sun"   (the  Mediterranean),  though  the  Bab  copy 


1815 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Kite 
Know 


makes  it  that  of  "the  rising  sun" — i.e.  the  Pers  Gulf. 

Be  this  as  it  may,  General  Cesnola  discovered  at 

Curium,    in    Cyprus,    a    seal-cylinder 

5.  Its  Sue-  apparently  inscribed  "Mar-Istar,  son 
cessive  of  Ilu-bani,  servant  [worshipper]  of 
Masters         Naram-Sin,"  the  last  named  being  the 

deified  son  of  Sargon.  In  the  10th  cent. 
BC,  Cyprus  was  tributary  to  Thothmes  III.  About 
the  year  70S  BC,  Sargon  of  Assyria  received  the 
submission  of  the  kings  of  the  district  of  Ya',  in 
Cyprus,  and  set  up  at  Cit  ium  the  stele  bearing  his 
name,  which  is  now  in  the  Royal  Museum  at  Berlin. 
Esarhaddon  and  his  son  Assur-bani-apli  each  re- 
ceived tribute  from  the  10  Cyprian  princes  who 
acknowledged  Assyr  supremacy.  The  island  was 
conquered  by  the  Egyp  king  Amasis,  and  later 
formed  part  of  the  Pers  empire,  until  the  revolt 
of  Evagoras  in  410  BC.  The  Assyrians  knew  the 
island  under  the  name  of  Yad(a)nanu,  the  "Wedan" 
(Vedan)  of  Ezk  27  19  RV  (Sayce,  PSBA,  1912,  26). 
If  the  orthodox  date  for  the  composition  of  Gen 
be  accepted,  not  only  the  Phoenicians,  but  also  the 

Greeks,  or  a  people  of  Gr-Lat  stock, 

6.  The  must  have  been  present  in  Cyprus, 
Races  before  the  time  of  Moses,  in  sufficient 
Therein  number  to  make  them  the  predomi- 
and  Their  nant  portion  of  the  population.  _  As 
Languages     far  as  can  be  judged,  the  Phoenicians 

occupied  only  the  eastern  and  southern 
portion  of  the  island.  Paphos,  where  they  had 
built  a  temple  to  Ashtoreth  and  set  up  an  'dsherah 
(a  pillar  symbolizing  the  goddess),  was  one  of  their 
principal  settlements.  The  rest  of  the  island  was 
apparently  occupied  by  the  Aryans,  whose  presence 
there  caused  the  name  of  Kittim  to  be  applied  to 
all  the  Gr-Lat  countries  of  the  Mediterranean. 
Gr  and  Phoen  were  the  languages  spoken  on  the 
island,  as  was  proved  by  George  Smith's  demon- 
stration of  the  nature  of  the  non-Phoen  text  of  the 
inscription  of  King  Melek-yathon  of  Cit  ium  (370 
BC).  The  signs  used  in  the  Gr-Cyprian  inscrip- 
tions are  pract  ically  all  syllabic. 

The  many  influences  which  have  modified   the 

Cyprian  race  are  reflected  in  the  ancient  art,  which 

shows     the     effect    of     Bab,     Egyp, 

7.  The  Phoen  and  Gr  contacts.  Specimens 
Testimony  are  to  be  found  in  many  museums,  but 
of  Cyprian  the  finest  collection  of  examples  of 
Art  Cyprian   art  is  undoubtedly  that  of 

the  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art  in 
New  York.  Some  of  the  full-length  figures  are 
life-size,  and  the  better  class  of  work  is  exceedingly 
noteworthy.     See  Cyprus.  T.  G.  Pinches 

KNEADING,  ned'ing.     See  Bread,  III,  2. 

KNEE,  ne,  KNEEL,  nel  ("knee,"  !p3  ,  berekh; 
Aram.  HIIDIX,  'ar^khubbah;  70W,  gonu;  •'kneel"; 
•pa,  bdrakh;  Aram,  tpa,  berakh;  "/ovu-n-extco, 
gonupeteo):  Most  of  the  uses  are  obvious,  and  the 
figurative  use  of  "knees"  as  the  symbol  of  strength 
(Job  4  4;  lie;  12  12,  etc)  needs  no  explanation. 
The  disease  of  the  knees  mentioned  in  Dt  28  35 
is  perhaps  some  form  of  leprosy.  In  Job  3  12  the 
"knees"  seem  to  be  used  for  the  lap,  as  the  place 
where  a  child  receives  its  first  care.  Three  times 
in  Gen  the  knees  appear  in  connection  with  primi- 
tive adoption  customs.  In  30  3  a  fiction  is  enacted 
that  purports  to  represent  Rachel  as  the  actual 
mother  of  Bilhah's  children.  By  a  somewhat 
similar  rite  in  48  12,  Jacob  (the  "knees"  here  are 
Jacob's,  not  Joseph's)  adopts  Ephrami  and  Manas- 
seh,  so  that  they  are  counted  as  two  of  the  twelve 
patriarchs  and  not  as  members  of  a  single  Joseph 
tribe.  In  the  same  way  Machir's  children  are 
adopted  by  Joseph  in  50  23,  and  this  is  certainly 
connected  with  the  counting  of  Machir  (instead  of 


Manasseh)  as  one  of  the  tribes  in  Jj^s  5  14.  See 
Tribes;  and  for  the  idea  underlying  this  paternal 
adoption,  cf  Thigh.  From  among  classical  instances 
of  t he  same  customs  compare  Homer,  Odyssey,  xix. 
401  ff,  where  Autolukos,  grandfather  of  Ulysses,  re- 
ceives the  newborn  grandchild  on  his  knees  and 
gives  him  his  name.  Thus  also  we  have  to  under- 
stand the  numerous  representations  in  Egyp  sculp- 
ture, showing  the  king  as  an  infant  on  the  knees  or 
the  lap  of  a  goddess. 

Kneeling  was  less  commonly  an  attitude  of  prayer 
among  the  Jews  than  was  standing,  but  references 
to  kneeling  are  of  course  abundant.  For  kneeling 
(or  prostrating  one's  self)  before  a  superior,  see 
Attitude,  2;  Salutation. 

Burton  Scott  Easton 

KNIFE,  nif:  (1)  nSSWQ,  ma'akheleth,  lit,  an  in- 
strument for  eating;  but  used  of  large  knives  for 
slaying  animals,  cutting  up  a  carcase  or  a  sacrificial 
victim  (Gen  22  0.10;  Jgs  19  29;  Prov  30  14). 
(2)  a")n ,  herebh,  rendered  generally  "sword,"  but 
in  Josh  5  2.3  of  stone  knives  for  circumcision  (cf 
Ex  4  2.")),  probably  of  similar  knives  in  1  K  18 
28,  used  by  Baal  prophets  in  gashing  themselves. 
In   Ezk  6  12  AV,    "knife,"    probably    better    RV, 


Egyptian  Stone  Knives. 


Assyrian   Bronze   Knives. 

(Brit.    Hug.) 


"sword."  (3)  "I3?n,  ta^ir,  usually  rendered  "razor," 
in  combination  with  "ISBH,  ha-sopher,  "knife  of  the 
writer,"  or  "penknife"  (Jer  36  23).  (4)  D^Sbrpfl, 
mahalaphim,  "slaughter-knives"  (Ezr  1  9).  (5) 
■pill!,  sakkln,  Aram.,  "knife"  (Prov  23  2).  Early 
knives  were  commonly  made  of  sharp  stones,  esp. 
of  flint,  later  of  bronze  and  iron.  The  former  re- 
mained in  use  in  religious  ceremonies  long  after  the 
latter  were  in  common  use.  Knives  were  not  gen- 
erally used  at  meals,  meats  being  cut  into  bits  before 
served,  and  bread  being  broken  into  fragments. 
Herod  used  a  knife;  for  paring  apples,  and  attempted 
suicide  with  the  instrument  (Jos,  Ant,  XVII,  vii,  1; 
BJ ,  I,  xxxiii,  7).  Edward  Bagby  Pollard 

KNOCK,  nok  (Kpovco,  krouo):  The  oriental 
house  was  fitted  with  heavy  doors  which  were  bolted 
and  locked  with  wooden  keys  too  large  to  be  carried 
about,  so  that  even  a  member  of  the  household  could 
not  secure  entrance  until  in  response  to  his  knock 
or  call  the  door  should  be  opened  by  someone 
within.  At  night  the  delay  would  be  increased 
by  the  difficulty  of  arousing  the  inmates  sleeping 
within  the  inner  chambers.  To  persons  familiar 
with  such  experiences,  the  words  of  Jesus  concern- 
ing a  higher  entrance,  "Knock,  and  it  shall  be 
opened  unto  you"  (Mt  7  7;  Lk  12  3G),  would 
have  a  unique  force  not  easy  for  us  to  appreciate. 
Russell  Benjamin  Miller 

KNOP,  nop:  In  Ex  25  31  ff;  37  17  ff  (kaphtor), 
part  of  the  ornaments  of  the  golden  candlestick; 
in  1  K  6  18;  7  24  (pekdxim),  gourd-like  ornaments 
of  the  lining  of  Solomon's  temple,  and  of  the  brazen 
sea  (in  1  K  6  18,  RVm  "gourds").  See  Candle- 
stick, Golden;  Temple;   Sea,  The  Molten. 

KNOW,  no,  KNOWLEDGE,  nol'ej,  nol'ij  (in 
Heb  chiefly  7"P  ,  yddha*;  noun  ITIIH,  da~ath;  in  Gr 
■yivioo-Ko),    ginusko,    ot8o,    o'ida;     "to    know    fully,'' 


Koa 
Korahites 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1816 


CTri-yivditrKio,  cpiginosko,  noun  -yvwo-is,  gnosis,  *Tr£-yv<o- 
o-is,  epignosis):  Knowledge  strictly  is  the  appre- 
hension by  the  mind  of  some  fact  or  truth  in  accord- 
ance with  its  real  nature;  in  a  personal  relation  the 
intellectual  act  is  necessarily  conjoined  with  the 
element,  of  affection  and  will  (choice,  love,  favor,  or, 
conversely,  repugnance,  dislike,  etc).  Knowledge 
is  distinguished  from  "opinion"  by  its  greater  cer- 
tainty. The  mind  is  constituted  with  the  capacity 
for  knowledge,  and  tin;  desire  to  possess  and  in- 
crease it.  The  character  of  knowledge  varies  with 
its  object:  The  senses  give  knowledge  of  outward 
appearances;  the  intellect  connects  and  reasons 
about  these  appearances,  and  arrives  at  general 
laws  or  truths;  moral  truth  is  apprehended  through 
the  power  inherently  possessed  by  men  of  dis- 
tinguishing right  and  wrong  in  the  light  of  moral 
principles;  spiritual  qualities  require  for  their  ap- 
prehension spiritual  sympathy  ("They  are  spiritu- 
ally judged,"  1  Cor  2  14).  The  highest  knowledge 
possible  to  man  is  the  knowledge  of  God,  and  while 
.there  is  that  in  God's  infinity  which  transcends 
man's  power  of  comprehension  (Job  11  7.9),  God 
is  knowable  in  the  measure  in  which  He  has  revealed 
Himself  in  creation  (Horn  1  19.20,  "that  which  is 
known  of  God,"  etc),  and  supremely  in  Jesus  Christ, 
who  alone  perfectly  knows  the  Father,  and  reveals 
Him  to  man  (Alt  11  27).  This  knowledge  of  God 
in  Jesus  Christ  is  "life  eternal"  (Jn  17  3).  Knowl- 
edge is  affirmed  of  both  God  and  man,  but  with 
the  wide  contrast  that  God's  knowledge  is  absolute, 
unerring,  complete,  intuitive,  embracing  all  things, 
past,  present,  and  future,  and  searching  the  inmost 
t  houghts  of  the  heart  (Ps  139  1.23);  whereas  man's 
is  partial,  imperfect,  relative,  gradually  acquired, 
and  largely  mixed  with  error  ("Now  we  see  in  a 
mirror  darkly  ....  in  part,"  1  Cor  13  12).  All 
these  points  about  knowledge  are  amply  brought 
out  in  the  Scripture  usage  of  the  terms.  A  large 
part  of  the  usage  necessarily  relates  to  natural 
knowledge  (sometimes  with  a  carnal  connotation, 
as  Gen  4  1.17),  but  the  greatest  stress  also  is  laid 
on  the  possession  of  moral  and  spiritual  knowledge 
(e.g.  Ps  119  G6;  Prov  1  4.7.22.29;  8  10,  etc;  Lk 
1  77;  Rom  15  14;  _  2  Pet  1  5.6).  The  highest 
knowledge,  as  said,  is  the  knowledge  of  God  and 
Christ,  and  of  God's  will  (Hos  6  6;  Rom  11  33; 
Eph  1  17;  4  13;  Phil  1  9;  3  8;  Col  1  9.10,  etc). 
The  moral  conditions  of  spiritual  knowledge  are 
continually  insisted  on  ("If  any  man  willeth  to  do 
his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  teaching,  whether  it  is 
of  God,"  Jn  7  17).  On  the  other  hand,  the  pride 
of  intellectual  knowledge  is  condemned;  it  must  be 
joined  with  love  ("Knowledge  puffeth  up,"  1  Cor 
8  1).  The  stronger  term  epignosis  is  used  to  de- 
note the  full  and  more  perfect  knowledge  which  is 
possessed  in  Christ,  the  conditions  of  which  are 
humility  and  love.  Of  knowledge  as  connoting 
favor,  choice,  on  the  part  of  God,  there  are  many 
examples  (Ps  1  6,  "Jeh  knoweth  the  way  of  the 
righteous";  Gal  4  9,  "know  God,  or  rather  to  be 
known  by  God";  cf  Rom  8  29,  "whom  he  fore- 
knew").    See  Foreknowledge.  James  Orr 

KOA,  ko'a  (yip ,  koal) :  A  people  named  with 
Pekod  and  Shoa  as  enemies  of  Jerus  (Ezk  23  23). 
Their  location  was  probably  N.E.  of  Babylonia. 

KOHATH,  ko'hath,  KOHATHITES,  ko'hath-Its 

(nnp,  k'huth,  ^rinp  ,  kdhuthl;  Ka&9,  Kudth) :  Second 
son  of  Levi,  and  ancestor  of  Moses  and  Aaron  (Gen 
46  11^  Ex  6  16-20;  Nu  3  17;  1  Ch  6  l,etc). 
The  Kohathitcs  formed  one  of  the  three  divisions 
of  the  tribe  of  Levi;  the  other  two  being  the  Ger- 
shonites  and  the  Merarites  (Nu3  17ff).  The 
Kohathites  consisted  of  four  families,  the  Amramites, 
the   Izharites,   the  Hebronites,   and  the  Uzzielites 


(Nu  3  19.27,  etc).  Their  place  in  the  wilderness 
was  on  the  southern  side  of  the  tabernacle  (Nu  3 
29),  and  their  number  is  given  (from  a  month  old) 
as  8,600  (ver  28).  Their  special  charge  was  "the 
ark,  and  the  table,  and  the  candlestick,  and  the 
altars,  and  the  vessels  of  the  sanctuary  wherewith 
they  minister,  and  the  screen,  and  all  the  service 
thereof"  (ver  31;  cf  7  9).  After  the  conquest  23 
cities  were  assigned  them  by  lot  (Josh  21  4.5  ff). 
In  David's  time  and  after,  Ileman,  a  Kohathite, 
and  his  family  had  a  prominent  place  in  the  service 
of  the  music  of  the  sanctuary  (1  Ch  6  33  if;  16 
41  ff;  25  1  ff);  David  likewise  divided  the  Levites 
into  courses  (the  Kohathites,  23  12-20;  24  20-25). 
We  read  of  the  Kohathites  in  the  reign  of  Jehosha- 
phat  at  Engedi  (2  Ch  20  19),  and  in  connection 
with  the  cleansing  of  the  temple  under  Hezekiah 
(2  Ch  29  12.14).  James  Our 

KOHELETH,  kd-hel'efh  (nbnp,  kohelelh).     See 

EcCLKSIASTKS. 

KOLAIAH,  ko-la'ya,  k6-ll'a  (rpVlp ,  kolayah, 
"voice  of  Jeh"): 

(1)  A  Benjamite,  son  of  Maaseiah  (Neh  11  7). 

(2)  Father  of  Ahab,  a  false  prophet  and  a  lecher- 
ous man  (Jer  29  21-23). 

KONAE,  ko'ne  (Kiovd,  Kdnd):  Some  MSS  have 
Kw/xas,  komas,  from  which  we  have  in  AV  "the  vil- 
lages." The  name  occurs  in  the  account  of  the 
measures  taken  to  secure  the  country  against 
Holof ernes  (Jth  4  4).  If  Kona  be  correct,  we  may 
possibly  identify  the  place  with  Cyamon. 

KOPH,  k5f  (p ,  koph) :  The  19th  letter  of  the  Heb 
alphabet;  transliterated  in  this  Encyclopaedia  as 
k  (intense  k).  It  came  also  to  be  used  for  the  num- 
ber 100.     For  name,  etc,  see  Alphabet. 

KOR,  kor.     See  Cor. 

KORAH,  ko'ra(rHp  ,  korah,  "baldness,"  possibly; 
Kope,  Korc) : 

(1)  One  of  the  3  sons  of  Oholibamah,  Esau's 
Hivite  wife.  The  account  says  that  the  3  were  born 
in  Canaan  before  Esau  withdrew  to  the  Seir 
mountain  country.  They  are  mentioned  3  t  in  the 
brief  account  from  3  points  of  view  (Gen  36  5.14. 
18;  1  Ch  1  35),  the  3d  mention  being  in  the  list 
of  "chiefs." 

(2)  One  of  the  sons  of  Eliphaz,  the  son  of  Adah, 
Esau's  Hittite  wife  (Gen  36  16).  He  is  mentioned 
as  one  of  the  Edomite  "chiefs." 

If  one  has  the  habit,  finding  a  statement  any- 
where, of  thinking  that  the  statement  ought  to  be 
changed  into  something  else,  he  will  be  interested  in 
the  attempts  to  identify  these  Edomite  Korahs  with 
Korah  (3). 

(3)  A  son  of  Hebron  (1  Ch  2  43),  the  son  of 
Mareshah,  mentioned  in  the  Caleb  group  of  families 
in  Judah. 

(4)  The  son  of  Izhar  the  son  of  Kohath  the  son 
of  Levi  (Ex  6  16  ff;  Nu  16  1;  1  Ch  6  18.31-38), 
a  younger  contemporary  of  Moses.  There  may 
have  been  generations,  omitted  in  the  record, 
between  Izhar  and  K.;  that  is  a  natural  way  of 
accounting  for  Amminadab    (1  Ch  6  22-30). 

This  Korah  is  best  known  as  the  man  whom  the 
opening  earth  is  said  to  have  swallowed  up  along 

with  his  associates  when  they  were 
1.  The  challenging    the    authority   of    Moses 

Catastrophe  and  Aaron  in  the  wilderness  (Nu  16, 
in  the  17).     K.  is  presented  as  the  principal 

Wilderness   in  the  affair.     The  company  is  spoken 

of  as  his  company,  and  those  who  were 
swallowed  up  as  being  "all  the  men  that  apper- 


1817 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Koa 
Korahites 


tained  unto  K."  (Nu  16  11.32).  It  is  under  his 
name  that  the  affair  is  referred  to  (Nu  26  9;  27  3). 
But  Dathan  and  Abiram  of  the  tribe  of  Reuben  are 
not  much  less  prominent  than  K.     In  Nu  16  and 

26  they  are  mentioned  with  K.,  and  are  mentioned 
without  him  in  Dt  11  6  and  Ps  106  17.  Another 
Reubenite,  On,  the  son  of  Peleth,  was  in  the  con- 
spiracy. It  has  been  inferred  that  he  withdrew, 
but  there  is  no  reason  either  for  or  against  the  infer- 
ence. Equally  baseless  is  the  inference  that  Zelo- 
phehad  of  Manasseh  joined  it,  but  withdrew  (Nu 

27  3).  The  account  implies  that  there  were  other 
Levites  in  it  besides  K.  (Nu  16  7-10),  and  it  par- 
ticularly mentions  250  "men  of  renown,"  princes, 
such  men  as  would  be  summoned  if  there  were 
a  public  assembly  (Nu  16  2.17.35).  These  men, 
apparently,  were  of  different  tribes. 

The  position  taken  by  the  malcontents  was  that 
"all  the  congregation  are  holy,  every  one  of  them," 
and  that  it  was  therefore  a  usurpation  for  Moses 
and  Aaron  to  confine  the  functions  of  an  incense- 
burning  priest  to  Aaron  alone.  Logically,  their 
objection  lay  equally  against  the  separation  of 
Aaron  and  his  sons  from  the  rest  of  the  Levites,  and 
against  the  separation  of  the  Levites  from  the  rest 
of  the  people.  On  the  basis  of  this,  Moses  made 
expostulation  with  the  Levites.  He  arranged  that 
K.  and  the  250,  along  with  Aaron,  should  take  their 
places  at  the  doorway  of  the  tent  of  meeting,  with 
their  censers  and  fire  and  incense,  so  that  Jeh  might 
indicate  His  will  in  the  matter.  Dathan  and 
Abiram  insolently  refused  his  proposals. 

The  record  says  that  K.'s  "whole  congregation," 
including  himself  and  the  250  with  their  censers, 
met  Moses  and  Aaron  and  "all  the  congregation" 
of  Israel  at  the  doorway  of  the  tent  of  meeting. 
For  the  purposes  of  the  transaction  in  hand  the 
tent  was  now  "the  mishkan  of  K.,  Dathan  and 
Abiram,"  and  their  followers.  Jeh  directed  Moses 
to  warn  all  other  persons  to  leave  the  vicinity. 
Dathan  and  Abiram,  however,  were  not  at  the 
mishkan.  The  account  says  that  Moses,  followed 
by  the  elders  of  Israel,  went  to  them  to  their  tents; 
that  he  warned  all  persons  to  leave  that  vicinity 
also;  that  Dathan  and  Abiram  and  the  households 
stood  near  the  tents;  that  the  earth  opened  and 
swallowed  them  and  their  property  and  all  the  ad- 
herents of  X.  who  were  on  the  spot;  that  fire  from 
Jeh  devoured  the  250  who  offered  incense.  The 
narrative  does  not  say  whether  the  deaths  by  fire 
and  by  the  opening  of  the  earth  were  simultaneous. 
It  does  not  say  whether  K.'s  sons  participated  in  tin1 
rebellion,  or  what  became  of  K.  himself.  In  the 
allusion  in  Nu  26  we  are  told,  apparently,  that 
K.  was  swallowed  up,  and  that  "the  sons  of  X.  died 
not."  The  deaths  of  the  principal  offenders,  by 
fire  and  by  being  swallowed  up,  were  followed  by  a 
plague  in  which  14,700  perished  (Nu  16  49  [Heb 
17  14]). 

Any  appreciative  reader  sees  at  once  that  we  have  here 
either  a  history  of  certain  miraculous  facts,  or  a  wonder- 
story  devised  for  teaching  religious  lessons. 

9  Pritiral  As  a  story  it  is  artistically  admirable — ■ 
£.  ^nutdi  sufficiently  complicated  to  be  interesting, 
Treatments  but  clear  and  graphic  and  to  the  point.  In 
of  This  the  Heb  there  are  2  or  3  instances  of  in- 
ctnrv                complete  grammatical  construction,    such 

010  ■>  as  abound  in  the  early  literary  products 

of  any  language,  when  these  have  been 
fortunate  enough  to  escape  editorial  polishing,  in  such 
a  case  it  is  possibly  not  unwise  just  to  take  a  story  as  it 
stands.  Nothing  will  be  added  to  either  its  religious  or 
its  literary  value  by  subjecting  it  to  doubtful  alleged 
critical  processes. 

If,  however,  one  has  committed  himself  to  certain  criti- 
cal traditions  concerning  the  Hex,  that  brings  him  under 
obligation  to  lead  this  story  into  conformity  with  the  rest 
of  his  theory.  Attempts  of  this  kind  have  been  numer- 
ous. Some  hold  that  the  K.  of  this  narrative  is  the 
Edomite  K.,  and  that  Peleth  means  Phili,  and  that  our 
story  originally  grew  out  of  some  claim  made  by  Edom- 
ites  and  Philis.    It  is  held  that  the  story  of  K.  was  origi- 


nally one  story,  and  that  of  Dathan  and  Abiram  an- 
other, and  that  someone  manipulated  the  two  and  put 
them  together.  See  the  treatments  of  the  Book  of  Nu 
in  Driver,  Intro;  Addis,  Documents  of  the  Ilex;  Carpen- 
ter and  Battersby,  Hex;  Bacon,  Ex;  Patcrson  on  Nu,  in 
the  Polychrome.  Bible.  These  and  other  like;  works  give 
source-analyses  of  our  story.  Some  of  the  points  they 
make  are  plausible.  In  such  a  case  no  one  claims  any 
adequate  basis  of  fact  for  his  work;  each  t  lieory  is  simply 
a  congeries  of  ingenious  guesses,  and  no  two  of  the 
guessers  guess  alike. 

As  in  many  other  Bib.  instances,  one  of  the  results  of 
the  alleged  critical  study  is  the  resolving  of  a  particularly 
tine  story  into  two  or  more  supposed  earlier  stories  each 
of  which  is  absolutely  bald  and  crude  and  uninteresting, 
the  earlier  stories  and  the  combining  of  these  into  their 
present  form  being  alike  regarded  as  processes  of  legend- 
ary accretion.  The  necessary  inference  is  that  the  tine 
story  we  now  have  was  not  the  product  of  some  gifted 
mind,  guided  by  facts  and  by  literary  and  religious  in- 
spiration, but  is  an  accidental  result  of  mere  patchwork. 
Such  a  theory  does  not  commend  itself  to  persons  of  lit- 
erary appreciation. 

Willis  J.  Beecher 
KORAHITES,  kf/ra-Its  (TTip ,  korhi),  SONS 
OF  KORAH  (711?  ^  ,  b'ne  korah;  in  AV  appears 
also  as  Korhite,  Kohathite,  Korej:  This  phrase  is 
used  to  denote  Assir  and  Elkanah  and  Abiasaph, 
Korah's  3  individual  sons  (Ex  6  24;  cf  Nu  26  11). 
But  its  more  frequent  use,  and  that  to  which  interest 
attaches,  is  in  the  titles  of  some  of  the  Pss. 

The  genealogical  details  concerning  K.  are  rather  full. 
In  3  places  we  lind  the  list  of  the  7  successive  generations 
closing  with  t lie  prophet  Samuel  and  his  son  Joel  (1  Ch 
6  31-38.22-30;  1  S  1  1.20;  8  2);  the  two  in  Ch 
mention  most  of  the  generations  between  K.  and  Joel. 
The  fragmentary  lists  in  1  Ch  9,  25,  26  connect  the 
list  with  the  4  generations  following  Joel  (1  Ch  6  33; 
9  19-31;  26  1  if),  and  with  2  generations  in  the  very 
latest  Bible  times  (1   Ch  9  31). 

The  adj.  "Korhite"  appears  also  in  AV  as  "Korathitc," 
"Kore,"  and  "Korahite,"  the  last  being  the  form  pre- 
ferred in  ERV.  It  is  used  4  t  in  the  sing.  Once  it 
designates  an  individual  (1  Ch  9  3D;  lit  it  denotes 
the  successors  of  K.  taken  collectively  (Ex  6  24-  Nu 
26  58;  1  Ch  26  19);  4  t  it  is  used  in  the  pi.,  denoting 
the  members  of  this  succession  of  men  (1  Ch  9  1!)-  12 
<>;  26  1;  2  Ch  20  19).  As  variants  of  this  use,  "the 
sons  of  the  Korahites"  appears  once,  and  "the  children  of 
the  Korahites"  once  (1  Ch  26  19;  2  Ch  20  19). 

In  these  various  passages  the  K.  families  are 
counted  like  the  other  Levitical  families.  In  1  Ch 
12  6  we  have  an  account  of  5  men  who  are  desig- 
nated as  "the  Xorahites,"  who  joined  David  when 
he  was  at  Ziklag — Elkanah,  Isshiah,  Azarel,  Joezer, 
Jashobeam.  They  are  described  as  expert  warriors, 
esp.  with  the  bow  and  sling,  and  as  being  "of  Saul's 
brethren  of  Benjamin."  Some  of  them  may  plausi- 
bly be  identified  with  men  of  the  same  name  men- 
tioned elsewhere.  These  Xorahites  may  have  been 
cousins  of  the  Samuel  family,  and  they  may  have 
resided  not  very  far  apart. 

The  record  speaks  with  some  emphasis  of  a  line 
of  X.  doorkeepers. 

In  the  latest  OT  times  one  Mattithiah,  "the  first-born 
of  Shallum  the  Korahite,"  held  "the  oilice  of  trust  over 
the  things  that  were  baked  in  pans"  (1  Ch  9  31). 
Shallum  was  "the  son  of  Kore,  the  son  of  Ebiasaph,  the 
son  of  Korah."  Iti  this  expression  15  or  more  genera- 
tions are  omitted  between  Ebiasaph  and  Kore,  and  per- 
haps as  many  between  Kore  and  Shallum.  The  record 
proceeds  to  supply  some  of  the  omitted  names  between 
Kore  and  Shallum.  The  representative  of  the  line  in 
David's  time  was  "  Zechariah  the  son  of  Meshelemiah" 
(ver  21).  In  all  periods  the  Korahites  were  "keepers  of 
the  thresholds  of  the  tent."  Back  in  the  time  of  "Phine- 
has  the  son  of  Eleazar,"  "their  fathers  had  been  over  the 
camp  of  Jeh"  (vs  19.20).  Zechariah  was,  in  his  time, 
"porter  of  the  door  of  the  tent  of  meeting"  (ver  21),  and 
Shallum  was  still  the  chief  of  the  porters  (ver  17).  The 
record  for  David's  time  supports  and  supplements  this. 
It  says  that  the  doorkeepers,  according  to  the  arrange- 
ments made  by  David,  included  a  K.  contingent,  its 
leading  men  being  Meshelemiah  and  his  son  Zechariah 
(1  Ch  26  1.2.9.14),  and  that  Meshelemiah  was  "the 
son  of  Kore,  of  the  sons  of  Asaph."  Adopting  ttie  com- 
mon conjecture  that  Asaph  is  here  a  variant  for  Ebiasaph, 
we  have  here  the  same  abridgment  of  the  genealogical 
list  as  in  1  Ch  9. 

More  interesting,  however,  than  the  fighting 
Korahites  of  Benjamin,  or  the  doorkeeping  Xora- 


Korahites 
Lacedaemonians 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  151  RLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


ISIS 


hitcs  who  claimed  succession  from  Moses  to  Nehe- 
miah,  are  the  "sons  of  Korah"  who  were  somehow 
connected  with  the  service  of  song.  One  of  the 
genealogies  is  introduced  by  the  statement  :  "These 
are  they  whom  David  set  over  the  service  of  song; 
in  the  house  of  Jell,  alter  that  the  ark  had  rest. 
And  they  ministered  with  song  before  the  taber- 
nacle of  the  tent  of  meeting,  until  Solomon  had  built 
the  house  of  Jeh  in  Jerus"  (I  Ch  6  31.32).  Then 
the  writer  proceeds  to  mention  first  "Heman  the 
singer,  the  son  of  Joel,  the  son  of  Samuel,"  and  so 
on,  carrying  the  genealogy  back  to  Korah  and  Levi. 
After  thus  mentioning  Heman,  he  speaks  of  "his 
brother  Asaph,  who  stood  on  his  right  hand,"  and 
traces  Asaph's  descent  back  to  Gershom  the  son  of 
Levi;  and  then  says,  "and  on  the  left  hand  their 
brethren  the  sons  of  Merari."  Of  these  the  prin- 
cipal leader  is  Ethan  (otherwise  called  Jeduthun), 
and  his  descent  is  here  traced  back  to  Levi. 

In  this  way  we  are  introduced  to  David's  :5  great  lead- 
ers in  choral  and  orchestral  music.  Among  them  Heman 
the  Korahito  lias  at  first  the  place  of  primacy,  though 
Asaph,  later,  comes  to  the  front.  Tile  events  just  re- 
ferred to  are  mentioned  again,  more  in  detail,  in  the 
account  of  David's  bringing  the  ark  to  Jerus.  There  it 
is  said  that  at  the  suggestion  of  David  "the  Levites 
appointed  Heman  the  son  of  Joel,"  and  also  Asaph  and 
Ethan,  "and  with  them"  several  others,  "their  brethren 
of  the  second  degree"  (1  Ch  15  17.  IS).  The  record 
proceeds  to  speak  of  the  services  of  "the  singers,  Heman, 
Asaph,  and  Ethan,"  and  their  associates,  in  the  pageantry 
of  the  bringing  of  the  ark  to  .Jerus.  After  that,  it  says, 
Asaph  had  charge  of  the  services  of  thanksgiving  and 
praise  before  the  ark  in  Jerus,  while  Heman  and  Jedu- 
thun served  in  the  high  place  at  Gibeon  (1  Oh  16  4  ff. 
:i7.:?()  -42).  Eater,  the  record  says  (1  Ch  25b  David 
made  an  elaborate  organization,  under  Asaph  and  Heman 
and  Jeduthun,  for  prophesying  with  song  and  instru- 
mental music. 

As  the  records  of  David's  time,  according  to  the 
Chronicler,  thus  attribute  to  him  great  achieve- 
ments in  sacred  music  and  song,  so  the  records  of 
subsequent  times  reiterate  the  same  thing.  David's 
interest  in  sacred  music  is  mentioned  in  connection 
with  Solomon's  temple,  in  connection  with  the 
times  of  Joash  and  Hezekiah  and  Josiah,  in  connec- 
tion  with  the  institutions  and  exploits  of  the  times 
after  the  exile  (e.g.  2  Ch  7  G;  23  IS;  29  2.1  ff; 
35  15;  Ezr  3  10;  Neh  12  24.36.45.4G).  Asaph 
and  Heman  and  Jeduthun  led  the  magnificent  choir 
and  orchestra  at  the  dedication  of  the  temple  (2  Ch 
5  12).  One  of  the  sons  of  Asaph  prophesied,  and 
the  sons  of  the  Korahites  sang  at  the  crisis  in  the 
time  of  Jehoshaphat  (2  Ch  20  14.19).  The  sons 
of  Asaph  and  the  sons  of  Heman  and  the  sons  of 
Jeduthun  were  present,  and  there  was  instrumental 
music  and  loud  singing,  according  to  the  appoint- 
ment of  David  and  his  associates,  at  the  time  of 
Hezekiah's  Passover  (2  Ch  29  13  ff).  Singing, 
and  Asaph  and  Heman  and  Jeduthun  and  David 
have  an  important  place  in  the  record  concerning 
Josiah.  And  the  records  of  the  post-exilian  times 
make  the  singers  and  the  "sons  of  Asaph"  and  the 
arrangements  of  David  as  conspicuous  as  the  law 
of  Moses  itself. 

Add  to  this  that  the  names  Asaph  or  Heman  or 
Ethan  or  Jeduthun,  or  the  designation  "the  sons 
of  Korah"  are  attached  to  25  or  more  of  the  Pss 
(e.g.  Pss  42-49,  50,  62,  72-85),  and  we  have  a  body 
of  testimony  that  is  at  least  abundant  and  intelli- 
gible. It  is  to  the  effect  that  there  was  elaborate 
organization,  on  a  large  scale,  in  connection  with 
the  musical  services  of  the  temple  at  Jerus;  that 
this  began  in  the  time  of  David,  as  a  part  of  the 
preparation  for  building  the  temple,  under  the  in- 
fluence   of    the   family    traditions   of   the   prophet 


Samuel;  and  that  the  movement  continued  in  the 
generations  following  David,  either  surviving  the 
exile,  or  being  revived  after  the  exile.  In  connec- 
tion with  this  movement,  the  phrases  "sons  of 
Korah,"  "sons  of  Asaph,"  "sons  of  Heman,"  "sons 
of  Jeduthun"  denote,  in  some  eases,  merely  lineal 
descent;  but  in  other  eases  they  denote  each  an 
aggregate  of  persons  interested  in  sacred  song  and 
music — a  guild  or  society  or  succession  or  group — 
arising  out  of  the  movement  which  originated  in 
David's  time.  See,  for  example,  "sons  of  Asaph" 
(I  Ch  25  1.2;  2  Ch  20  14;  ef  ver  19;  29  13; 
35  15;  Ezr  2  41;  3  10;  Neh  7  44;  11  22)  and 
"sons  of  Korah"  in  the  titles  of  Pss  42  49  and  84, 
85,  87-89.  Traces  of  these  aggregates  appear  in 
the  times  of  Solomon,  of  Jehoshaphat,  of  Joash,  of 
Hezekiah,  of  Josiah,  of  Zerubbabel,  of  Ezra  and 
Nehemiah. 

If  a  person  holds  that  the  mention  of  an  event 
in  Ch  is  to  be  regarded  as  proof  that  the  event 
never  occurred,  that  person  will  of  course  deny  that 
the;  testimony  thus  cited  is  true  to  fact.  He  is 
likely  to  hold  that  the  guilds  of  singers  arose  in  the 
exile,  and  that,  some  generations  after  Nehemiah, 
they  fabricated  for  themselves  the  ecclesiastical 
anil  physical  pedigrees  now  found  in  the  Rooks  of 
Ch.  If,  however,  we  accord  fair  play  to  the  Chron- 
icler as  a  witness,  we  shall  be  slow  to  discredit  the 
minute  and  interfitting  testimony  which  he  has 
placed  before  us.  Willis  J.  Beecher 

KORATHITES,  ko 'rath-Its:  In  AV  for  "Kora- 
hites," Nu  26  58.     See  Korah,  4. 

KORE,  kore  (X"!ip  ,  kore',  "one  who  proclaims"): 

(1)  A  Levite  of  David's  time,  descended  from 
Kohath  and  Korah.  See  Korah,  4.  Shallum, 
chief  doorkeeper  in  the  latest  Bible  times,  is  de- 
scribed as  "the  son  of  Kore,  the  son  of  Ebiasaph, 
the  son  of  Korah"  (1  Ch  9  19).  This  expression 
omits  the  generations  between  Shallum  and  K., 
and  those  between  K.  and  Ebiasaph,  perhaps  15 
generations  or  more  in  each  ease.  The  context 
supplies  two  of  the  omitted  names,  of  the  time  of 
David,  Meshelemiah  and  his  son  Zechariah  (1  Ch  9 
21 .22).  The  record  for  the  time  of  David  mentions 
these  two,  with  some  particulars,  calling  Meshel- 
emiah the  son  of  K.  (1  Ch  26  1.2.9.14).  It  de- 
scribes them  as  "Korahites"  "of  the  sons  of  Asaph." 
It  is  usual  to  regard  this  last  clause  as  a  variant 
for  "the  son  of  Ebiasaph,"  thus  making  the  de- 
scription identical  with  that  in  1  Ch  9  19.  With 
this  understanding,  the  text  claims  that  "the 
Korahites,"  K.  and  Meshelemiah  and  Zechariah, 
come  midway  in  a  line  of  sanctuary  ministrants, 
extending  continuously  from  Moses  to  Nehemiah. 

(2)  "The  son  of  Imnah  the  Levite,  the  porter  at 
theeast.gate,"  who  "wasover  the  freewill-offerings," 
in  the  time  of  Hezekiah  (2  Ch  31  14).  Very 
likely  in  the  same  line  with  (1)  above. 

(3)  In  1  Ch  26  1  AV  for  Korahites  (q.v.). 

Willis  J.  Reecher 
KORHITES,  kor'hlts:    In  AV   for   "Korahites" 
in     Ex  6  24;      1  Ch  12  6;      26  1;      2  Ch  20  19. 
See  Korah,  'A. 

KOZ,  koz.     See  Hakkoz. 

KUSHAIAH,  kti-sha'ya,  ku-shl'a  OrPTT^p  ,  kusha- 
yahu,  "bow  of  Jeh"):  A  Merarite  Levite  (1  Ch  15 
17),  called  in  1  Ch  6  44  Kishi  (q.v.). 


1819 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA    £orahites 

Lacedaemonians 


LAADAH,  la'a-da  (~^b  .  la\iah):   A  descendant 
of  Judah  (1  Ch  4  21)." 

LAADAN,  Ia'a-dan.    See  Ladan. 

LABAN,  la'ban:  The  person  named  Laban  ("pb  } 
labhan;  Aa3av,  Labdn,  possibly  connected  with  the 
V  meaning  "to  be  white,"  from  which  in  Heb  the  adj. 
meaning  "white"  has  just  this  form)  is  first  intro- 
duced to  the  reader  of  Gen  in  the  story  of  the  wooing 
of  Rebekah  (ch  24).  He  belonged  to  that  branch  of 
the  family  of  Terah  that  was  derived  from  Abraham's 
brother  Nahor  and  his  niece  Milcah.  The  gene- 
alogy of  this  branch  is  traced  in  Gen  22  20-24; 
but,  true  to  its  purpose  and  the  place  it  occupies 
in  the  book,  this  genealogy  brings  the  family  down 
to  Rebekah,  and  there  stops  without  mentioning 
Laban.  Accordingly,  when  Rebekah  is  introduced 
in  the  narrative  of  ch  24,  she  is  referred  to  (vs  15.24) 
in  a  way  that  recalls  to  the  reader  the  genealogy 
already  given;  but  when  her  brother  Laban  is 
introduced  (ver  29),  he  is  related  to  his  sister  by  the 
express  announcement,  "And  Rebekah  had  a 
brother,  and  his  name  was  Laban."  In  this  ch  he 
takes  prominent  part  in  the  reception  of  Abraham's 
servant,  and  in  the  determination  of  his  sister's 
future.  That  brothers  had  an  effective  voice  in 
the  marriage  of  their  sisters  is  evident,  not  only 
from  extra-Bib.  sources,  but  from  the  Bible  itself; 
see  e.g.  Cant  8  8.  In  Gen  24,  however,  Laban  is 
perhaps  more  prominent  than  even  such  custom  can 
explain  (cf  vs  31.50.55),  and  we  are  led  to  see  in 
him  already  the  same  forcefulness  and  egotism  that 
arc;  abundantly  shown  in  the  stories  from  his  later 
life.  The  man's  eager  hospitality  (ver  31),  coming 
immediately  after  his  mental  inventory  of  the  gifts 
bestowed  by  the  visitor  upon  his  sister  (ver  30),  has 
usually,  and  justly,  been  regarded  as  a  proof  of  the 
same  greed  that  is  his  most  conspicuous  character- 
istic in  the  subsequent  chapters. 

The  story  of  that  later  period  in  Laban's  life  is 
so  interwoven  with  the  career  of  Jacob  that  little 
need  here  be  added  to  what  is  said  of  Laban  in 
Jacob,  III,  2  (q.v.) .  By  the  time  of  Jacob's  arrival 
he  is  already  a  very  old  man,  for  over  90  years 
had  elapsed  since  Rebekah's  departure.  Yet  even 
at  the  end  of  Jacob's  20  years'  residence  with  him 
he  is  represented  as  still  energetic  and  active  (31 
19.23),  not  only  ready  for  an  emergency  like  the 
pursuit  after  Jacob,  but  personally  superintending 
the  management  of  his  huge  flocks. 

His  home  is  in  Haran,  "the  city  of  Nahor,"  that 
is,  the  locality  where  Nahor  and  his  family  remained 
at  the  time  when  the  rest  of  Terah's  descendants 
emigrated  to  Canaan  (11  31 ;  12  5).  Since  Haran, 
and  the  region  about  it  where  his  flocks  fed,  be- 
longed to  the  district  called  Aram  (see  Paddan- 
aham;  Mesopotamia),  Laban  is  often  called  "the 
Aramaean"  (EV  "the  Syrian,"  from  LXX  6  Ztfpos, 
ho  Suros) ;  see  25  20;  28  5;  31  20.24.  It  is  uncer- 
tain how  far  racial  affinity  may  be  read  into  this 
term,  because  the  origin  and  mutual  relationships 
of  the  various  groups  or  strata  of  the  Sem  family 
are  not  yet  clear.  For  Laban  himself  it  suffices 
that  he  was  a  Semite,  living  within  the  region  early 
occupied  by  those  who  spoke  the  Sem  dialect  that 
we  call  Aramaic.  This  dialect  is  represented  in  the 
narrative  of  Gen  as  already  differentiated  from  the 
dialect  of  Canaan  that  was  Jacob's  mother-tongue; 
for  "the  heap  of  witness,"  erected  by  uncle  and 
nephew  before  they  part  (31  47),  is  called  by  the 
one  Jegar-saha-dutha  and  by  the  other  Galeed — 
phrases  which  are  equivalent  in  meaning,  the  former 


Aram.,  the  latter  Heb.  (Ungnad,  Hebrdische  Gram- 
mahk,  1912,  §  6,  puts  the  date  of  the  differentiation 
of  Aram,  from  "Amurritish"  at  "about  1500  BC"; 
Skinner,  "Genesis,"  ICC,  argues  that  ver  47  is  a 
gloss,  following  Wellhausen,  Dillmann,  et  al.) 

The  character  of  Laban  is  interesting  to  observe. 
On  the  one  hand  it  shows  a  family  likeness  to  the 
portraits  of  all  his  relat  ions  in  the  patriarchal  group, 
preeminently,  however,  to  his  sister  Rebekah,  his 
daughter  Rachel,  and  his  nephew  Jacob.  The 
nearer  related  to  Laban  such  figures  are,  the  more 
conspicuously,  as  is  fitting,  do  they  exhibit  Laban's 
mingled  cunning,  resourcefulness,  greed  and  self- 
complacency.  And,  on  the  other  hand,  Laban's 
character  is  sui  generis;  the  picture  we  get  of  him 
is  too  personal  and  complex  to  be  denominated 
merely  a  "type."  It  is  impossible  to  resolve  this 
man  Laban  into  a  mythological  personage — he  is 
altogether  human — or  into  a  tribal  representative 
(e.g.  of  "Syria"  over  against  "Israel"  =  Jacob)  with 
any  degree  of  satisfaction  to  the  world  of  scholar- 
ship. Whether  a  character  of  reliable  family  tra- 
dition, or  of  popular  story-telling,  Laban  is  "a  char- 
acter"; and  his  intimate  connection  with  the  chief 
personage  in  Israel's  national  recollections  makes  it 
highly  probable  that  he  is  no  more  and  no  less  his- 
torical than  Jacob  himself  (cf  Jacob,  VI). 

J.  Oscar  Boyd 

LABANA,  Iab'a-na  (AaBavd,  Luband,  1  Esd  5 
29) :  Called  Lebanah  in  Ezr  2  45. 

LABOR,  la'ber  (^P ,  y*ghi«\  to ,  \widl;  kottos, 
kopos):  The  word  (noun  and  vb.)  denoting  hard 
work  or  "toil"  (thus  in  RV  of  Dt  26  7;  Josh  7  3; 
Rev  2  2)  represents  several  Heb  and  Gr  words, 
chiefly  those  above.  Occasionally,  as  in  Hab  3 
17  (ma<dseh),  it  stands  for  "fruit  of  labor."  Some- 
times, in  conjunction  with  "travail,"  it  refers  to 
childbirth  (Gen  35  1(5.17,  yaladh;  cf  1  Thess  2  9; 
2  Thess  3  8).  Examples  of  the  word  in  the  ordi- 
nary sense  are:  of  yeghla\  Gen  31  42;  Job  39  11. 
10;  Ps  128  2;  of  Kdmdl,  common  in  Eccl  1  3.8; 
2  10.11.18,  etc;  of  kopos,  1  Cor  15  58  ("your 
labor  is  not  vain,"  etc);  1  Thess  1  3  ("work  of 
faith  and  labor  of  love";  cf  He  6  10);  1  Tim  5 
17  ("labor  in  the  word  and  in  teaching").  See 
Work;  Slavery.  James  Orr 

LACCUNUS,  lak'u-nus  (AaKKovvos,  Lakkounos; 
AV  Lacunus) :  One  of  the  sons  of  Addi  who  returned 
with  Ezra  and  had  married  a  foreign  wife  (1  Esd 
9  31).  The  name  does  not,  as  might  have  been 
expected,  occur  in  Ezr  10  30.  See  note  on  the 
passage  (in  Lange's  Comm.)  as  to  the  reconciliation 
of  the  lists  in  1  Esd  and  Ezr. 

LACE,  las  PT®,  pdtlul,  variouslv  rendered 
in  Gen  38  18.25;  Ex  39  3;  Nu  15  38;  19  15; 
Jgs  16  9;  Ezk  40  3):  In  modern  Eng.  the  noun 
"lace"  usually  denotes  a  delicate  ornamental  fabric, 
but  in  the  word  in  the  sense  of  "that  which  binds" 
is  still  in  perfectly  good  use,  esp.  in  such  combina- 
tions as  "shoelace,"  etc.  It  is  this  latter  signif- 
icance that  is  found  in  Ex  28  28  ("They  shall 
bind  .  .  .  .with  a  lace  of  blue");  28  37;  "39  21. 
31,  and  ki  Sir  6  30  AV,  K\uxrfxa,  klosma  (RV  "rib- 
and"). 

LACEDAEMONIANS,  las-e-do-mo'ni-anz 
(Simp-naTou,  Sparlidlai;    once  only  AaKe5aijj.6vioi, 

Lakedaimonioi,  2  Mace  5  9) :  The  inhabitants  of 
Sparta  or  Lacedaemon  with  whom  the  Jews  claimed 
some   kinship    and    formed    alliances    (1  Mace  12 


Lachish 
Laish 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1820 


2.5.6.20.21;  14  20.23;  15  23;  2  Mace  5  9).  The 
alliance  mentioned  in  1  Mace  12  5-23  is  based, 
among  other  grounds,  on  that  of  a  common  descent 
of  .Jews  and  Lacedaemonians  from  Abraham,  for 
which  the  only  probable  presumption — suggested 
by  Ewald — is  the  similarity  of  names,  "Pelasgi" 
and  Beleg  son  of  Ebcr  (den  10  25;  11  16).  This 
has  been  reasonably  objected  to,  and  perhaps  the 
most  that  can  be  said  on  this  point,  is  that  the 
belief  in  some  relationship  between  the  Jews  and 
the  Lacedaemonians  seems  to  have  prevailed  when 
1  Mace;  was  written.  The  alliance  itself  is  said  to 
have  been  formed  (1  Mace  12  20)  between  Areus, 
king  of  the  Lacedaemonians  and  Onias  the  high 
priest;  but  it  is  not  easy  to  make  out  a  consistent, 
chronology  for  the  transaction.  For  the  renewal 
of  the  alliance  (e  144  BC)  by  Jonathan  (1  Mace 
12  5-18)  and  again  by  Simon  (1  Mace  14  16-23), 
something  can  be  said,  as  the  Greeks  had  finally 
been  deprived  of  independence  in  146  BC,  and 
Sparta  was  only  obliged  to  lend  assistance  to  Rome 
and  may  be  supposed  to  have  been  doing  so  in  help- 
ing the  Jews  against  Syria.  It  is  possible,  too,  that 
as  against  Syrian  Hellenism  the  Jews  were  anxious 
to  show  that  they  had  t  he  assistance  of  distinguished 
Greeks,  though  the  actual  power  of  Sparta  was  much 
reduced  from  that  of  former  times.  The  facts,  at 
least  of  the  alliance  and  the  correspondence,  seem 
to  be  sufficiently  attested,  though  it  is  not  easy  to 
reconcile  all  the  particulars.  Jos  (Ant,  XII,  iv,  10; 
Nil  I,  v,  8;  XIV,  xii,  2.3)  gives  the  correspondence 
at  greater  length  than  the  writer  of  the  Maccabees. 
.     ,  J.  Hutchison 

LACHISH,  la'kish  (t^p?,  lakhish;  LXX  AaXts, 
Lachis  [Josh  15  39],  Max«'s,  M aches):  A  town  in 
the  foothills  of  the  Shephelah  on  the 
1.  Location  border  of  the  Phili  plain,  belonging  to 
Judah,  and,  from  the  mention  of  Eglon 
in  connection  with  it,  evidently  in  the  southwestern 
portion  of  Judah's  territory.  Onom  locates  it  7 
miles  from  Eleutheropolis  {Beit  Jibriu)  toward 
Daroma,  but  as  the  latter  place  is  uncertain,  the 
indication  does  not  help  in  fixing  the  site  of  L.  The 
city  seems  to  have  been  abandoned  about  400  BC, 
and  this  circumstance  has  rendered  the  identifica- 
tion of  the  site  difficult.  It  was  formerly  fixed  at 
Umm  Lakis,  from  the  similarity  of  the  name  and 
because  it  was  in  the  region  that  the  Bib.  references 
to  L.  seem  to  indicate,  but  the  mound  called  Tell 
el-Hesy  is  now  generally  accepted  as  the  site.  This 
was  first  suggested  by  Conder  in  1877  (PEFS, 
1878,  20),  and  the  excavations  carried  on  at  the 
Tell  by  the  Pal  Exploration  Fund  in  1890-03  con- 
firmed his  identification.  Tell  el-Hesy  is  situated 
on  a  wady,  or  valley,  of  the  same  name  (W&dy  el- 
Hesy),  which  runs  from  a  point  about  6  miles  W. 
of  Hebron  to  the  sea  between  Gaza  and  Askelon. 
It  is  a  mound  on  the  very  edge  of  the  wady,  rising 
some  120  ft.  above  it  and  composed  of  debris  to  the 
depth  of  about  60  ft.,  in  which  the  excavations 
revealed  the  remains  of  distinct  cities  which  had 
been  built,  one  upon  the  ruins  of  another.  The 
earliest  of  these  was  evidently  Amorite,  and  could 
not  have  been  later  than  1700  BC,  and  was  perhaps 
two  or  three  centuries  earlier  (Bliss,  Mound  of 
Many  Cities).  The  identification  rests  upon  the 
fact  that  the  site  corresponds  with  the  Bib.  and 
other  historical  notices  of  L.,  and  csp.  upon  the  dis- 
covery of  a  cuneiform  tablet  in  the  ruins  of  the  same 
character  as  the  Am  Tab,  and  containing  the  name 
of  Zimridi,  who  is  known  from  these  tablets  to  have 
been  at  one  time  Egyp  governor  of  L.  The  tablets, 
which  date  from  the  latter  part  of  the  15th  or  early 
part  of  the  14th  cent.  BC,  give  us  the  earliest  in- 
formation in  regard  to  L.,  and  it  was  then  an  Egyp 
dependency,  but  it  seems  to  have  revolted  and  joined 
with  other  towns  in  an  attack  upon  Jerus,  which  was 


also  an  Egyp  dependency,  ft  was  perhaps  com- 
pelled to  do  so  by  the  Khabiri  who  were  then  raiding 
this  region.  The  place  was,  like  Gaza,  an  impor- 
tant one  for  Egypt ,  being  on  the  front ier  and  on  the 
route  to  Jerus,  and  the  importance  is  seen  in  the 
fact  that  it  was  taken  and  destroyed  and  rebuilt  so 
many  times. 

We  first  hear  of  it  in  the  history  of  Israel  when 
Joshua  invaded  the  land.     It  was  then  an  Amorite 

city,  and  its  king,  Japhia,  joined  the 
2.  History     confederacy    formed    by    Adonizedek, 

king  of  Jerus,  to  resist  Joshua.  They 
were  defeated  in  the  remarkable  battle  at  Gibeon, 
and  the  five  confederate  kings  were  captured  and 
put  to  death  at  Makkedah  (Josh  10  passim;  12  11). 
L.  was  included  in  the  lot  of  Judah  (15  39),  and  it 
was  rebuilt,  or  fortified,  by  Rehoboam  (2  Ch  11 
5.9).  It  was  besieged  by  Sennacherib  in  the  reign 
of  Hezekiah  and  probably  taken  (2  K  18  13) 
when  he  invaded  Judah  and  besieged  Jerus,  but 
the  other  references  to  the  siege  leave  it  doubtful 


Sennacherib  on  His  Throne  before  Lachish.    (Kouyunjik.) 

Layard's  Monuments  ut  Nineveh. 

(2  K  18  14.17;    19  8;    2  Ch  32  9;    Isa  36  2;    37 

8).  The  Assyr  monuments,  however,  render  it  cer- 
tain that  the  place  was  captured.  The  sculptures 
on  the  walls  of  Sennacherib's  palace  picture  the 
storming  of  L.  and  the  king  on  his  throne  receiving 
the  submission  of  the  captives  (Ball,  Light  from, 
the  East,  190-91).  This  was  in  701  BC,  anil  to  this 
period  we  may  assign  the  enigmatical  reference  to 
L.  in  Mic  1  13,  "Bind  the  chariot  to  the  swift 
steed,  O  inhabitant  of  Lachish:  she  was  the  begin- 
ning of  sin  to  the  daughter  of  Zion."  The  cause  of 
the  invasion  of  Sennacherib  was  a  general  revolt  in 
Phoenicia,  Pal,  and  Philistia,  Hezekiah  joining  in 
it  and  all  asking  Egypt  for  aid  (Rawlinson,  Five 
Great  Monarchies  of  the  Ancient  Eastern  World, 
ch  ix).  Isaiah  had  warned  Judah  not  to  trust  in 
Egypt  (Isa  20  5.6;  30  1-5;  31  1),  and  as  L.  was 
the  place  where  communication  was  held  with 
Egypt,  being  a  frontier  fortress,  perhaps  even 
having  an  Egyp  garrison,  it  would  be  associated 
with  the  "sin"  of  the  Egyp  alliance  (IIGIIL,  234). 

The  city  was  evidently  rebuilt  after  its  destruc- 
tion by  Sennacherib,  for  we  find  Nebuchadnezzar 
fighting  against  it  during  his  siege  of  Jerus  (Jer  34 
7).  It  was  doubtless  destroyed  by  him,  but  we  are 
informed  by  Nehemiah  (11  30)  that  some  of  the 
returned  Jews  settled  there  after  the  captivity.  It 
is  very  likely  that  they  did  not  reoccupy  the  site 
of  the  ruined  city,  but  settled  as  peasants  in  the 
territory,  and  this  may  account  for  the  transference 
of  the  name  to   Umm  Lakis,  3  or  4  miles  from  Tell 


1821 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Lachish 
Laish 


el-Hesy,  whore  some  ruins  exist,  but  not  of  a  kind 
to  suggest  Lachish  (Bliss,  op.  cit).  No  remains 
of  any  importance  were  found  on  the  Tell  indicating 
its  occupation  us  a  fortress  or  city  later  than  that 
destroyed  by  the  king  of  Babylon,  but  it  was  occu- 
pied in  some  form  during  the  crusades,  Umm  Lakis 
being  held  for  a  time  by  the  Hospitallers,  and  King 
Richard  is  said  to  have  made  it  a  base  of  operations 
in  his  war  with  Saladin  (HGHL).  The  Tell  itself, 
if  occupied,  was  probably  only  the  site  of  his  camp, 
and  it  has  apparently  remained  since  that  time 
without  inhabitants,  being  used  for  agricultural 
purposes  only.  See  further,  Palestine  (Recent 
Exploration),  III,  1.  II.  Pouter 

LACK  (forms of  "ICH  ,  hdser,  "to  lack,"  "pX  ,  'ayin, 
"nought''}:  This  word  in  its  various  forms  lias  the 
usual  meaning  of  "want,"  "need,"  "deficiency." 
There  is  but  little  change  in  the  use  of  the  word  in 
the  different  VSS.  Sometimes  one  of  the  common 
synonyms  is  exchanged  for  the  word  itself,  e.g.  in 
the  OT,  1  S  21  15  RV  has  "lack"  ("Do  I.  lack 
madmen?")  where  AV  has  "need  of";  Prov  5  23, 
"for  lack."  instead  of  "without";  6  32,  "void  of" 
for  "lacketh";  10  21,  "lack"  for  "want";  31  11, 
"lack"  for  "need";  Isa  59  15,  "lacking"  for  "fail- 
eth."  In  the  NT  "lack"  is  the  tr  of  vareptw,  hus- 
tereu,  lit.  "to  be  behind,"  and  ivoerjs,  endets,  "in 
want."  In  Lk  8  6,  RV  reads  "had  no"  instead  of 
"lacked"  in  AV.  In  2  Cor  11  9,  RV  gives  "my 
want"  for  "which  was  lacking  to  me"  in  AV;  in 
Col  1  24  "that  which  is  lacking"  for  "that  which  is 
behind";  Jas  2  15  "lack"  for  "destitute."  It  will 
readily  be  seem  that  sometimes  the  slight  variation 
helps  to  explain  the  meaning. 

G.  II.  Gerberding 

LACUNUS,  la-ku'nus.    See  Laccunus. 

LAD:  In  the  OT  this  word  occurs  as  the  tr  of 
na%ar,  "young  person,"  "child,"  "servant,"  RV 
properly  substituting  "servant"  in  2  K  4  19;  Jgs 
16  2(5  is  another  passage  where  either  sense  of  the 
original  word  may  be  intended.  The  word  occurs 
in  the  NT  in  Jn  6  9  as  the  tr  of  TrvuSapLov,  paidd- 
rion;  in  Acts  20  12,  7ra?s,  pais  (AV  "young  man"). 

LADAN,  la/dan  (ft?b,  la'ddn;  AV  Laadan): 

(1)  A  descendant  of  Ephraim,  and  an  ancestor 
of  Joshua  (1  Ch  7  26). 

(2)  A  Levite  of  the  family  of  Gershon  (1  Ch  23 

7.8.9;   26  21),  also  called  Libni  (q.v.). 

LADANUM,  lad'a-num  (E5 ,  lot):  Gen  37  25 
RVm;  elsewhere  Myrrh  (q.v.). 

LADDER,  lad'er.     See  Siege,  4,  (c). 

LADDER  OF  TYRE  (*H  k\ijici£  [ct-n-6  Tip  kXC^cikosI 
Tvpov,  He  klimax  [apo  tts  klimakos]  Turou):  Not 
mentioned  in  the  OT  or  the  NT,  but  in  Apoc  (1  Mace 
11  59),  where  it  is  said  that  Antiochus  VI,  after 
having  confirmed  Jonathan  in  the  high-priesthood, 
appointed  his  brother  Simon  captain  over  the  terri- 
tory included  between  the  Ladder  of  Tyre  and  the 
borders  of  Egypt.  The  Ladder  has  been  located 
at  different  points  on  the  coast  between  Tyre  and 
Acre,  such  as  the  Ras  el-*Abyadh  ("Promontorium 
Album"  of  the  ancient  geographers),  about  7  miles 
S.  of  Tyre,  and  Ras  en-Nakurah,  about  6  miles 
farther  S.,  and  Ras  el-M usheirifeh,  a  little  farther 
on.  These  are  capes  jutting  westward  into  the 
sea  from  the  ridge  which  runs  parallel  to  the  general 
line  of  the  coast.  These  capes  project  more  than 
a  mile  into  the  sea,  and  present  a  very  bold  and  pre- 
cipitous front  from  200  to  300  ft.  in  height.  The 
ascent  on  either  side  of  the  promontory  is  very 


steep,  and  at  Ras  eWAbyadh  steps  were  cut  in  the 
white  rock,  which  led  to  the  identification  of  this 
point  with  the  Ladder,  but  a  reference  to  Jos  {BJ , 
II,  x,  2)  leads  to  a  different  conclusion.  He  locates 
it  100  stadia  N.  of  Acre,  which  corresponds  fairly 
well  with  the  southern  limit  of  the  whole  promon- 
tory, which  is  about  12  miles  N.  of  Acre,  but  not 
at  all  with  Ras  eWAbyadh.  The  altitude  of  el- 
Musheirifeh  is  greater  than  that  of  el-xAbyadh  and 
may  have  had  steps  cut  in  it  similar  to  the  latter. 
It  is  more  probable  that  the  L.  was  here,  or  at  en- 
Nakurah,  but  the  term  applied  to  the  whole  prom- 
ontory, which  offered  a  serious  obstacle  to  the 
passage  of  armies,  or  even  caravans,  since  the  ap- 
proach is  precipitous  on  either  side4,  and  at  Ras 
el-'Abya<lh  the  road  skirts  the  edge  of  a  sheer  preci- 
pice, where  a  misstep  would  hurl  one  into  the  sea 
some  200  ft,  below.  The  application  of  the  term 
to  the  whole  promontory  seems  to  be  indicated  by 
Jos,  since  he  speaks  of  it  as  one  of  the  mountains 
which  encompass  the  plain  of  Ptolemais  (Acre)  and 
the  highest  of  all.  This  would  not  be  true  of  any 
one  of  the  three  capes  mentioned,  but  would  be  if 
the  hills  behind,  which  form  their  base,  were  in- 
cluded. That  it  was  designated  as  the  Ladder  of 
Tyre  rather  than  of  Acre  was  probably  due  to  the 
fact  that  the  promontory  is  nearer  the  former  city 
(see  Thomson,  LB,  II,  ed  1882;  SWP,  name-lists, 
s.v.).  H.  Porter 

LADE,  lad,  LADING,  lad'ing:  "To  lade"  in  the 
sense  of  "to  load"  is  retained  by  RV  in  nearly  all 
passages  where  the;  word  occurs  in  AV  (but  cf  AV 
and  RV  reading  of  Ps  68  19;  Isa  46  1),  "They 
laded  us  with  such  things"  (Acts  28  10  AV).  The 
iirLTi6T]/j.i,  epilithemi,  "to  put  on,"  is  rendered  by 
RV,  "They  put  on  board  such  things."  Lk  11  40 
RV  reads  "ye  load"  instead  of  AV  "ye  lade." 

Lading  (<popTiov,  phortion)  is  found  in  Acts  27 
10  in  its  usual  meaning,  "the  lading  of  a  ship." 

LADY,  la'di:  This  word  should  be  taken  in  the 
sense  of  "mistress"  in  Isa  47  5.7  (Heb  gebhereth) 
(so  ARV).  In  Jgs  5  2!);  Est  1  18  it  is  the  tr  of 
another  Heb  word  (sarah),  best  rendered  "princess" 
(so  RV  in  Est,  but  not  in  Jgs).  In  2  Jn  vs  1.5  it 
is  the  tr  of  Kvpia,  kuria,  which  some  interpreters 
regard  as  a  proper  name.  See  Cyria;  John, 
Epistles  of;  Elect  Lady. 

LAEL,  la'el  (bs6 ,  Id' el,  "belonging  to  God"): 
Lather  of  Eliasaph,  the  prince  of  the  father's  house 
of  the  Gershonites  (Nu  3  24). 

LAHAD,  la/had  ("rTS ,  lahadh):  A  descendant 
of  Judah  (1  Ch  4  2). 

LAHAI-ROI,  la-hl'roi,  la-hl-ro'I,  la'hl-roi  pnb 
"'iO  ,  lahay  ro'i).     See  Beer-lahai-roi. 

LAHMAM,  la/mam  (D'SSTT?,  lahmam):  A  town  in 
the  Judaean  Shephelah  (Josh  15  40,  RVm  "Lah- 
mas"),  possibly  the  modern  el-Lahm,  2|  miles  S.  of 
Beit  Jibrin. 

LAHMAS,  la/mas.     See  Lahmam. 

LAHMI,  la' ml  P'Onb  ,  lahmi) :  According  to  1  Ch 
20  5,  the  brother  of  Goliath  of  Gath.  See  El- 
hanan. 

LAISH,  la'ish  («"£  ,  layish) : 

(1)  A  city  in  the  upper  Jordan  valley,  apparently 
colonized  by  the  Sidonians,  which  was  captured  by 
the  Danites  and  called  Dan  (q.v.)  (Jgs  18  7,  etc; 


Laishah 
Lamech 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1822 


Isa  10  30  AV).     In  Josh  19    17  the  name  appears 
as  "Leshcm." 

(2)  A  Benjamite,  father  of  Palti  or  Paltiel,  to 
whom  Michal,  David's  wife,  was  given  by  Saul 
(1  S  25  44;  2  S  3  15). 

LAISHAH,  la-i'sha,  la'ish-a  (HttJf?,  layshah,  AV 
Laish) :  A  place  named  in  Isa  10  30  with  Gallim 
and  Anathoth.  It  should  apparently  be  sought  on 
the  N.  of  Jerus.  Some  would  identify  Gallim  with 
Beit  Jala,  near  Bethlehem.  Conder  suggests  KIsawi- 
yeh  on  the  eastern  slope,  to  the  N.N.E.  of  the 
Mount  of  Olives. 

LAKE,  lak  (X.(|M"|,  limne):  The  word  is  used 
(Lk  5  1.2;  8  22.23.33)  of  the  Lake  of  Gennesarel 
or  Sea  of  Galilee,  and  (Rev  19  20;  20  10.14.15; 
21  8)  of  the ''lake  of  fire  and  brimstone."  Lakes  are 
not  abundant  in  Syria  and  Pal.  The  Dead  Sea, 
which  might  be  called  a  lake,  is  in  most  places 
in  EV  called  the  Salt  Sea.  It  is  called  by  the 
Arabs  Buhr  hut,  Sea  of  Lot.  It  is  a  question 
whether  the  Waters  of  Merom  (Josh  11  5.7)  can 
be  identified  with  the  Htileh,  a  marshy  lake  in  the 
course  of  the  Upper  Jordan,  N.  of  the  Sea  of  Galilee. 
E.  of  Damascus  on  the  edge  of  the  desert  there  are 
saltish  lakes  in  which  the  water  of  the  rivers  of 
Damascus  (see  2  K  5  12)  is  gathered  and  evapo- 
rates. In  the  Lebanon  W.  of  BaKalbek  is  the  small 
Lake  Yammuneh,  which  is  fed  by  copious  springs, 
but  whose  water  disappears  in  the  latter  part  of 
the  summer,  being  drained  off  by  subterranean 
channels.  The  Lake  of  Hum?  on  the  Orontes  is 
artificial,  though  ancient.  On  the  lower  Orontes 
is  the  Lake  of  Antioch.  Alfred  Ely  Day 

LAKE  OF  FIRE  (XCjivt]  to€  irvpds,  limne  toil 
puros):  Found  in  Rev  19  20;  20  10.14(6is).15. 
Rev  21  8  has  "the  lake  that  burncth  with  fire  and 
brimstone."  The  brimstone  in  connection  with 
"the  lake  of  fire"  occurs  also  in  Rev  19  20  and  20 
10,  the  latter  being  a  backward  reference  to  the 
former  passage.  In  Rev  20  14  the  words,  "This 
is  the  second  death,  even  the  lake  of  fire,"  are 
either  a  gloss  originally  intended  to  elucidate  ver 
15  through  a  reference  to  20  6,  or,  if  part  of  the  text, 
formed  originally  the  close  of  ver  15,  whence  they 
became  displaced  on  account  of  the  identity  of  the 
words  once  immediately  preceding  them  in  ver  15 
with  the  words  now  preceding  them  in  ver  14.  The 
"lake  of  fire"  can  be  called  "the  second  death"  only 
with  reference  to  the  lost  among  men  (ver  15),  not 
with  reference  to  death  and  Hades  (ver  14).  In 
all  the  above  references  "the  lake  of  fire"  appears 
as  a  place  of  punishment,  of  perpetual  torment,  not 
of  annihilation  (20  10).  The  beast  (19  20);  the 
pseudo-prophet  (19  20;  20  10);  the  devil  (20  10); 
the  wicked  of  varying  description  (20  15;  21  8), 
are  cast  into  it.  When  the  same  is  affirmed  of 
death  and  Hades  (20  14),  it  is  doubtful  whether 
this  is  meant  as  a  mere  figure  for  the  cessation  of 
these  two  evils  personified,  or  has  a  more  realistic 
background  in  the  existence  of  two  demon-pow-ers 
so  named  (cf  Isa  25  8;  1  Cor  15  26.54  ff;  2  Esd 
7  31).  The  Scriptural  source  for  the  conception 
of  "the  lake  of  fire"  lies  in  Gen  19  24,  where  already 
the  fire  and  the  brimstone  occur  together,  while  the 
locality  of  the  catastrophe  described  is  the  neigh- 
borhood of  the  Dead  Sea.  The  association  of  the 
Dead  Sea  with  this  fearful  judgment  of  God,  to- 
gether with  the  desolate  appearance  of  the  place, 
rendered  it  a  striking  figure  for  the  scene  of  escha- 
tological  retribution.  The  two  other  OT  passages 
which  have  "fire  and  brimstone"  (Ps  11  6;  Ezk 
38  22)  are  dependent  on  the  Gen  passage,  with 
which  they  have  the  figure  of  "raining"  in  common. 
In  Rev  21  8,  "their  part"  seems  to  allude  to  Ps 


11  (I,  "the  portion  of  their  cup."  In  En  67  4  ff 
the  Dead  Sea  appears  as  the  place  of  punishment  for 
evil  spirits.  Of  late  it  has  been  proposed  to  derive 
"the  lake  of  fire"  from  "the  stream  of  fire"  which 
destroys  the  enemies  of  Ahura  in  the  Zoroastrian 
eschatologv;  so  Bousset,  Die  Offenbarung  Johannis, 
1906,  433,"  434.  lint  the  figures  of  a  stream  and 
a  lake  are  different;  cf  2  Esd  13  9-11,  where  a 
stream  of  fire  proceeds  from  the  mouth  of  the  Mes- 
siah for  the  destruction  of  His  enemies.  Besides, 
the  Pers  fire  is,  in  part,  afire  of  purification,  and  not 
of  destruction  only  (Bousset,  442),  and  even  in  the 
apocalyptic,  Book  of  hm,  the  fires  of  purification 
and  of  punishment  are  not  confounded  (cf  En  67  4 
with  90  20).  The  OT  fully  explains  the  entire 
conception.  Geerhardus  Yos 

LAKE  OF  GENNESARET,  ge-nes'a-ret.  See 
Galilee,  Sea  of. 

LAKKUM,  lak'um  (Dip!?,  lakkum;  AVLakum): 
An  unidentified  town  on  the  border  of  Naphtali, 
named  with  Adarni,  Nekeb  and  Jabneel,  apparently 
nearer  the  Jordan  (Josh  19  33). 

LAMA.     See  Eli,  Eli,  lama  Sabachthani. 

LAMB,  lam:  (1)  The  most  used  word  is  TE23, 
kebhes,  "a  young  ram";  cf  Arab.  ij^-y>  kebsh, 
"ram";  often  of  sacrifices;  (fern.)  !"TIZJI12  ,  kabhsdh, 
or  nip35,  kibhsah,  "ewe  lamb"  (2  S  12  3);  by 
transposition  3TZ53 ,  kesebh,  and  fern.  rfiTT?  ,  kishdh 
(Gen  30  40;  Lev  3  7;  5  6).  (2)  1?,  kar,  "'lamb" 
(Dt  32  14;  1  S  15  9;  2  K  3  4).  (3)  n'«,  seh, 
"one"  of  the  flock  (Gen  22  7;  Lev  5  7).     (4)  ]fe& . 

go'n,  "sheep,"  "goats,"  "flock";  cf  Arab.  ,jLo, 
dd'n,  "sheep"  (Ex  12  21);  and  )VSX  "3-,  ben  con 
(Ps  114  4).     (5)    nbp,    taleh,   "young    lamb";    cf 

Arab.  (Jsic,  tali,     "young    lamb";    and    D"l^'?E)j 

Ha'im  (l's  7  9;  Isa  40  11;  65  25).  (6)  VT2X, 
'immerln  (Ezr  6  9.17;  7  17).  (7)  apvas,  drnas,  ace. 
pi.  (Lk  lO  3);  dim.  dpviov,  arnton  (Jn  21  15;  Rev 
5  6,  etc).  (8)  djivos,  amnos  (Jn  1  29.36;  Acts  8 
32;   1  Pet  1  19).     See  Sheep. 

Alfred  Ely  Day 
LAMB  OF  GOD  (6  djivos  tov  Qtov,  ho  avoids 
tou  theou):  This  is  a  title  specially  bestowed  upon 
Our  Lord  by  John  the  Baptist  (Jn  1  29-36),  "Be- 
hold, the  Lamb  of  God,  that  taketh  away  the  sin  of 
the  world!"  In  XII  P — an  apocryphal  book,  prob- 
ably of  the  2d  cent. — we  have  the  term  used  for 
the  Messiah,  "Honor  Judah  and  Levi,  for  from  them 
shall  arise  for  you  the  Lamb  of  God,  saving  all  na- 
tions by  grace."  But  the  term  does  not  seem  to 
have  been  of  any  general  use  until  it  received  its 
distinctly  Christian  significance.  It  has  been  gen- 
erally understood  as  referring  to  the  prophetic  lan- 
guage of  Jer  11  19,  and  Isa  53  7. 

It  is  far  more  probable,  however,  that  the  true 
source  of  the  expression  is  to  be  found  in  the  impor- 
tant place  which  the  "lamb"  occupies 
1.  Sacrifi-  in  the  sacrifices,  esp.  of  the  PC.  In 
cial  Sense  these  there  was  the  lamb  of  the  daily 
of  the  Term  morning  and  evening  sacrifice.  How- 
familiar  this  would  be  to  the  Baptist, 
being  a  member  of  a  priestly  family!  On  the  Sab- 
bath the  number  of  the  offerings  was  doubled,  and 
at  some  of  the  great  festivals  a  still  larger  number 
were  laid  upon  the  altar  (see  Ex  29  38;  Nu  28 
3.9.13).  The  lamb  of  the  Passover  would  also 
occupy  a  large  place  in  the  mind  of  a  devout  Israel- 


1823 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Laishah 
Lamech 


ite,  and,  as  the  Passover  was  not  far  off,  it  is  quite 
possible  that  John  may  have  referred  to  this  as  well 
as  to  other  suggested  ideas  connected  with  the  lamb. 
The  sacrificial  significance  of  the  term  seems  to  be 
far  more  probable  than  the  mere  comparison  of  the 
character  of  Our  Lord  with  meekness  and  gentle- 
ness, as  suggested  by  the  words  of  the  prophets, 
although  these  contain  much  more  than  the  mere 
reference  to  character  (see  below).  That  this 
became  the  clearly  defined  conception  of  apostolic 
teaching  is  clear  from  passages  in  Paul  and  Peter 
(I  Cor  5  7;  1  Pet  1  18 f).  In  the  Book  of  Rev 
the  reference  to  the  Lamb  occurs  27  t.  The  word 
here  used  differs  from  that  in  Jn.  The  amnds  of 
the  Gospel  has  become  the  arnion  of  the  Apocalypse, 
a  diminutive  form  suggestive;  of  affection.  This  is 
the  word  used  by  Our  Lord  in  His  rebuke  and  for- 
giveness of  Peter  (Jn  21  15),  and  is  peculiarly 
touched  therefore  with  an  added  meaning  of  pa- 
thetic tenderness.  Westcott,  in  his  Comm.  on  Jn  1 
20,  refers  to  the  conjecture  that  there  may  have 
been  flocks  of  lambs  passing  by  on  their  way  to 
Jerus  to  be  used  at  the  feast.  This  is  possible,  but 
fanciful.  As  applied  to  Christ,  the  term  certainly 
suggests  the  meekness  and  gentleness  of  Our  Lord's 
nature  and  work,  but  could  not  have  been  used  by 
John  without  containing  some  reference  to  the  place 
which  the  lamb  bore  in  the  Judaic  ritualism. 

The  significance  of  the  Baptist's  words  has  been 

variously  understood.     Origen,  Cyril,  Chrysostom, 

among  the  ancients,  Lucke,  DeWette, 

2.  As  Meyer,  Ewald,  Alford,  among  the 
Variously  moderns,  refer  it  to  Isa  53  7;  Grotius, 
Understood   Bengel,  Hengstenberg,  to  the  paschal 

lamb;  Baumgarten-Crusius,  etc,  to  the 
sin  offering;  Lange  strongly  urges  the  influence 
of  the  passage  in  Isa  53,  and  refers  to  John's  de- 
scription of  his  own  mission  under  the  influence  of 
the  second  part  of  Isa,  in  which  he  is  supported 
by  Schaff.  The  importance  of  the  Isa-t bought 
is  found  in  Mt  8  17;  Acts  8  32;  1  Pet  2  22-25. 
It  is  to  be  observed  that  the  LXX  in  Isa  53  7 
translates  the  Heb  word  for  sheep  (seh),  by  the  Or 
word    for    lamb.       In    ver     10,     the 

3.  As  Set  prophet's  "suffering  one"  is  said  to 
Forth  by  have  made  ''his  soul  an  offering  for 
Isaiah  sin,"  and  in  ver  4  ''he  hath  borne  our 

griefs,"  where  bearing  involves  the 
conception  of  sin  offering,  and  as  possessing  justi- 
fying power,  the  idea  of  ''taking  away."  John 
indeed  uses  not  the  LNX  word  (pipeiv  (pherein),  but 
alpeiv  (alrein),  and  some  have  maintained  that 
this  simply  means  "put  away,"  or  "support,"  or 
"endure."  But  this  surely  loses  the  suggestion  of 
the  associated  term  "lamb,"  which  John  could  not 
have  employed  without  some  reference  to  its  sacri- 
ficial and  therefore  expiatory  force.  What  Lange 
calls  a  "germ  perception"  of  atonement  must  cer- 
tainly have  been  in  the  Baptist's  mind,  esp.  when 
we  recall  the  Isa-passages,  even  though  there  may 
not  have  been  any  complete  dogmatic  conception 
of  the  full  relation  of  the  death  of  Christ  to  the  sal- 
vation of  a  world.  Even  the  idea  of  the  bearing  of 
the  curse  of  sin  may  not  be  excluded,  for  it  was 
impossible  for  an  Israelite  like  John,  and  esp.  with 
his  surroundings,  to  have  forgotten  the  significance 
of  the  paschal  lamb,  both  in  its  memorial  of  the 
judgment  of  Egypt,  as  well  as  of  the  deliverance  of 
Israel.  Notwithstanding  every  effort  to  take  out  of 
this  striking  phrase  its  deeper  meanings,  which 
involve  most  probably  the  combination  of  all  the 
sources  above  described,  it  must  ever  remain  one 
of  the  richest  mines  of  evangelical  thought.  It 
occupies,  in  the  doctrine  of  atonement,  a  position 
analogous  to  that  brief  word  of  the  Lord,  "God  isa 
Spirit"  (Jn  4  24),  in  relation  to  the  doctrine  of  God. 
The  Lamb  is  defined  as  "of  God,"  that  is,  of  Di- 


vine providing.  See  Isa  53;  Rev  5  6;  13  8.  Its 
emphatic  and  appointed  office  is  indicated  by  the 
definite  article,  and  whether  we  refer  the  conception 
to  a  specific  sacrifice  or  to  the  general  place  of  a  lamb 
in  the  sacrificial  institution,  they  all,  as  being  ap- 
pointed by  and  specially  set  apart  for  God,  suggest 
the  close  relation  of  Our  Lord  to  the  Divine  Being, 
and  particularly  to  His  expiatory  sacrifice. 

Ll.  D.  Be  VAN- 
LAME,  lam  (nOE ,  jnseah,  HD2 ,  ndkheh;   \o>\6$, 
cholos) : 

(1)  The  condition  of  being  unable  or  imperfectly 
able  to  walk,  which  unfitted  any  descendant  of 
Aaron  so  afflicted  for  sen-vice  in  the  priesthood  (Lev 
21  18),  and  rendered  an  animal  unsuitable  for  sac- 
rifice (Dt  15  21).  The  offering  of  animals  so  blem- 
ished was  one  of  the  sins  with  which  Malachi 
charges  the  negligent  Jews  of  his  time  (Mai  1  8-13). 

(2)  Those  who  suffered  from  lameness,  such  as 
Mephibosheth,  whose  limbs  were  injured  by  a  fall 
in  childhood  (2  S  4  4;  9  3).  In  the  prophetic 
description  of  the  completeness  of  the  victory  of  the 
returning  Israelites,  it  is  predicted  that  the  lame 
shall  be  made  whole  and  shall  leap  like  a  hart  (Jer 
31  8;  Isa  35  0).  The  unfitness  of  the  lame  for 
warfare  gives  point  to  the  promise  that  the  lame 
shall  take  the  prey  (Isa  33  23).  Job  in  his  graphic 
description  of  his  helpfulness  to  the  weak  before 
his  calamity  says,  "And  feet  was  I  to  the  lame" 
(Job  29  15).  The  inequality  of  the  legs  of  the 
lame  is  used  in  Prov  26  7  as  a  similitude  of  the 
inaptness  with  which  a  fool  uses  a  parable. 

In  the  enigmatical  and  probably  corrupt  passage 
describing  David's  capture  of  Jerus,  the  lame  and  blind 
are  mentioned  twice.  In  2  S  5  6  it  was  a  taunt  on 
the  part  of  the  Jebusites  that  even  a  garrison  of  cripples 
would  suffice  to  keep  out  the  Israelites.  The  allusion 
in  ver  8  may  be  read,  "Whosoever  smiteth  the  Jebusites 
let  him  ....  slay  both  the  lame  and  blind,  which  hate 
David's  soul,"  as  it  is  in  LXX.  The  Vulg  says,  "David 
had  ottered  a  reward  on  that  day  to  the  man  who  should 
smite  the  Jebusite  and  reach  the  water  pipes  of  the 
house's,  and  remove  the  blind  and  lame  who  hated 
David's  soul."  It  is  possible,  however,  that  Buddc's 
emendation  is  more  correct  and  that  it  is  a  threat 
against  the  indiscriminate  slaughter  of  the  Jebusites: 
"Whoso  slayeth  a  Jebusite  shall  bring  his  neck  into 
peril;  the  lame  and  blind  are  not  hated  of  David's  soul." 
The  proverbial  saying  quoted  in  ver  8  cannot  be  correct 
as  rendered  in  AV,  for  we  read  in  Mt  21  14  that  the 
lame  came  to  Our  Lord  in  the  temple  and  were  healed. 

The  healing  of  the  lame  by  Our  Lord  is  recorded 
in  Mt  11  5;    15  30.31;    21  14;    Lk  7  22;    14  13. 

For  the  apostolic  miracles  of  healing  the  lame,  see 
Cripple.  In  He  12  13  the  Christians  are  coun- 
seled to  courage  under  chastisement,  lest  their 
despair  should  cause  that  which  is  lame  to  be  "turned 
out  of  the  way."  Alex.  Macalister 

LAMECH,  la'mek  (!J13  J ,  lemckh;  Ad^x,  Ldmcch, 
"a  strong  youth"[?]): 

(1)  The  name  is  first  mentioned  in  Gen  4  18-24. 
Here  L.,  the  son  of  Methushael,  is  named  as  the 
last  of  the  descendants  of  Cain.  He  was  the  father 
of  Jabel,  Jubal,  Tubal-cain,  and  Naamah.  As  the 
husband  of  two  wives,  viz.  Adah  and  Zillah,  he 
furnishes  the  first  recorded  instance  of  polygamy. 
It  is  very  instructive  to  note  that  this  "father  of 
polygamy"  at  once  becomes  the  first  blustering 
tyrant  and  a  braggadocio;  we  are  fully  permitted 
to  draw  this  conclusion  from  his  so-called  "sword- 
lay"  (Gen  4  23  f).  He  does  not  put  his  trust  in 
God,  but  in  the  weapons  and  implements  invented 
by  his  sons,  or  rather  these  instruments,  enhancing 
the  physical  and  material  powers  of  man,  are  his 
God.  He  glories  in  them  and  misconstrues  the 
Divine  kindness  which  insured  to  Cain  freedom 
from  the  revenge  of  his  fellow-men. 

(2)  Another  L.  is  mentioned  in  Gen  5  25.28 
(cf  1  Ch  1  3;    Lk  3  36),  the  son  of  Methuselah 


Lamedh 
Lamp 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1824 


and  the  father  of  Noah.  His  words  (Gen  5  29) 
show  the  great  difference  between  this  descendant 
of  Seth  and  the  descendant  of  Cain.  While  the 
one  is  stimulated  to  a  song  of  defiance  by  the 
worldly  inventions  of  his  sons,  the  other,  in  pro- 
phetical mood,  expresses  his  sure  belief  in  the  coming 
of  better  times,  and  calmly  and  prayerfully  awaits 
the  period  of  comfort  and  rest  which  he  expected  to 
be  ushered  in  by  his  son  Noah.     William  Baur 

LAMEDH,  la'meth  ft):  The  12th  letter  of  the 
Hob  alphabet;  transliterated  in  this  Encyclopaedia 
as  I.  It  came  also  to  be  used  for  the  number  30. 
For  name,  etc,  see  Alphabet. 

LAMENT,  la-ment'.     See  Music. 

LAMENTATION,  lam-en-ta'shun.  See  Burial, 
III,  2;  IV,  4,  5,  6. 

LAMENTATIONS,  lam-en-ta'shunz,  BOOK  OF 
— The  Lamentations  of  Jeremiah:    This  is  a  col- 
lective name  which  tradition  has  given 

1.  Name        to  5  elegies  found  in  the  Heb  Canon 

that  lament  the  fate  of  destroyed  Jerus. 
The  rabbis  call  this  little  book  'Ekhah  O-!?"1^, 
"how"),  according  to  the  word  of  lament  with  which 
it  begins,  or  kinoth  (Pl^p).  On  the  basis  of  the 
latter  term  the  LXX  calls  it  dpr\voi,  thrtnoi,  or 
Lat  Thrcni,  or  "Lamentations." 

The  little  book  consists  of  5  lamentations,  each 
one  forming  the  contents  of  a  chapter.     The  first 

4  are  marked  by  the  acrostic  use  of  the 

2.  Form         alphabet.     In     addition,     the     kinah 

("elegy")  meter  is  found  in  these 
hymns,  in  which  a  longer  line  (3  or  4  accents)  is 
followed  by  a  shorter  (2  or  3  accents).  In  chs  1 
and  2  the  acrostic  letters  begin  three  such  double 
lines;  in  ch  4,  however,  two  double  lines.  In  ch  3 
a  letter  controls  three  pairs,  but  is  repeated  at  the 
beginning  of  each  line.  In  ch  5  the  alphabet  is 
wanting;  but  in  this  case  too  the  number  of  pairs 
of  lines  agrees  with  the  number  of  letters  in  the 
Heb  alphabet,  i.e.  22.  In  chs  2,  3  and  4,  the  letter 
Kayin  follows  pe,  as  is  the  case  in  Ps  34.  Ch  1, 
however,  follows  the  usual  order. 

These  5  hymns'  all  refer  to  the  great  national 
catastrophe  that  overtook  the  Jews   and  in   par- 
ticular the  capital  city,  Jerus,  through 

3.  Contents  the     Chaldaeans,   587-586  BC.      The 

sufferings  and  the  anxieties  of  the  city, 
the  destruction  of  the  sanctuary,  the  cruelty  and 
taunts  of  the  enemies  of  Israel,  esp.  the  Edomites, 
the  disgrace  that  befell  the  king  and  his  nobles, 
priests  and  prophets,  and  that,  too,  not  without 
their  own  guilt,  the  devastation  and  ruin  of  the 
country — all  this  is  described,  and  appeal  is  made 
to  the  mercy  of  God.  A  careful  sequence  of  thought 
cannot  be  expected  in  the  lyrical  feeling  and  in  the 
alphabetical  form.  Repetitions  are  found  in  large 
numbers,  but  each  one  of  these  hymns  emphasizes 
some  special  feature  of  the  calamity.  Ch  3  is 
unique,  as  in  it  one  person  describes  his  own  peculiar 
sufferings  in  connection  with  the  general  calamity, 
and  then  too  in  the  name  of  the  others  begins  a 
psalm  of  repentance.  This  person  did  not  suffer 
so  severely  because  he  was  an  exceptional  sinner, 
but  because  of  the  unrighteousness  of  his  people. 
These  hymns  were  not  written  during  the  siege,  but 
later,  at  a  time  when  the  people  still  vividly  remem- 
bered the  sufferings  and  the  anxieties  of  that  time 
and  when  the  impression  made  on  them  by  the 
fall  of  Jerus  was  still  as  powerful  as  ever. 

_  Who  is  the  author  of  these  hymns?  Jewish  tra- 
dition is  unanimous  in  saying  that  it  was  Jeremiah. 
The  hymns  themselves  are  found  anonymously  in 


the  Heb  text,  while  the  LXX  has  in  one  an  additional 
statement,  the  Heb  style  of  which  would  lead  us  to 

conclude  that  it  was  found  in  the  origi- 
4.  Author      nal  from  which  the  version  was  made. 

This  statement  reads:  "And  it  came 
to  pass,  after  Israel  had  been  taken  away  captive 
and  Jerus  had  been  laid  waste,  that  Jeremiah  sat 
weeping,  and  uttered  this  lamentation  over  Jerus 
and  said."  The  Tg  also  states  that  Jeremiah  was 
the  author.  The  rabbis  and  the  church  Fathers 
have  no  doubts  on  the  subject.  Jerome  (cf  on 
Zee.  12  11)  thinks  that  2  Ch  35  25  refers  to 
these  hymns.  The  same  is  said  by  Jos  (Ant, 
X,  v,  1).  If  this  were  the  case,  then  the  writer 
of  Ch  would  have  regarded  Lam  as  having  been 
written  because  of  the  death  of  Josiah.  But  this 
misunderstanding  is  not  to  be  ascribed  to  him.  It 
was  easily  possible  that  he  was  acquainted  with 
lamentations  of  such  a  nature,  but  which  afterward 
were  lost.  At  all  events,  Jeremiah  was  by  nature 
adapted  to  the  composition  of  such  elegies,  as  is 
proved  by  his  book  of  prophecies. 

Only  in  modern  times  has  the  authorship  of  these 
hymns  by  Jeremiah  been  seriously  called  into  ques- 
tion; and  it  is  now  denied  by  most  critics.  For 
this  they  give  formal  and  material  reasons.  The 
language  of  these  lamentations  shows  many  simi- 
larities to  the  discourses  of  Jeremiah,  but  at  the 
same  time  also  many  differences.  The  claim  that 
the  alphabetical  scheme  is  not  worthy  of  Jeremiah 
is  a  prejudice  caused  by  the  taste  of  our  times. 
Heb  poets  had  evidently  been  making  use  of  such 
methods  for  a  long  time,  as  it  helps  materially  in 
memorizing.  At  the  time  of  the  first  acute  suffer- 
ing on  account  of  the  destruction  of  Jerus,  in  fact, 
he  would  probably  not  have  made  use  of  it.  But 
we  have  in  this  book  a  collection  of  lamentations 
written  some  time  after  this  great  catastrophe. 
The  claim  has  also  been  made  that  the  views  of 
Jeremiah  and  those  of  the  composer  or  the  com- 
posers of  these  poems  differ  materially.  It  is  said 
that  Jeremiah  emphasizes  much  more  strongly  the 
guilt  of  the  people  as  the  cause  of  the  calamity  than 
is  done  in  these  hymns,  which  lament  the  fate  of  the 
people  and  find  the  cause  of  it  in  the  sins  of  the 
fathers  (5  7),  something  that  Jeremiah  is  said  not 
to  accept  (Jer  31  29  f).  However,  the  guilt  of  the 
people  and  the  resultant  wrath  of  God  are  often 
brought  out  in  these  hymns;  and  Jeremiah  does  not 
deny  (31  29  f)  that  there  is  anything  like  inherited 
guilt.  He  declares  rather  that  in  the  blessed  future 
things  would  be  different  in  this  respect.  Then, 
too,  we  are  not  to  forget  that  if  Jeremiah  is  the 
author  of  these  patriotic  hymns,  he  does  not  speak 
in  them  as  the  prophet  and  the  appointed  accuser 
of  his  people,  but  that  he  is  at  last  permitted  to 
speak  as  he  humanly  feels,  although  there  is  no  lack 
of  prophetical  reminiscences  (cf  Lam  4  21  f).  In 
these  hymns  he  speaks  out  of  the  heart  that  loves 
his  Jerus  and  his  people,  and  he  utters  the  priestly 
prayer  of  intercession,  which  he  was  not  allowed  to 
do  when  announcing  the  judgment  over  Israel.  The 
fact  that  he  also  evinces  great  reverence  for  the 
unfortunate  king  and  his  Divinely  given  hereditary 
dignity  (4  20),  although  as  a  prophet  he  had  been 
compelled  to  pronounce  judgment  over  him,  would 
not  be  unthinkable  in  Jeremiah,  who  had  shown 
warm  sympathies  also  for  Jehoiachim  (22  24.28). 
A  radical  difference  of  sentiment  between  the  two 
authors  is  not  to  be  found.  On  the  other  hand,  a 
serious  difficulty  arises  if  we  claim  that  Jeremiah 
was  not  the  author  of  Lam  in  the  denunciations  of 
Lam  over  the  prophets  of  Jerus  (2  14;  4  13). 
How  could  the  great  prophet  of  the  Destruction  be 
so  ignored  if  he  himself  were  not  the  author  of 
these  sentiments?  If  he  was  himself  the  author, we 
can  easily  understand  this  omission.     In  his  book 


1825 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Lamedh 
Lamp 


of  prophecies  he  has  spoken  exactly  the  same  way 
about  the  prophets.  To  this  must  be  added,  that 
Lam  3  forces  us  to  regard  Jeremiah  as  the  author, 
because  of  the  personal  sufferings  that  are  here 
described.  Compare  esp.  3  14.37  f.  53  ff.  61.63. 
What  other  person  was  during  the  period  of  this 
catastrophe  the  cynosure  of  all  eyes  as  was  ^ the 
prophet,  esp.,  too,  because  he  was  guiltless?  The 
claim  that  here,  not  an  individual,  but  the  personi- 
fied nation  is  introduced  as  speaking,  is  altogether 
improbable,  and  in  some  passages  absolutely  im- 
possible (vs  14.48). 

This  little  book  must  accordingly  be  closely  con- 
nected with  the  person  of  Jeremiah.  If  he  himself 
is  the  author,  he  must  have  composed  it  in  his  old 
age,  when  he  had  time  and  opportunity  to  live  over 
again  all  the  sufferings  of  his  people  and  of  himself. 
It  is,  however,  more  probable,  esp.  because  of  the 
language  of  the  poems,  that  his  disciples  put  this 
book  in  the  present  shape  of  uniform  sentential 
utterances,  basing  this  on  the  manner  of  lamenta- 
tions common  to  Jeremiah.  In  this  way  the  origin 
of  ch  3  can  be  understood,  which  cannot  arti- 
ficially be  shaped  as  his  sayings,  as  in  this  case  the 
personal  feature  would  be  more  distinctly  expressed. 
It  was  probably  compiled  from  a  number  of  his 
utterances. 

In  the  Heb  Canon  this  book  is  found  in  the  third 
division,  called  k'ihubhlm,  or  Sacred  Writings, 
t  get  her  with  the  Pss.  However,  the  LXX  adds 
V.  is  book  to  Jer,  or  rather,  to  the  Book  of  Bar,  found 
i  (  xt  after  Jer.  The  Hebrews  count  it  among  the 
5  meghilloth,  or  Rolls,  which  were  read  on  promi- 
nent anniversary  days.  The  day  for  the  Lamenta- 
tion was  the  9th  of  Ab,  the  day  of  the  burning  of 
the  temple.  In  the  Roman  Catholic  church  it  is 
read  on  the  last  three  days  of  Holy  Week. 

Literature. — Comms.  of  Thenius,  Ewald,  Niigels- 
bach,  Gerlach,  Keil,  Cheyne,  Oettli,  Lohr,  Buckle;  art. 
by  Robertson  Smith  on  "Lamentations"  in  EB. 

C.   VON  Orelli 

LAMP,  LAMPSTAND,  lamp'stand  ("^3  -  "13  -  "PS ' 
rnr,  ner,  "PS*? ,  lappidh,  Phoen  'E'Cb ,  lampadh, 
whence  \a,|iiras,  lam  pan;  \v\vos,  luchnos,  is  also  used) : 
Ner  or  nlr  is  properly  "light"  or  "a  light-giving 
thing,"  hence  "lamp,"  and  is  so  rendered  in  RV,  but 
often  "candle"  in  AV.  Its  use  in  connection  with 
the  tabernacle  and  the  temple  (Ex  25  37  ff;  2  Ch 
4  20  f),  where  oil  was  employed  for  light  (Ex  35  14; 


Lamps:    Figs.   1,  2. 

Lev  24  2),  shows  that  this  is  its  proper  meaning 
Lappidh  is  properly  "a  torch"  and  is  thus  rendered 
generally  in  RV,  but  "lamp"  in  Isa  62  1  where  it 
is  used  as  a  simile.  AV  renders  it  "lamp  usually 
but  "torch"  in  Nah  2  3f;  Zee  12  6.  In  Job  12  5 
RV  renders  it  "for  misfortune,"  regarding  it  as 
composed  of  the  noun  "PS ,  pidh,  and  the  preposi- 
tion b  ,  I.  Lampas  in  Gr  corresponds  to  it,  but 
luchnos  is  also  rendered  in  RV  "lamp,"  while  AV 
gives  "candle,"  as  in  Mt  5  15  and  corresponding 
passages  in  the  other  Gospels. 


Lamps  were  in  use  in  very  remote  times,  though 
we  have  few  allusions  to  them  in  the  early  history 

of  Egypt.  There  are  indications  that 
1.  Forms  they  were  used  there.  Niches  for 
and  History  lamps  are  found  in  the  tombs  of  Tell 

el-Amarna  (Arch.  Survey  of  Egypt,  Am 
Tab,  Part  IV,  14) .  Lampstands  are  also  represented 
(ib,  Part  III,  7) .  Torches  were  of  course  used  before 
lamps,  and  are  mentioned  in  Gen  (15  17  RV),  but 
clay  lamps  were  used  in  Canaan  by  the  Amorites 
before  the  Israelites  took  possession.     The  cxcava- 


Lamps:    Figs.  3,  4,  G,  14. 

tions  in  Pal  have  furnished  thousands  of  specimens, 
and  have  enabled  us  to  trace  the  development  from 
about  2000  BC  onward.  The  exploration  carried 
out  at  Lachish  (Tell  Hesy)  and  Gezcr  (Tell  Jezer)  by 
the  Pal  Exploration  Fund  has  given  ample  material 
for  the  purpose,  and  the  numerous  examples  from 
tombs  all  over  Pal  and  Syria  have  supplied  a  great 
variety  of  forms. 

"Lamp"  is  used  in  the  sense  of  a  guide  in  Ps  119 
105;  Prov  6  23,  and  for  the  spirit,  which  is  called 
the  lamp  of  Jeh  in  man  (Prov  20  27), 
2.  Figura-  and  it  of  course  often  signifies  the  light 
tive  Use  itself.  It  is  used  also  for  the  son  who 
is  to  succeed  and  represent  his  father 
(1  K  15  4),  and  it  perhaps  is  employed  in  this 
sense  in  the  phrase,  "The  lamp  of  the  wicked  shall 
be  put  out"  (Job  21  17;  Prov  13  9;  and  perhaps 
Job  18  6). 

The  early  Can.  or  Amorite  lamp  was  a  shallow, 
saucer-like  bowl  with  rounded  bottom  and  vertical 
rim,  slightly  pointed  or  pinched  on  one  side  where 
the  lighted  end  of  the  wick 
was  placed  (Fig.  1).  This 
form  continued  into  Jew- 
ish times,  but  was  gradu- 
ally changed  until  the 
spout  was  formed  by 
drawing  the  rim  of  the 
sides  together,  forming  a 
narrow  open  channel,  the 
remainder  of  the  rim  being 
rolled  outward  and  flat- 
tened (Fig.  2),  the  bottom 
being  also  flattened.  This 
was  the  early  Heb  pattern 
and  persisted  for  centu- 
ries. The  open  bowl  was 
gradually  closed  in,  first 
at  the  spout,  where  the 
rim  of  one  side  was  lapped  over  the  other,  and  finally 
the  whole  surface  was  closed  with  only  an  orifice 
in  the  center  for  receiving  the  oil,  and  at  the  same 
time  the  spout  was  lengthened.  This  transforma- 
tion is  seen  in  Fig.  3,  a  lamp  of  the  Seleucid  period, 
or  from  300  BC.  These  lamps  have  usually  a  cir- 
cular foot  and  sometimes  a  string-hole  on  one  side. 
The  next  development  was  a  circular  bowl  with  a 
somewhat  shorter  spout,  sometimes  being  only  a 
bulge  in  the  rim,  so  that  the  orifice  for  the  wick  falls 
in  the  rim,  the  orifice  for  filling  being  quite  small 


Lamp:    Fig. 


Lamp 
Language  of  NT 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1826 


at  the  bottom  of  a  saucer-like  depression  in  the 
(•enter  of  the  bowl.  There1  is  sometimes  a  loop 
handle  affixed  on  the  side  opposite  to  the  spout. 
Sometimes  the  handle  is  horizontal,  but  commonly 
vertical  (Fig.  4).  This  form  is  called  Roman,  and 
the  bowl  is  often  ornamented  with  mythological 
human  or  animal  figures  (Fig.  5).     Other  forms  are 


Lamps 


10,  11. 


Lamp:   Fig.  12. 


elongated,  having  numerous  wick  holes  (Fig.  6). 
The  mythological  and  animal  forms  were  rejected 
by  the  Jews  as  contrary  to  their  traditions,  and  they 
made  lamps  with  various  other  designs  on  the  bowl, 
such  as  vine  leaves,  cups,  scrolls,  etc  (Figs.  7-11). 
One  very  marked  Jewish  design  is  the  seven- 
branched  candlestick  (Ex  25  32)  of  the  temple 
(Fig.  12).  The  lamps  of  the  parable  of  the  Ten 
Virgins  were  probably  similar  to  these  (Mt  25  1  ff). 
The  latest  form  of  the  clay  lamp  was  what  is  called 
Byzantine,  the  bowl  of  which  has  a  large  orifice  in 
the  center  and  tapers  gradually  to  the  spout  (Fig. 
13);  they  are  ornamented  commonly  with  a  palm 
branch  between  the  cen- 
tral orifice  and  the  wick- 
hole,  or  with  a  cross. 
Sometimes  there  is  an  in- 
scription on  the  margin 
(Fig.  13).  The  words  on 
this  read  &us  icv[piov]  <pevL 
Traaiv  kcl\t]'?  Phos  ku\riou] 
pheni  pasin  kale,  "The  light 
of  the  Lord  shines  to  all 
[beautifully?]."  Others 
read,  "The  Lord  is  my 
light";  "beautiful  light," 
etc.  These  inscriptions 
determine  the  period  as 
being  Christian.  In  Rom  times,  and  earlier  also, 
bronze  was  much  used  for  the  finer  lamps,  often 
with  covers  for  the  orifice  and  sometimes  with  chain 
and  ring  for  hanging  (Fig.  14).  Very  elaborate 
designs  in  this  material  occur. 

These  terra-cotta  lamps  are  found  in  the  tombs 
and  burial  places  throughout  Pal  and  Syria,  and 
they  were  evidently  de- 
posited there  in  connec- 
tion with  the  funeral  rites. 
Very  few  are  found  in 
Can.  tombs,  but  they  be- 
come numerous  in  later 
times  and  esp.  in  the  early 
Christian  centuries.  The 
symbolism  in  their  use  for 
funeral  purposes  is  indi- 
cated by  the  inscriptions 
above  mentioned  (see 
PEFS,  1904,  326  ff;  Ex- 
plorations in  Pal,  by  Bliss. 
Macalister  and  Wunsch, 
4to,  published  by  the  Pal 
Exploration  Fund).  These 
lamps  were  used  by  the 
peasants  of  the  country 
down  to  recent  t  imes,  when 

petroleum    has   superseded   olive   oil   for   lighting. 
The  writer  has  seen  lamps  of  the  Jewish  and  Rom 


Lam]) 


period  with  surface  blackened  with  recent  usage. 
Olive  oil  was  commonly  used,  but  terebinth  oil  also 
(Thomson,  LB,  111,  472).  H.  Porter 

LAMPSACUS,  lamp'sa-kus.     See  Sampsames. 

LANCE,  lans,  LANCER,  lan'ser,  LANCET,  lan'- 
set.   See  Armor,  III,  4,  (3);  1  K  18  28  RV  "lances." 

LAND  ([1]  fy$,  'ereg;  [2]  niTTK,  'Mhamah;  [3] 
•"H^P  ,  sddheh,  "a  pieceof  land";  [4]  -yf),  gt,  "earth"; 
[5]  d-ypds,  agros,  "field";  [6]  X"Pa>  chora,  "region"; 
[7]  xotpiov,  chorion,  dim.  of  chora;  [8]  £np6s,  zeros, 
"dry  land";  [9]  HITS ,  'ezrah,  "native,"  AY  "born 
in  the  land,"  "born  among  you,"  RV  "home-born" 
[Lev  19  34;  24  16;  Nu  15  30];  "like  a  green  tree 
in  its  native  soil"  [Ps  37  35]):  'Ereg  occurs  hun- 
dreds of  times  and  is  used  in  much  the  same  way  as 
'adhdmah,  which  also  occurs  often:  e.g.  "land  of 
Egypt,"  'ereg  mig rayim  (Gen  13  10),  and  'adhmath 
micrayim  (Gen  47  20).  The  other  words  occur 
less  often,  and  are  used  in  the  senses  indicated  above. 
See  Country;    Earth.  Alfred  Ely  Day 

LAND-CROCODILE  (RV),  land-crok'6-dil  (TV2 , 
ko"h;  LXN  \a(jiai.\^wv,  chamaileon,  Lev  11  30;  AV 
Chameleon) :  K 6ah  is  found  oidy  here,  meaning  an 
animal,  the  fifth  in  the  list  of  unclean  "creeping 
things."  Elsewhere  is  it  trd  "strength"  or  "power," 
and  it  has  been  thought  that  here  is  meant  the 
desert  monitor,  Varanus  griseus,  a  gigantic  lizard, 
which  is  common  in  Egypt  and  Pal,  and  which 
attains  the  length  of  4  ft.  "Chameleon,"  which  AV 
has  here,  is  used  by  RV  for  tinshemcth  (AV  "mole"), 
the  eighth  in  the  list  of  unclean  "creeping  things" 
(cf  ndsham,  "to  breathe";  trd  "swan"  in  ver  18  m). 
\\ 'hile  it  is  by  no  means  certain  what  animal  is 
meant,  there  could  be  no  objection  to  "monitor" 
or  "desert  monitor."  "Land-crocodile"  is  objec- 
tionable because  it  is  not  a  recognized  name  of  any 
animal.     See  Chameleon;  Lizard. 

Alfred  Ely  Day 

LAND  LAWS.     See  Agrarian  Laws. 

LANDMARK,  land'mark  (b^3,  g°bhul,  lit. 
"boundary"):  The  boundary  may  have  been 
marked,  as  at  present,  simply  by  a  furrow  or  stone. 
The  iniquity  of  removing  a  landmark  is  frequently 
insisted  on  (Dt  19  14;  27  17;  Prov  22  28;  23 
10;  Job  24  2  [(fbhiddh]) ,  its  removal  being  equiva- 
lent to  theft, 

LANE,  Ian  (pv^,  rhume):  An  alley  or  bypath 
of  a  city.  Occurs  once  in  Lk  14  21,  "Go  out  quick- 
ly into  the  streets  and  lanes  of  the  city";  elsewhere 
trd  "street,"  e.g.  Mt  6  2;  Acts  9  11;  Ecclus  9  7; 
Tob  13  18. 

LANGUAGE,  lan'gwaj,  OF  THE  NEW  TESTA- 
MENT  (Greek).     See  Aramaic  Language,   also: 

I.     The  Vernacular   koine  the    Language   of  the 
NT. 

1.  The  Old  Point  of  View 

2.  The  Revolution 

3.  The  Proof  of  the  New  Position 

(1)  The  Papyri 

(2)  The  Ostraka 

(3)  The  Inscriptions 

(4)  Modern  Greek 

(5)  Historical  and  Comparative-  Grammar 

4.  Characteristics  of  the  Vernacular  koine 
II.     Literary  Elements  in  the  XT 

III.     The  Semitic  Influence 

IV.     Individual  Peculiarities  of  the  XT  Writers 
V.     The  koine  Spoken  by  Jesus 
Literature 

/.    77ie    Vernacular   "koine"  the   Language   of 

the  NT. — The  ghost  of  the  old  Purist  controversy 
is  now  laid  to  rest  for  good  and  all.     The  story 


1827 


Lamp 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Language  of  NT 


of  that  episode  has  interest  chiefly  for  the  historian 
of   language  and  of  the  vagaries  of  the  human  in- 
tellect.    See   Winer-Thayer,  Grammar 

1.  The  Old  of  the  Idiom  of  the  NT,  1869,  12-19, 
Point  of  and  Schmiedel's  Winer,  §  2,  for  a  sket  ch 
View  of  this  once  furious  strife.     In  the  17th 

cent,  various  scholars  tried  to  prove 
that  the  Gr  of  the  NT  was  on  a  par  with  the  literary 
Attic  of  the  classic  period.  But  the  Hebraists  won 
the  victory  over  them  and  sought  to  show  that  it 
was  Hebraic  Gr,  a  special  variety,  if  not  dialect,  a 
Bib.  Gr.  The  4th  ed  of  Cremer's  Biblico-Theo- 
logical  Lexicon  of  NT  Gr  (trd  by  W.  Urwick,  1892) 
quotes,  with  approval,  Rothe's  remark  (Dogmatik, 
1863, 238) : 

"We  may  appropriately  speak  of  a  language  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.     For  in  the  Bible  it  is  evident  that  the  Holy 

Spirit  lias  been  at  work,  moulding  for  itself  a  distinct- 
ively religious  mode  of  expression  out  of  the  language 
of  the  country  which  it  has  chosen  as  its  sphere,  and 
transforming  the  linguistic  elements  which  it  found  ready 
to  hand,  and  even  conceptions  already  existing,  into 
a  shape  and  form  appropriate  to  itself  and  all  its  own." 
Cremer  adds:  "We  have  a  very  clear  and  striking 
proof  of  this  in  NT  Gr." 

This  was  only  twenty  years  ago  and  fairly  repre- 
sented the  opinion  of  that  day.  Hatch  in  1889 
(Essays  in  Bib.  Gr,  34)  held  that  with  most  of  the 
NT  words  the  key  lay  in  the  LNN.  But  Winer 
(Winer-Thayer,  20)  had  long  ago  seen  that  the 
vernacular  koine  was  "the  special  foundation  of  the 
diction  of  the  NT,"  though  he  still  admitted  "a 
Jewish-Gr,  which  native  Greeks  did  not  entirely 
understand"  (p.  27).  He  did  not  see  the  practical 
identity  of  NT  Gr  with  the  vernacular  koine — 
(''common"  Greek),  nor  did  Schmiedel  in  the  8. 
Auflage  of  Winer  (I.  Theil;  II.  Theil,  erstes  Heft, 
1894-97).  In  the  second  ed  of  his  Grammar  of  NT 
Gr  (ET  by  Thackeray,  1905,  2),  Blass  sees  the  dawn 
of  the  new  day,  though  his  book  was  first  written 
before  it  came.  Viteau  (Elude  sur  le  grec  du  Nouveau 
Testament,  I,  Le  verbe,  1893,  II,  Le  sujet,  1896) 
occupies  wholly  the  old  position  of  a  Judaic  Gr. 
An  extreme  instance  of  that  view  is  seen  in  Guille- 
mard's  Hebraisms  in  the  Gr  Tcstamod  ( L879). 

A  turn  toward  the  truth  comes  with  H.  A.  A. 

Kennedy's  Sources  of  the  NT  Gr  (1895).     He  finds 

the    explanation    of    the    vocabulary 

2.  The  of  both  the  LNX  and  the  NT  to  be 
Revolution     the  vernacular  which  he  traces  back 

to  Aristophanes.  It  is  a  good  exercise 
to  read  West  cot  t's  discussion  of  the  "Language  of 
the  NT"  in  J)B,  III  (1S88),  and  then  turn  to  Moulton, 
"Language  of  the  NT,"  in  the  1-vol  HDB.  West- 
cott  says:  "The  chief  peculiarities  of  the  syntax  of 
the  NT  lie  in  the  reproduction  of  Heb  forms." 
Moulton  remarks:  "There  is  no  reason  tobelievethat 
any  NT  writer  who  ever  lived  in  Pal  learned  Gr 
only  as  a  foreign  language  when  he  went  abroad." 
Still  better  is  it  to  read  Moulton,  "New  Testament 
Greek  in  the  Light  of  Modern  Discovery"  in  Cam- 
bridge Biblical  Essays  (1909,  461-505);  Deiss- 
mann,  Light  from  (he  Ancient  East  (1911);  or 
Angus,  "The  koine,  the  Language  of  the  NT," 
Princeton  Review,  January,  1910,  42-92.  The 
revolution  has  come  to  stay.  It  is  now  clear  that 
the  Gr  of  the  NT  is  not  a  jargon  nor  a  patois.  In 
all  essential  respects  it  is  just  the  vernacular  koine 
of  the  1st  cent.  AD,  the  lingua  franca  of  the  Gr- 
Rorn  empire,  the  legacy  of  Alexander  the  Great's 
conquest  of  the  East.  This  worlds peech_  was  at 
bottom  the  late  Attic  vernacular  with  dialectical 
and  provincial  influences.  It  was  not  a  decaying 
tongue,  but  a  virile  speech  admirably  adapted  to 
the  service  of  the  many  peoples  of  the  time.  Tin; 
able  article  in  vol  III  of  HDB  on  the  "Language  of 
the  NT"  by  Dr.  J.  H.  Thayer  appeared  in  1900,  and 
illustrates   how    quickly    an   encyclopaedia   article 


may  become  out  of  date.  There  is  a  wealth  of 
knowledge  here  displayed,  as  one  would  expect, 
but  Thayer  still  speaks  of  "this  species  of  Greek," 
"this  peculiar  idiom,"  "Jewish  Greek,"  though  he 
sees  that  its  basis  is  "the  common  or  spoken  Greek." 
The  last  topic  discussed  by  him  is  "Problems." 
He  little  thought  that  the  biggest  "problem"  so 
near  solution  was  the  character  of  tin;  language 
itself.  It  was  Adolph  Deissmann,  then  of  Heidel- 
berg, now  of  Berlin,  who  opened  the  new  era  in  the 
knowledge  of  the  language  of  the  NT.  His  Bibel- 
studien  (zumeist  aus  den  Papyri  und  Inschriflen 
zur  Geschichle  der  Sprache,  des  Schrifttums  und  der 
Religion  des  hellenistischen  Judentums  und  des 
Urchristentums)  appeared  in  1895.  In  this  epoch- 
making  volume  he  proved  conclusively  from  the 
papyri  and  the  inscriptions  that  many  of  the  seem- 
ing Hebraisms  in  the  LXX  and  the  NT  were  com- 
mon idioms  in  the  vernacular  koine.  He  boldly 
claimed  that  the  bulk  of  the  Hebraisms  wen1  falsely 
so  termed,  except  in  the  case  of  translating  Gr  from 
the  Heb  or  Aram,  or  in  "perfect"  Hebraisms,  gen- 
uine Gr  usage  made  more  common  by  reason  of 
similarity  to  the  Sem  idiom.  In  1897  he  produced 
Neue  Bibelstudien,  sprachgeschichtliche  Beitrage 
zumeist  aus  den  Papyri  und  Inscliriftcn  zur  Er- 
klarung  des  Neuen  Testaments. 

In  1901  (2d  ed  in  1903)  these  two  volumes  were  trd 
as  one  by  A.  Grieve  under  the  title  Bible  Studies. 
Deissmann's  other  volumes  have  confirmed  his  thesis. 
The  most  important  are  New  Light  on  the  NT  (1907), 
The  Philology  of  the  Or  Bible  (190S),  Licht  vom  Osten 
(190S),  Light  from  the  Ancient  East  (tr  by  Strachan, 
1910),  St.  Paul  in  the  Light  of  Social  and  Religious  His- 
tory (1912).  In  Light  from  the  Ancient  East,  Deissmann 
illustrates  the  NT  language  with  much  detail  from  the 
papyri,  ostraka  and  inscriptions.  lie  is  now  at  work 
on  a  new  lexicon  of  the  NT  which  will  make  use  of  the 
fresh  knowledge  from  these  sources. 

The  otherwise  helpful  work  of  E.  Preuschen, 
Vollstdndiges  gricchisch-deutsches  Handworterbuch 
zu  den  Schriften  des  Neuen  Testaments  und  der 
ubrigen  urchristlichen  Literal ur  (1908-10),  fails  to 
utilize  the  papyri  and  inscriptions  while  drawing 
on  the  LXX  and  the  NT  Apoc  and  other  early 
Christian  literature.  But  this  has  been  done  by 
Ebeling  in  his  Griechisch-deulsehes  Worterbuch  turn 
NT,  1913.  The  next  step  was  made  by  A.  Thumb, 
the  great  philologian,  in  his  Griechische  Sprache  im 
Zeitalter  des  Hellenismus;  Beitrage  zur  Geschichte 
und  Beurteilung  der  "koine,"  1901,  in  which  the  real 
character  of  the  koine  was  for  the  first  time  properly 
set  forth. 

Winer  and  Blass  had  both  lamented  the  need  of  a 
grammar  of  the  koine,  and  that  demand  still  exists,  but 
Thumb  went  a  long  way  toward  supplying  it  in  this 
volume.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that  he  will  yet  prepare  a 
grammar  of  the  koine.  Thumb's  interests  cover  the 
whole  range  of  comparative  philology,  but  he  has 
added  in  this  held  "Die  Forschungen  ilber  die  helle- 
nistische  Sprache  in  den  Jahren  1896-1901,"  Archiv 
fiir  Papyrusforschung,  II,  396  f;  "  Prinzipienfragen  der 
Koirce-Forschung,"  Neue  Jahrb.  fur  das  kl.  Alt.,  1906; 
'■  Die  sprachgeschichtliche  St  ellung  des  biblischen  Gnech- 
isch,"   Theologische  Rundschau,  V,  8.5-99. 

The  other  most  important  name  to  add  is  that  of 
J.  Hope  Moulton,  who  has  the  credit  of  being  the 
first  to  apply  the  new  knowledge  directly  to  the  NT 
Gr.  His  Grammar  of  NT  Gr,  I,  Prolegomena  (1906, 
2d  ed,  1906,  3d  ed,  1908,  Ger.  tr  in  1911,  Einlei- 
tung  in  die  Sprache  des  NT)  is  a  brilliant  piece  of 
work  and  relates  the  Gr  of  the  NT  in  careful  detail 
to  the  vernacular  koine,  and  shows  that  in  all  im- 
portant points  it  is  the  common  Gr  of  the  time  and 
not  a  Hebraic  Gr.  Moulton  probably  pressed  his 
point  too  far  in  certain  respects  in  his  zeal  against 
Hebraisms,  but  the  essential  position  of  Deissmann 
and  Moulton  is  undoubtedly  sound. 

Moulton  had  previously  published  the  bulk  of  this 
material   as    "Grammatical    Notes    from    the    Papyri, 
The    Expositor,    1901,    271-S2;      1903,     104-21,    423-39; 


Language  of  NT  THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1828 


The  Classical  Rericw,  1901,  31-37,  434-41;  1904,  100- 
12,  151-55;  "Characteristics  of  NT  Or,"  The  Ex- 
positor,   1904. 

In  1909  appeared  his  essay,  Greek  in  the  Light  of 
Modern  Discovery  (sec  above).  Since  1908,  The 
Expositor  has  had  a  series  of  papers  by  J.  II.  Moul- 
ton  and  George  Milligan  called  "Lexical  Notes 
from  the  Papyri,"  which  are  very  useful  on  the 
lexical  side  of  the  language.  Thus  the  study  is 
fairly  launched  on  its  new  career.  In  1900,  A.  T. 
Robertson  produced  a  Syllabus  on  the  NT  Gr  Syn- 
tax from  the  standpoint  of  comparative  philology, 
which  was  rewritten  in  1908,  with  the  added  view- 
point of  the  papyri  researches,  as  A  Short  Gram- 
mar of  the  Gr  NT  (2d  ed,  1909,  3d  ed,  1912;  trans- 
lations in  Italian  in  1910,  Ger.  and  Fr.  in  1911, 
Dutch  in  1912).  In  October,  1909,  S.  Angus  pub- 
lished a  good  article  in  the  Harvard  Theological 
Review  on  '•.Modern  Methods  in  NT  Philology," 
followed  in  January,  1910,  by  another  in  the  Prince- 
ton Review  on  "Thefcoi^e,  the  Language  of  the  NT." 
The  new  knowledge  appears  also  in  Jakob  Wacker- 
nagel,  "Die  griechische  Sprache"  (pp.  291-318,  2d 
ed,  of  Die  griechische  und  lateinische  Literatur  und 
Sprache,  1907).  L.  Radermacher  has  set  forth  very 
ably  "die  sprachlichen  Vorgange  in  ihrem  Zusam- 
menhang,"  in  his  Neutestamentliche  Grammatik:  Das 
Griechisch  <les  Neuen  Testaments  im  Zusammenhang 
milder  Volkssprache.  It  is  in  reality  the  background 
of  the  NT  Gr  and  is  a  splendid  preparation  for  the 
study  of  the  Gr  NT.  A  full  discussion  of  the  new 
knowledge  in  grammatical  detail  has  been  prepared 
by  A.  T.  Robertson  under  the  title  A  Grammar  of 
the  Gr  NT  in  the  Light  of  Historical  Research  (in 
press).  Moulton  and  Schmiedel  are  planning  also 
to  complete  their  works. 

The  proof  of  the  new  position  is  drawn  from 
several  sources: 

(1)  The  papyri. — These  rolls  have  lain  in  the 
museums  of  the  world  many  years  and  attracted 
little  attention,  lor  lists  of  the  chief 
3.  The  collections  of  the  papyri  see  Moulton, 

Proof  of  Prolegomena,  259-02;  Milligan,  Se- 
ttle New  lections  from  the  Gr  Papyri,  xi,  xii; 
Position  Mayser,    Grammatik    der    griechischen 

Papyri  aus  der  Ptolemdcrzeit;  Laut- 
und  Wortlehre,  vii-x;  Deissmann,  Light  from  the 
Ancient  East,  20-41;  Robertson,  Grammar  of  the 
Gr  NT,  Bibliography.  New  volumes  of  papyri  as 
a  result  of  recent  explorations  in  Egypt  arc  pub- 
lished each  year.  See  Papyrus,  and  in  the  other 
encyclopaedias  s.v.  Most  of  the  papyri  discovered 
belong  to  the  period  of  the  koine  (the  first  three 
centuries  BC  and  AD  in  round  numbers),  and  with 
great  wealth  of  illustration  they  show  the  life  of  the 
common  people  of  the  time,  whether  in  Egypt  or 
Herculaneum  (the  two  chief  regions  represented). 
There  are  various  degrees  of  culture  shown,  as  can 
be  seen  in  any  of  the  large  volumes  of  Grenfell  and 
Hunt,  or  in  the  handbooks  of  Lietzmann,  Griechische 
Papyri  (190.")),  and  of  Milligan,  Greek  Papyri  (1910). 
They  come  from  the  scrap-heaps  of  the  long  ago, 
and  are  mainly  receipts,  contracts,  letters  of  busi- 
ness or  love,  military  documents,  etc.  They  show 
all  grades  of  culture,  from  the  illiterate  with  phonetic 
spelling  to  the  man  of  the  schools.  But  we  have 
here  the  language  of  life,  not  of  the  books.  In  a 
most  startling  way  one  notes  the  similarities  of 
vocabulary,  forms,  and  syntax  between  the  lan- 
guage of  the  papyri  of  the  1st  cent.  AD  and  that 
of  the  NT  books.  As  early  as  1778,  F.  W.  Sturz 
made  use  of  the  Chart  a  Borgiana,  "the  first  papyrus 
ever  brought  to  Europe"  (Deissmann,  Light  from 
the  Ancient  East,  39),  and  in  1841  Thiersch  like- 
wise saw  the  value  of  the  papyri  for  the  philology 
of  the  LXX.  But  the  matter  was  not  pressed. 
Lightfoot  threw  out  a  hint  about  the  value  of  letters 


of  the  people,  which  was  not  followed  till  Deissmann 
saw  the  point;  cf  Moulton,  Prol.,  2-12.  It  is  not 
necessary  here  to  illustrate  the  matter  at  length. 
Deissmann  takes  up  in  detail  the  "Biblical"  words 
in  Thayer's  Lexicon,  and  has  no  difficulty  in  finding 
most  of  them  in  the  papyri  (or  inscriptions).  Thus 
Tr\rjpo<pop^uj,  plerophoreo,  is  shown  to  be  common  in 
the  papyri.  See  Deissmann,  Bible  Studies  and 
Light  from  the  Ancient  East,  for  extensive  lists. 
The  papyri  show  also  the  same  meanings  for  many 
words  once  thought  peculiar  to  the  Bible  or  the  NT. 
An  instance  is  seen  in  the  official  sense  of  -n-pecrllu- 
repos,  presbuteros,  in  the  papyri,  6  vpealivrepos 
rrjs  K(b/j.r]s,  ho  presbuteros  tes  homes  (Pap.  Lugd. 
A  35  f),  "without  doubt  an  official  designation" 
(Deissmann,  Bible  Studies,  155).  So  d5e\06s, 
adelphos,  for  members  of  the  community,  dvao-Tpo<prj, 
anastrophe,  for  manner  of  life,  dvTiXrjfx-^is,  anlilem- 
psis,  "help,"  \eiTovpyla,  leitourgia,  "public  service," 
jrdpoiKos,  pdroikos,  "sojourner,"  etc  (Deissmann, 
Light  from  the  Ancient  East,  107).  R.  Helbing 
(Grammatik  der  Septuaginta,  190S)  and  II.  St.  John 
Thackeray  (A  Grammar  of  Die  OT  in  Gr  according 
to  the  LXX,  1909)  have  applied  the  new  knowledge 
to  the  language  of  the  LXX,  and  it  has  been  dis- 
cussed with  much  ability  in  the  first  volumes.  The 
use  of  the  papyri  for  grammatical  purposes  is  made 
easier  by  the  excellent  volume  of  E.  Mayser, 
Grammatik  der  griechischen  Papyri  aus  der  Ptole- 
mderzeit;  Laid-  und  Wortlehre  (1900),  though  his 
"Syntax,"  is  still  a  desideratum.  Useful  also  is  G. 
Cronert,  Memoria  Graeca  Herculanensis  (1903). 

(2)  The  ostraka. — The  literature  on  this  subject 
is  still  small  in  bulk.  In  1S99  Ulrich  Wilcken  pub- 
lished Griechische  Ostraka  aus  Aegypten  und  Nubien, 
and  in  1902  W.  E.  Crum  produced  his  book  of  Chris- 
tian ostraka  called  Coptic  Ostraca  from  the  Collec- 
tions of  the  Egypt  Exploration  Fund,  the  Cairo 
Museum,  and  Others.  This  was  followed  in  1905 
by  H.  R.  Hall's  Coptic  and  Gr  Texts  of  the  Christ  ion 
Period  from  Ostraka,  Stelae,  etc.  These  broken 
pieces  of  pottery  were  used  by  the  lowest  classes 
as  writing  material.  It  was  very  widely  used 
because  it  was  so  very  cheap.  Wilcken  has  done 
more  than  anyone  else  to  collect  and  decipher  the 
ostraka.  Deissmann  (Light  from  the  Ancient  East, 
40)  notes  that  Clean thes  the  Stoic  "  wrot  e  on  ost  raka 
or  on  leather"  because  too  poor  to  buy  papyrus. 
So  he  quotes  the  apology  of  a  Christian  for  using 
potsherd  for  a  letter:  "Excuse  me  that  I  cannot  find 
papyrus  as  I  am  in  the  country"  (Crum,  Coptic 
Ostraca,  55).  The  use  of  dir^x^,  apecho,  on  an 
ostrakon  for  a  receipt  in  full,  illustrates  well  the 
frequent  use  of  this  word  in  the  NT  (Deissmann, 
Light  from  the  Ancient  East,  111). 

(3)  The  inscriptions. — Here  caution  must  be 
used  since  many  of  the  inscriptions  give,  not  the 
vernacular,  but  the  literary  language.  The  official 
(legal  and  military)  decrees  often  appear  in  very 
formal  style.  But  a  number  do  preserve  the  ver- 
nacular idiom  and  often  have  the  advantage  of 
being  dated.  These  inscriptions  are  chiefly  on 
stone,  but  some  are  on  metal  and  there  are  a  few 
wax  tablets.  The  material  is  vast  and  is  constantly 
growing.  See  list  of  the  chief  collections  in  Deiss- 
mann's  Light  from  the  Ancient  East,  10-20.  Boeckh 
is  the  great  name  here.  As  early  as  1779  Walch 
(Observationes  in  Matt,  ex  graecis  inscriptionibus) 
made  use  of  Gr  inscriptions  for  NT  exegesis,  and 
R.  A.  Lipsius  says  that  his  father  (K.  II.  A.  Lipsius, 
author  of  Grammalische  Untersuchungen  uber  die 
biblische  Grdcitdt)  "contemplated  a  large  grammar 
of  the  Gr  Bible  in  which  he  would  have  availed 
himself  of  the  discoveries  in  modern  epigraphy" 
(Deissmann,  Light,  etc,  15).  Schmiedel  has  made 
good  use  of  the  inscriptions  so  far  in  his  revision  of 
Winer;  H.  A.  A.  Kennedy  (Sources  of  NT  Gr,  1895), 


1829 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Language  of  NT 


II.  Anz  (Subsidia  ad  Cogn.,  etc,  1894),  R.  Helbing 
(Grammatik  der  Septuaginta,  1908),  J.  Psichari 
(Essai  sur  le  Grec  de  la  Septante,  1908),  H.  St. 
John  Thackeray  (A  Grammar  of  the  OT  in  Gr 
according  to  the  LXX,  1909),  and  R.  Mcister  (Prol. 
zu  einer  Grammatik  der  Septuaginta,  1907)  turned 
to  good  account  the  inscriptions  for  the  linguistic 
problems  of  the  LXX,  as  indeed  Hatch  (Essays  in 
Bib.  Gr,  1889)  had  already  done.  W.  Dittenbergcr 
added  some  valuable  "Grammatica  et  ortho- 
graphica"  to  his  Orientis  Graeci  I  nscriptiones  Se- 
lectae  (2  vols,  1903,  1905).  See  also  E.  L.  Hicks 
and  G.  F.  Hill,  Gr  Historical  Inscriptions  (1901), 
and  Hicks's  paper  "On  Some  Political  Terms  Em- 
ployed in  the  NT,"  Classical  Review,  1887,  4  ff , 
42  ff.  W.  M.  Ramsay's  Cities  and  Bishoprics  of 
Phrygia  (2  vols,  1895,  1897)  and  his  other  works 
show  keen  insight  in  the  use  of  the  inscriptions. 
Deissmann's  Bible  Studies  (1895,  1901)  applied 
the  knowledge  of  the  inscriptions  to  the  LXX  and 
to  the  NT.  In  his  Light  from  the  Ancient  East 
(1910)  copious  use  is  made  of  the  inscriptions  for 
NT  study.  Moulton  (Prol,  1906,  258 f,  for  lists) 
is  alive  to  the  value  of  the  inscriptions  for  NT 
grammar,  as  indeed  was  Blass  (Grammatik  des 
neutestamentlichen  Griechisch,  189G)  before  him. 

Cf,  further,  G.  Thieme,  Die  Inschriften  von  Mag- 
nesia am  Maander  und  das  Neue  Testament  (1906); 
T.  Nageli,  Der  Wortschatz  des  Apostels  1'aulus  (1905), 
and  J.  Ronmac,  Rccherches  sur  les  caracteres  du  Grec 
dans  le  NT  d'apres  les  Inscr.  de  Priene  (1911).  Special 
treatises  or  phases  of  the  grammar  of  the  inscrip- 
tions appear  in  Meisterhans-Schwyzcr,  Grammatik  der 
attischen  Inschriften  (1900);  Nachmanson,  haute  wd 
Formen  der  magnetischen  Inschriften^  189(3);  Sehweizer, 
Grammatik  der  pergamenischen  Inschriften  (1898). 

Moulton  and  Milligan  have  drawn  freely  also  on 
the  inscriptions  for  their  "Lexical  Studies"  running 
in  The  Expositor  (1908-).  The  value  of  the  in- 
scriptions for  the  Gr  of  the  NT  is  shown  at  every 
turn.  For  instance,  irpwriroKos,  prolotokos,  is  no 
longer  a  "Biblical"  word.  It  appears  in  a  metrical 
inscription  (undated)  of  Trachonitis  on  a  tomb  of 
a  pagan  "high  priest"  and  "friend  of  the  gods" 
(Deissmann,  Light,  etc,  88);  cf  Kaibel,  Epigram- 
mala  Graeca,  etc,  no.  4G0._  Even  AydTrri,  agape, 
occurs  on  a  pagan  inscription  of  Pisidia  (Papers 
of  the  American  School  of  Classical  Studies  at 
Athens,  2,  57).  See,  further,  W.  H.  P.  Hatch's 
"Some  Illustrations  of  NT  Usage  from  Gr  Inscrip- 
tions of  Asia  Minor,"  Journal  of  Bib.  Lit.,  1908, 
134-46. 

(4)  Modern  Greek.— As  early  as  1834  Heilmeier 
saw  that  the  modern  Gr  vernacular  went  back  to 
the  koine  (Moulton,  Prol.,  29),  but  it  is  only  m 
recent  years  that  it  was  clearly  seen  that  the  modern 
Gr  of  the  schools  and  usually  in  the  newspapers  is 
artificial,  and  not  the  real  vernacular  of  today. 
Mullach's  work  (Grammatik  der  gricchischen  Vul- 
garsprache,  1856)  was  deficient  in  this  respect.  But 
Jannaris'  Historical  Gr  Grammar  (1897)  carries 
the  history  of  the  vernacular  Gr  along  with  the 
literary  style.  Hatzidakis,  Einleilung  in  die  neu- 
griechische  Grammatik,  1892,  clears  the  air  very 
much  and  connects  the  modern  Gr  with  the  NT. 
But  it  is  to  Thumb  that  we  are  indebted  for  the  best 
knowledge  of  the  vernacular  (v  dyixoTiKv,  he  demotike) 
as  opposed  to  the  literary  language  (v  KaOapeuovaa, 
he  kathareuousa)  of  today.  Mitsotakis  (Praktische 
Grammatik,  1891)  had  treated  both  together, 
though  Wied  (Die  Kunst,  die  neugriechische  Volk- 
sprache)  gave  only  the  vernacular.  But  Wied  is 
only  elementary.  Thumb  alone  has  given  an  ade- 
quate treatment  of  the  modem  Gr  vernacular, 
showing  its  unity  and  historical  contact  with  the 
vernacular  koine  (Hajidbuch  der  neu  gricchischen 
Volkssprache,  1895;  Thumb-Angus,  Handbook  of 
Modern  Greek  Vernacular,  1912).     Thus  one  can 


see  the  living  stream  of  the  NT  speech  as  it  has 
come  on  down  through  the  ages.     It  is  impossible 
to    overestimate    the    importance    of    modern    Gr 
vernacular  in  the  knowledge  of  NT  Gr.     The  dis- 
appearance of  the  optative,  the  vanishing  of  the 
infinitive  before  tva,  hina,  and  itacism  are  but  in- 
stances of  many  others  which  are  luminous  in  the 
light  of  the  modern  Gr  vernacular.     See  Psichari, 
Essais  de  grammaire  historique  neo-grecque  (1886-89). 
(5)    Historical  and  comparative  grammar. — From 
this  source  the  koine  gets  a  new  dignity.     It  will 
take  one  too  far  afield  to  sketch  here  the  linguistic 
revolution  wrought  since  the  publication  of,  and 
partly    caused    by,    Bopp's     V ergleichende    Gram- 
matik (1857),  following  Sir  Wm.  Jones's  discovery 
of  Sanskrit.     The  great  work  of   Brugmann  and 
Delbriick  (Grundriss  der  vcrgleichenden  Grammatik 
der   indogermanischen   Sprachen,    I-V,    1892-1909) 
marks   the    climax   of    the   present   development, 
though  many  workers  have  won  distinction  in  this 
field.     The  point  to  accent  here  is  that  by  means  of 
comparative  philology  the  Gr  language  is  seen  in 
its  proper  relations  with  other  languages  of  the 
Indo-Germanic  family,  and  the  right  interpretation 
of    case,   preposition,   mode,    tense,   voice,   etc,   is 
made  possible.     The  old  traditional  empiricism  is 
relegated  to  the  scrap-heap,  and  a  new  grammatical 
science  consonant  with  the  facts  has  taken  its  place. 
See  Delbriick,  Intro  to  the  Study  of  Language  (1882), 
Giles,  Short  Manual  of  Comparative  Philology  (1901), 
for  a  resume  of   the  facts.     Wright,   Comparative 
Grammar  of  the  Gr  Language  (1912),  applies  the 
new  learning  to  the  Gr  tongue.     The  progress  in 
classical  scholarship  is  well  shown  by  Sandys  in 
his   History  of  Classical  Scholarship  (I— III,   1906- 
8)    and  by  Gudeman,  Geschichte   der  Mass.    Phil- 
ologie,    2.    Ami,    1909.      Innumerable   monographs 
have  enriched  the  lit.  of  this  subject.     It  is  now 
feasible  to  see  the  Gr  language  as  a  whole,  and  grasp 
its  historical  unity.     Seen  in  this  light  the  koine 
is  not  a  dying  tongue  or  a  corrupt  dialect.    It  is  a 
normal  and  natural  evolution  of  the  Gr  dialects 
into   a  world-speech   when  Alexander's  conquests 
made  it  possible.     The  vernacular  koine  which  has 
developed  into  the  modern  Gr  vernacular  was  itself 
the  direct  descendant  of  the  Attic  vernacular  which 
had  its  roots  in  the  vernacular  of  the  earlier  dialects. 
The  dialectical  developments  are  closely  sketched  by 
Thumb,  Handbuch  der  gricchischen  Dialekte  (1909), 
and  by  Buck,  Intro  to  the  Study  of  Gr  Dialects  (1910), 
not   to    mention    the   older   works   of    Hoffmann, 
Meister,  etc.     Jannaris  has  undertaken  in  his  His- 
torical Gr  Grammar  (1897)  to  sketch  and  interpret 
the  facts  of  the   Gr  tongue  throughout  its  long 
career,  both  in  its  literary  and  vernacular  aspects. 
He  has  succeeded  remarkably  well  on  the  whole, 
though  not  quite  seeing  the  truth  about  the  modern 
Gr  vernacular.     Schanz  is  seeking  to  lay  the  founda- 
tion for  still  better  work  by  his  Beitrdge  zur  his- 
torischen  Syntax  der  griechischen  Sprache  (1882-). 
But  the  NT  student  must  be  open  to  all  the  new 
light  from  this  region,  and  it  is  very  great.     See, 
further,   Dieterich,    Untersuchungen  zur  Geschichte 
der  griech.  Sprache  von  der  hellcn.  Zeit  (189S). 

As  already  indicated,  the  Gr  of  the  NT  is  in  the 
main  just  the  vernacular  koine  of  the  1st  cent.  AD, 
though  Gr  as  used  by  men  of  ability 
4.  Charac-  and  varying  degrees  of  culture.  The 
teristics  of  most  striking  difference  between  the 
the  Ver-  vernacular  koine  and  the  literary 
nacular  Attic  is  seen  in  the  vocabulary.     The 

"koine"  writers  in  the  literary  koine  show  more 

likeness  to  the  classic  Attic,  but  even 
they  reveal  the  changes  due  to  the  intervening 
centuries.  There  was,  of  course,  no  violent  break. 
The  changes  came  gradually  and  naturally.  It  is 
mainly  at  this  point  that  Deissmann  has  done  such 


Language  of  NT    THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1830 


brilliant  work  in  his  Bible  Sludies  and  other  hooks. 
He  has  taken  the  lists  of  "Biblical"  and  "ecclesias- 
tical" words,  as  given  by  Cremer  and  Thayer,  and 
has  shown  from  the  papyri,  ostraka,  inscriptions, 
or  koine  writers  that  they  are  not  peculiar  to  the 
Bible,  but  belong  to  the  current  speech  of  the  time. 
The  proof  is  so  overwhelming  and  extensive  that 
it  cannot  be  given  here.  Some  words  have  not  yet 
been  found  in  the  non-Bib.  koine,  but  they  may 
be  any  day.  Some  few  words,  of  course,  belong 
to  the  very  nature  of  Christianity  (xpicmai^s, 
christianos,  for  instance),  but  dirSaroXos,  apostolos, 
fia.irTiap.bs,  baptismOS,  irdpoLKOS,  pdroikos,  avva- 
70777,  sunagogt,  and  hundreds  of  others  can  no 
longer  be  listed  as  "Biblical."  New  meanings  come 
to  old  words  also.  Cf  oaip.6vt.ov,  daimdnion.  It 
is  interesting  to  note  that  the  NT  shows  many  of 
the  words  found  in  Aristophanes,  who  caught  up 
the  vernacular  of  his  day.  The  koine  uses  more 
words  from  the  lower  strata  of  society.  Aris- 
totle likewise  has  many  words  common  in  the 
koine,  since  he  stands  at  the  parting  of  the  ways 
between  the  old  dialects  and  the  new  koine  of  Alex- 
ander's conquests.  The  koine  develops  a  fondness 
for  compound  and  even  double  compound  (ses- 
quipedalian) words;  cf,  for  instance,  dveKSi-qy-qros, 
anekdiegetos;  dvexXdXrjTos,  anekldletos;  dve^epe6vr]Tos, 
anexereunetos;  di'TawoKpivo/xcu,  antapokrinomai;  oIko- 
8ecnr6T7]s,  oikodespotes;  oXiybfvxos,  oligopsuchos; 
TrpoaavfnrXtipba},  prosanaplerdd;  <TvvavTiKap.(3avop.ai, 
sunantilambdnomai;  inrepevTvyxdvu,  huperentugchdno; 
Xpv<ro5a.KTv\ios,  chrusodaklulios,  etc.  The  use  of 
diminutives  is  also  noteworthy  in  the/coi«eas  in  the 
modern  Gr:  cf  dvydrpiov,  thugdtrion;  Kkwdpiov,  kli- 
ndrion;  Kopdawv,  kordsion;  Kwdpiov,  kundrion;  ovdpiov, 
ondrion;  ovdpiov,  opsdrion;  TrXoidpcov,  ploidrion; 
urlov,  otion,  etc.  The  formation  of  words  by  juxta- 
position is  very  common  as  in  ir\r]po-(pop^u,  plero- 
phoreb,  x€lP^-lPa<Pw,  cheiro-graphon.  In  phonetics 
it  is  to  be  noticed  that  «,  ot,  77,  77,  v,  1  all  had  the 
value  of  ee  in  "feet."  This  itacism  was  apparent 
in  the  early  koine.  So  cu  =  e  and  0  and  w  were  not 
sharply  distinguished.  The  Attic  tt  became  era, 
save  in  a  few  instances,  like  iXdrrw,  eldtto,  Kpeir- 
ruiv,  kreitton.  The  tendency  toward  de-aspira- 
tion (cf  Ionic)  was  manifest;  cf  i<p'  eX-rridi,  eph' 
helpidi,  for  the  reverse  process.  Elision  is  less  fre- 
quent than  in  Attic,  but  assimilation  is  carried 
farther.  The  variable  final  consonants  v  and  s 
are  used  generally  before  consonants.  We  find 
-et-  for  -tet-  as  in  Tvetv.  Ovdeis,  oulheis,  and  p.t)6eis, 
metheis,  are  common  till  100  BC,  when  they 
gradually  disappear  before  ovdeis,  oudeis,  and 
p.7)8<=is,  medels.  In  general  there  is  less  sense  of 
rhythm  and  more  simplicity  and  clearness.  Some 
of  the  subtle  refinements  of  form  and  syntax  of  the 
classic  did  not  survive  in  the  koine  vernacular.  In 
accidence  only  a  few  points  may  be  noted.  In 
substantives  the  Ionic  -73775,  -res,  is  frequent.  The 
Attic  second  declension  vanishes.  In  the  third  de- 
clension forms  like  vvktclv,  nuktan,  show  assimilation 
to  the  first.  Both  x^PLV,  chdrin,  and  x°-PLTa,  chdrita, 
occur.  Contraction  is  sometimes  absent  (cf  Ionic) 
as  in  6piuv,  oreon.  Adjectives  show  forms  like 
da<pa\y}v,  asphalen,  and  indeclinable  -n-X-qp-qs,  pleres, 
appears,  and  irdv,  pan,  for  irdvra,  pdnta  (cf  p-tyav, 
megan),  5vai,  dusi,  for  dvotv,  duoin.  The  dual  is 
gone.  Even  the  dual  pronouns  eicdrepos,  hekd- 
teros,  and  vSrepos,  poteros,  are  rare.  T/s,  lis,  is 
occasionally  used  like  8<ttls,  hostis.  "Os  idv,  hds 
edn,  is  more  frequent  than  5s  &v,  hds  an,  in  the  1st 
cent.  AD.  The  two  conjugations  blend  more  and 
more  into  one,  as  the  /xt-forms  vanish.  There  is 
some  confusion  in  the  use1  of  -dw  and  -ew-verbs, 
and  new  presents  occur  like  diroKre'vvto,  apoktenno, 
oirrdvu},  opldno,  <TTrj<w,  stfko.  The  forms  yivop.ai, 
ginomai,  yivwaKw,  gindsko,  are  the  rule  now.     There 


is  much  increase  in  aorists  like  e<rxa,  escha,  and 
imperfects  like;  eixa.,  eicha.  The  form  -ouav,  -osan 
(eixoaav,  eichosan,  eaxoaav,  eschosan)  occasionally 
appears.  Quite  frequent  is  a  perfect  like  deduicav, 
dedokan,  and  the  augment  is  often  absent  in  the  plu- 
perfect as  in  5«5w/c«,  dedokei.  Per  contra,  a  double 
augment  occurs  in  direKa.Te'j-TTi,  apekateste,  and  a 
treble  augment  in  Ti^VX^vaau,  enedchthesan.  The 
temporal  augment  is  often  absent  with  diphthong 
as  in  ocKoSop.r]dr],  oikodomtthe.  The  koine  has 
-Tcoo-av,  -tosan,  not  -vtwv,  -nton.  In  syntax  the 
tendency  is  toward  simplicity,  to  short  sentences, 
the  paratactic  construction,  and  the  sparing  use  of 
particles.  The  vernacular  koine  avoids  both  the 
bombast  of  Asianism  and  the  artificiality  of  Atti- 
cism. There  is,  indeed,  more  freedom  in  violating 
the  rules  of  concord  as  to  gender,  number,  and  case. 
The  nominativus  pendens  is  common.  The  com- 
parative does  duty  often  for  the  superlative  adjec- 
tive, and  the  superlative  generally  has  the  elative 
sense.  The  accusative  is  increasingly  common 
with  verbs.  The  line  between  transitive  and  in- 
transitive verbs  is  not  a  hard-and-fast  one.  The 
growth  in  the  use  of  prepositions  both  with  nouns 
and  in  composition  is  quite  noticeable,  but  some  of 
the  older  prepositions,  like  dp.<pl,  amphl,  are  vanish- 
ing. The  cases  used  with  various  prepositions  are 
changing.  The  instrumental  use  of  iv,  en,  is  very 
common.  Many  new  adverbial  and  prepositional 
phrases  have  developed.  The  optative  is  nearly 
dead  and  the  infinitive  (apart  from  the  use  of  rod, 
tou,  iv  t$,  en  to,  eh  t6,  eis  to,  with  the  infinitive)  is 
decaying  before  tva,  hina.  The  future  part,  is  rare. 
M77,  mi,  begins  to  encroach  on  ov,  on,  with  infinitives 
and  participles.  The  periphrastic  conjugation  is 
specially  common.  The  direct  discourse  is  more 
frequent  than  the  indirect.  The  non-final  use  of 
tVa,  hina,  is  quite  noticeable.  There  are,  besides, 
dialectical  and  provincial  peculiarities,  but  these 
do  not  destroy  the  real  unity  of  the  vernacular 
koine  any  more  than  do  individual  traits  of  separate 
writers. 

//.  Literary  Elements  in  the  NT. — Deissmann 
(Light  from  the  Ancient  East,  245)  is  disposed  to 
deny  any  literary  quality  to  the  NT  books  save 
the  Ep.  to  the  He.  "The  Ep.  to  the  He  shows  us 
Christianity  preparing  for  a  flight  from  its  native 
levels  into  the  higher  region  of  culture,  and  we  are 
conscious  of  the  beginnings  of  a  Christian  world- 
literature."  He  speaks  of  it  also  as  "a  work  which 
seems  to  hang  in  the  background  like  an  intruder 
among  the  NT  company  of  popular  books."  One 
feels  that  this  is  an  extreme  position  and  cannot 
be  justified  by  the  facts.  It  is  true  that  Peter  and 
John  were  dypdp.p.a.Toi.  kolI  t'SicDrcu,  agrdmmatoi  kai 
idiotai  (Acts  4  13),  and  not  men  of  the  schools, 
but  this  was  certainly  not  the  case  with  Luke  and 
Paul  who  were  men  of  literary  culture  in  the  truest 
sense.  Luke  and  Paul  were  not  Atticists,  but  that 
artificial  idiom  did  not  represent  the  best  type  of 
culture.  Deissmann  admits  that  the  NT  has  be- 
come literature,  but,  outside  of  He,  he  denies  any 
literary  quality  in  its  composition.  Paul,  for  in- 
stance, wrote  only  "letters,"  not  "epistles."  But 
Rom  and  Eph  confront  us.  See  Milligan,  Gr  Papyri, 
xxxi,  for  a  protest  against  the  sweeping  statement 
of  Deissmann  on  this  point.  One  need  not  go  to 
the  extreme  of  Blass,  "Die  rhythmische  Komposi- 
tion  des  Hebr.  Briefes,"  Theol.  Studien  und  Kritik, 
1902,  420-61;  Die  Rythmen  der  asiatischen  und 
romischen  Kunstprosa,  1905,  to  find  in  Hebrews 
and  Paul's  writings  illustrations  of  the  artificial 
rules  of  the  Asianists.  There  is  undoubtedly 
rhythm  in  Paul's  eloquent  passages  (cf  1  Cor  13, 
15),  but  it  is  the  natural  poetic  quality  of  a  soul 
aflame  with  high  passions,  not  conformity  to  rules 
of  rhetoric.     To  deny  literary  quality  to  Luke  and 


1831 


THE   INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA    Language  of  NT 


Paul  is  to  give  a  narrow  meaning  to  the  word 
"literary''  and  to  be  the  victim  of  a  theory. 
Christianity  did  make  use  of  the  vernacular  koine, 
the  wonderful  world-speech  so  providentially  at 
hand.  But  the  personal  equation  figured  here  as 
always.  Men  of  culture  differ  in  their  conversa- 
tion from  illiterate  men  and  more  nearly  approxi- 
mate literary  style.  It  is  just  in  Luke,  Paul,  and 
the  author  of  He  that  we  discover  the  literary 
flavor  of  men  of  ability  and  of  culture,  though  free 
from  artificiality  and  pedantry.  The  eloquence  of 
He  is  that  of  passion,  not  of  the  art  of  Asianism. 
Indeed,  the  Gospels  all  show  literary  skill  in  the 
use  of  material  and  in  beauty  of  language.  The 
Gospel  of  Jn  has  the  rare  elevation  and  dignity 
of  the  highest  type  of  mind.  There  is  no  Atticistic 
tendency  in  the  NT  as  in  Jos,  Ant.  There  is  no 
posing  for  the  present  or  for  posterity.  It  is  the 
language  of  life,  the  vernacular  in  the  main,  but 
rising  at  times  from  the  very  force  of  passion  to 
high  plateaus  of  emotion  and  imagination  and 
poetic  grace  from  the  pens  of  men  of  real  ability, 
and  in  some  instances  of  high  culture. 

///.  The  Semitic  Influence. — It  is  no  longer  pos- 
sible to  explain  every  variation  in  the  NT  from  the 
classic  Attic  by  the  term  Hebraism.  That  easy 
solution  has  disappeared.  Sooth  to  say,  when  the 
true  character  of  the  vernacular  koine  is  understood, 
there  is  not  very  much  left  to  explain.  The  NT 
Gr  as  a  rule  is  just  normal  koine.  Milligan  {(lr 
Papyri,  xxx)  admits  on  the  part  of  Moulton  "an 
overtendency  to  minimize"  the  "presence  of  un- 
doubted Hebraisms,  both  in  language  and  gram- 
mar." That  is  true,  and  is  due  to  his  strong  reac- 
tion against  the  old  theory  of  so  many  Hebraisms. 
The  Semiticisma  (Hebraisms  and  Aramaisms)  are 
very  natural  results  of  the  fact  that  the  vernacular 
koine  was  used  by  Jews  who  read  the  Ileb  Bible 
and  the  LXX  tr,  and  who  also  spoke  Aram,  as  their 
native  tongue.  The  LXX,  as  tr  of  Gr,  directly 
from  the  Heb  (or  Aram.),  has  a  much  greater  number 
of  these  Semiticisms.  See  Swete,  An  Intro  to  the 
Or  in  Gr  (1900),  for  the  salient  facts.  Thackeray 
in  his  Grammar  of  the  OT  in  Gr  (1909)  shows  "the 
kolvt) — the  basis  of  Septuagint  Gr"  in  §3,  and  in 
§4  discusses  "the  Sem  element  in  Septuagint  Gr." 
The  matter  varies  in  different  parts  of  the  LXX, 
but  in  all  parts  the  Sem  influence  goes  far  beyond 
what  it  is  in  the  NT.  In  the  NT  we  have  free 
composition  in  Gr,  except  in  certain  port  ions  of  the 
Gospels  and  Acts  where  Aram,  originals  (oral  or 
written)  lie  beyond  the  Gr  text.  So  in  particular 
Lk  1,  the  words  of  Jesus  in  Lk  2,  and  the  opening 
chapters  of  Acts.  See  Dalman,  Words  of  Jesus 
(1902),  and  J.  T.  Marshall,  "The  Aram.  Gospel," 
Expos,  Ser.  IV  vols  1I-VIII;  see  also  Aramaic 
supra.  There  is,  to  some  extent,  translation-Gr, 
as  in  the  LXX.  The  quotations  from  the  OT 
are  either  from  the  Heb  original,  or,  as  most  fre- 
quently, from  the  LXX.  In  either  case  we  have 
translation-Gr  again.  These  two  classes  cover  the 
more  obvious  Semiticisms  if  we  add  Heb  names 
(persons  and  places)  and  other  transliterations  like 
&pa58wv,  abaddon,  dXX^Xowa,  allelouia.  The  Gr 
of  the  LXX  does  not,  of  course,  give  a  true  picture 
of  the  Gr  spoken  by  the  Jews  in  Alexandria  or  in 
Pal.  But  the  constant  reading  of  the  LXX  was 
bound  to  leave  its  impress  on  the  style  of  the  people 
(cf  the  King  James  Version  and  the  Eng.  language). 
The  surprise,  in  fact,  is  not  the  number  of  Semiti- 
cisms, but,  all  things  considered,  the  fewness  of 
them.  Luke,  just  because  he  was  a  Gentile  and  so 
noted  the  Hebraisms  in  the  LXX,  shows  rather  more 
of  them  than  the  other  NT  writers:  cf  -rrpoaddero 
rpirov  irip\pai,  prosetheto  triton  pempsai  (Lk  20 
12).  Some  of  the  points  of  style  so  common  in  the 
LXX  find  occasional  ||  in  the  papyri  or  inscriptions, 


like  /SX^wj'  /3\«rw,  blepon  blepo,  xapi  Xa'Pw,  chard 
chairo,  6v  .  .  .  .  avTov,  hdn  ....  anion.  Others 
are  more  obviously  imitations  of  the  Heb  style,  as 
in  apeaxeLv  ivwwibv  twos,  areskein  enopion  linos, 
rather  than  apeaneiv  tlvL,  areskein  tini.  But  there 
is  a  certain  dignity  and  elevation  of  style  so  char- 
acteristic of  the  Heb  OT  that  reappears  in  the  NT. 
The  frequent  use  of  Kal,  kai,  in  parts  of  the  NT 
reminds  one  of  the  LXX  and  the  Heb  waw.  There 
is,  besides,  an  indefinable  tone  in  the  NT  that  is 
found  in  the  OT.  Swete  (Apocalypse  of  St.  John, 
exx)  laments  the  tendency  to  depreciate  unduly  the 
presence  of  Hebraisms  in  the  NT.  The  pendulum 
may  have  swung  too  far  away  from  the  truth.  It 
will  strike  the  level,  but  we  shall  never  again  be 
able  to  fill  our  grammars  and  comms.  with  explana- 
tions of  so  many  peculiar  Hebraisms  in  the  NT. 
On  the  whole  the  Gr  NT  is  standard  vernacular 
koine. 

IV.  Individual  Peculiarities  of  NT  Writers. — 
There  is  not  space  for  an  extended  discussion  of 
this  topic.  The  fact  itself  calls  for  emphasis,  for 
there  is  a  wide  range  in  style  between  Mark's  Gos- 
pel and  He,  1  Pet  and  Rom,  Luke's  Gospel  and  the 
Apocalypse.  There  are  no  Atticists  found  in  the 
NT  (cf  4  Mace  in  the  LXX  and  Jos),  but  there 
are  the  less  literary  writings  (Mt,  Mk,  the  Johan- 
nine  books,  the  other  catholic  epp.)  and  the  more 
literary  writings  (Luke's  writings,  Paul's  Epp.,  and 
He).  But  even  so,  no  hard-and-fast  line  can  be 
drawn.  Moulton,  Cambridge  Biblical  Essays,  484, 
thinks  2  Pet  more  like  the  Atticistic  writings,  "though 
certainly  the  Atticists  would  have  scorned  to  own 
a  book  so  full  of  'solecisms.'  "  Moulton  assumes 
that  2  Pet  is  pseudepigraphic,  and  does  not  credit 
the  notion  that  the  crude  "Babu"  Gr,  to  use  Ab- 
bott's term,  may  be  Peter's  own  uncorrected  style 
(cf  Acts  4  13),  while  1  Pet  may  have  the  smoothing 
effect  of  Silvanus' hand  (cf  1  Pet  5  12).  A  similar 
explanation  is  open  concerning  the  grammatical 
lapses  of  the  Apocalypse,  since  John  is  also  called 
dy pawaT os,  agrdmmatos,  in  Acts  4  13,  whereas 
the  Gospel  of  Jn  may  have  had  the  revision  of  the 
elders  of  Ephesus  (cf  Jn  21  24).  But  whatever 
the  explanation,  there  is  no  doubt  of  the  wide  di- 
vergencesof  style  between  different  books  and  groups 
of  books  in  the  NT  list.  The  Lukan,  Johannine, 
Petrine,  Pauline  groups  stand  apart,  but  with 
cleavages  within  each  group.  Harnack  (Luke  the 
Physician,  1907;  The  Sayings  of  Jesus,  1908;  The 
Acts  of  the  Apostles,  1909;  The  Date  of  the  Acts  of 
the  Apostles,  1911)  has  accepted  and  strengthened 
the  contention  of  Hawkins  (Horae  Synopticae, 
2d  ed,  1909)  and  of  Hobart  (Medical  Language  of 
Luke,  1882)  that  the  medical  terms  in  the  Gospel 
of  Luke  and  of  Acts  show  that  the  books  were 
written  by  the  same  writer  and  that  a  physician, 
and  so  Luke.  The  diversities  in  style  here  and 
there  are  chiefly  due  to  the  sources  of  information 
used.  Even  in  the  Pauline  books,  which  form  so 
well-marked  a  collection,  striking  diversities  of 
language  and  style  appear.  But  these  letters  cover 
a  period  of  some  15  years  of  intense  activity  and 
mental  and  spiritual  development,  and  treat  a 
great  variety  of  topics.  They  properly  reflect  the 
changing  phases  of  Paul's  preaching  of  the  cross 
of  Christ  in  different  places  and  under  varying  cir- 
cumstances and  confronting  ever  fresh  problems. 
The  plays  of  Shakespeare  offer  a  useful  parallel. 
Even  in  Paul's  old  age,  in  the  Pastoral  Epistles  the 
stamp  of  Paul's  spirit  is  admitted  by  those  who 
admit  only  Pauline  fragments;  cf  J.  Weiss,  Bei- 
trdge  zur  Paulinschen  Rhetorik  (1897).  The_  style 
is  indeed  the  man,  but  style  is  also  the  function  of 
the  subject,  and  style  varies  with  different  periods 
of  a  man's  life.  E.  A.  Abbott  has  made  an  ex- 
cellent   discussion    of    the    Johannine     Vocabulary 


Languages  of  OT      THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1832 


(1905)  and  of  Johannine  Grammar  (1900),  but  special 
grammars  of  each  writer  are  hardly  to  be  expected 
or  desired.  But  Nageli  has  begun  a  study  of  Paul's 
vocabulary  in  his  Wortschalz  des  A  posh  Is  1 'aid us 
(190.")).  The  Gospel  of  Mt  shows  very  lit  tie  of  that 
Hebraism  that  one  would  expect  from  the  general 
purpose  and  lone  of  the  book.  It,  is  possible,  of 
course,  that  the  supposed  original  was  in  Aram.,  or, 
if  in  Or,  of  a  more  Hebraistic  type.  Whether  the 
present  Or  Mt  made  use  of  Mark's  Gospel  and  a 
collection  of  Logia  (Q),  we  do  not  know.  Cer- 
tainly Mark's  Gospel  is  written  in  colloquial  koine 
with  little  evidence  of  the  culture  of  the  schools. 
Mark  is  a  faithful  reporter  and  does  his  work  with 
rare  simplicity  and  vividness.  He  reveals  clearly 
the  Aram,  background  of  Christ's  teaching.  The 
writings  of  James  and  Jude  do  not  show  that  only 
Gr  was  spoken  in  the  home  at  Nazareth,  nor  that 
they  used  only  Aram.  These  two  epp.  are  evidently 
free  compositions  in  Gr  with  much  of  the  freshness 
of  imagery  so  manifest  in  the  parables  of  Jesus 
Himself.  This  brief  sketch  does  not  do  justice  to 
the  richness  and  variety  of  language  in  the  books 
of  the  NT. 

V.  The  "koine"  Spoken  by  Jesus. — See  Ara- 
maic Language  for  proof  that  Jesus  spoke  that 
language  as  the  vernacular  of  the  people  of  Pal. 
But  Christ  spoke  the  koi/te  also,  so  that  the  NT  is 
not  an  idiom  that  was  unknown  to  the  Master. 
Gwilliam  (1-vol  HDB,  "Language  of  Christ")  does 
still  deny  that  Jesus  spoke  Or,  while  Roberts  takes 
the  other  extreme  in  his  book,  Gr  the  Language 
of  Christ  and  His  Apostles  (1888).  Per  contra 
again,  Julicher  considers  it  impossible  to  suppose 
that  Jesus  used  Or  (art.  "Hellenism"  in  EB). 
J.  E.  II.  Thomson,  "The  Language  of  Pal  during 
the  Time  of  Our  Lord"  (Temple,  Bible  Diet.)  argues 
convincingly  that  Pal  was  bi-lingual  and  that  Jesus 
knew  and  spoke  Or  as  well  as  Aram.  Peter  evi- 
dently spoke  in  Or  on  the  Day  of  Pentecost  and 
was  understood  by  all.  Paul  was  understood  in 
Jems  when  he  spoke  in  Gr  (Acts  21  37).  Jesus 
taught  in  Decapolis,  a  Or  region,  in  the_  region  of 
Tyre  and  Sidon  (Or  again).  Galilee  itself  was 
largely  inhabited  by  Gentiles  who  spoke  Or.  At 
the  time  of  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  we  read  that 
people  were  present  from  Decapolis  and  Peraea, 
besides  the  mixed  multitude  from  Galilee,  Judaea, 
and  Jerus  (Mt  4  25;  Lk  6  17).  Thomson  proves 
also  that  in  Matthew's  Gospel  the  quotation  from  t  he 
OT  in  the  words  of  Jesus  is  from  the  LNN,  while 
Matthew's  own  quotations  are  from  the  Heb.  The 
case  seems  clear.  It  is  not  possible  to  say  always 
when  Jesus  spoke  Gr  and  when  Aramaic.  That 
would  depend  on  the  audience.  But  it  is  practically 
certain  that  Christ  Himself  knew  and  spoke  at  will 
the  vernacular  koine,  and  thus  had  this  linguistic 
bond  with  the  great  world  of  that  era  and  with 
lovers  of  the  Gr  Test,  today. 

Literature. — The  lit.  on  this  subject  is  very  exten- 
sive. The  most  important  volumes  have  been  mentioned 
in  the  discussion  above. 

A.    T.    ROBEKTSON 

LANGUAGES,  lan'gwaj-es,  OF  THE  OLD 
TESTAMENT: 

I.     The  Semitic  Languages 

1.  Members  of  Semitic  Family 

2.  The  Name  Hebrew 

3.  Old  Hebrew  Literature 

II.     History  of  the  Hebrew  Language 

1.  Oldest  Form  of  Language 

2.  The  Hebrew  of  the  OT 

3.  Its  Uniformity 

4.  The  Cause  Thereof 

5.  Differences  Due  to  Ago 
0.    Differences  of  Style 

7.  Foreign  Influences 

8.  Poetry  and  Prose 

9.  Home  of  the  Hebrew  Language 

10.  Its  Antiquity 

11.  When  Hebrew  Became  a  Dead  Language 


III.     Chief  Characteristics  op  Hebrew 

1.  Characteristic  Sounds 

2.  Letters  Representing  Two  Sounds 

3.  Consonants  Representing  Vowels 

4.  The  Syllable 

5.  Three- Letter  Roots 

(S.   Conjugations  or  Derived  Stems 

7.   Absence  of  Tenses 

S.  The  Pronouns 

9.    formation  of  Nouns 

10.  Internal  Inflexion 

1 1.  Syntax  of  the  Verb 

12.  Syntax  of  the  Noun 
Li.    Poverty  of  Adjectives 

IV.     Biblical  Aramaic 

1.  Aramaic  Portions  of  the  OT 

2.  Phonology 

3.  Grammar 

4.  Syntax 

5.  Aramaic  More  Decadent    than  Hebrew 
V.     Literary  Characteristics  of  the  Semites 

1.  Concrete  and  Abstract 

2.  View  of  Nature 

3.  Pictorial  Imagination 

4.  Prose  and  Poetry 

5.  Hebrew  Easy  of  Translation 
Literature 

There  were  only  two  languages  employed  in  the 
archetypes  of  the  OT  books  (apart  from  an  Egyp 
or  l'ers  or  Or  word  here  and  there),  namely,  Heb 
and  Bib.  Aram.,  both  of  which  belong  to  the  great 
family  of  languages  known  as  Semitic. 

/.  The  Semitic  Languages.  —  The  languages 
spoken  in  Southwestern  Asia  during  the  historical 
period  dealt  with  in  the  Bible  have  been  named 
Shemitic,  after  the  son  of  Noah  from  whom  the  ma- 
jority of  peoples  speaking  these_  languages — Arabs, 
Hebrews,  Aramaeans  and  Assyrians  (Gen  10  21  ff) 
— were  descended.  To  show,  however,  that  the 
descript  ion  does  not  fit  exactly  the  thing  described — 
the  Elamites  and  Lydians  having  probably  not 
spoken  a  Shemitic  language,  and  the  Canaanites, 
including  Phoenicians,  with  the  colonists  descended 
from  those  at  Carthage  and  elsewhere  in  the  Medi- 
terranean coast  lands,  as  well  as  the  Abyssinians 
(Ethiopians),  who  did,  being  reckoned  descendants 
of  Ham  (Gen  9  IS;  10  6  ff )— the  word  is  now  gen- 
erally written  "Semitic,"  a  term  introduced  by  Eich- 
horn  (1787).  These  languages  were  spoken  from 
the  Caspian  Sea  to  the  S.  of  Arabia,  and  from  the 
Mediterranean  to  the  valley  of  the  Tigris. 

The  following  list  shows  the  chief  members  of  this 
family: 

(1)  South    Semitic    or    Arabic,    in- 

1.  Members  eluding  the  language  of  the  Sabaean 
of  Semitic  (Himyaritic)  inscriptions,  as  well  as 
Family  Ge'ez    or    Ethiopic.     Arab,     is     now 

spoken  from  the  Caucasus  to  Zanzi- 
bar, and  from  the  East  Indies  to  the  Atlantic. 

(2)  Middle  Sem  or  Canaanitish,  including  Heb, 
old  and  new,  Phoen,  wdth  Punic,  and  Moabitish 
(language  of  MS). 

(3)  North  Sem  or  Aram.,  including  (a)  East 
Aram,  or  Syrian  (language  of  Syrian  Christians), 
language  of  Bab  Talm,  Mandaean;  (b)  West  or 
Palestinian  Aram,  of  the  Tgs,  Palestinian  Talm 
(Gemara),  Bib.  Aram.  ("Chaldee"),  Samaritan, 
language  of  Nabataean  inscriptions. 

(4)  East  Sem — language  of  Assyr-Bab  inscrip- 
tions. 

With  the  exception  of  a  few  chapters  and  frag- 
ments mentioned  below,  the  OT  is  written  entirely 
in   Heb.     In   the   OT  itself  this  lan- 

2.  The  guage  is  called  "the  Jews'  "  (2  K  18  26. 
Name             28).     In  Isa  19  18  it  is  called  poeti- 
Hebrew         cally,  what  in  fact  it  was,  "the  lan- 
guage    [Heb   "lip"]  of  Canaan."     In 

the  appendix  to  the  LXX  of  Job  it  iscalled  Syriae; 
and  in  the  introduction  to  Ecclus  it  is  for  the  first 
time — that  is,  in  130  BC — named  Heb.  The  term 
I  leb  in  the  NT  denotes  the  language  of  the  OT  in 
Rev  9  11,  but  in  Jn  5  2;  19  13.17  this  term  means 
the  vernacular  Aramaic.     In  other  passages  it  is 


1833 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA      Languages  of  OT 


3.  Old 

Hebrew 
Literature 


doubtful  which  is  meant.  Jos  uses  the  same  name 
for  both.  From  the  time  of  the  Tgs,  Ileb  is  called 
"the  sacred  tongue"  in  contrast  to  the  Aram,  of 
everyday  use.  The  language  of  the  OT  is  called 
Old  Heb  in  contrast  to  the  New  Heb  of  the  Mish, 
the  rabbinic,  the  Spanish  poetry,  etc. 

Of  Old  Heb  the  remains  are  contained  almost 
entirely  in  the  OT.  A  few  inscriptions  have  been 
recovered,  i.e.,  the  Siloam  Inscriptions, 
a  Heb  calendar,  a  large  number  of 
ostraka  from  Samaria,  a  score  of  pre- 
exilic  seals,  and  coins  of  the  Macca- 
bees and  of  the  time  of  Vespasian  and 
Hadrian. 

Literature. — E.  Renan,  Histoire  generate  et  systeme 
compare  des  lanaues  sSmitiques;  P.  Hommel,  Die  semit. 
Volker  u.  Sprachen;  the  comparative  grammars  of  Wright 
and  Brockelmann;  CIS;  art.  "  Semitic  Languages"  in  Enc 
Brit,  and  Murray's  Illustrated  Bible  Diet. 

II.  History  of  the  Hebrew  Language. — Ileb  as  it 
appears  to  us  in  the  OT  is  in  a  state  of  decadence 
corresponding  to  the  present  position  of  spoken 
Arabic.  In  the  earliest  period  it  no  doubt  resem- 
bled the  classical  Arabic  of  the  7th  and  following 
centuries.  The  variations  found  between  the  various 
strata  of  the  language  occurring  in  the  OT  are  slight 
compared  with  the  difference  between  modern  and 
ancient  Arabic. 

Heb  was  no  doubt  originally  a  highly  inflected 
language,  like  classical  Arabic.  The  noun  had 
three  cases,  noin.,  gen.,  and  ace,  end- 
ing in  um,  im.  am,  respectively,  as  in 
the  Sabaean  inscriptions.  Both  vbs. 
and  nouns  had  three  numbers  (sing., 
dual  and  pi.)  and  two  genders,  masc. 
In  the  noun  the  dual  and  pi.  had  tw< 


1.  Oldest 
Form  of 
Language 


and  fern. 

cases.  The  dual  and  2d  and  3d  pers.  pi.  and  2d 
pers.  sing.  fern,  of  theimpf.  of  the  vb.  ended  in  nun. 
In  certain  positions  the  m  of  the  endings  um,  im, 
am  in  the  noun  was  dropped.  The  vb.  had  three 
moods,  indicative,  subjunctive,  and  jussive,  ending 
in  u,  a,  and  -  respectively;  as  well  as  many  forms 
or  stems,  each  of  which  had  an  active  and  passive 
voice. 

In  the  Heb  of  the  OT  most  of  these  inflexions  have 

disappeared.     Of  the  three  cases  of  the  noun  only 

the   ace.   am   has  survived   in   a  few 

2.  The  adverbial  forms,  such  as  'omndm, 
Hebrew  of  ''truly."  The  dual  has  entirely  dis- 
the  OT  appeared  from  the  vb.,  and  also  from 

the  noun,  with  the  exception  of  things 
that  occur  in  pairs,  such  as  hand,  eye,  which  have 
no  pi.  The  nom.  case  of  the  dual  and  pi.  of  the 
noun  has  disappeared,  and  the  oblique  case  is  used 
for  both.  Except  in  cases  of  poetic  archaism  the 
final  nun  of  the  vb.  has  been  lost,  and,  as  the  final 
vowels  have  fallen  away  in  vbs.,  as  well  as  in  nouns, 
the  result  is  that  the  jussive  forms  serve  for  indie. 
and  subj.  also.  Many  of  the  forms  or  stems  have 
fallen  into  desuetude, 'and  the  passive  forms  of  two 
alone  are  used. 

One  of  the  most  remarkable  facts  connected  with 
the  Heb  of  the  OT  is  that  although  that  lit .  extends 

through  a  period  of  over  1,000  years, 

3.  Its  Uni-  there  is  almost  no  difference  between 
formity  the  language  of  the  oldest  parts  and 

that  of  the  latest.  This  phenomenon 
is  susceptible  of  several  explanations.  In  the  first 
place,  nearly  the  whole  of  the  OT  lit.  is  religious  in 
character,  and  as  such  the  earliest  writ  ings  would 
become  the  model  for  the  later,  just  as  the  Koran 
— the  first  prose  work  composed  in  Arab,  which 
has  survived — has  become  the  pattern  for  all  future 
compositions.  The  same  was  true  for  many  cen- 
turies of  the  influence  of  Aristophanes  and  Euripides 
upon  the  language  of  educated  Greeks,  and,  it  is  said, 
of  t  he  influence  of  Confucius  upon  that  of  the  learned 
Chinese. 


But  a  chief  cause  is  probably  the  fact  that  the 

Sem   languages   do   not   vary   with   time,  but  with 

place.     The    Arab,    vocabulary    used 

4.  The  in  Morocco  differs  from  that  of  Egypt, 
Cause  but  the  Arab,  words  used  in  each  of 
Thereof          these  countries  have  remained  the  same 

for  centuries — in  fact,  since  Arab, 
began  to  be  spoken  in  them.  Similarly,  the  slight 
differences  which  are  found  in  the  various  parts  of 
the  OT  are  to  be  ascribed,  not  to  a  difference  of 
date,  but  to  the  fact  that  some  writers  belonged  to 
the  Southern  Kingdom,  some  to  the  Northern,  some 
wrote  in  Pal,  some  in  Babylonia  (cf  Neh  13  23.24; 
Jgs  12  6;   18  3). 

The  OT  lit.  falls  into  two  main  periods:    that 
composed  before   and  during  the   Bab   exile,   and 

that  which  falls  after  the  exile.     But 

5.  Differ-  even  between  these  two  periods  the 
ences  Due  differences  of  language  are  compara- 
to  Age  tively  slight,  so  that  it  is  often  difficult 

or  impossible  to  say  on  linguistic 
grounds  alone  whether  a  particular  chapter  is  pre- 
or  post-exilic,  and  scholars  of  the  first  rank  often 
hold  the  most  contrary  opinions  on  these  points. 
For  instance,  Dilhnann  places  the  so-called  docu- 
ment P  before  D  in  the  regal  period,  whereas  most 
critics  date  D  about  621  and  P  about  444  BC. 

It  is  needless  to  add  that  the  various  writers  differ 
from  one  another  in  point  of  style,  but  these  var- 
iations are  infinitesimal  compared  with 

6.  Differ-  those  of  Gr  and  Lat  authors,  and  are 
ences  of  due,  as  has  been  said  above,  largely 
Style  to    locality    and    environment.     Thus 

the  style  of  Hosea  is  quite  different 
from  that  of  his  contemporary  Amos,  and  that  of 
Deutero-Isa  shows  very  distinctly  the  mark  of  its 
place  of  composii  ion. 

A  much  more  potent  factor  in  modifying  the  lan- 
guage was  the  influence  of  foreign  languages  upon 

Heb,    esp.   in   respect   to   vocabulary. 

7.  Foreign  The  earliest  of  these  was  probably 
Influences     Egyp,  but  of  much  greater  importance 

was  Assyr,  from  which  Heb  gained  a 
largo  number  of  loan  words.  It  is  well  known  that 
the  Bab  script  was  used  for  commercial  purposes 
throughout  Southwestern  Asia,  even  before  the  He- 
brews entered  Canaan  (see  Text),  but  the  influence 
of  Babylon  upon  Pal  seems  to  have  been  greatly 
exaggerated.  The  main  point  of  contact  is  in  the 
mythology,  which  may  have  been  common  to  both 
peoples.  In  the  later,  esp.  post-exilic  stages  of  the 
language,  many  Aramaisms  are  found  in  respect 
to  syntax  as  well  as  vocabulary;  and  in  later  phases 
still,  Pers  and  even  Gr  words  are  found. 

As  in  other  languages,  so  in  Heb,  the  vocabulary 

of  t  he  poetical  lit.  differs  from  that  of  the  prose 

writers.     In   Heb,    however,    there  is 

8.  Poetry  not  the  hard-and-fast  distinction  be- 
and  Prose      tween  these  two  which  obtains  in  the 

classics.  Whenever  prose  becomes 
elevated  by  the  importation  of  feeling,  it  falls  into 
a  natural  rhythm  which  in  Heb  constitutes  poetry. 
Thus  most  of  the  so-called  prophetical  booksare 
poetical  in  form.  Another  mark  of  poetry  is  a 
return  to  archaic  grammatical  forms,  esp.  the 
restoration  of  the;  final  nun  in  the  vb. 

The  form  of  Sem  which  was  indigenous  in  the 

land  of  Canaan  is  sometimes  called  Middle  Sem. 

Before     the     Israelites     entered     the 

9.  Home  of  country,  it  was  the  language  of  the 
the  Hebrew  Canaanites  from  whom  the  Hebrews 
Language      took  it  over.     That  Heb  was  not  the 

language  of  Abraham  before  his  migra- 
tion appears  from  the  fact  that  he  is  called  an 
Aramaean  (Dt  26  5),  and  that  Laban's  native 
language  was  Aramaic  (Gm  31  47).  A  further 
point  is  that  the  word  "Sea"  is  used  for  the  West 


Languages  of  OT      THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1834 


and  "Negeb"  for  the  South,  indicating  Pal  as  the 
home  of  the  language  (so  Isa  19  18). 

As   the    aboriginal    inhabitants   of   the   land    of 
Canaan  were  not  Semites,  we  cannot  infer  the  exist- 
ence of  the  Ileb  language  any  earlier 

10.  Its  than  the  first  immigrations  of  Semites 
Antiquity       into  Pal,  that  is,  during  the  third  mil- 
lennium BC.     It  would  thus  be  a  much 

younger  member  of  the  Sem  family  than  Assyr-Bab, 
which  exhibits  all  the  marks  of  great  antiquity  long 
before  the  ileb  language  is  met  with. 

The  Bab  exile  sounded  the  death-knell  of  the  Ileb 

language.     The  educated  classes  were  deported  to 

Babylon  or  fled  to  Egypt,  and  those  who 

11.  When  remained  were  not  slow  to  adopt  the 
Hebrew  language  used  by  their  conquerors. 
Became  a  The  old  Ileb  became  a  literary  and 
Dead  sacred  tongue,  the  language  of  every- 
Language       day     life     being     probably     Aramaic. 

Whatever  may  be  the  exact  meaning 
of  Neh  8  8,  it  proves  that  the  people  of  that  time 
had  extreme  difficulty  in  understanding  classical 
Heb  when  it  was  read  to  them.  Yet  for  the  pur- 
pose of  religion,  the  old  language  continued  to  be 
employed  for  several  centuries.  For  patriotic 
reasons  it  was  used  by  the  Maccabees,  and  by  Bar 
Cochba  (135  AD). 

Literature. — Gesenlus,  Geschichte  der  hebr.  Sprache 
und  Schrift;  Bertheau,  "Hebr.  Sprache"  in  RE,  2d  ed; 
see  also  "Literature"  in  the  following  section. 

///.    Chief    Characteristics     of    Hebrew.  —  The 

special  marks  which  particularly  distinguish  a  lan- 
guage may  be  found  in  its  alphabet,  in  its  mode  of 
inflexion,  or  in  its  syntax. 

The  Heb  alphabet  is  characterized  by  the  large 

number  of  guttural  sounds  which  it  contains,  and 

these  are  not  mere  palatals  like  the 

1.  Charac-  Scotch  or  Ger.  ch,  but  true  throat 
teristic  sounds,  such  as  are  not  found  in  the 
Sounds  Aryan    languages.      Hence   when   the 

Phoen  alphabet  passed  over  into 
Greece,  these  unpronounceable  sounds,  3? ,  Jl ,  S""l ,  X  , 
were  changed  into  vowels,  A,  E,  II,  O.  In  Heb  the 
guttural  letters  predominate.  "In  the  Heb  dic- 
tionaries the  four  gutturals  occupy  considerably 
more  than  a  fourth  part  of  the  volume;  the  remain- 
ing eighteen  letters  occupying  considerably  less 
than  three-fourths."  Besides  the  guttural,  there 
are  three  strong  consonants  D,  p  and  2,  which  are 
sounded  with  compression  of  the  larynx,  and  are 
quite  different  from  our  t,  k  and  s.  In  Gr  the  first 
was  softened  into  0,  the  other  two  were  dropped 
as  letters  but  retained  as  numerals. 

Though  the  Heb  alphabet  comprises  no  more 
than  22  letters,  these  represent  some  30  different 

sounds,  for  the  6  letters  b,  g,  d,  k,  p 

2.  Letters  and  t,  when  they  fall  immediately  after 
Represent-  a  vowel,  are  pronounced  bh(v),  gh,  dh, 
ing  Two  kh,  ph  (/)  and  th.  Moreover,  the  gut- 
Sounds  turals  n  and  37  each  represent  two  dis- 
tinct sounds,  which  are  still  in  use  in 

Arabic.  The  letter  h  is  sometimes  sounded  at  the 
end  of  a  word  as  at  the  beginning. 

A  peculiarity  of  the  Heb  alphabet  is  that  the 

letters  are  all  consonants.     Four  of  these,  however, 

were    very    early    used    to    represent 

3.  Conso-  vowel  and  diphthong  sounds,  namely, 
nants  Rep-  X ,  h,  w  and  y.  So  long  as  Heb  was  a 
resenting  spoken  language  no  other  symbols 
Vowels  than  these  22  letters  were  used.     It 

was  not  until  the  7th  cent.  AD  at  the 
earliest  that  the  well-known  elaborate  system  of 
signs  to  represent  the  vowels  and  other  sounds  was 
invented  (see  Text). 

A  feat  ure  of  the  Heb  language  is  that  no  word  or 
syllable  may  begin  with  a  vowel:  every  syllable 
begins  with  a  consonant.     This  is  also  true  of  the 


other  Sem  languages,  except  Assyr-Bab.     When  in 

the    course    of    word-formation    a    syllable    would 

begin  with  a  vowel,  the  slighl  consonant 

4.  The  X  is   prefixed.     Moreover,  more  than 
Syllable  two  consonants  may  not  stand  with- 
out vowels  intervening,  as  in  the  Eng. 

word  "strength."  At  most,  two  consonants  may 
begin  a  syllable,  and  even  so  a  slight  vowel  is 
sounded  between  them,  as  kero' .  A  word  may  end 
in  two  consonants  without  vowels,  as  'amart,  but 
no  word  or  syllable'  ends  in  more  than  two. 

The  outstanding  feature  of  the  Sem  family  of 
languages  is  the  root,   consisting  of   three   conso- 
nants.    Practically,  the  triliteral  root 

5.  Three-  is  universal.  There  are  a  few  roots 
Letter  with  more  than  three  letters,  but 
Roots  many   of    the    quadriliteral    roots   are 

formed  by  reduplication,  as  kabkab  in 
Arabic.  Many  attempts  have  been  made  to  reduce 
three-letter  stems  to  two-letter  by  taking  the 
factors  common  to  several  roots  of  identical  mean- 
ing. Thus  UTi ,  TXWi  ,  U121,  "to  be  still,"  seem  all 
to  come  from  a  root  C" .  It  is  more  probable,  how- 
ever, that  the  root  is  always  triliteral,  but  may 
appear  in  various  forms. 

From  these  triliteral  roots  all  parts  of  the  vbs.  are 

formed.     The  root,  which,  it  ought  to  be  stated,  is 

not   the   infinitive,    but   the   3d    sin^. 

6.  Conjuga-  masc.  perf.  active,  expresses  the  simple 
tions  or  idea  without  qualification,  as  shabhar, 
Derived  "he  broke."  The  idea  of  intensity  is 
Stems             obtained  by  doubling  the  middle  stem 

letter,  as  shibber,  "he  broke  in  frag- 
ments"; the  passive  is  expressed  by  the  u-vowel 
in  the  first  place  and  the  a-vowel  in  the  last,  as 
shubbar,  "it  was  broken  in  fragments."  The 
reflexive  sense  prefixes  an  n  to  the  simple  root,  or  a 
t  (D)  to  the  intensive,  but  the  former  of  these  is  often 
used  as  a  passive,  as  nishbar,  "it  was  broken," 
hithkaddesh,  "he  sanctified  himself."  The  causa- 
tive meaning  is  given  by  prefixing  the  letter  h,  as 
mdlakh,  "he  was  king,"  himllkh,  "he  caused  [one] 
to  be  king."  A  somewhat  similar  method  of  vb. 
building  is  found  outside  the  Sem  language,  for 
example,  in  Turkish.  In  some  of  these  Sem  lan- 
guages the  number  of  formations  is  very  numerous. 
In  Heb  also  there  are  traces  of  stems  other  than 
those  generally  in  use. 

There  are  no  tenses  in  Heb,  in  our  sense  of  the 
word.     There  are  two  states,  usually  called  tenses, 

the  perfect  and  the  imperfect.     In  the 

7.  Absence  first  the  action  is  regarded  as  accom- 
of  Tenses      plished,  whether  in  the  past  or  future, 

as  shabhar,  "he  broke,"  "he  has 
broken,"  "he  will  have  broken,"  or  (in  prophetic 
narrative)  "he  will  break";  in  the  second,  the 
action  is  regarded  as  uncompleted,  "he  will  break," 
"he  was  breaking,"  "he  is  breaking,"  etc.  The 
present  is  often  expressed  by  the  participle. 

The  different  persons,  sing,  and  pi.,  are  expressed 
by  affixing  to  the  perfect,  and  by  prefixing  to  the 

imperfect,   fragments  of  the  personal 

8.  The  pronouns,  as  shdbharti,  "I  broke,"  sha- 
Pronouns       bharnu,  "we  broke,"  nishbor,  "we  will 

break,"  and  so  on.  The  fragments 
which  are  added  to  the  perfect  to  express  the  nomi- 
native of  the  pronouns  are,  with  some  modification, 
esp.  the  change  of  t  into  k,  added  to  the  vb.  to  ex- 
press the  accusative,  and  to  the  noun  to  express 
the  genitive;  for  example,  shabhartd,  "you  broke," 
shebhdrekhd,  "he  broke  you,"  bethekha,  "your  house"; 
sdpharnu,  "we  counted,"  sepharanu,  "he  counted 
us,"  siphrenu,  "our  book." 

The  same  principles  are  followed  in  regard  to  the 
noun  as  to  the  vb.  Many  nouns  consist  solely 
of  the  three  stem-letters  articulated  with  one  or 
with  two  vowels,  except  that  monosyllables   gen- 


1835 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA     Languages  of  OT 


erally  become  dissyllabic,  owing  to  the  difficulty  of 

pronouncing    two    vowelless    consonants   together: 

thus,  melekh,  "king,"  sepher,  "book," 

9.  Forma-  goren,  "threshingfloor"  (instead  of  malk, 
tion  of  siphr,  gnrn),  dabhar,  "a  word  or  thing," 
Nouns  karobh,  "near."    Nouns  denoting  place, 

instrument,  etc,  are  often  formed  by 
prefixing  the  letter  m  to  the  root,  as  mishpat, 
"justice,"  from  shaphat,  "he  judged,"  mazlegh,  "a 
fork."  Intensity  is  given  to  the  root  idea,  as  in 
the  vb.,  by  doubling  the  middle  consonant:  thus, 
horesh,  "working,"  harash  (for  harrash),  "work- 
man"; gonebh,  "stealing,"  gannabh,  "a  thief." 
Similarly,  words  denoting  incurable  physical  defects, 
'Mem,  "dumb,"  Hwwer,  "blind,"  heresh  (for  hirresh), 
"deaf  and  dumb."  The  fem.  of  nouns,  as  of  the 
3d  pers.  of  vbs.,  is  formed  by  adding  the  letter 
t,  which  when  final  is  softened  to  h,  gebh%rah, 
"queen-mother,"  "mistress,"  but  gebhirtekh,  "your 
mistress." 

The  inflexion  of  both  vbs.  and  nouns  is  accom- 
panied by  a  constant  lengthening  or  shortening  of 
the    vowels    of    the    word,    and    this 

10.  Internal  according  to  two  opposite  lines.     In 
Inflexion        vbs.    with   vowel-affixes   the   penulti- 
mate   vowel    disappears,    as    halakh, 

"he  went,"  halekhu,  "they  went";  in  the  noun  the 
ante-penultimate  vowel  disappears,  as  dabhar,  "a 
word,"  pi.  debharlm.  As  the  vowel  system,  as 
stated  above,  is  very  late,  the  vocalization  cannot 
be  accepted  as  that  of  the  living  tongue.  It  repre- 
sents rather  the  cant  illation  of  the  synagogue;  and 
for  this  purpose,  accents,  which  had  a  musical 
as  well  as  an  interpunctional  value,  have  been 
added. 

Heb  syntax  is  remarkable  for  it  s  simplicity.  Simple 

sentences  predominate  and  are  usually  connected 

by  the  conjunction  "and."_  Subordi- 

11.  Syntax  nate  sentences  are  comparatively  rare, 
of  the  Verb  but  descriptive  and  temporal  clauses 

are  not  uncommon.  In  the  main 
narrative,  the  predicates  are  placed  at  the  beginning 
of  the  sentence,  first  simply  in  the  root  form  (3d 
sing,  masc),  and  then  only  when  the  subject  has 
been  mentioned  does  the  predicate  agree  with  it. 
Descriptive  and  temporal  clauses  may  be  recog- 
nized by  their  having  the  subject  at  the  beginning 
(e.g.  Gen  12).  A  curious  turn  is  given  to  the 
narrative  by  the  fact  that  in  the  main  sentences, 
if  the  first  vb.  is  perfect,  those  which  follow  are  im- 
perfect, and  vice  versa,  the  conjunction  which 
coordinates  them  receiving  a  peculiar  vocalization 
—that  of  the  definite  article.  In  the  Eng.  Bible, 
descriptive  and  temporal  clauses  are  often  rendered 
as  if  they  were  parts  of  the  main  sentence,  for  ex- 
ample, in  the  first  verses  of  Gen  of  which  the  literal 
tr  is  somewhat  as  follows:  "At  the  beginning  of 
God's  creating  heaven  and  earth,  when  the  earth 
was  without  form  and  void,  and  God's  spirit  [or,  a 
great  wind]  moved  upon  the  face  of  the  water,  God 
said,  Let  there  be  light."  It  will  thus  be  seen  that 
the  structure  of  Heb  narrative  is  not  so  simple  as  it 
appears. 

In  the  Sem  languages,  compound  words  do  not 
occur,  but  this  deficiency  is  made  up  by  what  is 

called  the  construct  state.  The  old 
12.  Syntax  rule,  that  the  second  of  two  nouns 
of  the  Noun  which  depend  on  one  another  is  put 

in  the  genitive,  becomes,  in  Heb,  the 
first  of  two  such  nouns  is  put  in  the  construct 
state.  The  noun  in  the  construct  state  loses  the 
definite  article,  and  all  its  vowels  are  made  as  short 
as  possible,  just  as  if  it  were  the  beginning  of  a  long 
word:  for  example,  ha-bayith,  "the  house,  but  beth 
ha-melekh,  "the  house  of  the  king,"  "the  palace  ; 
dabhar,  "a  word,"  but  dibhere  ruah,  "words  of  wind, 
"windy  words." 


The  Heb  language  is  very  poor  in  adjectives,  but 
this  is  made  up  for  by  a  special  use  of  the  construct 
state  just  mentioned.  Thus  to  ex- 
13.  Poverty  press  magnitude  the  word  "God"  is 
of  Adjec-  added  in  the  gen.  case,  as  in  the  ex- 
tives  ample   above    (Gen  1  2),    "a   mighty 

wind"  =  a  wind  of  God;  Ps  36  6,  "the 
lofty  mountains"  =  the  mountains  of  God  (so  68 
15);  80  10,  "goodly  cedars"  =  cedars  of  God;  so 
"a  holy  man"  =  a  man  of  God;  "the  sacred  box"  = 
the  ark  of  God,  and  so  on;  cf  in  the  NT,  Mt  27  54, 
"the  son  of  God"  =  Lk  23  47,  "a  righteous  [man]." 
Matthew  was  thinking  in  Aram.,  Luke  in  Gr.  A 
similar  use  is  made  of  other  words,  e.g.  "stubborn" 
=  hard  of  neck;  "impudent"  =  hard  of  face;  "ex- 
tensive'^ broad  of  hands;  "miserable"  =  bitter  of 
soul. 

Literature. — The  articles  on  the  Heb  Language  in 
Schenkel's  Bibel-Lexikon,  1875,  by  Noldeke;  in  Enc  Brit, 
9th  ed,  by  Robertson  Smith;  11th  ed  by  Noldeke;  in  the 
Imperial  Bible  Diet.,  18(36,  by  T.  H.  Weir;  also  those  in 
HUB,  EB, 

Grammars:  A.  B.  Davidson's  Elementary  Heb  Gram- 
mar and  Syntax;  Gesenius,  Heb  Grammar,  ET  by  Cow- 
ley, 2d  ed.  . 

Dictionaries:  Brown,  Briggs  and  Driver,  Heb  and 
Eng.  Lexicon;  Gesenius,  Handwbrterbuch,  15th  ed;  Feyer- 
abend,  Heb- Eng.  Pocket  Dictionary;  Breslau,  Eng.  and 
Heb  Diet. 

IV.  Biblical  Aramaic. — The  Aram,  portions  of 

the  OT  are  the  following:    Ezr  4  8—6  18;    7  11- 

26;    Dnl  2  4—7  28;   Gen  31  47  (two 

1.  Aramaic  words);  Jer  10  11.  The  language  in 
Portions  of  which  they  are  written  used  to  be 
the  OT  called  Chaldee,   but  is  now  generally 

known  simply  as  Bib.  Aram.  It  repre- 
sents a  further  declension  from  classical  Sem  as 
compared  with  the  Heb.  The  following  are  the 
principal  points  in  which  Bib.  Aram,  differs  from 
Heb. 

The  accent  is  placed  on  the  last  syllable,  the  first 
vowel  disappearing,  e.g.  "abhadh  for  Heb  'abhadh. 

It  is  curious  that  the  same  feature  is 

2.  Pho-  found  in  Algerene  and  Moroccan  Arab. : 
nology  thus     kasr    becomes     k§ar.      Dentals 

take  the  place  of  sibilants:  dehabh  for 
zahabh;  Hath  for  shalosh.  The  strong  Heb  2  fre- 
quently becomes  7 ,  and  Heb  V  becomes  X  :  thus, 
'ar\V  for  'ereq ;   iuk  for  cilk. 

In  Heb  the  definite  article  is  the  prefix  hal  (ha-); 

in  Aram,  the  affix  a';  the  latter,  however,  has  almost 

lost  its  force.     The  dual  is  even  more 

3.  Grammar  sparingly    used    than    in    Heb.      The 

passive  forms  of  vbs.  and  those  be- 
ginning with  nun  are  practically  wanting;  the  pas- 
sive or  reflexive  forms  are  made  by  prefixing  the 
letter  t  to  the  corresponding  active  forms,  and  that 
much  more  regularly  than  in  Heb,  there  being  three 
active  and  three  passive  forms. 

In  regard  to  syntax  there  is  to  be  noted  the  fre- 
quent use  of  the  part,  instead  of  a  finite  vb.,  as  in 

Heb;    the  disuse  of   the  conjunction 

4.  Syntax      "and"   with   the   vocalization   of   the 

article;  and  the  disuse  of  the  con- 
struct state  in  nouns,  instead  of  which  a  circumlo- 
cution with  the  relative  dl  is  employed,  e.g.  gelem 
dl  dh'habh,  "an  image  of  gold."  The  same  peri- 
phrasis is  found  also  in  West  African  Arabic. 

It  will  thus  be  seen  that  if  Heb  represents  a  de- 
cadent form  of  an  original  classical  language  which 
was  very  similar  to  classical  Arabic, 
6.  Aramaic  Bib.  Arab,  stands  on  a  still  lower 
More  De-  level.  It  is  not  to  be  supposed  that 
cadent  than  Heb  passed  into  Aram.,  though  on  the 
Hebrew  analogy  of  Arab,  that  view  is  not  un- 

tenable. Rather,  the  different  Sem 
languages  became  fixed  at  different  epochs.  Arab, 
as  a  literary  language  crystallized  almost  at  the 
source;   Heb  and  the  spoken  Arab,  of  the  East  far 


Languages  of  OT 
Laodiceans,  Ep.  to 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1836 


down  the  stroam;  and  Aram,  and  Moroccan  Aral), 
farthest  down  of  all. 

Literature.  Kautzsch,  Grammatik:  Struck.  Abri.1.1 
drs  bit, I.  Aramaixrh;  Marti,  Hi  hi.  aram.  Sprarhe;  the 
articles  on  "Aramaic"  or  "Chaldcc"  in  the  liil>. 
Diets,  cited  under  III,  and  article  Aramaic  Language 
in  this  Encyclopaedia;  the  Ileb  text  of  Ezr,  Neh.  Did, 
ed  by  Baer.     Ileb  Diets,  generally  include  Bib.  Aramaic. 

V.    Literary  Characteristics  of  the  Semites.     -The 

thinking  of  the  Hebrews,  like  that,  of  other  Semites, 

was  done,  not  in  the  abstract,  lint  in  the  concrete. 

Thus  we  find  the  material  put  for  tin; 

1.  Concrete  immaterial,  the  expression  for  the 
and  Ab-  thought,  the  instrument  for  the  action, 
stract  the  action  for  the  feeling.     This  mode; 

of  expression  frequently  gives  rise  to 
striking  anthropomorphisms.  Thus  we  have  the 
eye  for  watchfulness  or  care  (Ps  33  IS);  the  long 
hand  for  far-reaching  powers  (Isa  59  1);  broken 
teeth  for  defeated  malice  (Ps  3  7);  the  sword  for 
slaughter  (78  62);  haughty  eyes  for  supercilious- 
ness (Prov  6  17);  to  say  in  the  heart  for  to  think 
(Ps  10  (>).  It  would  be  an  interesting  study  to 
examine  to  what  extent  these  expressions  have;  been 
taken  over  from  Heb  into  English. 

The  Heb  does  not  know  the  distinction  between 
animate    and    inanimate    Nature.     All    Nature    is 

animate  (Ps  104  2!)).     The  little  hills 

2.  View  of  rejoice  (65  12);  the  mountains  skip 
Nature  (114  4);    the  trees  clap   their  hands 

(Isa  55  12);  even  the  stones  may  cry 
out  (Lk  19  40).  Such  expressions  are  not  to  be 
taken  as  men1  poetical  figures  of  speech;  they  are 
meant,  quite  literally.  All  Nature  is  one:  man  is 
merely  a  part  of  Nature  (Ps  104  23),  even  if  he 
be  the  highest  part  (8  5).  Hence,  perhaps,  it 
arises  that  there  is  no  neuter  gender  in  the  Sem 
languages. 

The  highly  imaginative  nature  of  the  Heb  comes 

into   play  when   he  is   recounting  past  events  or 

writing   history.     To   his   mind's   eye 

3.  Pictorial  all  past  events  are  present.  He  sees 
Imagination  history  taking  place  before  his  eyes  as 

in  a  picture.  Thus  the  perfect  may 
generally  be  trdby  the  Eng.  past  tense  with  "have," 
the  imperfect  by  the  Eng.  present  tense  with  "is'' 
or  "is  going  to."  In  livelier  style  the  participle  is 
used:  "They  are  entering  the  city,  and  behold 
Samuel  is  coming  out  to  meet  them"  (l.S  9  14). 
Hence  the  oratio  recta  is  always  used  in  preference 
to  t  he  oratio  obllqua.  Moreover,  the  historian  writes 
exactly  as  the  professional  story-teller  narrates. 
Hence  he  is  always  repeating  himself  and  returning 
upon  his  own  words  (1  S  5  1.2). 

A  result  of  the  above  facts  is  that  there  is  no 
hard-and-fast,  distinction  in  Heb  between  prose  and 

poetry.     Neither  is  there  in  Heb,  or 

4.  Prose  in  the  Sem  language  generally,  epic 
and  Poetry    or    dramatic    poetry,    because    their 

prose  possesses  these  qualities  in  a 
greater  degree  than  does  the  poetry  of  other  races. 
All  Ileb  poetry  is  lyric  or  didactic.  In  it  there  is 
no  rhyme  nor  meter.  The  nearest  approach  to 
meter  is  what  is  called  the  kindh  strophe,  in  which 
each  verse  consists  of  two  parallel  members,  each 
member  having  five  words  divided  into  three  and 
then  two.  The  best  example  of  this  is  to  be  found 
in  Ps  19  7-9,  and  also  in  the  Book  of  Lamenta- 
tions (q.v.),  from  which  the  verse  has  received  its 
name. 

From  the  above  description  it  may  be  inferred 

that  the  language  of  the  OT  is  one  extremely  easy 

of    translation    into    foreign    tongues 

5.  Hebrew  without  loss  of  meaning  or  rhythm, 
Easy  of  though  it  would  be  extremely  difficult 
Translation   to  render  any  modern  language  into 

classical  Heb.  Hence  the  Pss,  for 
example,  are  as  fine  in  their  Ger.  or  Eng.  versions 


as  they  are  in  the  original.  Where  the  OT  has 
been  ti"1  into  the  language  of  the  country,  it  has 
become  a  classic.  The  Eng.  Bible  is  as  important 
for  the  study  of  the  Eng.  language  as  are  the  plays 
of  Shakespeare. 

Literature. — In  addition  to  the  articles  cited  under 
III,  Herder,  The  Spirit  of  Heb  Poetry,  tr  by  J.  Marsh, 
1X.'5;S;  Ed.  Konig,  Stilislik,  Rhelorik,  Poetik  in  Bezuy 
auf  die  bibl.  Lilt,  komparativisch  d/injeslellt,  1900;  the 
same  author's  brochure  on  the  "Style  of  Scripture"  in 
HDB,  vol  V;  J.  P.  McCurdy  on  the  "Semites"  in  the 
same  volume;    J.  Kennedy,   Heb  Synonyms. 

Thomas  Hunter  Weir 
LANTERN,  lan'tern  (4>av6s,  phonos,  fr.  4>alva>, 
phaino,  "to  give  light"):  Lanterns  were  carried 
by  the  mob  which  arrested  Jesus  in  Gethsemane 
(Jn  18  3,  probably  better  "torches").  The  word 
"lantern"  in  the  time  of  early  versions  had  a  much 
wider  significance  than  now.  The  Romans,  how- 
ever, had  lanterns  in  the  times  of  Christ,  made  by 
use  of  translucent  skins,  bladders,  or  thin  plates 
of  horn. 

LAODICEA,  la-od-i-se'a  (AaoSiKCa,  Laodikla): 
A  city  of  Asia  Minor  situated  in  the  Lycos  valley 
in  the  province  of  Phrygia,  and  the  home  of  one  of 
the  Seven  Churches  of  Rev  (1  11).  Distinguished 
from  several  other  cities  of  that  name  by  the  appel- 
lation Ad  Lycum,  it  was  founded  by  Antiochus  II 
(261-246  BC)  of  Syria,  who  named  it  for  his  wife 
Laodike,  anil  who  populated  it  with  Syrians  and 
with  Jews  who  were  transplanted  from  Babylonia 
to  the  cities  of  Phrygia  and  Lydia.  Though  Laodi- 
cea  stood  on  the  great  highway  at  the  junction  of 
several  important  routes,  it  was  a  place  of  little 
consequence  until  the  Rom  province  of  Asia  was 
formed  in  190  BC.  It  then  suddenly  became  a 
great  and  wealthy  center  of  industry,  famous  spe- 
cially for  the  fine  black  wool  of  its  sheep  and  for 
the  Phrygian  powder  for  the  eyes,  which  was  manu- 
factured there  (cf  Rev  3  l.S).  In  the  vicinity  was 
the  temple  of  Men  Karou  and  a  renowned  school  of 
medicine.  In  the  year  60  AD,  the  city  was  almost 
entirely  dest  roved  by  an  earthquake,  but  so  wealthy 
were  its  citizens  that  they  rejected  the  proffered 
aid  of  Rome,  and  quickly  rebuilt  it  at  their  own 
expense  (cf  Rev  3  17).  It  was  a  city  of  great 
wealth,  with  .  extensive  banking  operations  (cf 
Rev  3  18).  Little  is  known  of  the  early  history 
of  Christianity  there;  Timothy,  Mark  and  Epa- 
phras  (Col  1  7)  seem  to  have  been  the  first 
to  introduce  it.  However,  Laodicea  was  early 
the  chief  bishopric  of  Phrygia,  and  about  166  AD 
Sagaris,  its  bishop,  was  martyred.  In  1071  the 
city  was  taken  by  the  Seljuks;  in  1119  it  was 
recovered  to  the  Christians  by  John  Comnenus, 
and  in  the  13th  cent .  it  fell  finally  into  the  hands 
of  the  Turks. 

The  ruins,  now  called  Eski  Hissor,  or  old  castle, 
lie  near  the  modern  Gonjelli  on  the  railroad,  and 
they  have  long  served  as  a  quarry  to  the  builders 
of  the  neighboring  town  of  Denizli.  Among  them 
nothing  from  before  the  Rom  period  has  appeared. 
One  of  the  two  Rom  theaters  is  remarkably  well 
preserved,  and  there  may  still  be  seen  the  stadium, 
a  colonnade,  the  aqueduct  which  brought  the  water 
across  the  valley  to  the  city  by  an  inverted  siphon 
of  stone  pipes,  a  large  necropolis,  and  the  ruins  of 
three  early  Christian  churches.  E.  J.  Banks 

LAODICEANS,  la-od-i-se'anz,  EPISTLE  TO 
THE  (Iv  Tfj  Aao8iK€o>v  €kk\t]o-C<j,  ....  rr\v  in 
AaoSiKias,  en  tt  Loodikedn  ekklesla  ....  ti>n  ek 
Laodikias,  "in  the  church  of  the  Laodiceans  .... 

the  epistle  from  Laodicea,"  Col  4  16): 

I.     Explanations  of  Paul's  Statement 

1.  Written  by  the  Laodiceans? 

2.  Written  by  Paul  from  Laodicea? 

3.  An  Epistle  Addressed  to  the  Laodiceans 


1837 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Languages  of  OT 
Laodiceans,  Ep.  to 


II.     Evidence  Favoring  Epistle  to  Ephesians 

1.  Marcion's  Opinion 

2.  References  in  Ephesians  and  Other  Epistles 

3.  Ephesian  Church  Jewish  in  Origin 

4.  Eph  and  Col  Sister  Epistles 

5.  Recapitulation 

III.  Laodicea  Displaced  by  Ephestts 

1.  A  Circular  Epistle 

2.  Proof  from  Biblical  Prologues 

IV.  Reason  for  Such  an  Epistle 

Paul  hero  writes  to  the  Colossians,  "And  when 
this  epistle  hath  been  read  among  you,  cause  that 
it  be  read  also  in  the  church  of  the  Laodiceans;  and 
that  ye  also  read  t  he  epistle  from  Laodicea."  What 
was  or  what  is  this  epistle? 

/.  Explanations  of  Paul's  Statement. — The  words 
used  by  the  apostle  may  mean:  (1)  a  letter  written 
by  the  Laodiceans;  (2)  an  ep.  written  by  Paul  from 
Laodicea;  (3)  an  ep.  written  to  the  Laodiceans, 
and  to  be  procured  from  them  by  the  Colossians. 

The  words  may  mean  a  letter  written  by  the  Laodi- 
ceans. But  here  it  is  sufficient  to  refer  to  the  fact  that 
Paul  enjoins  the  Colossians  to  procure 
1  Written  iln(l  to  ''cad  "the  epistle  from  Laodicea." 
f>  +v>  T  a  How  could  a  command  of  this  kind  be 
Dy  tne  l^a-  gjv(,n  jn  reference  to  an  ep.  written  by 
odiceans?  third  parties?  How  could  Paul  know 
that  a  copy  of  it  had  been  made  by  the  Lao- 
diceans before  sending  itoff?  How  could  he  tell  that  the 
Laodiceans  would  be  willing  to  give  away  a  copy  of  it? 
The  suppositions  involved  by  this  hypothesis  are  incredi- 
ble. Besides,  the  context  regards  the  Ep.  to  the  Col, 
and  "that  from  Laodicea,"  as  companion  epp.,  of  which 
the  two  churches  are  to  make  an  interchange,  so  that 
each  church  is  directed  to  read  both. 

( )r,  the  words  may  refer  to  an  ep.  written  by  Paul  from 
Laodicea.  And  it  'has  been  suggested  that  the  ep.  of 
which  we  are  in  search  may  be  1  Tim,  1 
Thess,  2  Tliess,  or  Gal.  But  in  the  case 
of  these  epp.,  the  probability  is  that  every 
one  of  them  was  written  elsewhere  than 
from  Laodicea.  At  the  time  when  Paul 
wrote  to  Colossae,  he  was  a  prisoner  in 
Rome,  and  for  this  reason  alone,  it  was 
impossible  that  he  could,  at  any  recent 
date,  have  written  any  ep.  from  Laodicea.  But  his 
own  statement  (Col  2  1)  is  that  those  in  Laodicea  had 
not  seen  his  face  in  the  flesh.  As  he  had  never  been  in 
Laodicea,  he  could  not  have  written  any  ep.  from  that 
city. 

A  third  possibility  is  a  letter  written:  (1)  not,  by 
Paul,  but  by  some  other  person.  But  the  whole 
tone  of  the  passage  does  not  favor  this 
suggestion  in  the  least;  (2)  by  Paul, 
but  that  the  epistle  is  lost;  this  is  the 
ordinary  interpretation;  (3)  the  apoc- 
ryphal Lat  ep.  "To  the  Laodiceans." 

This  spurious  ep.  is  a  mere  compilation 
clumsily  put  together;  it  has  no  marks  of 
authenticity.  Light  foot  (Col,  2S2)  gives  its  general 
character  thus:  it  "is  a  cento  of  Pauline  phrases  strung 
together  without  any  definite  connection  or  any  clear 
object.  They  are  taken  chiefly  from  the  Ep.  to  the  Phil, 
but  here  and  there  one  is  borrowed  elsewhere,  e.g.  from 
the  Ep.  to  the  Gal.  Of  course,  it  closes  with  an  injunc- 
tion to  the  Laodiceans  to  exchange  epp.  with  the  Colos- 
sians. The  apostle's  injunction  in  Col  4  16  suggested 
the  forgery,  and  such  currency  as  it  ever  attained  was 
due  to  the' support  which  that  passage  was  supposed  to 
give  to  it.  Unlike  most  forgeries,  it  had  no  ulterior 
aim.  It  has  no  doctrinal  peculiarities.  It  is  quite  harm- 
less, so  far  as  falsity  and  stupidity  combined  can  ever  be 
- —  ■  -->    --    • '■•     "     ft  :»i-t'""t     "«     cit.,   2S2).      See 


2.  Written 
by  Paul 
from 
Laodicea? 


3.  An 

Epistle 
Addressed 
to  the 
Laodiceans 


regarded   as  harmless"    (Lightfoot,   op 
Apocryphal  Epistles. 

(4)  The  only  other  alternative  is  that  "the  epistle 
from  Laodicea"  is  an  ep.  to  the  Laodiceans  from 
Paul  himself,  which  he  directs  the  Colossians  to 
procure  from  Laodicea.  There  seems  to  be  not 
only  a  high  degree  of  probability,  but  proof,  that 
the  ep.  from  Laodicea  is  the  ep.  known  as  the  Ep. 
to  the  Eph.  Paul  therefore  had  written  an  ep.  to 
Laodicea,  a  city  which  he  had  twice  already  men- 
tioned in  the  Ep.  to  the  Col,  "For  I  would  have 
you  know  how  greatly  I  strive  for  you,  and  for  them 
at  Laodicea"  (Col  2  1):  "Salute  the  brethren  that 
are  in  Laodicea,  and  Nymphas,  and  the  church  that 
is  in  their  house"  (4  15).  Accepting  Col  4  16  to 
mean  that  he  wrote  to  Laodicea  at  the  same  time 
as  he  wrote  to  Colossae,  what  has  become  of  the 


former  ep.?  Do  we  know  nothing  more  of  it  now 
than  is  contained  in  this  reference  to  it  in  Col? 
The  fact  that  it  was,  by  Paul's  express  command, 
to  be  communicated  to  at  least  t he  two  churches  in 
Colossae  and  Laodicea,  would  make  its  disappear- 
ance and  loss  very  strange. 

//.  Evidence  Favoring  Epistle  to  Ephesians. — 
But  is  there  any  warrant  for  concluding  that  it  is 
lost  at  all?  A  statement  of  the  facts  of  the  case 
seems  to  show  that  the  ep.  which  Paul  wrote  to 
the  Laodiceans  is  extant,  but  only  under  another 
title.  The  lines  of  evidence  which  seem  to  show 
that  the  so-called  Ep.  to  the  Eph  is  in  reality  the 
ep.  written  by  Paul  to  the  Laodiceans  are  these: 

It  is  well  known  that  the  words  "at  Ephesus" 
(Eph  1  1)  in  the  inscription  of  the  ep.  are  very 
doubtful.  RV  reads  in  the  margin,  "Some  very 
ancient  authorites  omit  'at  Ephesus.'  "  Among 
the  authorities  which  omit  "at  Ephesus"  are  the 
Vatican  and  Sinaitic  MSS,  the  best  and  most  an- 
cient authorities  existing. 

Tertullian  asserts  that  the  heretics,  i.e.  Marcion, 

had  altered  the  title,  "the  Epistle  to  the  Ephesians," 

to   "the  Epistle  to  the  Laodiceans." 

1.  Mar-  But  this  accusal  ion  does  not  carry  with 
cion's  it  any  doctrinal  or  heretical  charge 
Opinion         against  Marcion  in  this  respect.     "It 

is  not  likely,"  says  Moule  (Eph,  25), 
"that  Marcion  was  guilty  here,  where  the  change 
would  have  served  no  dogmatic  purpose."  And  the 
fact  that  at  that  very  early  period,  the  first  half 
of  the  2d  cent.,  it  was  openly  stiggested  that  the 
destination  of  the  ep.  was  Laodicea,  is  certainly  en- 
titled to  weight,  esp.  in  view  of  t  he  ot  her  fact  already 
mentioned,  which  is  of  no  less  importance,  that  "at 
Ephesus"  is  omitted  in  the  two  great  MSS,  the 
Vatican  and  the  Sinaitic. 

The  "Ep.  to  the  Eph"  could  not  be,  primarily 
at  least,  addressed  to  Ephesus,  because  Paul  speaks 

of  his  readers  as  persons  in  regard  to 

2.  Refer-  whose  conversion  from  heathenism 
ences  in  to  the  faith  of  Christ  he  had  just 
Ephesians  recently  heard:  "For  this  cause  I  also, 
and  Other  having  heard  of  the  faith  in  the  Lord 
Epistles  Jesus   which   is   among   you,  and   the 

love  which  ye  show  toward  all  the 
saints,  cease  not  to  give  thanks  for  you,  making 
mention  of  you  in  my  prayers"  (Eph  1  15  f). 
These  words  could  not  well  be  used  in  regard  to 
the  church  at  Ephesus,  which  Paul  himself  had 
founded,  and  in  reference  to  persons  among  whom 
he  had  lived  for  three  years,  and  where  he  even 
knew  personally  "every  one"  of  the  Christians 
(Acts  20  31). 

And  in  Eph  3  1  f  AV,  he  writes:  "For  this  cause  I, 
Paul,  the  prisoner  of  Jesus  Christ  for  you  Gentiles, 
if  ye  have  heard  of  the  dispensation  of  the  grace  of 
Clod  which  is  given  me  to  you-ward."  But  how 
could  he  ever  doubt  that  the  elders  of  the  church  in 
Ephesus  (Acts  20  17),  as  well  as  the  members  of 
that  important  church,  were  ignorant  of  the  fact 
that  a  dispensation  of  the  grace  of  God  had  been 
given  to  him?  The  inquiry,  whether  his  readers 
had  heard  of  the  one  great  fact  on  which  his  min- 
istry was  based,  could  not  apply  in  any  degree  to 
the  Christians  in  Ephesus.  The  apostle  and  the 
Ephesians  had  a  clear  and  intimate  mutual  knowl- 
edge. They  know  him  and  valued  him  and  loved 
him  well.  When  he  bade  the  elders  of  the  church 
farewell,  they  all  fell  on  his  neck  and  kissed  him 
(Acts  20  37). 

Clearly  therefore  the  statement  that  he  had  just 
recently  heard  of  their  conversion,  and  his  inquiry 
whether  they  had  heard  that  a  dispensation  of  the 
grace  of  God  had  been  intrusted  to  him,  do  not 
and  cannot  describe  the  members  of  the  church  in 
Ephesus.     "It  is  plain,"  writes  Moule  (Eph,  26), 


Laodiceans,  Ep.  to 
Lasciviousness 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1S38 


"that  the  op.  docs  not  hear  an  Ephesian  destination 
on  the  face  of  it." 

In  the  Ep.  to  the  Cor  there  arc  many  local  ref- 
erences, as  well  as  allusions  to  the  apostle's  work  in 
Corinth.  In  the  Ep.  to  the  Gal  there  are  also  many 
references  to  his  work  among  the  people  of  the 
churches  in  Galatia.  The  same  is  the  case  in  the 
Ep.  to  the  Phil,  several  names  being  mentioned  of 
persons  known  to  the  apostle.  In  the  two  Epp.  to 
the  Thess,  references  also  occur  to  his  work  among 
them. 

Turning  to  the  Ep.  to  the  Col,  and  to  that  to  the 
Rom — Colossae  and  Rome  being  cities  which  he  had 
not  visited  previous  to  his  writing  to  the  churches 
there — he  knows  several  persons  in  Colossae;  and 
in  the  case  of  the  Ep.  to  the  Rom,  he  mentions  by 
name  no  fewer  than  twenty-six  persons  in  that  city. 

How  is  it  then  that  in  ''the  Ep.  to  the  Eph"  there 
are  no  references  at  all  to  the  three  years  which  he 
spent  in  Ephesus?  And  how  also  is  there  no  men- 
tion of  any  one  of  the  members  of  the  church  or  of 
the  elders  whom  he  knew  so  intimately  and  so 
affectionately?  "Ephesians"  is  inexplicable  on  the 
ordinary  assumption  that  Ephesus  was  the  city 
to  which  the  ep.  was  addressed. 

The  other  theory,  that  the  ep.  was  a  circular  one, 
sent  in  tin;  first  instance  to  Laodicea,  involves  no 
such  difficulty. 

Another    indication    in    regard    to    the   primary 

destination  of   the  ep.   is  in  the  words,   "ye,   the 

Gentiles  in   the  flesh,  who  are  called 

3.  Ephesian  Uncircumcision  by  that  which  is  called 
Church  Circumcision,  in  the  flesh,  made  by 
Jewish  in  hands;  that  ye  were  at  that  time  sep- 
Origin  arate  from  Christ,  alienated  from  the 

commonwealth  of  Israel,  and  strangers 
from  the  covenants  of  the  promise,  having  no  hope 
and  without  God  in  the  world"  (Eph  2  11.12). 
Do  these  words  describe  the  church  in  Ephesus? 
Was  the  church  there  gentile  in  its  origin?  Very  far 
from  this,  for  as  a  matter  of  fact  it  began  by  Paul 
preaching  the  gospel  to  the  Jews,  as  is  narrated  at 
length  by  Luke  in  Acts  18.  Then  in  Acts  19, 
Paul  comes  again  to  Ephesus,  where  he  wyent  into 
the  synagogue  and  spake  boldly  for  the  space  of 
three  months,  but  when  divers  were  hardened  and 
believed  not,  but  spake  evil  of  the  Way  before  the 
multitude,  he  separated  the  disciples,  disputing 
daily  in  the  school  of  one  Tyrannus. 

Here,  therefore,  is  definite  proof  that  the  church 
in  Ephesus  was  not  gentile  in  its  origin.  It  was 
distinctly  Jewish,  but  a  gentile  element  had  also 
been  received  into  it.  Now  the  church  to  which 
Paul  writes  "the  Ep.  to  the  Eph"  was  not  Jewish 
at  all.  He  does  not  speak  to  his  readers  in  any  other 
way  than  "you  Gentiles." 

But  an  important  consideration  is  that  the  "Ep. 

to  the  Eph"  was  written  by  Paul  at  the  same  sitting 

almost  as  that  to  the  Col.     These  two 

4.  Eph  and  are  sister  epistles,  and  these  along  with 
Col  Sister  the  Ep.  to  Philem  were  written  and 
Epistles  sent  off  at  the  same  time,  Onesimus 

and  Tychicus  carrying  the  Ep.  to  the 
Col  (Col  4  7.S.9),  Onesimus  being  the  bearer  of  that 
to  Philem,  while  Tychicus  in  addition  to  carrying 
the  Colossian  ep.  was  also  the  messenger  who  carried 
"the  Ep.  to  the  Eph"  (Eph  6  21). 

A  close  scrutiny  of  Col  and  "Eph"  shows,  to  an 
extent  without  a  parallel  elsewhere  in  the  epp.  of 
the  NT,  a  remarkable  similarity  of  phraseology. 
There  are  only  two  verses  in  the  whole  of  Col  to 
which  there  is  no  parallel  in  "Eph."  The  same 
words  are  used,  while  the  thought  is  so  varied  and 
so  rich,  that  the  one  ep.  is  in  no  sense  a  copy  or 
repetition  of  the  other  (see  list  of  parallelisms,  etc, 
in  St.  Paul's  Epp.  to  Colossae  and  Laodicea,  T.  & 
T.  Clark,  Edinburgh).     Both  epp.  come  warm  and 


instinct  with  life  from  the  full  heart  of  the  great 
apostle  who  had  not,  up  to  that  time,  visited  either 
city,  but.  on  whom,  none  the  less,  there  came  daily 
the  care  of  all  the  churches. 

To  recapitulate:  (1)  The  words  "at  Ephesus"  in  the 
inscription  of  the  ep.  are  wanting  in  the  two  oldest  and 
best  MSS.  (2)  Paul  speaks  of  his  readers 
5  Reca-  as  Persons  °f  whose  conversion  to  Christ 
'.    ,    ,-  lie    knew    only   by   report.       .Similarly   he 

pituiation  speaks  of  them  as  knowing  only  by  hear- 
say of  his  commission  as  an  apostle  of 
Christ.  Also,  though  he  had  lived  in  Ephesus  for  three 
years,  this  ep.  does  not  contain  a  single  salutation,  ('.i) 
He  speaks  of  his  readers  as  forming  a  church  exclusively 
of  the  Gentiles.  Hut  the.  church  in  Ephesus,  so  far  from 
being  exclusively  gentile,  was  actually  Jewish  in  origin. 
(4)  "Eph"  was  written  at  the  same  sitting  as  Col,  and 
the  same  messenger,  Tychicus,  carried  them  both. 
Therefore  as  the  ep.  was  not,  and  could  not  be,  addressed 
to  Ephesus,  the  conclusion  is  that  it  was  addressed  to 
some  church,  and  that  it  was  not  a  treatise  sent  to  the 
Christian  church  generally.  The  words  of  the  first  verse 
of  the  ep.,  "to  the  saints  that  are,"  proves  t  hat  t  he  name 
of  the  place  to  which  it  was  addressed  is  all  that  is  lost 
from  the  MSS,  but  that  the  name  of  the  city  was  there 
originally,  as  the  ep.  came  from  Paul's  hand* 

Now  Paul  wrote  an  ep.  to  Laodicea  at  the  same  time 
as  he  wrote  to  Colossae.  He  dispatched  both  epp.  by 
Tychicus.  The  thought  and  feeling  and  even  the  dic- 
tion of  the  two  epp.  are  such  that  no  other  explanation 
is  possible  but  that  they  came  warm  from  the  heart  of 
the  same  writer  at  the  same  time.  On  all  these  grounds 
the  conclusion  seems  inevitable  that  the  Ep.  to  Laodicea 
is  not  lost  at  all.  but  that  it  is  identical  with  the  so-called 
"Ep.  to  the  Eph." 

///.   Laodicea  Displaced  by  Ephesus. — How  then 

did  Ephesus  displace  Laodicea?     It  is  explained  at 

once  if  the  theory  is  adopted  that  the 

1.  A  Cir-  epistle  wras  a  "circular"  one  addressed 
cular  not  to  Laodicea  only,  but  to  other 
Epistle  cities.     We  know  e.g.  that  the  apostle 

orders  it  to  be  taken  to  the  church  in 
Colossae  and  read  there.  So  also  it  might  have 
been  sent  to  other  cities,  such  as  Hiorapolis  (Col 
4  13)  and  Ephesus.  Hence  if  the  church  in  Lao- 
dicea were  not  careful  to  see  that  the  ep.  was  re- 
turned to  them,  by  those  churches  to  whom  they 
had  sent  it,  it  can  easily  be  understood  how  a  copy- 
ist in  any  of  those  cities  might  leave  out  the  words 
"in  Laodicea,"  as  not  agreeing  with  the  name  of  the 
city  where  the  MS  actually  was  at  the  time.  As 
copies  were  multiplied,  the  words  "in  Ephesus" 
would  be  suggest ed,  as  the  name  of  the  chief  city 
of  Asia,  from  which  province  the  ep.  had  come  to 
the  knowledge  of  the  whole  Christian  church,  and 
to  which,  in  point  of  fact,  Paul  had  sent  it.  The 
feeling  would  be  natural,  that  it  was  in  keeping 
with  the  fitness  of  things,  that  Paid,  who  had 
founded  the  church  in  Ephesus,  should  have  written 
an  ep.  to  the  church  there. 

In  an  article  upon  "Marcion  and  the  Canon"  bjT  Pro- 
fessor J.  Rendel  Harris,  LL.D.,  in  the  Expos   T,  June, 
1907,  there  is  reference  to  the  Revue  Bene- 

2.  Proof  dictine  for  January  of  that  year,  which 
from  contained  a  remarkable  article  by  de 
■p.,..  .  Bruyne,  entitled  "Biblical  Prologues  of 
iiiDlical  Marcionite  Origin,"  in  which  the  writer 
Prologues       succeeded  in  showing  that  a  very  widely 

spread  series  of  prefaces  to  the  Pauline 
Epp.,  which  occur  in  certain  Lat  Bibles,  must  have  been 
taken  from  a  Marcionite  Bible.  Professor  Rendel  Harris 
adds  that  the  prefaces  in  question  may  go  back  to  Mar- 
cion himself,  for  in  any  case  the  Marcionite  hand,  from 
which  they  come,  antedates  the  Lat  tradition  in  which 
the  prologues  are  imbedded.  "It  is  clear  from  Tertul- 
lian's  polemic  against  Marcion,  that  the  Pauline  Epp. 
stood  in  the  following  order  in  the  Marcionite  Canon: 
Gal,  1  and  2  Cor,  Bom,  1  and  2  Thess,  then  Eph  (which 
Marcion  calls  by  the  name  of  the  Ep.  to  the  Laodiceans), 
Col,  Phil,  and  Philem Let  us  turn  to  the  pro- 
logues that  are  current  in  Vulg  and  other  MSS  for  Eph 
and  Col:  the  Ephesian  prologue  runs  as  follows:  'Ephesii 
sunt  Asiani.  Hi  accepto  verbo  veritatis  perstiterunt 
in  fide.  Hos  conlaudat  apostolus,  scribens  eis  a  Roma 
de  carcere!'  "When,  however,  we  turn  to  the  Colossian 
prologue,  we  find  that  it  opens  as  follows:  'Colossenses 
et  hi  tsicut  Laodicenses  su?it  Asiani.  Et  ipsi  praeventi 
erant  a  pseudapostolis,  nee  ad  hos  accessit  apostolus 
sed  et  hos  per  epistolam  recorrigit,'  etc. 

"  From  this  it  is  clear  that  originally  the  prologue  to  the 
Laodiceans  preceded  the  prologue  to  Col,  and  that  the 


1839 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Laodiceans,  Ep.  to 
Lasciviousness 


Ephesian  prologue  is  a  substitute  for  the  Laodicean  pro- 
logue, which  can  be  partly  reconstructed  from  the  refer- 
ences to  it  in  the  Colossian  prologue.  We  can  see  that 
it  had  a  statement  that  the  Laodiceans  belonged  to 
Asia  Minor,  that  they  had  been  under  the  influence  of 
false  apostles,  and  had  never  been  visited  by  St.  Paul, 

who  corrects  their  error  by  an  epistle 

"We  have  now  shown  that  the  original  Canon  had 
'Laodiceans,  Colossians.'  It  is  interesting  to  observe 
how  some  Lat  MSS  naively  admit  this:  'You  must  know 
that  the  ep.  which  we  have  as  that  written  to  the  Eph, 
the  heretics,  and  esp.  the  Marcionites,  entitle  the  Ep.  to 
the  Laodiceans.'  " 

IV.  Reason    for    Such    an    Epistle. — Assuming 

therefore  that  the  "Ep.  to  the  Eph"  is  the  ep.  which 
Paul  wrote  to  the  Laodiceans,  various  questions 
arise,  such  as,  Why  did  he  write  to  the  church  there? 
What  was  there  in  the  state  of  the  church  in  Lao- 
dicea  to  call  for  an  ep.  from  him?  Was  there  any 
heresy  there,  like  the  false  teaching  which  existed 
in  the  neighboring  church  in  Colossae? 

The  answer  to  such  questions  is  that  though  we  do 
not  possess  much  information,  yet  these  churches  in  the 
province  of  Asia  had  many  things  in  common.  They 
had  originated  at  the  same  time,  during  the  two  whole 
years  of  Paul's  residence  in  Ephesus.  They  were  com- 
posed of  men  of  the  same  races,  and  speaking  the  same 
languages.  They  were  subject  to  the  same  influences  of 
doctrinal  error.  The  errors  into  which  any  one  church 
fell  could  not  fail  to  affect  the  others  also.  These 
churches  were  permeated  to  a  large  extent  by  the  same 
ideas,  derived  both  from  the  current  philosophy  and  from 
their  ancestral  heathen  religions.  They  would,  therefore, 
one  and  all,  require  the  same  apostolic  instruction  and 
exhortation.  This  ep.,  accordingly,  bears  a  close  resem- 
blance, to  the  Ep.  to  the  Col,  just  for  the  reason  that  the 
circumstances  of  the  church  in  Laodieea  were  similar 
to  those  of  the  church  in  Colossae;  and  also,  that  the 
thoughts  which  filled  Paul's  heart  as  he  wrote  to  Colossae 
were  adapted,  in  the  first  place,  to  counteract  the  false 
teaching  in  Colossae,  but  they  are  also  the  foundation 
of  all  Christian  experience,  and  the  very  life  of  all  Chris- 
tian truth  and  doctrine.  These  are  the  great  thoughts 
of  Christ  the  Creator  of  all  things,  Christ  the  Upholder 
of  all  things,  Christ  the  Reconciler  of  all  things.  Such 
thoughts  Idling  Paul's  heart  would  naturally  find  ex- 
pression in  language  bearing  a  close  resemblance  to  that 
in  which  he  had  just  written  to  Colossae. 

It  is  no  more  astonishing  that  Paul  should  have 
written  to  Laodieea,  than  that  he  also  wrote  to 
Colossae,  which  was  probably  the  least  important 
of  all  the  cities  and  churches  mentioned  in  the 
apostle's  work  and  career.  Neither  is  it  any  more 
to  be  wondered  at  that  he  should  have  written  so 
profound  an  ep.  as  that  to  "the  Eph,"  than  that  he 
should  also  have  given  directions  that  it  be  sent 
on  to  Colossae  and  read  there;  for  this  reason,  that 
the  exposition  of  Christ's  great  love  to  the  church 
and  of  His  giving  Himself  for  it — the  doctrine  of  the 
grace  of  God — is  the  very  corrective  required  by 
the  errors  of  the  false  teachers  at  Colossae,  and  is 
also  the  groundwork  of  Christian  truth  and  ex- 
perience for  all  ages. 

Note. — A  very  remarkable  circumstance  in  regard 
to  the  apocryphal  Ep.  to  the  Laodiceans  is  mentioned 
by  Nestle  in  tin;  preface  to  his  edition  of  the  Lat  NT, 
published  in  Stuttgart  in  1906.  He  writes  that  "the 
Ep.  to  the  Laodiceans  was  for  a  thousand  years  part 
of  very  many  Lat  Bibles,  and  obtained  a  place  in  pre- 
Lutheran  Ger.  Bibles,  together  with  Jerome's  Ep.  to 
Damasus." 

John  Rutherfxrd 

LAP:  The  word  is  the  tr  of  three  different  Heb 
expressions:  pTI ,  hek  (Prov  16  .33),  "liQ  ,  beghedh 
(2  K  4  30),  and  fsH,  hocen  (Neh  5  13,  besides 
"Jin  ,  hegen,  Ps  129  7).  In  all  these  passages  the 
meaning  is  that  of  a  part  of  oriental  clothing, 
probably  the  folds  of  the  garment  covering  the 
bosom  or  la])  of  a  person.  The  flowing  garments 
of  Orientals  invite  the  use  of  the  same,  on  the 
part  of  speakers,  in  driving  home  certain  truths 
enunciated  by  impressive  gesticulation.  Every 
reader  of  Rom  history  recalls  the  impressive  in- 
cident of  Quintus  Fabius  Maximus  (Cunctator), 
who,  in  219  BC,  was  ambassador  of  Rome  to  Car- 
thage, and  who,  before  the  city  council,  holding  the 
folds  of  his  toga  in  the  shape  of  a  closed  pouch, 


declared  that  he  held  enclosed  in  the  same  both 
peace  and  war,  whichever  the  Carthaginians  should 
desire  to  choose.  When  the  Carthaginians  clam- 
ored for  war,  he  opened  the  folds  of  his  garment 
and  said:  "Then  you  shall  have  war!"  Very  much 
like  it,  Nehemiah,  when  pleading  for  united  efforts 
for  the  improvement  of  social  order,  addressed  the 
priests  of  Jerus  to  get  a  pledge  of  their  cooperat  ion : 
"Also  I  shook  out  my  lap  [hocen],  and  said,  So  God 
shake  out  every  man  from  his  house,  and  from  his 
labor,  that  performeth  not  this  promise;  even  thus 
be  he  shaken  out,  and  emptied"  (Neh  5   13). 

In  EV  the  vb.  "to  lap"  is  found,  which  has  no  ety- 
mological connection  with  the  above-mentioned  noun's. 
It  is  in  Heb  p"p1 ,  Idkak,  and  refers  to  the  loud  licking 
up  of  water  by  dogs  (1  K  21  19;  22  38  AV),  and  in  the 
story  of  Gideon's  battle  against  the  Midianites,  of  his  300 
warriors  (Jgs  7  5  ff). 

H.  L.  E.  Lite  ring 
LAPPIDOTH,  lap'i-doth,  -doth  (TfiTsb,  lap- 
mdhoth,  "flames,"  "torches";  AV  Lapidoth) : 
Deborah's  husband  (Jgs  4  4).  The  Heb  name  is 
a  fern.  pi.  like  Jeremoth  (1  Ch  7  8),  Naboth  (1  K 
21  1).  The  pi.  is  probably  intensive.  Jewish 
interpreters  have  identified  Lappidoth  ("flames") 
with  Barak  ("lightning").  Some  have  taken  the 
words  rendered  "wife  of  Lappidoth"  ('esheth  lap- 
pidhoth)  as  a  description  of  Deborah,  and  have  tr'1 
them,  "woman  of  lights,"  i.e.  maker  of  wicks  for 
the  sanctuary;  or  "woman  of  flames,"  referring  to 
her  prophetic  zeal.  These  explanations  are  more 
interesting  than  probable.  John  A.   Lees 

LAPWING,  lap' wing  (nSP^ ,  dukhiphath;  iVo^, 

epops) :  A  tr  used  in  early  VSS,  now  universally 
admitted  to  be  incorrect.  The  lapwing  had  a  crest, 
and  resembled  in  size  and  color  the  hoopoe  {Upupa 
epops).  It  appears  in  the  lists  of  abominations 
only  (Lev  11  1!)  AV  and  Dt  14  IS  AV,  RV 
Hoopoe,  q.v.).  The  lapwing  is  a  plover,  and  its 
flesh  and  eggs  are  delicious  food. 

LASCIVIOUSNESS,  la-si  v'i-us-nes  (*<ri\ytia, 
aselgeia,  "licentiousness,"  "wantonness,"  "un- 
bridled lust,"  "shamelessness,"  "outrageousness") : 

Etymologists  assign  three  probable  sources  of  asrlgeia, 
viz.:    (1)  from  a  compound  of  a  priv.  and  iUA-yrj,  Seine,  a 

Pisidian  city  whose  inhabitants  accord- 
1  Sources  ing  to  Thayer  (AT  Lexicon)  "excelled 
j..  juui^o     in  stJrictness  of  morals,"  but  according  to 

Trench  a  place  whose  people  "were  infa- 
mous for  their  vices"  ;  (2)  from  a  compound  of  a  intense, 
and  craAaYnr,  salagein,  "to  raise  a  disturbance  or  noise"; 
(3)  from  a  compound  of  a  priv.  and  <re\yui,  selgo,  or  fltAyw, 
thelgo,  "exciting  disgust  or  displeasure."  It  evidently 
means  conduct  and  character  that  is  unbecoming,  inde- 
cent, unrestrainedly  shameless. 

Mk  uses  it  in  7  22  with  uncertainty  as  to  the  vice 
meant.     Paul    (2  Cor  12  21)    classes   it   with   un- 

cleanness  and  fornication  as  sins  to  be 
2.  As  Used  repented  of;  also  (Gal  5  19;  cf  Wisd 
in  the  NT      14  26,  "wantonness")  puts   it   in   the 

same  catalogue  with  other  works  of 
the  flesh;  and  (Eph  4  19)  he  refers  to  some  aged 
ones  so  covetous  that  they  made  trade  of  them- 
selves by  giving  "themselves  up  to  lasciviousness." 
The  same  word  is  trd  "wantonness"  in  Rom  13  13, 
meaning  wanton  manner,  filthy  words,  unchaste 
movements  of  the  body.  Peter  (1  Pet  4  3)  men- 
tions those  who  "walked  in  lasciviousness,  lusts, 
winebibbings,  revellings,  carousings,  and  abominable 
idolatries."  He;  speaks  (2  Pet  2  2)  of  "lascivious 
doings"  (AV  "pernicious  ways");  (2  7)  "lascivious 
life"  (AV  "filthy  conversation");  and  (2  IS)  of 
"lasciviousness"  (AV  "wantonness"),  as  a  means 
"to  entice  in  the  lusts  of  the  flesh."  Jude  ver  4 
probably  does  not  refer  to  any  form  of  sensuality 
in  using  the  word  descriptive  of  "ungodly  men" 


Lasea 

Latin  Version,  Old 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1840 


who  perverted  the  faith  of  some  and  denied  our 
only  Master.  William  Edward  Raffety 

LASEA,  la-se'a  (Adercua,  Lamia) :  A  town  on  the 
S.  coast  of  Crete,  5  miles  E.  of  Fair  Havens  (Acts 
27  8).  The  ruins  were  examined  in  1856  by  Rev. 
G.  Brown  (see  CH  [St.P],  eh  xxiii,  640).  If  St. 
Paul's  ship  was  detained  long  at  this  anchorage,  it 
would  be  necessary  to  purchase  stores  from  Lasea; 
and  this  in  addition  to  the  inconvenience!  of  the 
roadstead  (see  Pair  Havens)  would  probably  ex- 
plain the  captain's  reluctance  to  winter  there. 

LASHA,  la'sha  (2W%?  ,  lasha*) :  A  place  named  on 
the  southern  boundary  of  the  Canaanites  along  with 
Gomorrah,  Adnah  and  Zeboiim  (Gen  10  19). 
Onom  identifies  it  with  the  hot  springs  at  Callir- 
rhoe  in  Wady  Zerka  MaHn,  on  the  E.  of  the  Dead 
Sea;  in  this  agreeing  with  Tg  Jerus.  This  position, 
however,  seems  too  far  to  the  N.,  and  possibly  the 
site  should  be  sought  on  the  W.  of  the  Arabah. 
The  absence  of  the  article  (cf  Josh  15  2)  prevents 
identification  with  the  promontory  el-Lisan,  which 
runs  into  the  sea  from  the  eastern  shore.  Well- 
hausen  (Cornp.  des  Hex.,  15)  thinks  we  should  read 
CI!??,  lesham,  as  the  letters  'Q  (m)  and  V  (')  are  like 
each  other  in  their  Palmyrene  form.  We  should 
then  have  indicated  the  boundary  from  Gaza  to  the 
Dead  Sea,  and  then  from  the  Dead  Sea  to  Leshem, 
i.e.  Dan.  This  is  very  precarious.  No  identifi- 
cation is  possible.  W.  Ewing 

LASSHARON,  la-sha'ron,  la-shar'on  (fn$b, 
lashshdron  or  la-shdron,  AV  Sharon) :  A  royal  city 
of  the  Canaanites  taken  by  Joshua,  named  with 
Aphek  (Josh  12  18).  Possibly  we  should  here 
follow  the  reading  of  LXX  (B),  "the  king  of  Aphek 
in  Sharon."  Onom  (s.v.  "Saron")  mentions  a 
region  between  Mt.  Tabor  and  the  Lake  of  Tiberias 
called  Sarona.  This  is  probably  represented  by  the 
ancient  site  Sarona,  on  the  plateau  6|  miles  S.W. 
of  Tiberias.  If  MT  is  correct,  this  may  be  the  place 
intended. 

LAST  DAY.     See  Day,  Last. 

LAST  DAYS.    See  Eschatology  of  the  OT. 

LAST  TIME,  TIMES  (icaipos  ta-xai-os,  kairos 
eschatos,  XP°V0S  «o"XaT°s>  chronos  eschatos  [also 
pi.]  ecrxaTov  tov  xpovou,  eschaton  toil  chronou,  iopa 
e<r\arr\,  hd?-a  eschdtc):  In  A V  this  phrase  occurs  in 
1  Pet  1  5;  1  20  (pi.);  1  Jn  2  18;  Jude  ver  18. 
RV  has,  in  1  Pet  1  20,  "at  the  end  of  the  times," 
and  in  1  Jn  2  18,  "the  last  hour,"  in  closer 
adherence  to  the  Gr.  The  conception  is  closely 
allied  to  that  of  "the  last  day,"  and,  like  this, 
has  its  root  in  the  OT  conception  of  "the  end 
of  days."  In  the  OT  this  designates  the  entire 
eschatological  period  as  that  which  the  present 
course  of  the  world  is  to  issue  into,  and  not,  as  might 
be  assumed,  the  closing  section  of  history.  It  is 
equivalent  to  what  was  later  called  "the  coming 
aeon"  (see  Eschatology  of  the  NT).  In  the 
NT,  on  the  other  hand,  the  phrase  "the  last  time" 
does  mark  the  concluding  section  of  the  present 
world-period,  of  the  present  aeon.  In  three  of  the 
NT  passages  the  consciousness  expresses  itself  that 
these  "last  times"  have  arrived,  and  that  the  period 
extending  from  the  appearance  or  the  resurrection 
of  Christ  until  His  Second  Coming  is  the  closing 
part  of  the  present  age,  that  the  writer  and  readers 
are  living  in  "the  last  times."  In  one  passage 
(1  Pet  1  5)  "the  last  time"  is  projected  farther 
forward  into  the  future,  so  that  it  comes  to  mean 
the  time  immediately  preceding  the  reappearance 


of  Christ.  Both  usages  can  be  readily  explained. 
The  days  of  the  Messiah  were  to  the  OT  writers 
part  of  the  future  world,  although  to  the  later  Jew- 
ish chiliasm  they  appeared  as  lying  this  side  of  it, 
because  differing  from  the  world  to  come  in  their 
earthly  and  temporal  character.  To  the  early 
Christians  the  days  of  the  Messiah  appeared  more 
closely  assimilated  in  character  to  the  future  world, 
so  that  no  reason  existed  on  this  score  for  not  in- 
cluding them  in  the  latter.  Still  it  was  also  real- 
ized that  the  Messiah  in  His  first  appearance  had 
not  brought  the  full  realization  of  the  coming  world, 
and  that  only  His  return  from  heaven  would  con- 
summate the  kingdom  of  God.  Accordingly,  the 
days  in  which  they  lived  assumed  to  them  the  char- 
acter of  an  intermediate  period,  marked  off  on  the 
one  hand  from  the  previous  development  by  the 
appearance  of  the  Messiah,  but  equally  marked  off 
from  the  coming  aeon  by  His  reappearance  in  glory. 
From  a  formal  point  of  view  the  representation 
resembles  the  Jewish  chiliastic  scheme,  but  with 
a  twofold  substantial  difference:  (a)  the  chiliastic 
scheme  restricts  the  Messiah  and  His  work  to  the 
last  days,  and  does  not  carry  Him  over  into  the 
coming  world,  whereas  to  the  Christian  the  coming 
world,  no  less  than  the  last  days,  is  thoroughly 
Messianic;  (b)  to  the  Jewish  point  of  view  both  the 
days  of  the  Messiah  and  the  coming  world  lie  in  the 
future,  whereas  to  the  Christian  the  former  have 
already  arrived.  It  remained  possible,  however, 
from  the  Christian  point  of  view  to  distinguish 
within  the  last  times  themselves  between  the  imme- 
diate present  and  the  future  conclusion  of  this 
period,  and  this  is  done  in  1  Pet  1  5.  Also  in 
1  Jn  2  18  the  inference  that  "the  last  hour"  has 
come  is  not  drawn  from  the  presence  of  the  Mes- 
siah, but  from  the  appearance  of  the  anti-Christian 
power,  so  that  here  also  a  more  contracted  concep- 
tion of  the  last  stage  of  history  reveals  itself,  only 
not  as  future  (1  Pet  1  5),  but  as  present  (hence 
"hour"  not  "time"). 

For  literature  see  Eschatology  of  the  NT. 

Geerhardus  Vos 

LASTHENES,  las'the-nez  (Aao-GtvTis,  Lasthenes): 
A  highly  placed  official  under  King  Demetrius  II, 
Nicator.  He  is  called  the  king's  "kinsman"  (AV 
"cousin")  and  "father"  (1  Mace  11  31.32;  Jos, 
Ant,  XIII,  iv,  9),  but  these  are  to  be  taken  as  court 
titles  rather  than  as  denoting  blood-relationship. 
According  to  Jos  (Ant,  XIII,  iv,  3)  he  was  a  native 
of  Crete,  and  raised  an  army  for  the  king  when  he 
made  his  first  descent  upon  the  coast,  and  rendered 
him  ultimately  successful  in  wresting  the  throne  of 
Syria  from  Alexander  Balas  (1  Mace  10  67;  Ant, 
XIII,  iv,  3).  The  letter  addressed  to  L.  indicates 
that  he  was  probably  prime  minister  or  grand  vizier 
of  the  kingdom.  J.  Hutchison 

LATCHET,  lach'et  (tp-\TC5 ,  serokh;  l(ids,  himds) : 
Leather  thong  used  for  tying  on  sandals  (see  Gen 

14  23;  Mk  1  7  ||).  The  stooping  to  untie  the 
dusty  shoedatchet  was  esteemed  by  Orientals  a 
service  that  was  at  once  petty  and  defiling,  and  was 
usually  assigned  to  menials. 

LATIN,  lat'in:  Was  the  official  language  of  the 
Rom  Empire  as  Gr  was  that  of  commerce.  In  Pal 
Aram,  was  the  vernacular  in  the  rural  districts  and 
remoter  towns,  while  in  the  leading  towns  both  Gr 
and  Aram,  were  spoken.  These  facts  furnish  the 
explanation  of  the  use  of  all  three  tongues  in  the 
inscription  on  the  cross  of  Christ  (Mt  27  37;    Mk 

15  26;  Lk  23  38;  Jn  19  19).  Thus  the  charge 
was  written  in  the  legal  language,  and  was  techni- 
cally regular  as  well  as  recognizable  by  all  classes  of 
the  people.  The  term  "Latin"  occurs  in  the  NT  only 
in  Jn  19  20,  'Povtaurrf,  Rhomdisti,  and  in  Lk  23 


1841 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Lasea 

Latin  Version,  Old 


38,  'Pu^cuKots  (ypdfj.fia.o-iv),  Rhomaikois  (grdmmasin) , 
according  to  X  ADN.  It  is  probable  that  Tertullus 
made  his  plea  against  Paul  before  Felix  (Acts  24) 
in  Lat,  though  Gr  was  allowed  in  such  provincial 
courts  by  grace  of  the  judge.  It  is  probable  also 
that  Paul  knew  and  spoke  Lat;  cf  W.  M.  Ramsay, 
Pauline  and  Other  Studies,  1906,  05,  and  A.  Souter, 
"Did  Paul  Speak  Lat?"  Expos,  April,  1911.  The 
vernacular  Lat  had  its  own  history  and  develop- 
ment with  great  influence  on  the  ecclesiastical  ter- 
minology of  the  West.  See  W.  Bury,  "The  Holy 
Latin  Tongue,"  Dublin  Review,  April,  1900,  and 
Ronsch,  Itala  und  Vulgata,  1874,  480  f.  There  is 
no  doubt  of  the  mutual  influence  of  Gr  and  Lat, 
on  each  other  in  the  later  centuries.  See  W. 
Schulze,  Graeca  Latina,  1891;  Viereck,  Sermo 
Graecus,  1888. 

It  is  doubtful  if  the  Lat  syntax  is  clearly  per- 
ceptible in  the  koine  (see  Language  of  the  NT). 

Deissmann  (Light  from  the  Ancient  East,  117  f)_  finds 
epyaaiav  Si'Soi/xt,  ergasian  dldomi  (operam  dare)  in  an 
Oxyrhynchus  papyrus  letter  of  the  vulgar  type  from  2d 
cent.  BC  (ef  Lk  12  58).  A  lead  tablet  in  Amorgus 
has  Kpij'w  to  Sucaioi',  krino  to  dikaion  (cf  Lk  12  .r)7). 
The  papyri  (2d  cent.  AD)  give  ffwaipu,  \6yov,  sunairo 
logon  (cf  Alt  18  23  f).  Moulton  (Expos,  February, 
1903,  115)  shows  that  to  Uavbv  troieiv,  to  hikanon 
poiein  (satisfacere),  is  as  old  as  Polybius.  Even  avfj.- 
jSou/uoi'  kait-fiaveiv,  sumhoulion  lamhdnein  (concilium  capere), 
may  go  with  the  rest  like  <rv  oypn,  su  6pse  (Alt  27  4), 
for  videris  (Thayer).  Moulton  (I'rol.,  21)  and  Thumb 
(Griechische  Sprache,  121)  consider  the  whole  matter  of 
syntactical  Latinisms  in  the  NT  inconclusive.  But  see 
also  C.  Wesselv,  "  Die  lateinischen  Elemente  in  der 
Gracitat  d.  agypt.  Papyrusurkunden,"  Wien.  Stud.,  24; 
Laforcade,  Influence  du  Latin  sur  le  Grec,  83-158. 

There  are  Lat  words  in  the  NT:  In  particular 
Lat  proper  names  like  Aquila,  Cornelius,  Claudia, 
Clemens,  Crescens,  Crispus,  Fortunatus,  Julia, 
Junia,  etc,  even  among  the  Christians  in  the  NT 
besides  Agrippa,  Augustus,  Caesar,  Claudius,  Felix, 
Festus,  Gallio,  Julius,  etc. 

Besides  we  find  in  the  NT  current  Lat  commercial, 
financial,  and  official  terms  like  doodpiov,  assdrion 
(as),  dyvapiov,  dendrion  (denarius),  nevrvpiwv,  ken- 
titrion  (centurio),  ktjvoos,  kettsos  (census),  Ko8pdvTt]s, 
kodrdntes  (quadrans),  KoXuvia,  kolonia  (colonia), 
KovoTwSia,  koustodia  (custodia),Xeyeuv,legedn  (legio), 
\ivnov,  lention  (linteum),  X^eprTvos,  libertinos  (liber- 
tinus),  Xlrpa,  litra  (litra),  LidKeXXov,  mdkellon  (macel- 
lum),  fj.efj.(ipdva,  membrdna  (membrana),  fj-iXiov,  milion 
(milk),  /j.65los,  modios  (modius),  &otVs,  xestes  (sex- 
tarius),  -rrpaiTupiov,  praitorion  (praetorium),  o-ucdpios, 
sikdrios  (sicarius),  <nfudvdiov,  simikinthion  (semi- 
cinctium),  oovbdpiov,  souddrion  (sudarium),  o-rreicov- 
Xdrwp,  spekouldtor  (speculator),  ra^ipva,  taberna 
(taberna),  tLtXos,  titlos  (titulus),  <peX6vys,  phelones 
(paenula),  <p6pov,  phoron  (forum),  <ppa.yiWi.ov,  phra- 
gellion  (flagellum),  <pPayeXX6u,  phragelloo  (jlagello), 
Xdpr-qs,  chdrtes  (charta?),  x"P°s,  choros  (chorus). 

Then  we  meet  such  adjectives  as  'Epwdiavol, 
Herodianoi,  <t>i\urirrio-ioi,  Philippesioi,  Xpio-riavoL 
Christianoi,  which  are  made  after  the  Lat  model. 
Mark's  Gospel  shows  more  of  these  Lat  words  out- 
side of  proper  names  (cf  Rom  16),  as  is  natural  if 
his  Gospel  were  indeed  written  in  Rome.  See  also 
Latin  Version,  The  Old. 

Literature.— Besides  the  lit.  already  mentioned  see 
Schiirer,  Jewish  People  in  the  Time  of  Christ,  Div  II, 
vol  I  43  A"  Krauss,  Griechische  und  lateimsche  Lehn- 
worter  im  Talmud  (1898,  1899);  Hoole,  Classical  Ele- 
ment in  the  NT  (1888);  Jannaris,  Historical  Gr  Grammar 
(1897);  W.  Schmid,  Atticismus,  etc  (1887-97);  Kapp, 
Latinismis  merito  ac  falso  susceptis  (1726);  Georgi,  De 
Latinismis  NT  (1733);  Draeger,  Historische  Syntax  der 
lat.  Sprache  (1878-81);  Pfister,  V ulg drlatem  und  1 ,  ulgar- 
griechisch  (Rh.  Mus.,  1912,  195-208). 

A.  T.  Robertson 
LATIN  VERSION,  THE  OLD: 

1.  The  Motive  of  Translation 

2.  Multiplicity  of  Latin  Translations  in  the  4th  Century 

3.  The  Latin  Bible  before  Jerome 

4.  First  Used  in  North  Africa 


5.  Cyprian's  Bible 

6.  Tertullian's  Bible 

7.  Possible  Eastern  Origin  of  Old  Latin 

8.  Classification  of  Old  Latin  MSS 

9.  Individual  Characteristics 

10.  Value  of  Old  Latin  for  Textual  Criticism 
Literature 

The  claim  of  Christianity  to  be  the  one  true  reli- 
gion has  carried  with  it  from  the  beginning  the  obli- 
gation  to   make  its   Holy  Scriptures, 

1.  The  containing  the  Divine  message  of  sal- 
Motive  of  vation  and  life  eternal,  known  to  all 
Translation   mankind.     Accordingly,  wherever  the 

first  Christian  evangelists  carried  the 
gospel  beyond  the  limits  of  the  Gr-speaking  world, 
one  of  the  first  requirements  of  their  work  was  to 
give  the  newly  evangelized  peoples  the  record  of 
God's  revelation  of  Himself  in  their  mother  tongue. 
It  was  through  the  LXX  tr  of  the  OT  that  the  great 
truths  of  revelation  first  became  known  to  the  Gr 
and  Rom  world.  It  is  generally  agreed  that,  as 
Christianity  spread,  the  Syr  and  the  Lat  VSS  were 
the  first  to  be  produced;  and  trs  of  the  Gospels, 
and  of  other  books  of  the  Old  and  NT  in  Gr,  were 
in  all  probability  to  be  found  in  these  languages 
before  the  close  of  the  2d  cent. 

Of  the  earliest  translators  of  the  Bible  into  Lat 
no  record  has  survived.    Notwithstanding  the  care- 
ful investigations  of  scholars  in  recent 

2.  Multi-  years,  there  are  still  many  questions 
plicity  of  relating  to  the  origin  of  the  Lat  Bible 
Latin  to  which  only  tentative  and  provisional 
Transla-  answers  can  be  given.  It  is  therefore 
tions  in  the  more  convenient  to  begin  a  study  of 
4th  Century  its   history   with   Jerome   toward   the 

close  of  the  4th  cent,  and  the  com- 
mission intrusted  to  him  by  Pope  Damasus  to  pro- 
duce a  standard  Lat  version,  the  execution  of 
which  gave  to  Christendom  the  Vulg  (see  Vulgate). 
The  need  for  such  a  version  was  clamant.  There 
existed  by  this  time  a  multiplicity  of  trs  differing 
from  one  another,  and  there  was  none  possessed  of 
commanding  authority  to  which  appeal  might  be 
made  in  case  of  necessity.  It  was  the  consideration 
of  the  chaotic  condition  of  the  existing  tr3,  with 
their  divergences  and  variations,  which  moved 
Damasus  to  commission  Jerome  to  his  task  and 
Jerome  to  undertake  it.  We  learn  particulars  from 
the  letter  of  Jerome  in  383  transmitting  to  his 
patron  the  first  instalment  of  his  revision,  the  Gos- 
pels. "Thou  compellest  me,"  he  writes,  "to  make  a 
new  work  out  of  an  old  so  that  after  so  many  copies 
of  the  Scriptures  have  been  dispersed  throughout  the 
whole  world  I  am  as  it  were  to  occupy  the  post  of 
arbiter,  and  seeing  they  differ  from  one  another 
am  to  determine  which  of  them  are  in  agreement 
with  the  original  Gr."  Anticipating  attacks  from 
critics,  he  says,  further:  "If  they  maintain  that  con- 
fidence is  to  be  reposed  in  the  Lat  exemplars,  let 
them  answer  which,  for  there  are  almost  as  many 
copies  of  tr3  as  MSS.  But  if  the  truth  is  to  be 
sought  from  the  majority,  why  not  rather  go  back 
to  the  Gr  original,  and  correct  the  blunders  which 
have  been  made  by  incompetent  translators^  made 
worse  rather  than  better  by  the  presumption  of 
unskilful  correctors,  and  added  to  or  altered  by 
careless  scribes?"  Accordingly,  he  hands  to  the 
Pontiff  the  four  Gospels  to  begin  with  after  a  care- 
ful comparison  of  old  Gr  MSS. 

From  Jerome's  contemporary,  Augustine,  we 
obtain  a  similar  picture.  "Translators  from  Heb 
into  Gr,"  he  says  (De  Doctrina  Christiana,  ii.ll), 
"can  be  numbered,  but  Lat  translators  by  no  means. 
For  whenever,  in  the  first  ages  of  the  faith,  a  Gr 
MS  came  into  the  hands  of  anyone  who  had  also 
a  little  skill  in  both  languages,  he  made  bold  to 
translate  it  forthwith."  In  the  same  context  he 
mentions  "an  innumerable  variety  of  Lat  transla- 


Latin  Version,  Old 
Laver 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1842 


tors,"  "a  crowd  of  translators."  His  advice  to  read- 
ers is  to  give  a  preference  to  the  Itala,  "which  is 
more  faithful  in  its  renderings  and  more  intelligible 
in  its  sense."  What  the  Itala  is,  lias  been  greatly 
discussed.  Formerly  it  was  taken  to  be  a  summary 
designation  of  all  the  VSS  before  Jerome's  time. 
But  Professor  Burkitt  (Texts  and  /Studies,  IV) 
strongly  urges  the  view  that  by  this  term  Augustine 
designates  Jerome's  Vulg,  which  he  might  (mite 
well  have  known  and  preferred  to  any  of  the  earlier 
trs.  However  this  may  be,  whereas  before  Jerome 
there  were  those  numerous  trs,  of  which  he  and 
Augustine  complain,  after  Jerome  there  is  the  one 
preeminent  and  commanding  work,  produced  by  him, 
which  in  course  of  time  drove  all  others  out  of  the 
field,  the  great  Vulg  edition,  as  it  came  to  be  called, 
of  the  complete  Lat  Bible. 

We  are  here  concerned  with  the  subject  of  the 

Lat   Bible  before  the  time  of  Jerome.     The   MSS 

which  have  survived  from  the  earlier 

3.  The  period  are  known  by  the  general 
Latin  designation  of  Old  Latin.  When  we 
Bible  ask  where;  these  first  tr3  came  into  ex- 
before  istence,  we  discover  a  somewhat  sur- 
Jerome  prising  fact.     It  was  not  at  Home,  as 

we  might  have  expected,  that  they 
were  first  required.  The  language  of  Christian 
Rome  was  mainly  Gr,  down  to  the  3d  cent.  St. 
Paul  wrote  the  Ep.  to  1  he  Rom  in  Gr.  When  Clem- 
ent of  Rome  in  the  last  decade  of  the  1st  cent, 
wrote  an  ep.  in  the  name  of  the  Roman  church  to 
the  Corinthians,  he  wrote  in  Gr.  Justin  Martyr, 
and  the  heretic  Marcion,  alike  wrote  from  Rome  in 
Gr.  Out  of  15  bishops  who  presided  over  the  Rom 
see  down  to  the  close  of  the  2d  cent.,  only  four 
have  Lat  names.  Even  the  pagan  emperor  Marcus 
Aurelius  wrote;  his  Meditations  in  Gr.  If  there  were 
Christians  in  Rome  at  that  period  whose  only  lan- 
guage was  Lat,  they  were  not  sufficiently  numer- 
ous to  be  provided  with  Christian  literature;  at 
least  none  has  survived. 

It  is  from  North  Africa  that  the  earliest  Lat  lit- 
erature of  the  church  has  come  down  to  us.     The 

church  of  North  Africa  early  received 

4.  First  a  baptism  of  blood,  and  could  point 
Used  in  to  an  illustrious  roll  of  martyrs.  It 
North  had  also  a  distinguished  list  of  Lat 
Africa             authors,  whose  Lat  might  sometimes 

be  rude  and  mixed  with  foreign  idioms, 
but  had  a  power  and  a  fire  derived  from  the  truths 
which  it  set  forth. 

One  of  the  most  eminent  of  these  Africans  was 
Cyprian,  bishop  of  Carthage,  who  won  the  martyr's 
crown  in  257.  His  genuine  works  consist  of  a  num- 
ber of  short  treatises,  or  tracts,  and  numerous  let  t  ers, 
all  teeming  with  Scripture  quotations.  It  is  certain 
that  he  employed  a  version  then  and  there  in  use, 
and  it  is  agreed  that  "his  quotations  are  carefully 
made  and  thus  afford  trustworthy  standards  of 
African  Old  Latin  in  a  very  early  though  still  not 
the  earliest  stage"  (Hort,  Intro  to  the  NT  in  Gr, 
78). 

Critical  investigation  has  made  it  clear  that  the 
version  used  by  Cyprian  survives  in  a  fragmentary 
copy  of  St.  Mark  and  St.  Matthew, 
6.  Cyprian's  now  at  Turin  in  North  Italy,  called 
Bible  Codex  Bobbiensis  (k),  and  in  the  frag- 

ments of  the  Apocalypse  and  Acts 
contained  in  a  palimpsest  at  Paris  called  Codex 
Floriacensis  (h).  It  has  been  found  that  another 
MS,  Codex  Palatinus  (e)  at  Vienna,  has  a  text 
closely  akin  to  that  exhibited  in  Cyprian,  although 
there  are  traces  of  mixture  in  it.  The  text  of  these 
MSS,  together  with  the  quotations  of  the  so-called 
Speculum  Augustini  (m),  is  known  among  scholars 
as  African  Old  Latin.  Another  MS  with  an  inter- 
esting history,  Codex  Colbertinus  (c)  contains  also 


a  valuable  African  element,  but  in  many  parts  of 
the  Gospels  it  sides  also  with  what  is  called  the 
European  Old  Latin  more  than  with  k  or  e.  Codex 
Bobbiensis  (k)  has  been  edited  with  a  learned  in- 
troduction in  the  late  Bishop  John  Wordsworth's 
Old  Latin  Bib.  Texts,  the  relation  of  k  to  Cyprian 
as  well  as  to  other  Old  Latin  texts  being  the  subject 
of  an  elaborate  investigation  by  Professor  Sanday. 
That  Cyprian,  who  was  not  acquainted  with  Greek, 
had  a  written  version  before  him  which  is  here 
identified  is  certain,  and  thus  the  illustrious  bishop 
and  martyr  gives  us  a  fixed  point  in  the  history  of 
the  Lat  Bible  a  century  and  a  half  earlier  than 
Jerome. 

We  proceed  half  a  century  nearer  to  the  fountain- 
head  of  the  African  Bible  when  we  take;  up  the  tes- 
timony  of   Tertullian   who  flourished 

6.  Tertul-      toward  the  close  of  the  2d  cent.     He 
Han's  Bible  differed  from  Cyprian  in  being  a  com- 
petent Gr  scholar.     He  was  thus  able 

to  translate  for  himself  as  he  made  his  quotations 
from  the  LXX  or  the  Gr  NT,  and  is  thus  for  us  by 
no  means  so  safe  a  witness  to  the  character  or  exist- 
ence; of  a  stanelard  version.  Professor  Zahn  (GK, 
I,  GO)  maintains  with  consielerable  plausibility  that 
be>fore  210-240  AD  there  was  no  Lat  Bible,  and  that 
Tertullian  with  his  knowknlge  of  Gr  just  trd  as  he 
went  along.  In  this  contention,  Zahn  is  not  sup- 
ported by  many  scholars,  and  the  view  generally 
is  that  while  Tertullian's  knowleelge  of  Gr  is  a  dis- 
turbing element,  his  writings,  with  the  copious 
quotations  from  both  OT  and  NT,  do  testify  to  the 
existence  of  a  version  whie'h  had  already  be>en  for 
some  time  in  circulation  anel  use.  Who  the  African 
Wye'liffe  or  Tindale  was  who  pnnluced  that  version 
has  not  been  recorded,  anel  it  may  in  fact  have 
be;en  the  work  of  se;veral  hands,  the  result,  as  Bishop 
Westcott  puts  it,  of  the  spontaneems  efforts  of 
African  Christians  (Canon  of  the  NT7,  263). 

Although  the  evielence  has,  up  to  the  presemt  time, 

been  regarded  as  favoring  the  African  origin  of  the 

first  Lat  tr  of  the  Bible',  recent  investi- 

7.  Possible  gation  into  what  is  calleel  the  West  era 
Eastern  text  of  the  NT  has  yielded  results 
Origin  of  pointing  elsewhe>re.  It  is  clear  from 
Old  Latin       a  comparison  that  the  Western  type 

of  text  has  close  affinity  with  the  Syr 
witnesses  originating  in  the  easte'rn  provinces  of  the 
empire.  The  close  text  ual  relation  discloseel  bel  ween 
the  Lat  and  the  Syr  VSS  has  led  some  authorities 
to  believe  that,  after  all,  the  earliest  Lat  version 
may  have  been  made  in  the  East,  anel  possibly  at 
Antioch.  But  this  is  one  of  the  problems  awaiting 
the  discovery  of  fresh  material  and  fuller  investiga- 
tion for  its  solution. 

We  have  already  noticed  the   African  group,  so 
designated    from    its    connection    with    the    great 

African   Fathers,   Tertullian  and  esp. 

8.  Classi-  Cyprian,  and  comprising  k,  e,  and  to 
fication  of  some  extent  h  and  m.  The  antiquity 
Old  Latin  of  the  text  here  represented  is  attested 
MSS  by  these  African   Fathers. 

When  we  come  down  to  the  4th 
cent,  we  find  in  Western  Europe,  anel  esp.  in  North 
Italy,  a  second  type  of  text,  whie'h  is  designated 
European,  the  precise  relation  of  which  to  the 
African  has  not  been  clearly  ascertained.  Is  this 
an  independent  text  which  has  arisen  on  the  soil 
of  Italy,  or  is  it  a  text  derived  by  alteration 
anel  revision  of  the  African  as  it  traveled  north- 
ward and  westward?  This  group  consists  of  the 
Coelex  Vercellensis  (a)  anel  Coelex  Veronensis  (b) 
of  the  4th  or  5th  cent,  at  Vercelli  and  Verona  re- 
spectively, and  there  may  be  included  also  the 
Codex  Vindobonensis  (i)  of  the  7th  cent,  at  Vienna. 
These  give  the  Gospels,  anel  a  gives  for  St.  John  the 
text  as  it  was  read  by  the  4th-cent.  Father,  Lucifer 


1843 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Latin  Version,  Old 
Laver 


of  Cagliari  in  Sardinia.  The  Lat  of  the  Gr-Lat 
MS  D  (Codex  Bezae)  known  as  d,  and  the  Lat  of  the 
translator  of  Irenaeus  are  classed  with  this  group. 

Still  later,  Professor  Hort  says  from  the  middle 
of  the  4th  cent.,  a  third  type,  called  Italic  from  its 
more  restricted  range,  is  found.  It  is  represented 
by  Codex  Brixianus  (/)  of  the  6th  cent.,  now  at 
Brescia,  and  Codex  Monacensis  (q)  of  the  7th  cent., 
at  Munich.  This  text  is  probably  a  modified  form 
of  the  European,  produced  by  revision  which  has 
brought  it  more  into  accord  with  the  Gr,  and  has 
given  it  a  smoother  Lat  aspect.  The  group  has 
received  this  name  because  the  text  found  in  many 
of  Augustine's  writings  is  the  same,  and  as  he 
expressed  a  preference  for  the  Itala,  the  group 
was  designated  accordingly.  Recent  investigation 
tends  to  show  that  we  must  be  careful  how  we  use 
Augustine  as  an  Old  Latin  authority,  and  that  the 
Itala  may  be,  not  a  pre-Vulg  text,  but  rather 
Jerome's  Vulg.  This,  however,  is  still  uncertain; 
the  fact  remains  that  as  far  as  the  Gospels  are  con- 
cerned, /  and  q  represent  the  type  of  text  most  used 
by  Jerome. 

That  all  these  groups,  comprising  in  all  38  codices, 

go  back  to  one  original  is  not  impossible.     Still  t  here 

may  have  been  at  first  local  VSS,  and  then  an  official 

version  formed  out  of  them.     When 

9.  Indi-  Jerome's  revision  took  hold  of  the 
vidual  church,  the  Old  Latin  representatives 
Character-  for  the  most  part  dropped  out  of  notice. 
istics  Some    of    them,   however,   held   their 

ground  and  continued  to  be  copied 
down  to  the  12th  and  even  the  13th  cent.  Codex 
c  is  an  example  of  this;  it  is  a  MS  of  the  12th  cent., 
but  as  Professor  Burkitt  has  pointed  out  (Texts  and 
Studies,  IV,  "Old  Latin,"  11)  "it  came  from  Lan- 
guedoc,  the  country  of  the  Albigenses.  Only 
among  heretics  isolated  from  the  rest  of  Western 
Christianity  could  an  Old  Latin  text  have  been 
written  at  so  late  a  period."  An  instance  of  an 
Old  Latin  text  copied  in  the  13th  cent,  is  the  Gigas 
Holmiensis,  quoted  as  dig,  now  at  Stockholm,  and 
so  called  from  its  great  size.  It  contains  the  Acts 
and  the  Apocalypse  of  the  Old  Latin  and  the  rest 
of  the  NT  according  to  the  Vulg.  It  has  to  be 
borne  in  mind  that  in  the  early  centuries  complete 
Billies  were  unknown.  Each  group  of  books,  Gos- 
pels, Acts  and  Catholic  Epp.,  Pauline  Epp.,  and 
Rev  for  the  NT,  and  Pent,  Historical  Books,  Pss 
and  Prophets  for  the  OT,  has  to  be  regarded  sepa- 
rately. It  is  interesting,  also,  to  note  that  when 
Jerome  revised,  or  even  retranslated  from  the  LXX, 
Tob  and  Jth  of  the  Apoc,  the  greater  number  of 
these  books,  the  Wisd,  Ecclus,  1  and  2  Mace,  and 
Bar  were  left  unrevised,  and  were  simply  added  to 
the  Vulg  from  the  Old  Latin  version. 

These  Old  Latin  tr3  going  back  in  their  earliest 

forms  to  nearly  the  middle  of  the  2d  cent,  are  very 

early  witnesses  to  the  Gr  text  from 

10.  Value  which  they  were  made.  They  are 
of  Old  Latin  the  more  valuable  inasmuch  as  they 
for  Textual  are  manifestly  very  literal  trs.  Our 
Criticism        great   uncial    MSS   reach   no   farther 

back  than  the  4th  cent.,  whereas  in 
the  Old  Latin  we  have  evidence — indirect  indeed 
and  requiring  to  be  cautiously  used— reaching 
back  to  the  2d  cent.  The  text  of  these  MSS  is 
neither  dated  nor  localized,  whereas  the  evidence 
of  these  VSS,  coming  from  a  particular  province  of 
the  church,  and  being  used  by  Fathers  whose  period 
is  definitely  known,  enables  us  to  judge  of  the  type 
of  Gr  text  then  and  there  in  use.  In  this  con- 
nection, too,  it  is  noteworthy  that  while  the  vari- 
ations of  which  Jerome  and  Augustine  complained 
were  largely  due  to  the  blunders,  or  natural  mis- 
takes, of  copyists,  they  did  sometimes  represent 
various  readings  in  the  Gr  originals. 


Literature. — Wordsworth  and  White,  Old  Latin 
Biblical  Texts,  4  vols;  F.  C.  Burkitt,  "The  Old  Latin 
and  the  Itala,"  Texts  and  Studies,  IV;  "Old  Lat  VSS" 
by  II.  A.  A.  Kennedy  in  HDB;  "  Bibeliibersetzungen, 
Lateinische"  by  Fritzsche-Nestle  in  PRE*;  Intros  to 
Textual  Criticism  of  the  NT  by  Scrivener,  Gregory, 
Nestle,  and  Lake. 

T.  Nicol 
LATTER  DAYS.    See  Ekchatology  of  the  OT. 

LATTICE,  lat'is.     See  House,  II,  1,  (9). 

LAUD,  16d:  A  vb.  meaning  "to  praise,"  used  in 
Rom  15  11  AV,  and  Ps  117  1;  145  4.  RV  either 
should  have  avoided  the  word  altogether  or  else 
should  have  used  it  much  more  extensively — 
preferably  the  latter,  as  the  word  is  not  obsolete 
in  liturgical  Eng. 

LAUGHING-STOCK,  laf'ing-stok :  Something 
set  up  to  be  laughed  at;  thrice  in  RV  the  tr  of 
pinip,  s°hok,  "laughter,"  etc  (Job  12  4  bis;  Jer 
20  7;  of  Jer  48  26.27.39;  Lam  3  14).  See  Mock, 
Mocking. 

LAUGHTER,  laf'ter  (pn£ ,  cdhak,  pnip ,  sahak, 
"to  laugh,"  pimp ,  sehdk,  "laughter";  -yeX&w,  geldd, 
Kara-ycXdco,  katagelao):  (1)  Laughter  as  the  expres- 
sion of  gladness,  pleasurable  surprise,  is  the  tr  of 
cahak  (Gen  17  17;  18  12.13.15;  21  6),  which, 
however,  should  perhaps  be  "laugh  at  me,"  not 
"with  me,"  as  AV  and  RV  (so  Delitzsch  and  others; 
see  also  Hastings  in  HDB),  not  in  the  sense  of 
derision,  but  of  surprise  and  pleasure.  In  the  same 
ver  for  "God  hath  made  me  to  laugh,"  RV  gives 
in  m,  "hath  prepared  laughter  for  me,"  and  this 
gave  his  name  to  the  son,  the  promise  of  whose 
birth  evoked  the  laughter  (Yichdk,  Isaac);  gclao 
(Lk  6  21.25)  has  tin;  same  meaning  of  gladness 
and  rejoicing;  s'hdk,  "laughter,"  has  also  this  sense 
(Job  8  21;  Ps  i26  2).  It  is,  however,  "laughed 
to  scorn"  in  Job  12  4;  RV  "laughing-stock";  so 
Jer  20  7;  cf  48  20.27.39;  Lam  3  14,  "derision." 
(2)  Sahak  is  used  (except  Job  29  24;  Eccl  3  4)  in 
the  sense  of  the  laughter  of  defiance,  or  derision  (Job 
6  22;  41  29);  in  Piel  it  is  often  trd  "play,"  "play- 
ing," "merry."  (3)  Ld*agh  is  "to  scorn,"  "to 
laugh  to  scorn"  (2  K  19  21;  Neh  2  19);  sahak 
has  also  this  sense  (2  Ch  30  10);  gehok  (Ezk  23 
32);  sehok  (Job  12  4);  katagelao  (Mt  9  24;  Mk 
5  40;  Lk  8  53);  the  simple  gelao  occurs  only  in 
Lk  6  21.25;  see  above.  Katagelao  is  found  in  Jth 
12  12,  "laugh  to  scorn"  (Ecclus  7  11;  20  17;  1 
Mace  10  70/ RV  "derision"). 

For  "laugh"  (Job  9  23)  RV  has  "mock";  for 
"mocked  of  his  neighbor"  and  "laughed  to  scorn" 
(Job  12  4)  "laughing-stock";  for  "shall  rejoice  in 
time  to  come"  (Prov  31  25),  "laugheth  at  the  time 
to  come";    "laughter"  for  "laughing"   (Job  8  21). 

W.  L.  Walker 

LAUNCH,  lanch,  lonch.  See  Ships  and  Boats, 
III,  I- 

LAVER,  la' ver  ("IT?  ,  kiyor) :  Every  priest  in 
attendance  on  the  altar  of  Jeh  was  required  to  wash 

his  hands  and  his  feet  before  entering 
1.  In  the  upon  his  official  duties  (Ex  30  19  ff). 
Tabernacle    To  this  end  a  laver  was  ordered  to 

be  made  as  part  of  the  tabernacle 
equipment  (30  17-21;  38  8).  Its  composition 
was  of  brass  (bronze),  and  it  consisted  of  two  parts, 
the  bowl  and  its  pedestal  or  foot  (30  IS,  etc).  This 
first  laver  was  a  small  one,  and  was  made  of  the 
hand  mirrors  of  the  women  in  attendance  upon  the 
altar  (38  8).  Its  place  was  between  the  altar  and 
the  tabernacle  (40  30).     See  Tabernacle. 

The  difficulty  as  to  the  washing  of  parts  of  the 
sacrificial  carcases  was  overcome,  in  the  temple  of 


Law  in  the  NT      THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1844 


Solomon,  by  the  construction  of  "10  lavers"   and 

a  "molten  sea"  (1  K  7  23-37;   2  Ch  4  2-G;    see 

Temple;    Sea,  Molten).     We   learn 

2.  In  the  from  2  Ch  4  6  that  the  "sea"  was  for 
Temple  the  priests  to  wash  in — therefore  took 

the  place  of  the  laver  in  the  taber- 
nacle— and  the  lavers  were  used  as  baths  for  por- 
tions of  the  burnt  offerings.  The  lavers  them- 
selves were  artistic  works  of  unusual  merit  for  that 
age.  Like  that  in  the  tabernacle,  each  had  its  own 
stand  or  base,  which  was  cast  in  a  separate  piece 
from  the  laver.  These  bases  rested  on  wheels 
which  allowed  of  the  laver  being  moved  from  one 
part  of  the  court  to  another  without  being  turned 
about.  Five  stood  on  the  north  and  five  on  the 
south  side  of  the  temple.  They  were  ornamented 
with  "lions,  oxen,  and  cherubim,"  and  on  a  lower 
level,  with  a  series  of  wreaths  or  festoons  of  flowers 
(1  K  7  27-37).  In  modern  speech,  the  lavers 
may  be  described  as  so  many  circular  open  tanks 
for  the  storage  of  water.  Each  laver  contained 
40  baths  (about  320  gals.)  of  water.  Its  height 
was  5  cubits,  the  locomotive  machinery  being  3 
cubits  in  height,  and  the  depth  of  the  bowl  or  tank, 
judging  from  its  capacity,  about  2  cubits.  The 
last  we  hear  of  the  lavers,  apart  from  their  bases, 
is  that  the  idolatrous  king  Ahaz  cut  off  the  border 
of  the  bases,  and  removed  the  bases  from  them 
(2  K  16  17).  During  the  reign  of  Jehoiakim,  Jere- 
miah foretold  that  the  molten  sea  and  the  bases  (there 
being  then  no  lavers)  should  be  carried  to  Babylon 
(Jer  27  19).  A  few  years  later  it  is  recorded  that 
the  bases  were  broken  up,  and  the  brass  of  which 
they  were  made  was  carried  away  (Jer  62  17). 

The  Gr  word  (\ovrp6v,  loutron)  occurs  twice  in 

the  NT.     In  Eph  5  26,  Paul  says  that  Christ  gave 

Himself  for  the  church  "that  he  might 

3.  The  sanctify  it,  having  cleansed  it  by  the 
Laver  in  washing  [Gr  "laver"]  of  water  with  the 
the  NT  word";    and  in  Tit  3  5  he  says  that 

we  are  saved  "through  the  washing 
[Gr  "laver"]  of  regeneration  and  renewing  of  the 
Holy  Spirit."  In  these  passages  the  reference  is 
to  the  constant  physical  purity  demanded  of  the 
Jewish  priests  when  in  attendance  upon  the  temple. 
Christians  are  "a  holy  priesthood,"  and  are  cleansed 
not  by  water  only,  but,  in  the  former  passage,  "with 
the  word"  (cf  Jn  15  3);  in  the  latter,  by  the 
"renewing  of  the  Holy  Spirit"  (cf  Ezk  36  25;  Jn 
3  5).  The  feet-washing  mentioned  by  Jesus  is 
emblematic  of  the  same  thing  (Jn  13  10). 

W.  Shaw  Caldecott 
LAW,  16,  IN  THE  NEW  TESTAMENT. 

The  Term  "Law";  Austin's  Definition  of  Law 
I.     Law  in  the  Gospels 

1.  The  Law  in  the  Teaching  of  Christ 

(1)  Authority  of  the  Law  Upheld  in  the  Sermon 
on  the  Mount 

(a)  Christ  and  Tradition 

(b)  Sin  of  Murder 

(c)  Adultery  and  Divorce 

(d)  Oaths 

(e)  Retaliation 

(/)    Love  to  Neighbors — Love  of  Enemies 

(2)  Other  References  to  the  Law  in  the  Teaching 
of  Christ 

(a)  Traditions  of  the  Elders  and  the  Sth 

Commandment 
(6)   Christ's  Answer  to  the  Young  Ruler 
(c)    Christ's  Answer  to  the  Lawyer 
(rf)   References  in  the  Fourth  Gospel 

2.  The  Law  in  Relation  to  the  Life  of  Christ 

(1)  In  His  Infancy 

(2)  In  His  Ministry 

3.  The  Law  in  Relation  to  the  Death  of  Christ 

(1)  Christ  Charged  with  Blasphemy  under  the 
Jewish  Law 

(2)  Christ   Charged   with  Treason    under    the 
Roman  Law 

4.  How  Christ  Fulfilled  the  Law  in  All  Its  Parts 
II.     Law  in  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles 

1.  Stephen's  Witness 

2.  Practice  of  Peter  and  Paul 

3.  Allusions  to  the  Roman  Law 


III.     Law  in  the  Epistles 

1.  In  Romans 

2.  In  Galatians 

3.  In  the  Other  Pauline;  Epistles 

4.  In  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews 

5.  In  the  Epistle  of  James 

6.  In  the  Epistles  of  Peter  and  John 
Literature 

The  Gr  word  for  "law"  is  vSfxos,  ndmos,  derived 
from  viixw}  nemo,  "to  divide,"  "distribute,"  "ap- 
portion," and  generally  meant  anything  established, 
anything  received  by  usage,  a  custom,  usage,  law; 
in  the  NT  a  command,  law. 

It  may  not  be  amiss  to  note  the  definition  of  law  given 

by  a  celebrated  authority  in  jurisprudence,  the  late  Mr. 

John  Austin:    "A  law,  in  the  most  general 

Austin's  ancl  'comprehensive  acceptation  in  which 

Definition       tne  term,   in  its  literal   meaning,   is  em- 

c  i  uuu  ployed,  may  be  said  to  be  a  rule  laid  down 
Of  LaW  for  the  guidance  of  an  intelligent  being,  by  an 

intelligent  being  having  power  over  him." 
Under  this  comprehensive  statement,  he  classifies  "laws 
set  by  God  to  His  human  creatures,  and  laws  set  by  men 
to  men."  After  analyzing  the  three  ideas,  command  as 
the  expression  of  a  particular  desire;  duty  or  obligation, 
signifying  that  one  is  bound  or  obliged  by  the  command 
to  pursue  a  certain  course  of  conduct,  and  sanction,  in- 
dicating the  evil  likely  to  be  incurred  by  disobedience, 
he  thus  summarizes:  "The  ideas  or  notions  compre- 
hended by  the  term  command  are  the  following:  (1)  a 
wish  or  desire  conceived  by  a  rational  being  that  another 
rational  being  shall  do  or  forbear;  (2)  an  evil  to  pro- 
ceed from  the  former  and  to  be  incurred  by  the  latter 
in  case  the  latter  comply  not  with  the  wish;  (3)  an 
expression  or  intimation  of  the  wish  by  words  or  other 
signs."  This  definition  makes  it  clear  that  the  term 
"laws  of  nature"  can  be  used  only  in  a  metaphorical 
sense,  the  metaphorical  application  being  suggested  as 
Austin  shows  by  the  fact  that  uniformity  or  stability 
of  conduct  is  one  of  the  ordinary  consequences  of  a  law 
proper,  consequently,  "Wherever  we  observe  a  uniform 
order  of  events,  or  a  uniform  order  of  coexisting  phe- 
nomena, we  are  prone  to  impute  that  order  to  a  law  set 
by  its  author,  though  the  case  presents  us  with  nothing 
that  can  be  likened  to  a  sanction  or  a  duty."  As  used 
in  the  NT  it  will  be  found  generally  that  the  term  "law" 
bears  the  sense  indicated  by  Austin,  and  includes  ' '  com- 
mand," "duty"  and  "sanction." 

/.  Law  in  the  Gospels. — Naturally  we  first  turn 
to  the  Gospels,  where  the  word  "law"  always  refers 
to  the  Mosaic  law,  although  it  has  different  appli- 
cations. That  law  was  really  threefold:  the  Moral 
Law,  as  summed  up  in  the  Decalogue,  the  Cere- 
monial Law,  prescribing  the  ritual  and  all  the  typi- 
cal enactments,  and  what  might  be  called  the  Civil 
or  Political  Law,  that  relating  to  the  people  in  their 
national,  political  life.  The  distinction  is  not 
closely  observed,  though  sometimes  the  reference 
emphasizes  one  aspect,  sometimes  another,  but 
generally  the  whole  Law  without  any  discrimination 
is  contemplated.  Sometimes  the  Law  means  the 
whole  OT  Scriptures,  as  in  Jn  10  34;  12  34;  15 
25.  At  other  times  the  Law  means  the  Pent,  as 
in  Lk  24  44. 

The  Law  frequently  appears  in  the  teaching  of 
Christ.     In  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount  He  refers  most 
specifically  and  fully  to  it.     It  is  fre- 
1.  The  Law  quently  asserted  that  He  there  exposes 
in  the  the  imperfection  of  the  Law  and  sets 

Teaching  His  own  authority  against  its  author- 
of  Christ  ity.  But  this  seems  to  be  a  super- 
ficial and  an  untenable  view.  Christ 
indeed  affirms  very  definitely  the  authority  of  the 
Law:  "Think  not  that  I  came  to  destroy  the  law 
or  the  prophets"  (Mt  5  17).  Here  the  term  would 
seem  to  mean  the  whole  of  the  Pent.  "I  came  not 
to  destroy,  but  to  fulfil.  For  verily  I  say  unto  you, 
Till  heaven  and  earth  pass  away,  one  jot  or  one 
tittle  shall  in  no  wise  pass  away  from  the  law,  till 
all  things  be  accomplished"  (Mt  5  17.18).  A 
similar  utterance  is  recorded  in  Lk  16  17:  "It  is 
easier  for  heaven  and  earth  to  pass  away,  than  for 
one  tittle  of  the  law  to  fall." 

(1)  Authority  of  the  Law  upheld  in  the  Sermon 
on  the  Mount. — The  perfection  and  permanence  of 
the  Law  as  well  as  its  authority  are  thus  indicated, 


1845 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA     Law  in  the  NT 


and  the  following  verse  in  Mt  still  further  empha- 
sizes the  authority,  while  showing  that  now  the 
Lord  is  speaking  specifically  of  the  moral  law  of  the 
Decalogue:  ''Whosoever  therefore  shall  break  one 
of  these  least  commandments,  and  shall  teach  men 
so,  shall  be  called  least  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven: 
but  whosoever  shall  do  and  teach  them,  he  shall 
be  called  great  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven"  (5  19). 
These  impressive  sentences  should  be  borne  in 
mind  in  considering  the  utterances  that  follow,  in 
which  there  seems  a  contrast  between  the  Law  and 
His  own  teaching,  and  from  which  has  been  drawn 
the  inference  that  He  condemns  and  practically 
abrogates  the  Law.  What  Jesus  really  does  is  to 
bring  out  the  fulness  of  meaning  that  is  in  the  Law, 
and  to  show  its  spirituality  and  the  wideness  of  its 
reach.  He  declares  that  the  righteousness  of  His 
disciples  must  exceed  the  righteousness  of  the 
scribes  and  Pharisees  (ver  20).  Their  righteous- 
ness consisted  largely  in  a  punctilious  observance 
of  the  external  requirements  of  the  Law;  the  dis- 
ciples must  yield  heart  obedience  to  the  inner  spirit 
of  the  Law,  its  external  and  internal  requirements. 

(a)  Christ  and  tradition:  Jesus  then  proceeds 
to  point  out  the  contrast,  not  so  much  between  His 
own  teaching  and  that  of  the  Law,  as  between  His 
interpretation  of  the  Law  and  the  interpretation  of 
other  teachers:  ''Ye  have  heard  that  it  was  said 
bv  them  of  old  time"  (AY),  "to  them  of  old  time" 
RV  (ver  21).  Either  rendering  is  grammatically 
allowable,  but  in  either  case  it  is  evidently  not 
the  original  utterance  of  Moses,  but  the  traditional 
interpretation,  which  He  had  in  view.  "Ye  have 
heard  that  it  toas  said";  Christ's  usual  way  of 
quoting  the  OT  is,  "It  is  written"  or  some  other 
formula  pointing  to  the  written  Word;  and  as  He 
has  just  referred  to  the  written  Law  as  a  whole,  it 
would  be  strange  if  He  should  now  use  the  formula 
"It  was  said"  in  reference  to  the  particular  pre- 
cepts. Evidently  He  means  what  was  said  by  the 
Jewish  teachers. 

(6)  Sin  of  murder:  This  is  further  confirmed  by  the 
citations:  "Thou  shalt  not  kill;  and  whosoever  shall 
kill  shall  be  in  danger  of  the  judgment."  The  second 
clause  is  not  found  in  the  Pent  as  a  distinct  statement 
but  it  is  Clearly  the  generalization  of  the  teachers.  Christ 
does  not  set  Himself  in  opposition  to  Moses;  rather  does 
He  enjoin  obedience  to  the  precepts  of  the  scribes  when 
sitting  in  Moses'  seat,  they  truly  expound  the  Law  (Mt 
23  1-8)  Hut  these  teachers  had  so  expounded  the 
command  as  if  it  only  referred  to  the  act  of  murder;  so 
Christ  shows  the  full  and  true  spiritual  meaning  of  it: 
"  But  I  say  unto  you,  that  every  one  who  is  angry  with 
his  brother  shall  be  in  danger  of  the  judgment  (ver 
22).     SeeMuKDKR. 

(c)  Adultery  and  divorce:  Again,  "  Ye  have  heard  that 
it  was  said,  Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery  (ver  27). 
The  traditional  teaching  confined  this  mainly  to  the  out- 
ward act,  'Hut  I  say  unto  you,'  says  Christ,  that  adul- 
tery pertains  even  to  the  lustful  thought  (ver  28).  In 
dealing  with  this  matter  He  passes  to  the  law  of  divorce 
which  was  one  of  the  civil  enactments,  and  did  not  stand 
on  the  same  level  with  the  moral  precept  against  com- 
mitting adultery,  nay,  the  very  carrying  out  of  the  civil 
provision  might  lead  to  a  real  breach  of  the  moral  pre- 
cept, and  in  the  interests  of  the  precept  itself ,  in  the  very 
desire  to  uphold  the  authority  of  the  moral  law,  C  hnst 
pronounces  against  divorce  on  any  ground  save  that  of 
fornication.  Later  on.  as  recorded  in  Mt  19  d-9,  He 
was  questioned  about  this  same  law  of  divorce,  and  again 
He  condemns  the  light  way  in  which  divorce  was  treated 
by  the  Jews,  and  affirms  strongly. the  sanctity  of  the 
marriage  institution,  showing  that  it  was  antecedent  to 
the  Mosaic  code — was  from  the  beginning,  and  derived 
its  binding  force  from  the  Divine  pnmouncement  in 
Gen  2  24  founded  upon  the  nature  of  things  while 
as ;  to  the  Mosaic  law  of  divorce,  He  declares  that  it  was 
permitted  on  account  of  the  hardness  of  their  hearts 
out  that  no  other  cause  than  fornication  was  sufficient 
to  dissolve  the  marriage  tie.  This  civil .f.n^ent  Justi- 
fied oriKinallv  on  account  of  the  inability  of  the  people 
to  rise  to  the  true  moral  ideal  of  the  Decalogue,  Christ 
chums  authority  to  transcend  but  in  doing  so  He^ndi- 
cates  and  upholds  the  law  which  said.  Thou  shalt  not 
commit  adultery."      See  Divorce.  _  „„„.,„ 

(<n  Oaths-  The,  next  precept  Jesus  cites  is  one  partly 
Civi  and  partly  ritual,  concerning  the  taking  of  oaths. 
The  words  are  not  found  in  the  Pent  as  a  definite  enact- 


ment; they  are  rather  a  gathering  up  of  several  utter- 
ances (Lev  19  12;  Nu  30  2;  Dt  23  21),  and  again 
the  form  of  the  citation  suggests  that  it  is  the  rabbinical 
interpretation  that  is  in  question.  But  the  kind  of 
swearing  allowed  by  the  law  was  the  very  opposite  of 
ordinary  profane  swearing.  It  was  intended,  indeed,  to 
guard  the  3d  commandment  against  taking  the  name  of 
Jeh  in  vain.  Christ  in  condemning  the  flippant  oaths 
allowed  by  the  rabbis  w  as  really  asserting  the  authority  of 
that  3d  command;  He  was  enforcing  its  spirituality  and 
claiming  the  reverence  due  to  the  Divine  name.  Into 
the  question  how  far  the  words  of  Christ  bear  upon  oath- 
taking  in  a  court  of  law  we  need  not  enter.  His  own 
response  to  the  adjuration  of  the  high  priest  when 
practically  put  upon  His  oath  (Mt  26  03. G4)  and  other 
NT  instances  (Rom  1  '.»;  2  Cor  1  23;  Cial  1  20;  Phil 
1  8;  1  Thess  2  5;  He  6  1(1.17;  Rev  10  5.6)  would 
tend  to  show  that  such  solemn  appeals  to  God  are  not 
embraced  in  Christ's  prohibition:  "Swear  not  at  all"; 
but  undoubtedly  the  ideal  speech  is  that  of  the  simple 
asseveration,  the  "Yes"  or  "No"  of  the  man,  who,  con- 
scious that  he  speaks  in  the  presence  of  God,  reckons  his 
word  inviolable,  needing  no  strengthening  epithet,  though 
as  between  man  and  man  an  oath  may  be  necessary  for 
confirmation  and  an  end  of  strife.     See  Oath. 

(e)  Retaliation:  He  next  touches  upon  the  "law  of 
retaliation":  "an  eye  for  an  eye"  (ver  38),  and  con- 
sistently with  our  understanding  of  the  other  sayings, 
we  think  that  here  Christ  is  dealing  with  the  traditional 
interpretation  which  admitted  of  personal  revenge,  of 
men  taking  the  law  into  their  own  hands  and  revenging 
themselves.  Such  a  practice  Christ  utterly  condemns, 
and  inculcates  instead  gentleness  and  forbearance,  the 
outcome  of  love  even  toward  enemies.  This  law,  in- 
deed, finds  place  among  the  Mosaic  provisions,  but  it 
appears  there,  not  as  allowing  personal  spite  to  gratify 
itself  in  its  own  way,  but  as  a  political  enactment  to  be 
carried  out  by  the  magistrates  and  so  to  discountenance 
private  revenge.  Christ  shows  that  the  spirit  of  His 
Gospel  received  by  His  people  would  supersede  the 
necessity  for  these  requirements  of  the  civil  code;  al- 
though 'His  words  are  not  to  be  interpreted  quite  lit- 
erally, for  He  Himself  when  smitten  on  the  one  cheek 
did  liot  turn  the  other  to  the  smiter  (Jn  18  22.23),  and 
the  principle  of  the  law  of  retaliation  still  holds  good  in 
the  legislative  procedure  of  all  civilized  nations,  and 
according  to  the  NT  teaching,  will  find  place  even  in  the 
Divine  procedure  in  the  day  of  judgment.  See  also 
Punishment. 

(/)  Love  to  neighbors;  love  of  enemies:  The  last 
saying  mentioned  in  the  Sermon  clearly  reveals  its  rab- 
binical character:  "Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor,  and 
hate  thine  enemy"  (Mt  5  43).  The  first  part  is  indeed 
the  injunction  of  the  Law,  the  second  part  is  an  unwar- 
rantable addition  to  it.  It  is  only  this  part  that  Christ 
virtually  condemns  when  He  says,  "But  1  say  unto  you, 
Love  your  enemies"  (ver  44).  That  the  interpretation 
of  these  teachers  was  unwarrantable  may  lie  seen  from 
many  passages  in  the  Pent,  the  Prophets  and  the  Pss, 
which  set  forth  the  more  spiritual  aspect  of  the  Law's 
requirement;  and  as  to  this  particular  precept,  we  need 
only  refer  to  Prov  25  21.22,  "If  thine  enemy  be  hungry, 
give  him  bread  to  eat."  Christ  while  condemning  the 
addition  unfolds  the  spiritual  import  of  the  command 
itself,  for  the  love  of  neighbor  rightly  interpreted  involves 
love  of  enemies;  and  so  on  another  occasion  (Lk  10  25- 
37)  He  answers  the  lawyer's  question,  "Who  is  my  neigh- 
bor ?  "  by  the  parable  of  the  Good  Samaritan,  showing 
that  everyone  in  need  is  our  neighbor.  See  also  For- 
giveness;  Wrath. 

The  last  reference  in  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount 
to  the  Law  fully  bears  out  the  idea  that  Christ 
really  upheld  the  authority  while  elucidating  the 
spirituality  of  the  Law,  for  He  declares  that  the 
principle  embodied  in  the  "Golden  Rule"  is  a  de- 
duction from,  is,  indeed,  the  essence  of,  "the  law 
and  the  prophets"  (Mt  7  12). 

(2)  Other  references  to  the  Law  in  the  teaching  of 
Christ. — We  can  only  glance1  at  the  other  references 
to  the  Law  in  the  teaching  of  Christ.  In  Mt  11  13, 
"For  all  the  prophets  and  the  law  prophesied  until 
John,"  the  Law  in  its  teaching  capacity  is  in  view, 
and  perhaps  the  whole  of  the  Pent  is  meant.  In 
Mt  12  1-8,  in  rebutting  the  charge  brought  against 
His  disciples  of  breaking  the  Sabbath,  He  cites  the 
case  of  David  and  his  men  eating  the  showbread, 
which  it  was  not  lawful  for  any  but  the  priests  to 
partake  of;  and  of  the  priests  doing  work  on  the 
Sabbath  day  which  in  other  men  would  be  a  breach 
of  the  Law;  from  which  He  deduces  the  conclusion 
that  the  ritual  laws  may  be  set  aside  under  stress 
of  necessity  and  for  a  higher  good.  In  that  same 
chapter  (vs  10-13)  He  indicates  the  lawfulness  of 
healing — doing  good — on  the  Sabbath  day. 


Law  in  the  NT      THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1846 


(a)  Traditions  of  the  elders  and  the  5th  com- 
mandment:  In  Mt  15  1-6  we  have  the  account 
of  the  Pharisees  complaining  that  the  disciples 
transgressed  the  traditions  of  the  elders  by  eating 
with  unwashed  hands.  Jesus  retorts  upon  them 
with  the  question:  "Why  do  ye  also  transgress  the 
commandment  of  God  because  of  your  tradition?" 
citing  the  specific  case  of  the  5th  commandment 
which  was  evaded  and  virtually  broken  by  their 
ingenious  distinction  of  korban.  This  is  a  very 
instructive  incident  in  its  bearing  upon  the  point 
which  we  have  sought  to  enforce — that  it  was  the 
traditional  interpretation  and  not  the  Law  itself 
which  Jesus  condemned  or  corrected. 

(6)  Christ's  answer  to  the  young  ruler:  To  the 
young  ruler  (Alt  19  16-42)  He  presents  the  com- 
mandments as  the  rule  of  life,  obedience  to  which 
is  the  door  to  eternal  life,  especially  emphasizing 
the  manward  aspect  of  the  Law's  claims.  The 
young  man,  professing  to  have  kept  them  all,  shows 
that  he  has  not  grasped  the  spirituality  of  their 
requirements,  and  it  is  further  to  test  him  that 
Christ  calls  upon  him  to  make  the  "great  renun- 
ciation" which,  after  all,  is  not  in  itself  an  additional 
command  so  much  as  the  unfolding  of  the  spiritual 
and  far-reaching  character  of  the  command,  "Love 
thy  neighbor  as  thyself." 

(c)  Christ's  answer  to  the  lawyer:  To  the  lawyer 
who  asks  Him  which  is  the  great  commandment  in 
the  Law,  He  answers  by  giving  him  the  sum  of  the 
whole  moral  law.  "Thou  shaft  love  the  Lord  thy 
God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and 
with  all  thy  mind.  This  is  the  great  and  first  com- 
mandment. And  a  second  like  unto  it  is  this, 
Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself"  (Mt  22 
35-39).  In  Mark's  report  (Mk  12  31),  He  adds, 
"There  is  none  other  commandment  greater  than 
these,"  and  in  that  of  Matthew  He  says,  "On  these 
two  commandments  the  whole  law  hangeth,  and  the 
prophets"  (ver  40);  both  utterances  showing  the 
high  estimation  in  which  He  held  the  Law. 

(d)  References  in  the  Fourth  Gospel:  In  His  dis- 
cussion with  the  Jews,  recorded  in  Jn  7,  He  charges 
them  with  failure  to  keep  the  Law:  "Did  not  Moses 
give  you  the  law,  and  yet  none  of  you  doeth  the 
law?  (ver  19).  And  referring  to  the  healing  of 
the  impotent  man  on  the  Sabbath  day,  a  deed  which 
had  roused  their  ire,  He  shows  how  one  law  may 
conflict  with  another.  Moses  had  enjoined  cir- 
cumcision, and  sometimes  the  time  for  circumcising 
would  fall  on  the  Sabbath  day.  Yet  with  all  their 
reverence  for  the  Sabbath  day,  they  would,  in  order 
to  keep  the  law  of  circumcision,  perform  the  rite 
on  the  Sabbath  day,  and  so,  He  argues,  it  is  un- 
reasonable to  complain  of  Him  because  on  the 
Sabbath  day  He  had  fulfilled  the  higher  law  of  doing 
good,  healing  a  poor  sufferer.  In  none  of  all  Christ 's 
utterances  is  there  any  slight  thrown  upon  the  Law 
itself;  it  is  always  held  up  as  the  standard  of  right 
and  its  authority  vindicated. 

The  passages  we  have  considered  show  the  place 
of  the  Law  in  the  teaching  of  Christ,  but  we  also 
find  that  He  had  to  sustain  a  practical 
2.  The  Law  relation  to  that  Law.  Born  under  the 
in  Relation  Law,  becoming  part  of  a  nation  which 
to  the  Life  honored  and  venerated  the  Law,  every 
of  Jesus  part  of  whose  life  was  externally  regu- 
Christ  fated  by  it,  the  life  of  Jesus  Christ 

could  not  fail  to  be  affected  by  that 
Law.     We  note  its  operation: 

(1)  In  His  in  jane,)). — On  the  eighth  day  He  was 
circumcised  (Lk  2  21),  thus  being  recognized  as 
a  member  of  the  covenant  nation,  partaking  of  its 
privileges,  assuming  its  responsibilities.  Then, 
according  to  the  ritual  law  of  purification,  He  is 
presented  in  the  temple  to  the  Lord  (Lk  2  22-24), 
while  His  mother  offers  the  sacrifice  enjoined  in  the 


"law  of  the  Lord,"  the  sacrifice  she  brings  patheti- 
cally witnessing  to  her  poverty,  "a  pair  of  turtle 
doves,  or  two  young  pigeons"  being  the  alternative 
allowed  to  those  who  were  not  able  to  provide  a 
lamb  (Lev  12).  The  Divine  approval  is  set  upon 
this  consecrating  act,  for  it  is  while  it  is  being  done 
concerning  Him  after  "the  custom  of  the  law"  (ver 
27),  that  the  Spirit  of  God  comes  upon  Simeon  and 
prompts  the  great  prophecy  which  links  all  the 
Messianic  hopes  with  the  Babe  of  Bethlehem. 

Again,  according  to  the  Law  His  parents  go  up 
to  the  Passover  feast  when  the  wondrous  child  has 
reached  His  12th  year,  the  age  when  a  youthful 
Jew  assumed  legal  responsibility,  becoming  "a  son 
of  the  Law,"  and  so  Jesus  participates  in  the  festal 
observances,  and  His  deep  interest  in  all  that  con- 
cerns the  temple-worship  and  the  teaching  of  the 
Law  is  shown  by  His  absorption  in  the  conversation 
of  the  doctors,  whose  questions  He  answers  so 
intelligently,  while  questioning  them  in  turn,  and 
filling  them  with  astonishment  at  His  understanding 
(Lk  2  42-47). 

(2)  In  His  ministry. — In  His  ministry  He  ever 
honors  the  Law.  He  reads  it  in  the  synagogue. 
He  heals  the  leper  by  His  sovereign  touch  and  word, 
but  He  bids  him  go  and  show  himself  to  the  priest 
and  offer  the  gift  that  Moses  commanded  (Mt  8  4). 
And  again,  when  the  lepers  appeal  to  Him,  His 
response  which  implies  the  healing  is,  "Go  and  show 
yourselves  unto  the  priests"  (Lk  17  14).  He  drives 
out  of  the  temple  those  that  defile  it  (Alt  21  12.13; 
Jn  2  15-17),  because  of  His  zeal  for  the  honor  of 
His  Father's  house1,  and  so,  while  showing  His  author- 
ity, emphasizes  the  sanctity  of  the  temple  and  its 
services.  So,  while  claiming  to  be  the  Son  in  the 
Father's  house,  and  therefore  above  the  injunctions 
laid  upon  the  servants  and  strangers,  He  neverthe- 
less pays  the  temple-tax  exacted  from  every  son  of 
Israel  (Mt  17  24-27).  He  attends  the  various 
feasts  during  His  ministry,  and  when  the  shadows 
of  death  are  gathering  round  Him,  He  takes  special 
pains  to  observe  the  Passover  with  His  disciples. 
Thus  to  the  ceremonial  law  He  renders  continuous 
obedience,  the  motto  of  His  life  practically  being 
His  great  utterance  to  the  Baptist:  "Suffer  it  now: 
for  thus  it  becometh  us  to  fulfil  all  righteousness" 
(Mt  3  15).  If  He  obeyed  the  ceremonial  law, 
unquestionably  He  obeyed  the  moral  law.  His 
keenest -eyed  enemies  could  find  no  fault  in  Him  in 
regard  to  His  moral  conduct.  His  absolute  sinless- 
ness  attests  the  translation  of  the  moral  law  into 
actual  life. 

We  enter  not  upon  the  theological  question  as  to  the 
relation  of  the  death  of  Christ  to  the  penal  inflictions  of 
the  Law   Divinely  enforced  on  behalf  of 
3    The  Law  shiners — that  touches  the  doctrine  of  the 
•  '  -n   ,    ■•  Atonement — we  only  note  the  fact  that 

in  Kelation  jjis  death  was  brought  about  in  professed 
to  the  Death  accordance  with  the  Law.  The  chief 
priests,  in  hatred,  sent  officers  to  take 
Him,  but  overawed  by  His  matchless 
eloquence,  these  officers  returned  empty- 
handed.  In  their  chagrin,  the  chief 
priests  can  only  say  that  the  people  who  follow  Him 
know  not  the  Law  and  are  cursed  (Jn  7  49).  Nicode- 
mus,  on  this  occasion,  ventures  to  remonstrate:  "Doth 
our  law  judge  a  man,  except  it  first  hear  from  himself  ?  " 
(ver  51).  This  sound  legal  principle  these  men  are  bent 
on  disregarding;  their  one  desire  is  to  put  an  end  to  the 
life  of  this  man,  who  has  aroused  their  jealousy  and 
hatred,  and  at  last  when  they  get  Him  into  their  hands, 
they  strain  the  forms  of  the  Law  to  accomplish  their 
purpose.  There  is  no  real  charge  that  can  be  brought 
against  Him.  They  dare  not  bring  up  the  plea  that  Ho 
broke  the  Sabbath,  for  again  and  again  He  has  answered 
their  cavils  on  that  score.  He  has  broken  no  law;  all 
they  can  do  is  to  bribe  false  witnesses  to  testify  some- 
thing to  His  discredit.  The  trumpery  charge,  founded 
upon  a  distorted  reminiscence  of  His  utterance  about 
destroying  the  temple,  threatens  to  break  down. 

(1)  Christ  charged  with  blasphemy  in  relation  to  the 
Jewish  law. — Then  the  high  priest  adjures  Him  to  say 
upon  oath  whether  or  not  He  claims  to  be  the  Christ, 
the  Son  of  the  Living  God.     Such  a  claim  would  assured- 


of  Jesus 
Christ 


1847 


TUN  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA      Law  in  the  NT 


ly,  if  unfounded,  be  blasphemy,  and  according  to  the 
Law,  be  punishable  by  death.  On  a  previous  occasion  the 
Jews  threatened  to  stone  Him  for  this — to  them — blas- 
phemous claim.  Now  when  Jesus  calmly  avows  that 
He  is  the  Son  of  God,  the  high  priest,  rending  his  clothes, 
declares  that  no  further  proof  is  needed.  He  has  con- 
fessed to  the  blasphemy,  and  unanimously  the  council 
votes  Him  worthy  of  death  (Ml  26;  Mk  14;  Lk  22). 
If  Jesus  Christ  wen;  not  what  He  claimed  to  be,  then  the 
priests  were  right  in  holding  Him  guilty  of  blasphemy; 
it  never  occurred  to  them  to  consider  whether  the  claim 
after  all  might  not  be  true. 

(2)  Christ  charyed  with  treason  under  the  Roman  law. — 
Not  only  is  the  Jewish  law  invoked  to  accomplish  His 
death,  but  also  the  Rom  law.  On  one  other  occasion 
Christ  had  come  into  touch  with  the  law  of  Rome,  viz. 
when  asked  the  ensnaring  question  by  the  Herodians 
as  to  the  lawfulness  of  giving  tribute  to  Caesar  (Mt  22 
17;  Mk  12  14;  Lk  20  22).  Now  the  Jews  need  the 
Rom  governor's  authorization  for  the  death  penalty, 
and  Jesus  must  be  tried  before  him.  The  charge  cannot 
now  be  blasphemy — the  Rom  law  will  have  nothing  to 
say  to  that — and  so  they  trump  up  a  charge  of  treason 
against  Caesar. 

In  preferring  it,  they  practically  renounce  their  Mes- 
sianic hopes.  The  charge,  however,  breaks  down  before 
the  Rom  tribunal,  and  only  by  playing  on  the  weakness 
of  Pilate  do  they  gain  their  end,  and  the  Rom  law  decrees 
His  death,  while  leaving  the  Jews  to  see  to  the  carrying 
out  of  the  sentence.  In  this  the  evangelist  sees  the  ful- 
filment of  Christ's  words  concerning  the  manner  of  His 
death,  for  stoning  would  have  been  the  Jewish  form  of 
the  death  penalty,  not  crucifixion.  See  Jesus  Christ, 
III,  E),  ii,  3,  4. 

Looking  at  the  whole  testimony  of  the  Gospels, 
we  can  see  how  it  was  that  Christ  fulfilled  Hie  Law. 
He  fulfilled  the  moral  law  by  obeying, 
4.  How  by  bringing  out  its  fulness  of  meaning, 

Christ  Ful-  by  showing  its  intense  spirituality, 
filled  the  and  He  established  it  on  a  surer  basis 
Law  in  All  than  ever  as  the  eternal  law  of  right- 
Its  Parts  eousness.  He  fulfilled  the  ceremonial 
and  typical  law,  not  only  by  conform- 
ing to  its  requirements,  but  by  realizing  its  spiritual 
significance.  He  filled  up  the  shadowy  outlines  of 
the  types,  and,  thus  fulfilled,  they  pass  away,  and 
it  is  no  longer  necessary  for  us  to  observe  the  Pass- 
over or  slay  the  daily  lamb:  we  have  the  substance 
in  Christ.  He  also  cleared  the  Law  from  the  tra- 
ditional excrescences  which  had  gathered  round  it 
under  the  hands  of  the  rabbis.  He  showed  that 
the  ceremonial  distinction  between  meats  clean  and 
unclean  was  no  longer  necessary,  but  showed  the 
importance  of  true  spiritual  purity  (Mt  15  11; 
Mk  7  18-23).  He  taught  His  disciples  those 
great  principles  when,  after  His  resurrection,  "be- 
ginning from  Moses  and  from  all  the  prophets,  he 
interpreted  to  them  in  all  the  scriptures  the  things 
concerning  himself"  (Lk  24  27).  And  as  He 
opened  their  mind  that  they  might  understand  the 
Scriptures,  He  declared,  "These  are  my  words 
which  I  spake  unto  you,  while  I  was  yet  with  you, 
that  all  things  must  needs  be  fulfilled,  which  are 
written  in  the  law  of  Moses,  and  the  prophets,  and 
the  psalms,  concerning  me"  (Lk  24  44).  John 
sums  this  up  in  his  pregnant  phrase,  "The  law  was 
given  through  Moses;  grace  and  truth  came  through 
Jesus  Christ"  (Jn  1  17).  The  grace  was  in  con- 
trast to  the  condemnation  of  the  moral  law,  the 
truth  was  the  antithesis  to  the  shadowy  outline  of 
the  types  and  ceremonies. 

II."  Law  in  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles.  —-Without 
considering  questions  of  authenticity  and  historicity 
in  relation  to  this  book  which  professes  to  be  the 
earliest  church  history,  we  briefly  note  the  place  of 
the  Law  therein  indicated.  In  the  book  we  have 
an  account  of  the  transition  from  Judaism  to  fully 
developed  Christianity,  and  the  Law  comes  into 
view  in  various  ways.  The  disciples,  like  other 
Jews,  observe  the  feast  of  Pentecost,  and  even  after 
the  descent  of  the  Spirit,  they  frequent  the  temple 
and  observe  the  hours  of  prayer. 

The  full-orbed  gospel  proclaimed  by  Stephen 
arouses  the  suspicion  and  enmity  of  the  stricter 
sects  of   the  Jews,    who   accuse   him    before    the 


council  of  speaking  blasphemous  words  against  the 
holy  place  and  the  Law.     But  this  was  the  testi- 
mony of    suborned    witnesses,    having 

1.  Stephen's  doubtless  its  foundation  in  the  fact 
Witness  that    Stephen's    teaching    emphasized 

the  grace  of  the  gospel.  Stephen's  own 
defence  honors  the  Law  as  given  by  Moses,  "who 
received  living  oracles"  (Acts  7  38),  shows  how 
disloyal  the  people  had  been,  and  closes  by  charging 
them  not  only  with  rejecting  and  slaying  the  Right- 
eous One,  but  of  failing  to  keep  the  Law  "as  it  was 
ordained  by  angels"  (7  ,53). 

Peter's  strict  observance  of  the  ceremonial  law 
is  shown  in  connection  with  his  vision  which  teaches 

him  that  the  grace  of  God  may  pass 

2.  Practice    beyond    the    Jewish    pale    (Acts  10). 
of  Peter         Paul's  preaching  emphasizes  the  ful- 
and  Paul        filling  the  Scriptures,  Law  and  Proph- 
ecy, by  Jesus  Christ.     The  gist  of  his 

message,  as  given  in  his  first  reported  sermon,  is, 
"By  him  everyone  that  believeth  is  justified  from 
all  things,  from  which  ye  could  not  be  justified  by 
the  law  of  Moses"  (13  38  f).  The  conversion  of 
the  Gentiles  brings  up  the  question  of  their  relation 
to  the  ceremonial  law,  specifically  to  circumcision. 
The  decision  of  the  council  at  Jerus  treats  circum- 
cision as  unnecessary  for  the  Gentiles,  and  only 
enjoins,  in  relation  to  the  Mosaic  ritual,  abstinence 
from  things  strangled  and  from  blood  (ch  15).  The 
after-course  of  events  would  show  that  this  pro- 
vision was  for  the  time  of  transition.  Paul,  though 
strongly  opposed  to  the  idea  of  imposing  circum- 
cision on  the  Gentiles,  nevertheless  without  incon- 
sistency and  as  a  concession  to  Jewish  feeling,  cir- 
cumcises Timothy  (16  3),  and  himself  fulfils  the 
ceremonial  enactments  in  connection  with  the  taking 
of  a  vow  (18  18).  He  also,  following  the  advice  of 
James,  who  wished  him  to  conciliate  the  myriads 
of  believing  Jews  who  were  zealous  for  the  Law,  and 
to  show  tliem  the  falseness  of  the  charge  that  he 
taught  the  Jews  among  the  Gentiles  "to  forsake 
Moses"  (apostasy  from  Moses),  took  upon  him  the 
ceremonial  duty  of  purifying  the  "four  men  that 
have  a  vow  on  them"  (21  20-26).  This  involved 
the  offering  of  sacrifices,  and  the  fact  that  Paul  could 
do  so  shows  that  for  the  Jews  the  sacrificial  system 
still  remained  in  force.  The  sequel  to  the  trans- 
action might  raise  the  question  whether,  after  all, 
the  procedure  was  a  wise  one;  it  certainly  did  not 
fulfil  the  expectations  of  James.  Later  on,  in  his 
defence  before  Felix,  Paul  claims  to  be  loyal  to  the 
Jewish  faith,  worshipping  in  the  temple,  and  "be- 
lieving all  things  which  are  according  to  the  law,  and 
which  are  written  in  the  prophets"  (24  11-14); 
and  in  his  address  to  the  Jewish  leaders  in  Rome, 
he  declares  that  he  has  "done  nothing  against  the 
people,  or  the  customs  of  our  fathers"  (28  17),  and 
he  seeks  to  persuade  them  concerning  Jesus,  "both 
from  the  law  of  Moses  and  from  the  prophets" 
(28  23). 

In  the  Acts  we  find  several  allusions  to  law  other 

than  Jewish.     In  ch  16  Paul  comes  into  collision 

with  the  Rom  law.     Beaten  and  im- 

3.  Allusions  prisoned  by  the  magistrates  of  Philippi, 
to  the  he  is  afterward  offered  the  oppor- 
Roman  Law  tunity  of  quietly  slipping  away,  but 

standing  on  his  dignity  as  a  Rom 
citizen,  he  demands  that  the  magistrates  themselves, 
who  had  violated  the  law  by  publicly  beating  un- 
condemned  Romans,  should  come  and  set  them  free. 
This  same  right  as  a  Rom  citizen  Paul  again  asserts 
when  about  to  be  scourged  by  the  command  of  the 
centurion  (22  25),  and  his  protest  is  successful  in 
averting  the  indignity.  His  trial  before  Felix  and 
Festus  well  illustrates  the  procedure  under  the  Rom 
law,  and  his  appeal,  as  a  Rom  citizen,  to  Caesar 
had  important  results  in  his  life. 


Law  in  the  NT      THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1848 


///.  Law  in  the  Epistles. — The  word  is  used  both 
with  and  without,  the  article,  but  though  in  some 
cases  the  substantive  without  the  article  refers  to 
law  in  general,  yet  in  many  other  places  it  undoubt- 
edly refers  to  the  Law  of  Moses.  Perhaps,  as  has 
been  suggested,  it,  is  that,  where  it  does  refer  to  the 
Mosaic  Law,  the  word  without  the  article  points 
to  that  law,  not  so  much  as  Mosaic,  but  in  its  quality 
as  law.  But  speaking  generally,  the  word  with 
and  without  the  article  is  used  in  reference  to  the 
Law  of  Moses. 

(1)  Law  as  a  standard. — In  Rom  Paul  has  much 
to  say  about  law,  and  in  the  main  it  is  the  moral 

law  that  he  has  in  view.  In  this  great 
1.  In  ep.,  written  to  people  at  the  center  of 

Romans         the    famous   legal   system    of    Rome, 

many  of  them  Jews  versed  in  the  law 
of  Moses  and  others  Gentiles  familiar  with  the  idea 
of  law,  its  nature,  its  scope  and  its  sway,  he  first 
speaks  of  the  Law  as  a  standard,  want  of  conformity 
to  which  brings  condemnation.  He  shows  that  the 
Gentiles  who  had  not  the  standard  of  the  revealed 
Law  nevertheless  had  a  law,  the  law  of  Nature, 
a  law  WTittcn  upon  their  heart  and  conscience. 
Rom  jurisprudence  was  familiar  with  the  concep- 
tion of  a  law  of  Nature,  which  became  a  law  of 
nations  (jus  gentium),  so  that  certain  principles 
could  be  assumed  as  obtaining  among  those  wdio  had 
not  the  knowledge  of  the  Rom  code;  and  in  accord- 
ance with  these  principles,  the  dealings  between 
Romans  and  barbarians  could  be  regulated.  Paul's 
conception  is  somewhat  similar,  but  is  applied  to 
the  spiritual  relations  of  man  and  God. 

(2)  Gerdiles  condemned  by  the  law  of  Nature. — 
But  the  Gentiles,  not  having  lived  up  to  the  light 
of  that  law,  are  condemned.  They  have  violated 
the  dictates  of  their  own  conscience.  And  the  Jews, 
with  the  fuller  light  of  their  revealed  law,  have 
equally  failed.  In  this  connection  Paul  incidentally 
lays  down  the  great  principle  that  "Not  the  hear- 
ers of  the  law  are  just  before  God,  but  the  doers 
of  the  law  shall  be  justified"  (Rom  2  13).  His 
great  aim,  in  the  ep.,  is  to  show  that  justification 
is  by  faith,  but  he  here  asserts  that  if  anyone  would 
have  justification  through  law,  then  he  must  keep 
that  law  in  all  its  details.  The  Law  will  pronounce 
the  doer  of  it  justified,  but  the  mere  hearing  of  the 
Law  without  doing  it  wrill  only  increase  the  con- 
demnation. "As  many  as  have  sinned  without  the 
law  shall  also  perish  without  the  law :  and  as  many 
as  have  sinned  under  the  law  shall  be  judged  by 
the  law"  (2  12).  Paul  does  not  pronounce  upon 
the  question  whether  a  Gentile  may  be  saved  by 
following  the  light  of  Nature;  he  rather  emphasizes 
the  negative  side  that  those  who  have  failed  shall 
perish;  they  have  light  enough  to  condemn,  is  his 
point. 

(3)  All  men  under  condemnation . — Having  proved 
that  both  Jews  and  Gentiles  are  under  sin,  he  closes 
his  great  indictment  with  the  statement:  "Now  we 
know  that  what  things  soever  the  law  saith,  it 
speaketh  to  them  that  are  under  the  law;  that 
every  mouth  may  be  stopped,  and  all  the  world 
may  be  brought  under  the  judgment  of  God"  (3  19). 
Thus  the  Law  shuts  up  into  condemnation.  It  is 
impossible  for  any  sinner  to  be  justified  "by  the 
works  of  the  law";  the  Law  not  only  condemns 
but  "through  the  law  cometh  the  knowledge  of  sin" 
(3  20).  It  shows  how  far  short  men  have  come  of 
God's  requirements.  It  is  a  mirror  in  which  the 
sinner  sees  his  defilement,  but  the  mirror  cannot 
cleanse,  though  it  shows  the  need  of  cleansing. 

(4)  The  redeeming  work  of  Christ  providing 
righteousness  apart  from  the  Law. — Then  setting 
forth  the  great  redemption  of  Jesus  Christ,  the 
apostle  shows  that  it  provides  what  the  Law  had 
failed  to  provide,  a  righteousness  which  can  satisfy 


the  requirements  of  the  Law;  a  righteousness  that 
is  indeed  "apart  from  the  law,"  apart  from  all 
men's  attempts  to  keep  the  Law,  but  is  neverthe- 
less in  deepest  harmony  with  the  principles  of  the 
Law,  and  has  been  witnessed  "by  the  law  and  the 
prophets"  (3  21).  (In  this  passage  the  "law" 
seems  to  mean  the  Pent,  and  in  ver  19,  in  view  of 
the  preceding  citations  from  the  Pss,  it  appears  to 
mean  the;  whole  OT  Scriptures.)  Since  the  right- 
eousness secured  by  Christ  comes  upon  the  sinner 
through  faith,  manifestly  the  works  of  the  Law  can 
have  nothing  to  do  with  our  obtaining  of  it.  But 
so  far  is  faith-righteousness  from  undermining  the 
Law,  that  Paul  claims  that  through  faith  the  Law 
is  established  (3  31). 

(5)  Abraham's  blessings  came  not  through  the 
Law. — Proceeding  to  show  that  his  idea  of  justi- 
fication by  faith  was  no  new  thing,  that  the  OT 
saint  had  enjoyed  it,  he  particularly  shows  that 
Abraham,  even  in  his  uncircumcised  state,  received 
the  blessing  through  faith;  and  the  great  promise 
to  him  and  his  seed  did  not  come  through  the  Law, 
but  on  the  principle  of  faith. 

(6)  Law  worketh  wrath  and  intensifieth  the  evil  of 
sin. — Indeed,  so  far  from  blessing  coming  to  sinners 
by  way  of  the  Law,  the  "law  worketh  wrath"  (4 
15);  not  wrath  in  men  against  the  Law's  restric- 
tions as  some  have  argued,  but  the  holy  wrath  of 
God  so  frequently  mentioned  by  the  apostle  in  this 
ep.  The  Law  worketh  wrath,  inasmuch  as  when 
disobeyed  it  brings  on  the  sinner  the  Divine  dis- 
approval, condemnation;  it  enhances  the  guilt  of 
sin,  and  so  intensifies  the  Divine  wrath  against  it; 
and  it,  in  a  sense,  provokes  to  sin:  the  sinful  nature 
rebels  against  the  restrictions  imposed  by  the  Law, 
and  the  very  fact  of  a  thing  being  forbidden  arouses 
the  desire  for  it.  This  seems  what  he  means  in  a 
subsequent  passage  (5  20),  "And  the  law  came  in 
besides,  that  the  trespass  might  abound";  as  if  the 
very  multiplying  of  restrictions  intensified  the 
tendency  to  sin,  brought  out  the  evil  in  human 
nature,  showed  the  utter  vileness  of  the  sinful 
heart  and  the  terrible  nature  of  sin,  and  thus  made 
the  need  for  salvation  appear  the  greater,  the  very 
desperateness  of  the  disease  showing  the  need  for 
the  remedy  and  creating  the  desire  for  it;  the 
abounding  of  sin  preparing  the  way  for  the  super- 
abounding  of  grace.  That  the  presence  of  Law 
enhances  the  evil  of  sin  is  further  shown  by  the 
statement,  "But  where  there  is  no  law,  neither  is 
there  transgression"  (4  15);  transgression  —  para- 
basis — the  crossing  of  the  boundary,  is,  in  the  strict 
sense,  only  possible  under  law.  But  there  may  be 
sin  apart  from  a  revealed  law,  as  he  has  already 
proved  in  the  2d  chapter. 

(7)  Law  in  the  light  of  the  parallel  between  Adam 
and  Christ. — In  the  5th  chapter,  dealing  with  the 
parallel  between  Adam  and  Christ  he  says:  "For 
until  the  law  sin  was  in  the  world;  but  sin  is  not 
imputed  when  there  is  no  law"  (5  13).  He  cannot 
mean  that  men  were  not  held  responsible  for  their 
sin,  or  that  sin  was  not  in  any  sense  reckoned  to 
their  account,  for  he  has  in  that  2d  chapter  proved 
the  opposite;  but  sin  was  not  so  imputed  to  them 
as  to  bring  upon  them  the  punishment  of  death, 
which  they  nevertheless  did  suffer,  and  that  is 
traced  by  him  to  the  sin  of  Adam.  These,  he  says, 
had  not  sinned  after  the  likeness  of  Adam's  trans- 
gression (ver  14);  they  had  not  transgressed  a 
positive  command  as  he  did,  although  they  had 
undoubtedly  violated  the  law  of  conscience,  and 
knew  that  they  were  sinners.  In  drawing  out  the 
parallel  between  Adam  and  Christ,  he  plainly  indi- 
cates that  as  Adam's  transgression  of  law  brought 
condemnation  on  the  race,  so  Christ's  obedience 
to  the  Law  brings  justification. 

(8)  Law  and  righteousness. — So  far  he  may  be 


1849 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA      Law  in  the  NT 


said  to  have  spoken  of  the  Law  in  regard  to  the 
sinner;  and  it  is  mainly  the  Law  in  its  judicial 
aspect,  the  Law  in  relation  to  righteousness.  The 
Law  reveals  righteousness,  the  Law  demands 
righteousness,  the  Law  condemns  for  unrighteous- 
ness. Redempt  ion  is  a  working  out  of  righteousness. 
The  Law  witnesses  to  the  perfect  righteousness  of 
Christ.  The  righteousness  secured  by  Christ  meets 
all  the  requirements  of  the  Law,  while  gloriously 
transcending  it.  The  righteous  penalty  of  the  Law 
has  been  borne  by  Christ;  the  righteous  require- 
ments of  the  Law  have  been  fulfilled  by  Christ. 
That  perfect  righteousness  secured  apart  from  the 
Law,  but  satisfying  to  the  Law,  comes  to  men  not 
through  their  relation  to  the  Law,  but  through  faith. 
Now  he  proceeds  to  consider  the  Law  in  relation  to 
the  saint. 

(9)  The  saint  and  the  Law. — The  believer  justi- 
fied through  Christ  has  died  with  Christ.  The  "old 
man" — the  sinful  nature — has  been  crucified  with 
Christ;  the  condemning  power  of  the  Law  has 
terminated  in  the  death  of  Christ,  and  through  the 
death  of  the  believer  with  Christ  he  has  freedom 
from  the  condemnation  of  the  Law.  "He  that 
hath  died  is  justified  from  sin"  (6  7).  But  though 
in  one  aspect  the  believer  is  dead,  in  another  he  is 
alive.  He  dies  with  Christ,  but  he  rises  spiritually 
with  Him,  and  thus  spiritually  alive  he  is  "to  yield," 
"to  present"  his  "members  as  instruments  of  right- 
eousness unto  God"  (ver  13),  and  for  his  comfort 
he  is  assured  that  in  this  new  sphere  of  life  sin  shall 
not  have  power  to  bring  him  under  the  condemna- 
tion of  the  Law — "Sin  shall  not  have  dominion  over 
you:  for  ye  are  not  under  law,  but  under  grace;" 
(6  14).  His  relationship  to  the  Law  has  been 
altered  through  his  union  with  Christ,  and  this  fact 
the  apostle  proceeds  to  illustrate.  He  enounces 
the  principle  that  "the  law  hath  dominion  over  a 
man  for  so  long  a  time  as  he  liveth"  (7  1).  Death 
dissolves  all  legal  objections.  The  believer,  spirit- 
ually dead,  is  not  under  the  dominion  of  the  Law. 

(10)  Illustrated  by  the  laiv  of  the  husband, — The  specific 
case  is  then  given  of  a  married  woman  bound  by  law  to 
her  husband,  but  freed  from  that  law  through  his  death, 
and  in  the  application,  lie  says,  "  Wherefore,  my  brethren, 
ye  also  were  made  dead  to  the  law  through  the  body  of 
Christ"  (7  4).  If  the  Law  in  this  metaphorical  descrip- 
tion is  the  husband  while  the  soul  is  the  wife,  as  has  been 
most  generally  understood  by  commentators,  then  the 
application  is  based  on  the  general  thought  of  death  dis- 
solving the  legal  obligation,  the  death  of  the  husband 
involves  the  death  of  the  woman  as  a  wife,  and  so  he 
can  speak  of  the  death  of  the  believer  rather  than  of  the 
death  of  the  Law.  Another  explanation  of  the  metaphor 
is  that  the  old  sinful  state  is  the  husband  to  which  the 
ego,  the  personality,  was  bound  by  the  Law,  but  that 
the  sinful  state  being  brought  to  death  through  Christ, 
the  personality  is  free  to  enter  into  union  with  Christ. 
Whatever  view  is  adopted,  the  leading  thought  of  the 
apostle  is  clear,  that  through  the  death  of  Christ  the 
believer  is  free  from  the  Law:  "But  now  we  have  been 
discharged  from  the  law,  having  died  to  that  wherein 
we  were  held"  (7  6). 

(11)  The  purity  and  perfection  of  the  Law  in  its 
own  sphere. — The  question  is  then  raised,  "Is  the 
law  sin?"  (ver  7).  The  thought  is  repudiated  as 
unthinkable,  but  he  goes  on  to  show  how  the  law 
was  related  to  sin,  giving  from  his  own  experience 
the  exemplification  of  what  he  had  stated  in  the 
3d  chapter,  that  by  the  Law  is  the  knowledge  of  sin. 
The  Law  revealed  his  sin;  the  Law  aroused  the 
opposition  of  his  nature,  and  through  the  working  of 
sin  under  the  prohibition  of  the  Law,  he  found  the 
tendency  to  be  death.  Nevertheless,  there  is  no 
doubt  in  his  mind  that  the  Law  is  not  responsible 
for  the  sin,  the  Law  is  not  in  any  manner  to  be 
blamed,  "The  law  is  holy,  and  the  commandment 
holy,  and  righteous,  and  good"  (ver  12).  Sin  in  the 
light  of  the  holy  Law  is  shown  to  be  exceeding  sinful, 
and  the  Law  itself  is  known  to  be  spiritual. 

We  need  not  deal  with  the  difficult  passage  that 


follows  concerning  the  inner  conflict.  There  has 
always  been  much  discussion  as  to  whether  this  is  a 
conflict  in  the  soul  of  the  unregenerate  man  or  of  the 
regenerate — we  believe  it  is  in  the  regenerate,  setting 
forth  the  experience  of  the  believer — but  whatever 
view  is  taken,  it  is  clear  that  the  law  cannot  bring 
deliverance;  the  higher  part  of  man's  nature,  or 
the  regenerate  nature  according  to  the  interpreta- 
tion one  adopts,  may  "consent  unto  the  law  that  it 
is  good"  (ver  16),  may  even  "delight  in  the  law  of 
God"  (ver  22);  but  there  is  another  law  at  work, 
the  law  of  sin  in  the  members,  and  the  working  of 
this  law  means  captivity  and  wretchedness  from 
which  deliverance  can  only  come  through  Jesus 
Christ  (vs  23-25).  The  word  "law"  in  these  verses 
is  used  in  the  sense  of  principle,  "the  law  of  my 
mind,"  "the  law  of  sin,"  "the  law  in  my  members"; 
but  over  against  all  is  the  law  of  God. 

(12)  Freedom  from  the  penal  claims  of  the  Law. — 
The  description  of  the  Law  as  holy,  righteous  and 
good,  as  spiritual,  as  the  object  of  delight  to  a  true 
heart,  is  enough  to  show  that  the  deliverance  which 
the  Christian  enjoys  is  freedom  from  the  penal  claims 
and  condemning  power  of  the  Law.  This  is  borne 
out  by  the  exulting  conclusion:  "There  is  therefore 
now  no  condemnation  to  them  that  are  in  Christ 
Jesus"  (8  1).  The  Law's  claims,  satisfied  by 
Christ,  no  longer  press  upon  those  who  are  in  Him. 
When  the  apostle  adds,  "For  the  law  of  the  Spirit 
of  life  in  Christ  Jesus  made  me  free  from  the  law  of 
sin  and  of  death"  (8  2),  he  is  using  "law"  in  the 
general  sense  as  a  principle  or  power  of  producing 
ordered  action,  and  "the  law  of  the  Spirit  of  life" 
may  be  taken  to  mean  the  method  of  the  Spirit's 
working,  and  indeed  may  well  be  a  way  of  describing 
the  gospel  itself — the  new  law,  through  which  the 
Spirit  operates.  The  other  phrase,  "law  of  sin  and 
death,"  is  not  to  be  taken  as  meaning  the  Law  of 
Moses,  but  the  law,  the  principle  of  sin  producing 
death  mentioned  in  the  previous  chapter,  unless 
we  think  of  it  as  the  holy  Law  which  gives  the  knowl- 
edge of  sin  and  brings  the  condemnation  of  death. 
The  failure  of  the  Law  to  produce  a  satisfactory 
result  is  definitely  attributed  to  the  weakness  of  the 
flesh,  which  is  in  effect  reflecting  the  statement  of 
the  previous  chapter,  but  all  that  the  Law  could 
not  accomplish  is  accomplished  through  the  work 
of  Christ.  In  Christ  sin  is  condemned,  and  in  those 
who  are  brought  into  union  with  Him  the  righteous- 
ness of  the  Law  is  fulfilled. 

(13)  The  Law  remains  as  a  rule  of  life  for  the 
believer. — Thus  the  Law  is  not  abrogated.  It 
remains  as  the  standard  of  righteousness,  the  "rule 
of  life"  for  believers.  The  utmost  holiness  to  which 
they  can  attain  under  the  influence  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  is  still  the  "righteousness"  which  the  Law 
requires.  That  the  apostle's  teaching  is  far  removed 
from  Antinomianism  is  shown,  not  only  by  all  that 
he  says  in  these  chapters  about  the  believer's  new 
life  of  absolute  spiritual  service,  but  by  the  specific 
statement  in  Rom  13  8-10,  which  at  once  prescribes 
the  commandments  as  rules  of  life  (in  Eph  6  2  he 
cites  and  enforces  the  5th  commandment)  and  shows 
how  true  obedience  is  possible.  "Owe  no  man 
anything,  save  to  love  one  another:  for  he  that 
loveth  his  neighbor  hath  fulfilled  the  law."  Then, 
after  specifying  several  of  the  commands,  he  de- 
clares that  these  and  all  other  commands  are 
"summed  up  in  this  word,  namely,  Thou  shalt  love 
thy  neighbor  as  thyself."  The  man  in  Christ  has 
found  the  true  principle  of  obedience.  He  has 
entered  into  the  true  spirit  of  the  holy  law.  That 
is  all  summed  up  in  love,  and  he  having  received 
the  love  of  Christ,  living  in  His  love,  sees  the  Law 
not  as  a  stern  taskmaster  condemning,  but  as  a 
bright  vision  alluring.  He  indeed  sees  the  Law 
embodied  in  Christ,   and  the  imitation  of  Christ 


LawintheNT      THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1850 


involves  obedience  to  the  Law,  but  he  fulfils  the 
Law  not  simply  as  a  standard  outside,  but  as  a 
living  principle  within.  Acting  according  to  the 
dictates  of  the  love  begotten  at  the  cross,  his  life  is 
conformed  to  the  image  of  Christ,  and  in  so  far 
is  conformed  to  the  Law — "Love  therefore  is  the 
fulfilment  of  the  law."  In  13  1-7,  though  the  word 
"law"  does  not  occur,  Paul  indicates  the  relation  of 
the  Christian  to  the  Rom  law,  to  the  sovereignty 
of  Rome  in  general,  showing  that  "the  powers  that 
be  are  ordained  of  God"  and  that  in  the  ideal  they 
are  reflections  of  Divine  authority,  and  as  such  are 
to  be  obeyed. 

In  the  Ep.  to  the  Gal,  Paul  has  also  a  great  deal 
to  say  about  the  Law,  but  as  we  have  dealt  so  fully 

with  the  conception  given  in  Rom,  we 
2.  In  the       can  only  briefly  note  the  teaching  of 
Epistle  to       the  Galatian  Ep. 
theGalatians     (1)   Law   in  relation    to    grace    and 

spiritual  liberty. — In  general,  we  may 
say  that  as  the  Law  in  relation  to  righteousness  was 
the  prominent  feature  in  Rom,  in  Gal  it  is  the  Law 
in  relation  to  grace  and  spiritual  liberty,  and  while 
it  was  almost  exclusively  Hie  moral  law  that  Paul 
had  in  view  in  Rom,  in  Gal  it  is  rather  the  Law  of 
Moses  in  its  entirety,  with  special  emphasis  upon 
the  ceremonial.  He  introduces  the  subject  by 
referring  to  the  episode  at  Antioch,  when  he  had 
to  rebuke  Peter  for  his  "dissimulation"  (2  13).  He 
shows  the  inconsistency  of  those  who  knew  that 
they  had  been  "justified  by  faith  in  Christ,  and  not 
by  the  works  of  the  law"  (ver  16),  compelling  the 
gentile  Christians  to  live  according  to  the  Law,  and 
sums  up  with  the  striking  statement,  "For  I  through 
the  law  died  unto  the  law,  that  I  might  live  unto 
God"  (ver  19).  The  Law  in  revealing  his  sin  and 
pronouncing  condemnation,  drove  him  to  Christ 
for  justification.  Crucified  with  Christ  he  has 
entered  into  such  vital  union  with  Christ  that  his 
whole  self-life  is  dominated  by  the  Christ-life:  "It 
is  no  longer  I  that  live,  but  Christ  liveth  in  me" 
(ver  20).  Here  we  have  the  same  line  of  thought 
as  in  Rom;  then  Paul  goes  on  to  show  that  all  the 
blessings  of  grace  which  these  Christians  enjoy  have 
come  to  them  not  by  way  of  the  Law,  but  "by  the 
hearing  of  faith"  (3  2-5).  Again,  citing  the  case 
of  Abraham  as  an  instance  of  justification  by  faith, 
he  shows  how  utterly  opposed  the  Law  is  to  the 
grace  that  brings  salvation,  "For  as  many  as  are 
of  the  works  of  the  law  are  under  a  curse"  (ver  10), 
but  in  gracious  contrast,  "Christ  redeemed  us  from 
the  curse  of  the  law"  (ver  13),  having  Himself 
borne  the  curse,  and  so  the  blessing  of  Abraham 
can  come  upon  the  Gentiles  through  faith  (ver  18). 

(2)  The  function  of  the  Law  not  to  give  life,  but 
to  guide  life. — As  in  Rom,  he  shows  that  the  promise 
of  the  inheritance  was  apart  from  the  Law,  was 
given  430  years  before  the  Law  was  promulgated, 
and  answers  the  question  as  to  the  purpose  of  the 
Law,  by  saying,  "It  was  added  because  of  trans- 
gressions" (3  19),  the  thought  already  noted  in 
Rom.  Yet  the  Law  was  not  in  its  nature  opposed 
to  the  promise.  If  any  law  could  have  given  life, 
"could  make  alive,"  then  so  perfect  was  the  Law 
of  Moses  that  it  would  have  served  the  purpose; 
"Verily,  righteousness  would  have  been  of  the  law" 
(ver  21).  The  Law  was  never  meant  to  give  life  to 
those  who  had  it  not.  "He  that  doeth  them  shall 
live  in  them"  (ver  12),  but  the  doing  implies  the 
possession  of  life,  and  the  Law  only  guarantees  the 
continuance  of  life  while  it  is  perfectly  obeyed. 
Law  controls  life,  but  cannot  confer  life.  It  regu- 
lates life,  but  cannot  restore  life.  It  may  impel  to 
righteousness,  but  it  cannot  impart  righteousness. 

(3)  The  Law  our  schoolmaster. — The  Law,  he 
shows,  was  our  schoolmaster,  our  pedagogue,  "to 
bring  us  unto  Christ"  (ver  24).     The  Grecian  youth 


was  under  the  charge  of  a  pedagogue  during  his 
minority,  one  part  of  the  pedagogue's  duty  being 
to  take  the  boy,  unwilling  enough  sometimes,  to 
school.  In  the  sense  already  shown  in  Pom,  the 
moral  law  by  showing  us  our  sinfulness  leads  lis  to 
Christ;  but  here  we  may  take  the  Law  as  a  whole, 
including  all  the  ceremonial  and  typical  observances 
which  were  designed  to  lead  the  people  to  Christ. 

(4)  The  bondage  of  the  Law. — But  while  there 
was  undoubtedly  much  of  privilege  for  the  people 
under  the  Mosaic  dispensation,  there  was  also  some- 
thing of  bondage.  And  so  Paul  says,  "We  were 
kept  in  ward  under  the  law"  (ver  23),  and  in  the 
next  chapter,  he  speaks  of  the  child,  though  heir 
to  a  great  estate,  being  "under  guardians  and 
stewards  until  the  day  appointed  of  the  father" 
(4  2),  which  seems  to  be  the  same  thought  as  under 
the  pedagogue,  and  this  he  calls  a  state  of  "bond- 
age (ver  3).  The  Law  guarded  and  tutored  and 
restrained;  the  great  typical  observances,  though 
foreshadowing  the  grace  of  the  gospel,  were;  yet, 
in  their  details,  irksome  and  burdensome,  and  the 
mass  of  rules  as  to  every  part  of  the  Jew's  conduct 
proved  to  be,  speaking  after  the  present-day  man- 
ner, a  system  of  red  tape.  Little  was  left  to  the 
free,  spontaneous  action  of  the  spirit;  the  whole 
course  of  the  Jew  from  the  cradle  to  the  grave  was 
carefully  marked  out. 

(5)  Sonship  and  its  freedom  from  the  Law's  re- 
strictions.— But  in  the  fulness  of  time  "God  sent 
forth  his  Son,  born  of  a  woman,  born  under  the  law, 
that  he  might  redeem  them  that  were  under  the 
law,  that  we  might  receive  the  adoption  of  sons" 
(4  4f).  The  gospel  of  the  grace  of  God  embodied 
in  Christ  shows  its  gracious  character  in  that  it  not 
only  answers  the  requirements  of  the  moral  law 
and  removes  its  condemnation;  fulfils,  and  by  ful- 
filling abrogates  the  typical  observer  of  the  cere- 
monial law,  but  also  abolishes  all  the  directions 
and  restrictions  given  to  the  Jews  as  a  separate 
people,  and  brings  its  subjects  into  a  condition  of 
liberty  where  the  renewed  spirit  under  the  mighty 
love  of  Christ  can  act  spontaneously,  the  great 
principles  of  the  moral  law  remaining  as  its  guide, 
while  the  minute  rules  needed  for  the  infancy  of  the 
race  are  no  longer  appropriate  for  the  "sons  of  God, 
through  faith,  in  Christ  Jesus"  (3  26).  And  so  Paul 
warns  these  Christians  against  turning  back  to  the 
"weak  and  beggarly  rudiments"  and  observing 
"months,  and  seasons,  and  years"  (4  9.10). 

In  the  remaining  Epp.  of  Paul,  little  is  said  of  the 
Law,  and  we  need  only  indicate  the  connections  in 
which  the  word  occurs.  In  1  Cor  7 
3.  In  the  39  there  is  a  reference  to  the  wife  being 
Other  "bound  by  the  law  as  long  as  her  hus- 

Pauline  band  liveth"  (AV).     The  word  "law," 

Epistles  however,   is  omitted  from  the  critical 

texts  and  from  RV.  In  the  same  ep.  (9 
8.9;  14  21.34)  the  word  is  used  of  the  Pent  or 
the  Scriptures  as  a  whole.  In  9  20  Paul  refers  to  his 
practice  of  seeking  to  win  men  to  Christ  by  accom- 
modating himself  to  their  standpoint,  "to  them  that 
are  under  the  law,  as  under  the  law";  and  in  15  56 
occurs  the  pregnant  statement,  an  echo  of  Rom, 
"The  power  of  sin  is  the  law."  In  2  Cor  the  word 
does  not  occur,  though  the  legal  system  is  referred 
to  as  the  ministration  of  death,  in  contrast  to  the 
gospel  ministration  of  the  Spirit  (ch  3).  The  word 
"law"  is  once  used  in  Eph  (2  15),  in  reference  to  the 
work  of  Christ  not  only  producing  harmony  between 
God  and  man,  but  between  Jew  and  Gentile: 
"abolished  in  his  flesh  the  enmity,  even  the  law  of 
commandments  contained  in  ordinances,"  also 
spoken  of  as  "the  middle  wall  of  partition,"  and 
referring  esp.  to  the  ceremonial  enactments. 

In  Phil  3  5.6.9  we  have  the  fine  autobiographical 
passage  wherein  we  see  the  self-righteous  Pharisee 


1851 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA      Law  in  the  NT 


reckoning  himself  "blameless"  in  the  eye  of  the  Law, 
until  convinced  of  his  sin,  and  led  to  find  in  Christ 
the  righteousness  "which  is  through  faith,"  instead 
of  his  own  righteousness  "which  is  of  the  law"  (ver 
9).  The  word  does  not  occur  in  Col,  but  the  thought 
is  found  of  the  spiritual  circumcision  in  contrast  to 
the  physical,  the  blotting  out  through  the  work  of 
the  cross,  of  the  bond  written  in  ordinances  and  the 
consequent  deliverance  of  the  believer  from  the 
bondage  of  ceremonial  observances  (2  11-17), 
those  being  affirmed  to  be  "a  shadow  of  the  things 
to  come,"  Christ  being  the  glorious  substance.  In 
1  Tim  1  8.9,  we  have  the  two  pregnant  statements 
that  "the  law  is  good,  if  a  man  use  it  lawfully," 
and  that  "law  is  not  made  for  a  righteous  man,  but 
for  the  lawless." 

The  word  "law"  occurs  14 1  in  this  ep.,  and  a 
great  deal  of  attention  is  given  to  the  subject,  but 
it  is  generally  the  law  in  its  ceremonial 
4.  In  the        aml  typical  aspect  that  is  in  question. 
Epistle  it  is  not  necessary  to  look  at  the  mat  t  er 

to  the  }n  detail,   but  simply  to  indicate  the 

Hebrews       iine  Qf  teaching. 

(1)  Harmony  with  the  Pauline  teaching. — The  ancient 
doubt  as  to  the  authorship  of  the  ep.  seems  today  to  have 
crystallized  into  certainty,  albeit  the  grounds  for  a  con- 
clusion are  no  stronger  than  formerly,  but  in  the  desire 
to  prove  the  non-Pauline  authorship,  too  much  empha- 
sis is  perhaps  laid  upon  the  supposed  un-Pauline  char- 
acter of  the  teaching.  There  is,  after  all,  profound  har- 
mony between  the;  teaching  of  the  Pauline  Epp.  and  the 
teaching  of  He,  and  the  harmony  applies  to  this  matter 
of  the  Law.  While  Paul,  as  we  have  seen,  gives  promi- 
nence in  Horn  to  the  moral  law,  in  (ial  and  elsewhere  he 
deals  with  the  ceremonial  law,  in  much  the  same  way, 
though  not  so  fully,  as  the  writer  to  the  Hebrews.  Such 
utterances  as,  "Our  Passover  also  hath  been  sacrificed, 
even  Christ"  (1  Cor  5  7);  "The  rock  was  Christ"; 
"Now  these  things  were  our  examples"  (types  of  us) 
(1  ("or  10  4-6);  "Which  are  a  shadow  of  the  tilings 
to  come;  but  the  body  is  Christ's"  (Col  2  17)  areexaetly 
in  line  with  the  teaching  of  Hebrews. 

(2)  The  Law  transcended  by  the  gospel. — The 
author  shows  how  the  Law,  which  was  a  word  spoken 
through  angels,  is  transcended  by  the  gospel,  which 
has  been  spoken  by  the  Lord  of  the  angels,  and  so 
demands  greater  reverence  (lb;  2  2-4),  and  all 
through  the  ep.  it  is  the  transcendent  glory  of  the 
gospel  dispensation  introduced  by  Christ  and 
ascribed  to  Him,  which  is  made  to  shine  before  us. 

(3)  Law  of  priesthood.— The  author  deals  specifi- 
cally in  chs  7  and  8  with  the  law  of  priesthood, 
showing  that  Christ's  Priesthood,  "after  the  order 
of  Melchisedek,"  surpasses  in  glory  that  of  the 
Aaronic  priesthood  under  the  law;  not  only  sur- 
passes but  supersedes  it;  the  imperfect  gives  place 
to  the  perfect;  the  shadowy  to  the  real;  the  earthly 
to  the  heavenly;  the  temporal  to  the  eternal.  And 
as  Paul  justifies  his  doctrine  of  justification  apart 
from  the  deeds  of  the  Law  by  reference  to  the  OT 
teaching,  so  here  the  writer  finds  in  the  OT  pre- 
diction of  the  New  Covenant,  the  basis  for  all  his 
reasoning,  and  in  his  reference  to  the  description 
of  the  New  Covenant,  he  is  at  one  with  Paul  in 
regard  to  the  moral  law,  seeing  it  as  now  written 
on  the  heart,  and  becoming  an  internal  power, 
rather  than  an  external  precept.  See  New  Cove- 
nant. 

(4)  The  law  of  the  sanctuary  and  the  sacrifices  — 
He  next  deals  with  the  law  of  the  sanctuary,  and 
in  connection  therewith  considers  the  law  of  the 
sacrifices  (chs  9-10),  and  in  the  same  way  shows 
that  Christ  makes  good  all  that  the  tabernacle  and 
its  services  typified,  that  His  one,  all-perfect 
eternal  sacrifice  takes  the  place  of  the  many  imper- 
fect temporary  sacrifices  offered  under  the  Law. 
At  the  best  the  Law  had  "a  shadow  of  the  good 
things  to  come"  (10  1).  The  shadow  was  useful 
for  the  time  being,  the  people  were  greatly  privi- 
leged in  having  it,  it  directed  them  to  the  great 
Figure  who  cast  the  shadow.    The  whole  ceremonial 


system  was  really  a  system  of  grace  at  the  heart 
of  it;  in  spite  of  its  external  rubrics  which  might 
well  be  abused,  it  made  provision  for  satisfying  for 
the  time  the  breaches  of  the  law;  the  sacrifices 
themselves  could  not  take  away  sin,  but  periodical 
forgiveness  was  conveyed  through  them,  by  virtue 
of  their  relation  to  the  Coming  One.  Now  the 
great  sacrifice  having  been  offered,  eternal  redemp- 
tion is  secured,  perfect  forgiveness  obtained,  free 
access  into  the  heavenly  Holy  Place  assured,  and 
the  eternal  inheritance  provided.  The  Substance 
of  all  the  shadows  has  appeared,  the  shadows  pass 
away,  and  the  great  truth  indicated  by  Christ  Him- 
self is  now  fully  made  known  through  His  Spirit- 
taught  servants.  Christ,  who  "is  the  end  of  the 
law  [the  moral  law]  unto  righteousness  to  every 
one  that  believeth"  (Rom  10  4),  is  also  the  end  of 
the  ceremonial  law,  the  full  realization  of  all  its 
types  and  shadows. 

James  mentions  the  "law"  10  t  in  his  ep.,  and  in 
each  case  it  is  the  moral  law.  The  influence  of  the 
Sermon  on  the  Mount  is  seen  through- 
5.  In  the  out  the  ep.,  and  souk;  distinct  echoes 
Epistle  of  of  it  are  heard,  as  e.g.  the  injunction, 
James  "Swear  not  [at  all]"  (5  12).     James  has 

nothing  but  good  to  say  of  the  Law, 
and  that  fact  in  the  light  of  the  influence  of  the 
Sermon  on  the  Mount  is  enough  to  show  that  Christ, 
in  that  wonderful  discourse,  did  not  disparage  the 
Law,  far  less  abrogate  it,  but  rather  exalted  and 
reinforced  it.  James  taught  by  Christ  exalts  the 
Law,  glorifies  it,  in  fact  seems  almost  to  identify 
it  with  the  gospel,  for  in  ch  1,  when  speaking  of 
the  Word  and  the  importance  of  hearing  and  doing 
it,  he  in  the  same  breath  speaks  of  looking  into  "the 
perfect  law,  the  law  of  liberty"  (ver  25).  And 
indeed,  it  is  just  possible,  as  some  think,  that  he 
means  the  gospel  by  the  epithet,  although  it  seems 
better  to  take  it  as  the  Law  trd  in  the  gospel,  the 
Law  looked  at  in  its  spirituality,  as  the  guide  of 
the  Christian  man  who  has  entered  into  the  spirit 
of  it. 

Even  in  the  OT,  as  Pss  19  and  119  specifically 
show,  it  was  possible  for  spiritually-minded  men  to 
see  the  beauty  of  the  Law  and  find  delight  in  its 
precepts.  In  2  8  he  speaks  of  the  "royal  law,"  and 
that  here  he  does  mean  the  Mosaic  Law  is  beyond 
doubt,  since  he  cites  the  particular  requirement, 
"Idiou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself,"  in  this 
agreeing  with  his  Master  and  with  Paul,  finding  in 
love  of  neighbor  the  sum  of  the  Law  and  its  true 
fulfilment.  Respect  of  persons,  he  affirms,  is  a 
breach  of  this  "royal  law,"  and  leads  to  those  in- 
dulging in  it  being  "convicted"  by  the  law  of  trans- 
gression (ver  9).  He  then  affirms  the  solidarity  of 
the  Law,  so  that  a  breach  of  it  in  one  particular  is 
a  breach  of  the  whole,  and  makes  a  man  "guilty  of 
all"  (ver  10),  a  far-reaching  principle  which  Paul 
had  also  indicated  when  quoting  in  Gal  the  words, 
"Cursed  is  every  one  who  continueth  not  in  all  things 
that  are  written  in  the  book  of  the  law,  to  do  them" 
(Gal  3  10),  and  when  in  Rom  7  he  showed  that 
the  conviction  that  he  had  broken  the  10th  com- 
mandment made  him  realize  that  he  had  broken 
the  whole  Law.  James  then  exhorts  his  readers 
to  speak  and  act  as  those  who  are  to  be  judged  by 
"a  law  of  liberty"  (2  12),  so  that  he  sets  no  limit 
to  the  range  of  that  law.  Finally,  in  4  11,  he  warns 
them  by  implication  against  speaking  against  the 
Law  or  judging  the  Law,  that  is,  to  assume  the 
place  of  judge  instead  of  "doer  of  the  law."  James 
could  not  have  used  such  language  unless  he  had  a 
profound  conviction  of  the  perfection  of  the  Law. 
And  it  is  the  perfection  of  the  Law  as  a  rule  of  life 
for  spiritual  men  redeemed  from  its  condemnation 
that  James  considers  it,  and  so  we  can  call  it  the 
perfect  law,  the  law  of  liberty,  the  Royal  Law. 


LawintheOT      THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1852 


In  the  Epp.  of  Peter  and  John,  the  word  "law" 
does  not  occur,  but  Peter  shows  that  the  holiness 
of  God  remains  as  in  the  Pent  the 
6.  In  the  standard  of  life,  and  the  example  of 
Epistles  of  Christ  shows  the  way  (1  Pet  2  21), 
Peter  and  while  in  the  church  is  found  the  spirit- 
John  ual  realization  of  the  sanctuary,  priest- 
hood and  sacrifices  of  the  old  economy 
(1  Pet,  2  5-9).  Peter  has  one  reference  to  the 
Pom  law,  enjoining  upon  his  readers  obedience  to 
it  in  the  political  sphere.  John  enjoins  the  keeping 
of  the  commandments,  these  being  apparently  the 
commandments  of  Christ  (1  Jn  2  3.4;  5  2),  and 
the  test  of  keeping  the  commandments  is  love  of  the 
brethren,  while  hatred  of  a  brother  is,  as  in  the 
Sermon  on  the  Mount,  murder.  All  sin  is  "law- 
lessness" (3  4),  and  the  sum  of  all  law-keeping  is 
love  of  God  and  love  of  the  brethren,  and  so  the 
summary  of  the  old  Law  is  echoed  and  endorsed. 

Literature. — Chiefly  the  works  on  NT  theology 
(Weiss,  Beyschlag,  Schmid,  etc),  and  on  Christian 
ethics  (Martensen,  Dorner,  ITarlcss,  etc),  with  comms. 
on  Pauline  Epp.  (Rom,  etc);  Ritschl,  Entxtehung  tier 
altk.  Kirche  (2d  ed);  Zahn,  Das  Gesetz  Gottes  nach  der 
Lehre  unit  der  Erfahrung  des  Apostels  Paulus;  J.  Denney, 
in  HDB. 

Archibald  M'Caig 

LAW  IN  THE  OLD  TESTAMENT: 

I.     Terms   Used 

1.  Tordh  ("  Law  ") 

2.  Synonyms  of  Tordh 

(1)  MiQwah  ("Command") 

(2)  ' Edhdh  ("Witness,"  "Testimony") 

(3)  Mishpdtim  ("Judgments") 

(4)  Hukkim  ("Statutes") 

(5)  Pikkudhlm  ("Precepts") 

II.     The  Written  Record  of  the  Law 

1.  The  Critical  Dating  of  the  Laws 

2.  Groups  of  Laws  in  P 

3.  The  Book  of  the  Covenant 

(1)  Judgments.     Compared  with  Code  of  Ham- 
murabi 

(2)  Basis  of  Law  of  Covenant.     Earlier  Cus- 
toms 

4.  The  Book  of  the  Law  of  Dt  31 

5.  The  Law  of  Holiness 

6.  The  Final  Compilation 

III.  The   General  Character   and   Design    of   the 
Law 

1.  The  Civil  Law 

(1)  Servants  and  the  Poor 

(2)  Punishments 

(3)  Marriage 

(4)  Sabbaths  and  Feasts 

2.  The  Ceremonial  Law 

(1)  Origin  of  Sacrifice 

(2)  The  Levitical  Ritual 

(3)  The  Law  Truly  a  Tordh 

IV.  The  Passing  Away  of  the  Law 
Literature 

Law,  at  least  as  custom,  certainly  existed  among 
the  Hebrews  in  the  times  before  Moses,  as  appears 
from  numerous  allusions  to  it,  both  in  matters  civil 
and  ceremonial,  in  the  earlier  Scriptures.  But  we 
have  no  distinct  account  of  such  law,  either  as  to 
its  full  contents  or  its  enactment.  Law  in  the  OT 
practically  means  the  Law  promulgated  by  Moses 
(having  its  roots  no  doubt  in  this  earlier  law  or 
custom),  with  sundry  later  modifications  or  addi- 
tions, rules  as  to  which  have  been  inserted  in  the 
record  of  the  Mosaic  law. 

The  following  an;  matters  of  pre-Mosaic  law  or 
custom  to  which  allusion  is  made  in  Gen  and  Ex: 
the  offering  of  sacrifice  and  the  use  of  altars  (Gen 
passim);  the  religious  use  of  pillars  (Gen  28  18); 
purification  for  sacrifice  (35  2);  tithes  (14  20;  28 
22);  circumcision  (17  10;  Ex  4  25  f);  inquiry  at 
a  sanctuary  (Gen  25  22);  sacred  feasts  (Ex  5  1, 
etc);  priests  (Ex  19  22);  sacred  oaths  (Gen  14 
22);  marriage  customs  (16;  24;  25  6;  29  16-30); 
birthright  (25  31-34);  elders  (24  2;  50  7;  Ex  3 
16);  homicide  (Gen  9  6),  etc.  We  proceed  at  once 
to  the  Law  of  Moses. 

/.  Terms  Used. — The  Heb  word  rendered  "law" 
in  our  Bibles  is  TTT, ,  tordh.     Other  synonymous 


words  either  denote  (as  indeed  does  tordh  itself) 
aspects  under  which  the  Law  may  be  regarded,  or 
different  classes  of  law. 

Tordh  is  from  hordh,  the  Hiphil  of  ydrdli.  The 
root  meaning  is  "to  throw";  hence  in  Hiphil  the 
word  means  "to  point  out"  (as  by 
1.  Torah  throwing  out  the  hand),  and  so  "to 
direct";  and  tordh  is  "direction." 
Torah  may  be  simply  "human  direction,"  as  the 
"law  of  thy  mother"  in  Prov  1  8;  but  most  often 
in  the  OT  it  is  the  Divine  law.  In  the  sing,  it  often 
means  a  law,  the  pi.  being  used  in  the  same  sense; 
but  more  frequently  tordh  in  the  sing,  is  the  general 
body  of  Divinely  given  law.  The  word  tells  nothing 
as  to  the  way  in  which  the  Law,  or  any  part  of  it, 
was  first  given;  it  simply  points  out  the  general 
purpose  of  the  Law,  viz.  that  it  was  for  the  guidance 
of  God's  people  in  the  various  matters  to  which  it 
relates.  This  shows  that  the  end  of  the  Law  lay 
beyond  the  men;  obedience  to  such  and  such  rules, 
that  end  being  instruction  in  the  knowledge  of  God 
and  of  men's  relation  to  Him,  and  guidance  in  living 
as  the  children  of  such  a  God  as  He  revealed  Him- 
self to  be.  This  is  dwelt  upon  in  the  later  Scrip- 
tures, notably  in  Pss  19  and  119. 

In  the  completed  Canon  of  the  OT,  tordh  techni- 
cally denotes  the  Pent  (Lk  24  41)  as  being  that 
division  of  the  OT  Scriptures  which  contains  the 
text  of  the  Law,  and  its  history  down  to  the  death 
of  Moses,  the  great  lawgiver. 

(1)  Migwdh,     "command"     (or,     in    pi.,     "com- 
mands"),  is  a  term  applied  to  the  Law  as  indi- 
cating that  it  is  a  charge  laid  upon 
2.  Syno-        men  as  the  expression  of  God's  will, 
nyms  of  and  therefore  that  it  must  be  obeyed. 

Torah  (2)   ''Edhdh,     "witness"     or     "testi- 

mony" (in  pi.  "testimonies"),  is  a 
designation  of  God's  law  as  testifying  the  principles 
of  His  dealings  with  His  people.  So  the  ark  of  the 
covenant  is  called  the  "ark  of  the  testimony"  (Ex 
25  22),  as  containing  "the  testimony"  (ver  Hi), 
i.e.  the  tables  of  the  Law  upon  which  the  covenant 
was  based.  The  above  terms  are  general,  applying 
to  the  torah  at  large;  the  two  next  following  are  of 
more  restricted  application. 

(3)  Mishpdtim,  "judgments":  Mishpdt  in  the  sing, 
sometimes  means  judgment  in  an  abstract  sense, 
as  in  Gen  18  19;  Dt  32  4;  sometimes  the  act  of 
judging,  as  in  Dt  16  18.19;  17  9;  24  17.  But 
"judgments"  (in  the  pi.)  is  a  term  constantly  used 
in  connection  with,  and  distinction  from,  statutes, 
to  indicate  laws  of  a  particular  kind,  viz.  laws  which, 
though  forming  part  of  the  tordh  by  virtue  of  Divine 
sanction,  originated  in  decisions  of  judges  upon  cases 
brought  before  them  for  judgment.  See  further 
below. 

(4)  Hukkim,  "statutes"  (lit.  "laws  engraven"),  are 
laws  immediately  enacted  by  a  lawgiver.  "Judg- 
ments and  statutes"  together  comprise  the  whole 
law  (Lev  18  4;  Dt  4  1.8  A V).  So  also  we  now 
distinguish  between  consuetudinary  and  statute  law. 

(5)  Pikkudhlm,  "precepts":  This  term  is  found 
only  in  the  Pss.  It  seems  to  mean  rules  or  coun- 
sels provided  to  suit  the  various  circumstances  in 
which  men  may  be  placed.  The  term  may  perhaps 
be  meant  to  apply  both  to  the  rules  of  the  actual 
tordh,  and  to  others  found,  e.g.  in  the  writings  of 
prophets  and  "wise  men." 

//.  77ie  Written  Record  of  the  Law. — The  enact- 
ment of  the  Law  and  its  committal  to  writing  must 
be  distinguished.  With  regard  to  the  former,  it 
is  distinctly  stated  (Jn  117)  that  "the  law  was  given 
through  Moses";  and  though  this  does  not  neces- 
sarily imply  that  every  regulation  found  in  the  Pent 
is  his,  a  large  number  of  the  laws  are  expressly  as- 
cribed to  him.  As  regards  the  latter,  we  are  dis- 
tinctly told  that  Moses  wrote  certain  laws  or  col- 


1853 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA      Law  in  the  OT 


lections  of  laws  (Ex  17  14;  24  4.7;  Dt  31  9). 
These,  however,  form  only  a  portion  of  the  whole 
legislation;  and  therefore,  whether  the  remaining 
portions  were  written  by  Moses,  or — if  not  by  him 
■ — when  and  by  whom,  is  a  legitimate  matter  of 
inquiry. 

It  is  not  necessary  here  to  discuss  the  large  ques- 
tion of  the  literary  history  of  the  Pent,  but  it  must 
briefly  be  touched  upon.  The  Pent  certainly 
appears  to  have  reached  its  present  form  by  the 
gradual  piecing  together  of  diverse  materials.  Dt 
being  a  separate  composition,  a  distinction  would 
seem  to  have  been  clearly  established  by  critical 
examination  between  a  number  of  paragraphs  in 
the  remaining  books  which  apparently  must  once 
have  formed  a  narrative  by  themselves,  and  other 
paragraphs,  partly  narrative  but  chiefly  legislative 
and  statistical,  which  appear  to  have  been  subse- 
quently added.  Without  endorsing  any  of  the 
critical  theories  as  to  the  relation  of  these,  one  to 
the  other,  or  as  to  the  dates  of  their  composition, 
we  may,  in  a  general  way,  accept  the  analysis,  and 
adopt  the  well-known  symbol  JE  to  distinguish  the 
former,  and  P  the  latter.  Confining  ourselves  to 
their  legislative  contents,  we  find  in  JE  a  short  but 
very  important  body  of  law,  the  Law  of  the  Cove- 
nant, stated  in  full  in  Ex  20-23,  and  repeated  as 
to  a  portion  of  it  in  Ex  34  10-28.  All  the  rest  of 
the  legislation  is  contained  in  P  and  Dt. 

Wo  an;  distinctly  told  in  Ex  that  the  law  con- 
tained in  Ex  20  23  was  given  through  Moses.     Re- 
jecting  this  statement,   critics  of  the 
1.  The  school  of   Wellhausen  affirm  that  its 

Critical  true  date  must  be  placed  considerably 

Dating  of  later  than  the  time  of  Joshua.  They 
the  Laws  maintain  that  previous  to  their  con- 
quest of  Canaan  the  Israelites  were 
mere  nomads,  ignorant  of  agriculture,  the  practice  of 
which,  as  well  as  their  culture  in  general,  they  first 
learned  from  the  conquered  Canaanites.  There- 
fore (so  they  argue),  as  the  law  of  Ex  20-23  pre- 
supposes the  practice  of  agriculture,  it  cannot  have; 
been  promulgated  until  some  time  in  the  period  of 
the  Judges  at  the  earliest;  they  place  it  indeed 
in  the  early  period  of  the  monarchy.  All  this, 
however,  is  mere  assumption,  support  for  which  is 
claimed  in  some  passages  in  which  a  shepherd  life; 
is  spoken  of,  but  with  utter  disregard  of  others 
which  show  that  both  in  the  patriarchal  period  and 
in  Egypt  the  Israelites  also  cultivated  land.  See 
B.  D.  Eerdmans,  "Have  the  Hebrews  Been  No- 
mads?" Expos,  August  and  October,  1908.  It  can 
indeed  be  shown  that  this  law  was  throughout  in 
harmony  with  what  must  have  been  the  customs  and 
conceptions  of  the  Israelites  at  the  age  of  the  exodus 
(Rule,  OT  Institution*).  Professor  Eerdmans  in  his 
Alllestamentliche  Studien,  Part  111  (1910),  vigorously 
defends  the  Mosaic  origin  of  the  Book  of  the 
Covenant. 

The  same  critics  bring  down  the  date  of  the  legis- 
lation of  Dt  to  the  time  of  Josiah,  or  at  most  a  few 
years  earlier.  They  affirm  (wrongly)  that  the 
chief  object  of  JosialVs  reformation  narrated  in  2  K 
23  was  the  centralization  of  worship  at  the  temple 
in  Jerus.  They  rightly  attribute  the  zeal  winch 
carried  the  reform  through  to  the  discovery  of  the 
"Book  of  the  Law"  (22  8).  Then  arguing  that  the 
frequent  previous  practice  of  worship  at  high  places 
implied  the  non-existence  of  any  law  to  the  con- 
trary, they  conclude  that  the  rule  of  Dt  12  was  a 
rule" recently  laid  down  by  the  temple  priesthood, 
and  written  in  a  book  in  Moses'  name,  this  new 
book  being  what  was  "found  in  the  house  of  Jeh. 
But  this  argument  is  altogether  unsound:  its  grave 
difficulties  are  well  set  out  in  Moller's  Are  the  Critics 
Right?  And  here  again  careful  study  vindicates 
the  Mosaic  character  of  the  law  of  Dt  as  a  whole 


and  of  Dt  12  in  particular.  M.  Edouard  Naville  in 
La  decouverte  de  la  loi  nous  le  roi  Josias  propounds 
a  theory  which  he  supports  by  a  most  interest- 
ing argument:  that  the  book  found  was  a  founda- 
tion deposit,  which  must  therefore  have  been  built 
over  by  masonry  at  the  erection  of  the  temple  by 
Solomon. 

Equally  unsound,  however  plausible,  are  the 
arguments  which  would  make  the  framing  of  the 
Levitical  ritual  the  work  of  the  age  of  Ezra.  The 
difficulties  created  by  this  theory  are  far  greater 
than  those  which  it  is  intended  to  remove.  On 
this  also  see  Moller,  Are  the  Critics  Right  1 

Rejecting  these  theories,  it  will  be  assumed  in  the 
present  art.  that  the  various  laws  are  of  the  dates 
ascribed  to  them  in  the  Pent;  that  whatever  may 
be  said  as  to  the  date  of  some  "of  the  laws,"  all 
which  are  therein  ascribed  to  Moses  are  truly  so 
ascribed. 

The  laws  in  P  are  arranged  for  the  most  part  in 
groups,  with  which  narrative*  is  sometimes  inter- 
mingled. These  e.g.  are  some  of  the 
2.  Groups  groups:  Ex  25-31;  Lev  1-7;  11-15; 
of  Laws  Nu  1-4,  etc.  The  structure  and 
in  P  probable  history  of   these    groups  are 

very  interesting.  That  many  of  them 
must  have  undergone  interpolation  appears  certain 
from  the  following  considerations.  Each  of  the 
groups,  and  often  one  or  more  paragraphs  within 
a  group,  is  headed  by  a  recurring  formula,  "Jeh 
spake  unto  Moses  [or  unto  Aaron,  or  unto  Moses 
and  Aaron],  saying."  We  might  at  first  expect 
that  the  contents  of  each  group  or  paragraph  so 
headed  would  consist  solely  of  what  Jeh  had  said 
unto  Moses  or  Aaron,  but  this  is  not  always  so. 
Not  infrequently  some  direction  is  found  within 
such  a  paragraph  which  cannot  have  been  spoken 
to  Moses,  but  must  have  come  into  force  at  some 
later  date.  Unless  then  we  reject  the  statement  of 
the  formula,  unless  we  are  prepared  to  say  that 
Jeh  did  not  speak  unto  Moses,  we  can  only  conclude 
that  these  later  directions  were  at  some  time  in- 
serted by  an  editor  into  paragraphs  which  originally 
contained  Mosaic  laws  only.  That  this  should 
have  been  done  would  be  perfectly  natural,  when 
we  consider  that  the  purpose  of  such  an  editor 
would  be  not  only  to  preserve  (as  has  been  done) 
the  record  of  the  original  Law,  but  to  present  a 
manual  of  law  complete  for  the  use  of  his  age,  a 
manual  (to  use  a  modern  phrase)  made  complete 
to  date. 

That  the  passages  in  question  were  indeed  inter- 
polations appears  not  only  from  the  fact  that  their 
removal  rids  the  text  of  what  otherwise  would  be 
grave  discrepancies,  but  because  the  passages  in 
question  sometimes  disturb  the  sequence  of  the 
context.  Moreover,  by  thus  distinguishing  be- 
tween laws  promulgated  (as  stated)  by  Moses,  and 
laws  to  which  the  formula  of  statement  was  not 
intended  to  apply,  we  arrive  at  the  following  im- 
portant result.  It  is  that  the  former  laws  can  all 
be  shown  to  be  in  harmony  one  with  another  and 
with  the  historical  data  of  the  Mosaic  age;  while 
the  introduction  of  the  later  rules  is  also  seen  to  be 
what  would  naturally  follow  by  way  of  adaptation 
to  the  circumstances  of  later  times,  and  the  gradual 
unfolding  of  Divine  purpose. 

It  would  be  much  too  long  a  task  here  to  work  this 
out  in  detail:  it  has  been  attempted  by  the  writer  of 
this  article  in  OT  Institutions,  Their  Origin  and  Devel- 
opment.    Two  instances,   however,   may  be  mentioned. 

Instances  of  interpolation. — In  Ex  12  43  If  (KKV)  we 
read,  "This  is  the  ordinance  of  the  passover:  there  shall 
no  alien  eat  thereof;  but  every  man's  servant  that  is 
bought  for  money,  when  thou  hast  circumcised  him,  then 
shall  he  eat  thereof.  A  sojourner  and  a  hired  servant 
shall  not  eat  thereof."  This  was  the  original  Mosaic- 
rule  introduced  by  the  formula  in  ver  4.i.  But  in  vs 
48.49  it  is  said  that  sojourner*  (when  circumcised)   mau 


Law  in  the  OT      THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1854 


oat  of  the  passover.  This  was  plainly  a  relaxation  of 
later  date,  made  in  accordance  with  the  principle  which 
is  enlarged  upon  in  isa  56  3  s. 

According  to  Lev  23  34.39<x.40-42,  the  Feast  of 
Tabernacles  was  a  feast  of  seven  days  only.  This  was 
the  Mosaic  rule  as  appears  from  the  formula  in  ver  33, 
and  in  certain  other  passages.  But  as  a  development  in 
the  feast's  observance,  an  eighth  day  was  subsequently 
added,  and  therefore  insertions  to  that  effect  were  made 
here  at  vs  36  and  396.  The  introduction  of  this  addi- 
tional dav  would  bo  in  keeping  with  that  elaboration  iti 
the  observance  of  the  "set  feasts"  which  we  find  in  Nu 
28  and  29,  as  compared  with  the  simpler  observance  of 
the  same  (lavs  ordered  in  Lev  23.  Here  again  the 
formula  in  \u  28  1  plainly  covered  a  few  verses  imme- 
diately following,  but  not  the  whole  content  of  the  two 
chapters. 

Premising  then  the  existence  in  writing  from  an 
parly  age  of  numerous  groups  of  Mosaic  laws  and 
their  subsequent  interpolation,  the  ultimate  com- 
pilation of  these  groups  together  with  other  matter 
and  their  arrangement  in  the  order  in  which  we 
now  find  them  must  have  been  the  work,  perhaps 
indeed  of  the  interpolator,  but  in  any  case  of  some 
late  editor.  These  numerous  groups  do  not,  how- 
ever, make  up  the  whole  legislative  contents  of  the 
Pent;  for  a  very  large  portion  of  these  contents 
consists  of  three  distinct  books  of  law,  which  we 
must  now  examine.  These  were  the  "Book  of  the 
Covenant,"  the  "Book  of  the  Law"  of  Dt  31  26, 
and  the  so-called  "Law  of  Holiness." 

This  book,  expressly  so  named  (Ex  24  7),  is 
stated  to  have  been  written  by  Moses  (24  3.4).  It 
must  have  comprised  the  contents  of 
3.  The  Ex  20-23.     The  making  of  the  cove- 

Book  of  the  nant  tit  Sinai,  led  up  to  by  the  reveal- 
Covenant  ing  words  of  Ex  3  12-17;  6  2-8;  19 
3-6,  was  a  transaction  of  the  very  first 
importance  in  t  he  religious  history  of  Israel.  God's 
revelation  of  Himself  to  Israel  being  very  largely, 
indeed  chiefly,  a  revelation  of  His  moral  attributes 
(Ex  34  0.7),  could  only  be  effectively  apprehended 
by  a  people  who  were  morally  fitted  to  receive  it. 
Hence  it  was  that  Israel  as  a  nation  was  now  placed 
by  God  in  a  stated  relation  to  Himself  by  means  of 
a  covenant,  the  condition  upon  which  the  covenant 
was  based  being,  on  His  people's  part,  their  obe- 
dience to  a  given  law.  This  was  the  law  contained 
in  the  "Book  of  the  Covenant." 

It  consisted  of  "words  of  Jeh"  and  "judgments" 
(Ex  24  3  AV).  The  hitter  are  contained  in  Ex  21 
1 — 22  17;  the  former  in  ch  20,  in  the  remaining 
portion  of  ch  22,  and  ch  23.  The  "judgments" 
(ARV  "ordinances")  relate  entirely  to  matters  of 
right  between  man  and  man;  the  "words  of  Jeh" 
relate  partly  to  these  and  partly  to  duties  dis- 
tinctively religious. 

(1)  The  judgments  compared  with  Code  of  Hammurabi. 
— The  "judgments"  appear  to  be  taken  from  older 
consuetudinary  law;  not  necessarily  comprising  the 
whole  of  that  law,  but  so  much  of  it  as  it  pleased  God 
now  to  stamp  with  His  express  sanction  and  to  embody 
in  this  Covenant  Law.  They  may  well  be  compared 
with  those  contained  in  the  so-called  Code  of  Ham- 
murabi, king  of  Babylon,  who  is  thought  to  have  been 
the  Amraphel  of  Gen  14-  These  are  called  "the  judg- 
ments of  righteousness  which  Hammurabi  the  mighty 
king  confirmed."  The  resemblances  in  form  and  in 
subject  between  the  two  sets  of  "judgments"  are  very 
striking.  All  alike  have  the  same  structure,  beginning 
with  a  hypothetical  clause,  "if  so  and  so,"  and  then 
giving  the  rule  applicable  in  the  third  person.  All  alike 
relate  entirely  to  civil,  as  distinguished  from  religious, 
matters,  to  rights  and  duties  between  man  and  man. 
All  seem  to  have  had  a  similar  origin  in  judgments  passed 
in  the  first  place  on  causes  brought  before  judges  for 
decision:  both  sets  therefore  represent  consuetudinary 
law. 

(2)  Basis  of  the  law  of  the  covenant  on  earlier  custom 
and  conception. — It  is  remarkable  that,  alike  in  matters 
of  right  between  man  and  man,  and  in  matters  relating 
directly  to  the  service  of  God,  the  Law  of  the  Covenant 
did  little  (if  anything)  more  than  give  a  new  and  Di- 
vinely attested  sanction  to  requirements  which,  being 
already  familiar,  appealed  to  the  general  conscience 
of  the  community.  If,  indeed,  in  the  "words  of  Jeh" 
there  was  any  tightening  of  accustomed  moral  or  (more 
particularly)   religious    requirements,    e.g.    in    the    first 


and  second  commandments  of  the  Decalogue,  it  would 
seem  to  have  been  by  way  of  enforcing  convictions 
which  must  have  been  already  gaining  hold  upon  the 
minds  of  at  least  the  more  thoughtful  of  the  people,  and 
that  in  large  measure  through  the  lessons  impressed 
upon  them  by  the  events  of  their  recent  history.  In  no 
other  way  could  the  Law  of  the  Covenant  have  appealed 
to  their  conscience,  and  so  formed  a  foundation  on  w  liich 
the  covenant  could  be  securely  based. 

As  in  the  "judgments"  we  have  a  ratification  of  old 
consuetudinary  law;  as  again  inthe  second  table  of  the 
Decalogue  we  have  moral  rules  in  accordance  with  a 
standard  of  moral  right — no  doubt  already  acknowledged 
—  very  similar  indeed  to  that  of  the  "  negative  confession  " 
in  the  Egyp  Book  of  the  Dead;  so  in  the  more  especially 
religious  rules  of  the  Law  of  the  Covenant  we  find,  not 
new  rules  or  an  establishment  of  new  institutions,  but 
a  new  sanction  of  what  was  already  old.  These  "words 
of  Jeh"  assume  tin;  rendering  of  service  to  Jeh:  they  do 
not  enjoin  it  as  if  it  were  a  new  thing,  but  they  enjoin 
that  the  Israelites  shall  not  add  to  His  service  also  the 
service  of  other  gods  (Ex  20  3;  23  24).  They  assume 
the  observance  of  the  three  "feasts,"  they  enjoin  that 
these  shall  be  kept  to  Jeh — "unto  me,"  i.e.  "unto  me 
only"  (vs  14.17).  They  assume  the  making  of  certain 
offerings  to  Jeh,  they  enjoin  that  these  shall  be  made  liber- 
ally— "of  the  first,"  i.e.  of  the  best — and  without  delay 
(22  29  f).  They  assume  the  rendering  of  worship  by 
sacrifice,  and  the  existence  of  an  accustomed  ritual,  and 
therefore  they  do  not  lay  down  any  scheme  of  ritual, 
but  they  give  a  few  directions  designed  to  guard  against 
idolatry,  or  any  practices  tending  either  to  irreverence 
or  to  low  and  false  conceptions  of  God  (Ex  20  4—6.23- 
26;  22  ^l ;  23  18  f).  While  insisting  upon  the  observ- 
ance of  the  three  "feasts,"  spoken  of  as  already  accus- 
tomed, it  is  remarkable  that  they  contain  no  command 
to  keep  the  Passover,  which  as  an  annual  observance 
was  not  yet  an  accustomed  thing. 

This  absence  of  ritual  directions  is  indeed  very  no- 
ticeable. It  was  in  the  counsel  of  God  that  He  would 
in  the  near  future  establish  a  reconstituted  ritual,  based 
upon  what  was  already  traditional,  but  containing  cer- 
tain new  elements,  and  so  framed  as  more  and  more  to 
foster  spiritual  conceptions  of  God  and  a  higher  ideal 
of  holiness.  This  however  was  as  yet  a  thing  of  the 
future.  No  mention  therefore  was  made  of  it  in  the  Lawr 
of  the  Covenant;  that  law  was  so  restricted  as  that  it 
should  at  once  appeal  to  the  general  conscience  of  the 
people,  and  so  be  a  true  test  of  their  desire  to  do  what 
was  right.  This  would  be  the  firm  basis  on  which  to 
build  yet  higher  things.  It  is  impossible  to  estimate  the 
true  character  of  the  subsequent  legislation,  i.e.  of  what 
in  bulk  is  by  far  the  larger  part  of  the  torah — except  by 
first  grasping  the  true  character  and  motive  of  the 
Covenant,  and  the  Covenant  Law.  See  also  Covenant, 
Book   of;  Pentateuch. 

Immediately  after  the  making  of  the  Covenant, 
Moses  was  called  up  into  the  mount,  and  there  re- 
ceived instructions  for  the  erection  of 
4.  The  the   tabernacle,   these   being   followed 

Book  of  the  in  due  course  by  the  rules  of  the  re- 
Law  of  constituted  ceremonial  of  which  the 
Dt  31  tabernacle  was  to  be  the  home.  All 
t  hese  for  the  present  we  must  pass  over. 

Having  arrived  on  the  E.  of  the  Jordan,  Moses, 
now  at  the  close  of  his  career,  addressed  discourse's 
to  the  people,  in  which  he  earnestly  exhorted  them 
to  live  up  to  the  high  calling  with  which  God  had 
called  them,  in  the  land  of  which  they  were  about 
to  take  possession.  To  this  end  he  embodied  in  his 
discourse  a  statement  of  the  Law  by  which  they 
were  to  live.  And  then,  as  almost  his  last  public; 
act,  he  wrote  "the  words  of  this  law  in  a  book,"  and 
directed  that  the  book  should  be  placed  "by  the 
side  of  the  ark  of  the  covenant"  (Dt  31  24-26). 
What  now  was  this  book?  Was  it  Dt,  in  whole  or 
in  part?  The  most  reasonable  answer  to  this 
question  is  that  the  book  actually  written  by  Moses 
comprised  at  least  the  contents  of  Dt  5-26  and  28. 
Whether  the  whole  or  any  parts  of  the  remaining 
contents  of  Dt  also  formed  part  of  this  book,  or  were 
subsequently  added  to  it,  the  whole  being  brought 
by  a  process  of  editing  to  our  present  Dt,  is  again 
a  legitimate  matter  of  inquiry. 

Characteristics  of  Deuteronomy. — Regarding  Dt 
5-26  and  28  (with  or  without  parts  of  other  chap- 
ters) as  the  "book"  of  Dt  31  24-2G,  we  find  that  it  is 
a  manual  of  instruction  for  the  people  at  large — it 
is  not  a  priest's  manual.  It  deals  with  matters  of 
morals,  and  of  religion  in  its  general  principles,  but 


i_M-k 


CODE  OF  HAMMURABI 


LawintheOT      THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1856 


As  J.  B.  Mozley  .says  {Lectures  on  the  OT),  "The 
morality  of  a  progressive  revelation  is  not  the  moral- 
ity with  which  it  starts  but  that  with 
1.  The  Civil  which  it  concludes";  yet  the  excellence 
Law  of  the  OT  Law  is  evident,  not  only  in 

its  great  underlying  principles,  but  in 
the  suitability  of  its  individual  rules  to  promote 
moral  advance. 

(1)  Servants  and  the,  poor. — We  have  already 
noted  the  similarity  between  the  ''judgments"  of 
Ex  20  and  21  and  the  "judgments"  of  Hammurabi, 
in  respect  to  form  and  subject.  Notwithstanding 
the  practical  wisdom  found  in  many  of  the  latter, 
there  is  in  one  matter  a  marked  contrast  in  spirit 
between  them  and  the  former,  for  while  both  the 
Law  of  the  Covenant  and  its  enlargement  in  Dt 
guarded  the  interest  of  and  secured  justice,  and 
mercy  too,  to  slaves  and  the  poor,  the  laws  of  Ham- 
murabi were  framed  rather  in  the  interests  of  the 
well-to-do.  Cf  (e.g.)  with  the  rule  as  to  a  runaway 
slave  in  Dt  23  15  f,  the  following  (CH,  §  1(5):  "If 
a  man  has  harbored  in  his  house  a  manservant 
or  a  maidservant  fugitive  from  the  palace,  or  a  poor 
man,  and  has  not  produced  them  at  the  demand 
of  the  commandant,  the  owner  of  that  house  shall 
be  put  to  death."  The  Law  indeed  permitted 
slavery,  an  institution  universal  in  the  ancient 
world,  but  it  made  provisions  which  must  very 
greatly  have  mitigated  its  hardship.  It  was  en- 
joined, both  in  Ex  and  in  Dt,  that  after  six  years' 
service  a  Heb  manservant  should  "go  out  free  for 
nothing,"  unless  he  himself  preferred  to  remain  in 
servitude  (Ex  21  2-6;  Dt  15  12-18).  The  rule 
in  Ex  21  7-11  as  to  women  servants  was  not  ex- 
actly the  same,  but  it  nevertheless  guarded  their 
interests,  while  Heb  women  servants  were  afterward 
included  in  the  rule  of  Dt  15  12.  A  still  greater 
amelioration  was  brought  in  by  a  later  rule  con- 
nected with  the  law  of  the  Jubilee  as  set  out  in  Lev 
25  39-55.  Again,  though  servitude  was  permitted 
on  account  of  debt,  or  as  a  rescue  from  poverty 
(Ex  21  2.7;  Dt  15  12),  manstealing  was  a  capital 
offence  (Ex  21  16). 

(2)  Punishments—  The  rule  of  Ex  21  22-25 
("eye  for  eye,"  etc;  cf  Lev  24  19.20;  Dt  19  16- 
19)  sounds  harsh  to  us,  but  while  the  justice  it 
sanctioned  was  rough  and  ready  according  to  the 
age,  it  put  a  restraint  on  vindictiveness.  The 
punishment  might  be  so  much,  but  no  more:  and 
the  same  spirit  of  restraint  in  punishment  is  seen 
in  the  rule  as  to  flogging  (Dt  25  2f).  Similarly 
the  rule  that  murder  was  to  be  avenged  by  "the 
avenger  of  blood,"  a  rule  under  the  circumstances 
of  the  age  both  necessary  and  salutary,  was  pro- 
tected from  abuse  by  the  appointment  of  places  of 
refuge,  the  rule  with  respect  to  which  was  designed 
to  prepare  the  way  for  a  better  system  (see  Ex  21 
12-14;   Nu  35  9-24;    Dt  19  1-13). 

(3)  Marriage. — The  marriage  customs  of  the 
Mosaic  age  permitted  polygamy  and  concubinage, 
marriage  by  purchase  or  by  capture  in  war,  slave- 
marriage,  and  divorce;.  The  Law  allowed  the  con- 
tinuance of  these  customs,  but  did  not  originate 
them;  on  the  contrary,  its  provisions  were  designed 
to  restrict  the  old  license,  giving  protection  to  the 
weaker  party,  the  woman,  limiting  as  far  as  possible 
the  evils  of  the  traditional  system,  a  system  which 
could  not  suddenly  be  changed,  and  preparing  the 
way  for  a  better.  Consider  the  effect  of  the  follow- 
ing rules:  as  to  slave-wives  (Ex  21  7-11);  captives 
of  war  (Dt  21  10-14);  plurality  of  wives  (Dt  21 
15-17);  adultery  (Ex  20  14.17;  Dt  22  22);  forni- 
cation (Dt  22  23-29;  23  17.18;  Lev  21  9);  divorce 
(Dt  24  1-4);  Levirate  marriage  (Dt  25  5-10);  in- 
cest (Lev  18  6-18);  marriage  of  priests  (Lev  21 
7.10-15);  royal  polygamy  (Dt  17  17). 

(4)  Sabbaths  and  feasts. — The  law  as  to  these, 


though  partly  ceremonial,  yet  served  social  ends. 
The  Sabbath  day  gave  to  all,  and  particularly  to 
servants  and  the  poor,  and  domestic  cattle  too, 
a  needful  respite;  from  daily  toil;  it  also  served 
men's  spiritual  welfare,  and  did  honor  to  God  (Ex 
23  12;  Dt  5  14.15;  Ex  31  12-17).  The  seventh 
year's  rest  to  the  land  — it  also  "a  sabbath  of  solemn 
rest,  a  sabbath  unto  Jeh" — was  for  the  land's  re- 
cuperation, but  it  served  also  to  safeguard  common 
rights  at  perhaps  a  time  of  transition  as  to  customs 
of  land  tenure:  connected  with  it  also  there  were 
rules  as  to  release  of  slaves  and  relief  of  debtors  (Ex 
23  9-11;  Lev  25  2-7;  Dt  15  1-18).  The  ob- 
servance of  the  Sabbath  year  as  a  rest  to  the  land 
seems  to  have  fallen  into  disuse,  perhaps  as  early  as 
some  500  years  before  the  Bab  captivity  (2  Ch  36 
21),  and  it  is  probable  that  the  Jubilee  (the  design 
of  which  seems  to  have  been  to  adjust  conflicting 
rights  under  new  customs  of  land  tenure  and  in  the 
relation  of  employer  to  employed)  was  instituted 
to  take  its  place  (Lev  25).  The  law  as  to  the  an- 
nual feasts  insured  both  the  social  advantages  of 
festive  gatherings  of  the  people,  and  their  sancti- 
fication  by  the  worship  of  God,  and  the  public  recog- 
nition of  His  hand  in  matters  agricultural  and  politi- 
cal, which  were  either  the  occasion  of,  or  connected 
with,  these  gatherings.  Considerate  liberality  to  the 
poor  and  dependent  was,  on  these  occasions,  esp. 
enjoined  (Ex  23  14-17;  Dt  16  1-17;  12  12.18.19). 
We  have  already  noted  that  the  conception  of 
sin  as  uncleanness,  rendering  the  sinner  therefore 

unfit  for  the  presence  of  God,  must 
2.  The  have  been  an  outgrowth  from  the  earlier 

Ceremonial   conception  of  purely  ritual  (physical) 
Law  uncleanness.     This  development,   and 

an  accompanying  sense;  of  the  hein- 
ousness  of  sin  and  of  its  need  of  atonement  by 
sacrifice,  were  undoubtedly  brought  about  by  the 
gradual  working  of  the  law  of  the  sin  offering  (Lev 
4  1—5  13;  12-15;  16).  Similarly  the  rules  as 
to  guilt  offerings  (Lev  5  14 — 6  7)  must  by  degrees 
have  led  to  a  true  conception  of  repentance,  as  in- 
cluding both  the  seeking  of  atonement  through 
sacrifice  and  restitution  for  wrong  committed.  The 
sin  offering  was,  however,  a  peculiarly  Mosaic  in- 
stitution, marking  a  development  in  the  sacrificial 
system.  The  only  sacrifices  of  which  we  have  any 
trace  in  pre-Mosaic  times  were  meal  and  drink 
offerings,  whole  burnt  offerings  and  sacrifices  (or, 
to  use  the  Levitical  term,  peace  offerings). 

(1)  Origin  of  sacrifice. — We  read  of  the  offering  of 
sacrifice  all  through  the  patriarchal  history,  and  farther 
back  even  than  Noah  in  the  story  of  Cain  and  Abel;  and 
there  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  Levitical  scheme  of  sacri- 
fice was  based  upon,  and  a  development  (under  Divine 
ordering)  of,  the  sacrificial  system  already  traditional 
among  the  Hebrews.  Sacrifice  was  undoubtedly  of 
Divine  origin;  yet  we  have  no  account,  or  even  hint, 
of  any  formal  institution  of  sacrifice.  The  sacrifices  of 
Cain  and  Abel  are  spoken  of  in  a  way  that  leaves  the 
impression  that  they  were  offered  spontaneously,  and 
the  most  probable  assumption  would  seem  to  be  that 
the  very  first  offering  of  sacrifice  was  the  outcome  of  a 
spontaneous  desire  (Divinely  implanted,  we  may  be 
sure)  in  early  men  to  render  service  to  the  higher  Being 
of  whose  relation  to  themselves  they  were,  if  ever  so 
dimly,  conscious. 

Prehistoric  research  has  not  yet  been  able  to  present 
to  us  a  distinct  picture  of  primitive  men;  and  even  if 
the  results  of  anthropology  were  more  certain  than  they 
can  yet  claim  to  be,  what  in  this  connection  we  are  con- 
cerned in  is  the  conceptions,  not  of  early  men  every- 
where, but  of  the  early  ancestors  of  tlie  Heb  race. 
However  infantile  their  ideas  may  have  been  and 
probably  were,  there  may  well  have  been  far  more  of 
elementary  truth  in  them — in  simple  ideas  Divinely 
implanted — than  students  of  anthropology  have  any 
knowledge  of.  Sooner  or  later  early  men  did  make 
offerings  to  God;  and  as  the  Mosaic  sacrificial  system 
was  certainly  based  upon  the  patriarchal,  so  we  may 
fairly  assume  that  the  ideas  underlying  the  latter  were 
an  outgrowth  from  those  which  underlay  the  sacrifice 
of  the  patriarch's  own  still  earlier  ancestors. 

It  is  well  observed  by  Dr.  A.  B.  Davidson  (OT  The- 
ology, p.  315)  that  the  sacrifices  of  Cain  and  Abel  are  called 


1857 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA      Law  in  the  OT 


a  minhah  or  present;  and  this  idea  of  sacrifice  as  a  gift 
to  God  most  easily  accounts  for  the  facts  with  which  we 
have  to  deal  in  the  history  of  OT  sacrifice.  When  early 
men  first  made  offerings  to  God,  they  probably  did  so  in 
the  spirit  of  young  children  who  give  gifts  to  older  persons 
without  knowing  whether,  or  in  what  way,  the  gifts  will 
be  of  any  use  to  them.  They  simply  give  in  affection 
what  is  of  value  in  their  own  eyes.  The  one  only  thing 
of  prime  value  to  the  earliest  men  must  have  been  food; 
hence  offerings  to  God  were  everywhere  in  the  first  place 
offerings  of  food.  But  here  a  difficulty  must  soon  have 
arisen,  for  men  must  have  become  convinced  very  soon 
that  the  Divine  Being  did  not  feed  upon  the  food  offered, 
at  least  in  men's  way  of  feeding.  Ultimately,  among 
the  Israelites,  the  idea  of  His  actual  feeding  became 
eliminated  altogether  (Ps  50  13.14),  but  in  the  mean- 
time the  difficulty  seems  to  have  been  met  by  the  assump- 
tion that  the  Divine  Being  consumed  an  inner  essence  of 
food;  and  this  being  supposed  to  be  set  free  by  fire,  food 
offered  in  sacrifice  came1  to  be  burnt  in  order  to  fit  it  to 
become  the  food  of  God.  This  certainly  appears  from 
Lev  3   11.16  (cf  Lev  21   G.S. 17.21). 

Coming,  however,  to  animal  as  distinguished  from 
vegetable  sacrifice,  we  do  not  find  that  its  origin  can  be 
accounted  for  as  at  the  first  being  an  offering  of  food. 
We  learn  from  Lev  17  10-14  that  the  essential  part  of 
animal  sacrifice  was  the  offering  of  the  blood,  and  that 
blood  was  offered  because  blood  was  life.  The  idea  that 
life  can  be  given  by  giving  blood  lay  at  the  root  of  a  cus- 
tom which  must  have  been  well-nigh  universal  in  primi- 
tive times,  that  of  blood  covenanting  (see  H.  Clay  Trum- 
bull, Blood  Covenant).  In  this,  two  persons  would  give 
each  to  the  other  of  his  own  blood,  drawn  from  the  living 
vein.  Persons  united  in  blood  covenant  were  supposed, 
by  the  commingling  of  their  blood,  to  become  actual  sharers 
of  one  life.  To  give  to  another  of  one's  own  blood  was 
to  give  one's  own  life,  i.e.  one's  own  self,  with  all  the 
dedication  of  love  and  service  which  that  would  imply. 
Now  a  similar  idea  would  seem  to  have  lain  at  the  root 
of  the  primitive  offering  of  blood  to  God:  it  was  the 
offering  of  the  lift 5  of  the  offerer. 

In  the  very  first  blood  offerings  it  is  probable  that  the 
blood  offered  was  the  blood  of  the  offerer,  and  that  there 
was  no  infliction  of  death — only  in  this  way  the  dedi- 
cation of  life.  The  dedicatory  rite  of  circumcision  may 
have  been  a  survival  of  sacrifice  in  this  its  earliest  form; 
so  also  what  is  narrated  in  1  K  18  28.  When,  however, 
the  blood  offered  had  come  to  be  the  blood  of  a  substi- 
tute, and  that  a  substitute  animal,  the  sacrifice  would 
come  (no  doubt  soon)  to  include  the  slaughter  of  the 
animal  and  further  the  consumption,  in  whole  or  in  part, 
of  its  carcase  by  fire  as  an  offering  of  food. 

(2)  The  Lemtical  ritual. — Whether  the  above 
theory  be  accepted  or  not,  in  so  far  as  animal  sacri- 
fice became  an  offering  of  food,  it  would  stand  in 
line  with  vegetable  sacrifice;  but  in  both  the  excel- 
lence of  the  Levitical  ritual  stood  in  this,  that  while 
it  was  framed  for  a  people  whose  conceptions  were 
in  a  stage  of  transition,  it  was  yet  adaptable  to 
higher  conceptions,  and  fitted  to  become  at  length 
symbolical  of  purely  spiritual  truth.  It  was 
through  the  teaching,  not  only  of  prophets  but  of 
the  Levitical  ritual  itself,  and  while  it  was  still  iti 
full  force,  that  the  words  of  Ps  50  13.14  were 
uttered:  "Will  I  eat  the  flesh  of  bulls,  or  drink 
the  blood  of  goats?  Offer  unto  God  the  sacrifice 
of  thanksgiving;  and  pay  thy  vows  unto  the  Most 
High."  The  Levitical  ritual,  as  respects  animal 
sacrifice  in  particular,  was  so  framed  as,  on  the  one 
hand,  to  keep  alive  the  idea  of  sacrifice  as  the  offer- 
ing of  life,  not  of  death,  of  life's  dedication,  not  its 
destruction,  and  therefore  to  make  it  a  true  type 
of  Christ's  living  sacrifice.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
rules  of  sacrifice  guarded  against  abuses  which,  as 
a  matter  of  fact,  sprang  up  widely  among  the 
heathen.  The  rule,  e.g.  in  Lev  1  2  and  elsewhere, 
that  "ye  shall  offer  your  oblation  of  the  cattle,  even 
of  the  herd  and  of  the  flock,"  excluded  human  sac- 
rifice. The  rule  that  the  first  act  in  every  sacrifice 
must  be  to  slay  the  creature  offered  excluded  the 
infliction  of  unnecessary  suffering.  The  detailed 
rules  as  to  the  offering  and  disposal  of  the  blood, 
and  the  varying  modes  of  disposal  of  the  carcase, 
kept  alive  tin;  essential  idea  of  all  such  sacrifice,  and 
saved  it  from  degenerating  into  a  mere  heaping  up, 
as  in  Egypt,  of  altars  with  mere  loads  of  food.  The 
rules  of  the  peace  offering,  clothing  it  always  with 
a  spiritual  motive  (see  Lev  7  12.16),  raised  it  to  a 
level  far  above  the  sacrifice  of  that  class  among  the 


surrounding  heathen,  guarding  it  against  their 
licentious  festivity  (cf  Hos  2  11-13;  4  13.14;  Am 
2  8;  5  21-23)  and  gross  ideas  as  to  the  part  of  Cod 
in  the  feasting. 

(3)  The  Law  truly  a  torah. — In  every  one  of  its 
departments  the  Law  proved  itself  to  be  indeed  a 
torah  directing  God's  people  in  the  upward  way; 
leading  them  on  from  the  state  of  advancement, 
such  as  it  was,  to  which  they  had  already  attained 
by  Moses'_  time,  to  higher  and  higher  standards, 
both  of  faith  and  of  duty,  till  they  were  prepared 
for  the  gospel  of  Christ,  who  Himself  said  of  the  old 
Law,  "Till  heaven  and  earth  pass,  one  jot  or  one 
tittle  shall  in  no  wise  pass  from  the  law  till  all  be 
fulfilled"  (Mt  5  18  AV).  Meanwhile  we  have,  in 
the  teaching  of  the  prophets,  not  a  counter  influence, 
not  a  system  rivaling  the  Law,  but  its  unfolding,  bot  h 
inspired  of  God,  both  instruments  in  His  progressive 
revelation.  "To  obey  is  better  than  sacrifice,  and 
to  hearken  than  the  fat  of  rams"  were  the  words  of 
Samuel,  a  faithful  servant  of  the  Law,  and  himself 
a  frequent  offerer  of  sacrifice.  What  the  Law  was 
to  the  heart  of  devout  Israelites  in  the  prophetic 
age  is  seen  in  the  fervent  words  of  Ps  119. 

IV.  The  Passing  Away  of  the  Law. — The  great 
general  principles  of  the  Law  were  not  transitory 
but  abiding,  and  reappear  under  the  gospel  dispen- 
sation. Otherwise,  however,  i.e.  in  those  particu- 
lars, whether  ceremonial  or  civil,  in  which  it  was 
adapted  to  merely  passing  needs,  the  Law  passed 
away  when  Christ  came.  It  is  not  always  realized 
that  already  before  Christ  came  it  had  begun  to 
pass  away.     The  following  are  illustrations : 

(1)  The  whole  rationale  of  the  Levitical  worship 
consisted  in  its  being  based  upon  the  covenant  made 
at  Sinai,  and  the  symbol  of  the  Covenant  was  the 
ark  containing  the  tables  of  the  Law  and  surmounted 
by  the  mercy-seat.  Therefore  one  of  its  most  sig- 
nificant acts  was  the  sprinkling  of  the  blood  of  sin 
offering  within  the  veil  upon  the  mercy-seat,  or 
without  the  veil,  but  yet  before  the  mercy-seat. 
But  this  most  significant  act  could  no  longer  be  per- 
formed when,  after  the  Bab  captivity,  there  was  no 
longer  either  ark  or  mercy-seat. 

(2)  The  law  that  tithe  should  be  paid  to  the 
Levites,  a  tithe  oidy  of  it  being  paid  by  them  to 
"Aaron  the  priest"  (Nu  18),  was  practicable  so 
long  as  the  priests  were  a  small  portion  only  of  the 
whole  Levitical  body,  as  they  appear  in  the  history 
down  to  the  middle  period  of  the  monarchy.  But 
by  the  time  of  the  exile  they  disappeared  from  his- 
tory except  as  actual  temple  ministrants,  and,  after 
the  return  from  the  exile,  even  these  were  in  number 
a  mere  handful  com] tared  with  the  priests  (Ezr  2 
36-42;  8  15-20.21-30;  Neh  11  10-19).  The  at- 
tempt to  revive  the  old  law  (Neh  10  38.39)  was 
well-intentioned  but  impracticable:  it  was  evi- 
dently soon  abandoned  (Neh  13  10-13;  Mai  3  8- 
10).  We  learn  from  Jos  that  tithes  were  regarded 
later  as  due  to  the  priests,  not  to  the  Levites  (Jos, 
Ant,  XX,  viii,  8;  ix,  2). 

(3)  That  the  Mosaic  law  as  to  divorce  was  to 
give  place  to  one  more  stringent  appears  not  only 
from  Our  Lord's  words  in  Mt  19  7-9,  but  from  Mai 
2  16. 

(4)  It  is  probable  that  some  of  the  supplementary 
rules  in  Nu  may  have  been  designed  for  temporary 
use  only,  and  may  have  passed  away  before  the 
close  of  the  OT.  It  may  have  been  so,  e.g.,  with  the 
law  of  Nu  5  11-31,  a  law  probably  most  useful  in 
the  circumstances  of  the  Mosaic  age,  and  perhaps 
itself  an  endorsement  of  a  pre-Mosaic  custom. 

Literature. — Driver,  LOT,  with  which  should  be 
read  Moller,  Are  the  Critics  Right  t  and  Orr,  POT;  A.  B. 
Davidson,  Theology  of  the  OT;  J.  B.  Mozley,  Ruling 
Ideas  in  Early  Ages;  Rule,  OT  Institutions,  Their  Origin 
and  Development;  Kurtz,  Sacrificial  Worship  of  the  OT; 
lloonacker,     Le    sacerdoce    levitique;      Edouard    Naville, 


Law,  Judicial 
Lay,  Laying 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1858 


La  derouverte  de  la  loi  sous  le  roi  Josias;  H.  Clay  Trum- 
bull, The  Blood  Covenant;  Milligail,  Resurrection  of  Our 
Lord  (274  If,  on  "blood-oilering"). 

Ulric  Z.  Rule 

LAW,  JUDICIAL,  joo-dish'al:  This  was  the  form 
of  Divine  law  which,  under  the  dominion  of  Ood, 
as  the  Supreme  Magistrate,  directed  the  policy  of 
the  Jewish  nation,  and  hence  was  binding  only  on 
them,  not  on  other  peoples.  The  position  of  Jeh, 
as  the  Supreme  Ruler,  was  made  legally  binding 
by  a  formal  election  on  the  part  of  the  national 
assembly  (Ex  19  3-8);  and  that  there  might  be  no 
question  about  the  matter,  after  the  death  of  Moses, 
Joshua,  in  accordance  with  instructions  received 
by  his  great  predecessor  in  the1  office  of  federal 
judge,  in  the  public  assembly  caused  the  contract  to 
be  renewed  in  connection  with  most  solemn  exer- 
cises (Josh  8  30-35).  No  legal  contract  was  ever 
entered  into  with  more  formality  and  with  a  clearer 
understanding  of  the  terms  by  the  several  parties 
than  was  the  contract  which  made  it  binding  on  the 
Hebrews  permanently  to  recognize  Jeh  as  the  Su- 
preme Ruler  (Ex  24  3-8).  He  was  to  be  acknowl- 
edged as  the  Founder  of  the  nation  (Ex  20  2); 
Sovereign,  Ruler,  and  Judge  (Ex  20  2-6);  and  in 
these  capacities  was  to  be  the  object  of  love,  rever- 
ential fear  and  worship,  service,  and  absolute  obe- 
dience. Flagrant  disregard  of  their  obligations  to 
Him  manifested  in  idolatry  or  blasphemy  was  re- 
garded as  high  treason,  and  like  high  treason  in  all 
nations  and  history  was  punishable  bv  death  (Ex 
20  3-5.7;  22  20;  "Lev  24  16;  Dt  17  2-5).  The 
will  of  Jeh  in  critical  cases  was  to  be  ascertained 
through  special  means  (Nu  9  8;  Jgs  1  1.2;  20  18. 
23.28;   1  S  10  22). 

The  ruling  official  recognized  by  the  Hebrews  as 
a  nation  was  the  chief  magistrate,  but  he  stood  as 
Jeh's  vicegerent,  and  therefore  combined  various 
authorities  in  his  person.  We  must  distinguish 
the  functions  of  the  chief  magistrate  (1)  under  the 
republic,  (2)  under  the  constitutional  monarchy, 
and  (3)  under  the  senatorial  oligarchy  _  after  the 
Bab  captivity.  Moses  was  the  first  chief  magis- 
trate under  the  republic;  after  him,  Joshua,  and  the 
other  judges.  Under  the  constitutional  monarchy, 
it  was  the  king  whose  government  was  limited,  for 
he  was  to  be  elected  by  the  people;  must  be  a  native 
Hebrew;  must  not  keep  a  large  cavalry;  must  not 
support  a  harem;  must  not  multiply  riches;  must 
be  a  defender  of  the  national  religion;  must  be 
guided  by  law,  not  whim;  must  be  gracious  and 
condescending  to  the  people  (Dt  17  15-20).  After 
the  Bab  captivity,  the  senatorial  oligarchy  com- 
bined ecclesiastical  and  state  authority,  later  sharing 
it  with  the  Rom  government.     See  also  Sanhedrin. 

Frank  E.  Hirsch 

LAW,  ROMAN.    See  Roman  Law. 

LAWFUL,  16'fool  (usually  BBttJE ,  mishpat,  "re- 
lating to  judgment,"  or  "a  pronounced  judgment"; 
p"1"7!?  ,  gaddlk,  "relating  to  that  which  is  righteous" 
or  "just";  €£eo-Ti,  exesti,  €tjvo|aos,  eunomos,  "that 
which  is  authorized  according  to  law,"  or  "a  privi- 
lege according  to  legitimate  custom"  [cf  Ezk  18  5.19. 
21.27;  Isa  49  24;  Mt  12  10;  Acts  16  21;  19  39]): 
Used  of  persons:  of  God,  as  being  righteous  both 
in  the  punishment  of  the  wicked  and  the  reward- 
ing of  the  righteous  (Ps  145  17  Heb);  of  man,  as 
being  just  and  equitable  in  all  his  dealings  with 
his  fellow-man  (Ezk  33  19).  It  is  used  of  things 
when  the  same  are  in  accord  with  a  pronounced 
judgment  or  a  declared  will  of  God,  and  thus  pleas- 
ing in  His  sight  (Mk  3  4).  When  the  course  of 
individual  conduct  is  according  to  God's  law  of 
righteousness,  it  is  declared  to  be  "lawful"  (Ezk  33 
19).  The  word  is  used  in  a  forensic  sense  as  de- 
claring the  legal  status  of  a  person  conforming  to 


law.  The  idea  of  slraighlness,  rigid  adherence  to 
God's  law,  whether  religious,  civil  or  ceremonial, 
cannot  be  excluded  from  the  definition  of  the  word 
"lawful." 

Neither  AV  nor  ARV  is  consistent  in  its  tr 
of  the  Heb  and  Gr  words  trd  "lawful."  Ofttimes 
the  words  "just"  and  "righteous"  are  used.  To 
arrive  at  the  full  and  proper  meaning  of  "lawful," 
therefore,  it  is  necessary  that  we  study  the  passages 
containing  these  synonymous  terms.  The  written 
Law  of  God  is  the  recognized  standard  by  which 
things,  actions  and  persons  are  to  be  judged  as 
being  lawful  or  unlawful.  William  Evans 

LAWGIVER,  16'giv-er  (pph"p ,  m'hokek;  vo\xoQi- 
ttjs,  nomothetes) :  There  are  two  words,  one  Heb 
and  one  Gr,  which  are  trd  "lawgiver."  The  former 
occurs  7  t  in  the  OT,  and  in  AV  in  every  case  except 
Jgs  5  14  is  thus  trd.  In  RV  it  bears  the  tr  "law- 
giver" but  twice  (Dt  33  21;  Isa  33  22),  though 
in  the  other  passages  (Gen  49  10;  Nu  21  18;  Jgs 
5  14;  Ps  60  7;  108  8)  this  meaning  is  retained 
in  the  margin.  The  Gr  word  occurs  in  the  NT  but 
once  (Jas  4  12),  where  it  has  a  meaning  that  is 
almost  the  exact  equivalent  of  the  Heb  word  in 
Isa  33  22.  In  both  passages  God  is  declared  to 
be  the  "lawgiver,"  and  in  the  NT  passage  is  so 
called  because  He  has  the  power  to  rule  and  judge, 
to  save  and  destroy.  Man  is  denied  the  authority 
to  judge  because  he  is  not  the  lawgiver.  God  is 
the  lawgiver,  and  therefore  possesses  the  right  to 
pronounce  judgment  (cf  Isa,  supra). _  The  word, 
however,  implies  more  than  mere  legislative  func- 
tion; it  also  connotes  the  idea  of  ruling.  Isaiah 
makes  this  very  plain,  since  he  adds  to  the  statement 
that  God  is  our  judge  and  lawgiver  the  further 
declaration  that  He  is  also  king.  This  meaning 
adheres  in  the  very  history  of  the  word.  It  is  based 
upon  the  monarchical  conception  in  which  the  legis- 
lative, judicial  and  administrative  functions  are  all 
vested  in  one  person.  In  Jas  the  two  terms  "law- 
giver and  judge"  express  the  idea  of  God's  absolute 
sovereignty.  The  vb.  nomothetein  occurs  in  He  7 
11;  8  6,  but  it  does  not  extend  beyond  the  meaning 
"to  enact  laws." 

The  Heb  word  is  restricted  to  poetic  passages, 
and  except  in  Isa  33  22  is  applied  to  a  tribal  or 
kingly  ruler.  Moses  is  preeminently  the  lawgiver 
in  Jewish  and  Christian  circles,  but  it  should  be 
noted  that  in  the  Scriptures  of  neither  is  he  given 
this  title.  The  primary  meaning  of  the  vb.  from 
which  mehdkck  is  derived  is  "to  cut,"  "to  carve," 
and  a  derived  meaning  is  "to  ordain."  The  mean- 
ing of  the  part.  mehokek  is  based  upon  this  last.  It 
means  (1)  the  symbol  which  expresses  the  law- 
maker's authority,  that  is,  the  commander's  staff; 
and  (2)  the  person  who  possesses  the  authority  (Dt 
33  21).  It  has  the  first  of  these  meanings  in  Nu  21 
18;  Ps  60  7;  108  8,  and  probably  in  Gen  49  10, 
though  here  it  may  have  the  second  meaning._  The 
parallelism,  however,  seems  to  require  an  imper- 
sonal object  to  correspond  to  scepter,  and  so  the 
reading  of  the  text  (RV)  is  to  be  preferred  to  that 
of  the  margin  (Skinner,  ad  loc).  In  Dt  33  21; 
Jgs  5  14;  Isa  33  22,  it  means  the  person  who 
wielded  the  symbol  of  authority,  that  is  the  pre- 
scriber  of  laws.  In  a  primitive  community  this 
would  be  a  military  commander.  In  Gen  49  10 
the  "ruler's  staff"  is  the  symbol  of  kingly  authority 
(Driver),  and  this  verse  consequently  implies  the 
supremacy  of  Judah  which  came  in  with  the  Davidic 
kingdom.  This  word  contains  no  reference  to  the 
Messiah.  In  Nu  21  18  there  is  an  allusion  to  the 
custom  of  formally  and  symbolically  opening 
fountains  under  the  superintendence  and  at  the 
instruction  of  the  leader  of  the  tribe.  Such  a 
custom  seems  to  have  been  in  vogue  till  compara- 


1859 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Law,  Judicial 
Lay,  Laying 


tively  modern  times.  Gray  cites  Buclde  in  the  New 
World  for  March,  1895,  and  Muir's  Mohamet  and 
Islam,  343  f.  In  Jgs  5  14  the  word  means  "mili- 
tary commander,"  as  the  context  shows.  This  is 
the  meaning  also  in  Dt  33  21,  where  it  is  affirmed 
that  Gad  obtained  a  position  worthy  of  its  warlike 
character.  Tg,  Vulg,  Pesh,  and  some  moderns 
have  seen  here  a  reference  to  the  grave  of  Moses, 
but  Nebo  was  in  Reuben  and  not  in  Gad. 

W.  C.  Morro 

LAWLESS,  lo'les  (avo(j.os,  dnomos) :  While  occur- 
ring but  once  in  AV  (I  Tim  1  9),  is  trd  in  various 
ways,  e.g.  "without  law"  (1  Cor  9  21);  "unlawful" 
(2  Pet  2  8  AY);  "lawless"  (1  Tim  1  9);  "trans- 
gressor" (Mk  15  28;  Lk  22  37);  "wicked"  (Acts 
2  23  AV;  2  Thess  2  8  AV).  When  Paul  claims  to 
be  "without  law,"  he  has  reference  to  those  things 
in  the  ceremonial  law  which  might  well  be  passed 
over,  and  not  to  the  moral  law.  Paul  was  by  no 
means  an  antinomiati.  Those  are  "lawless"  who 
break  the  law  of  the  Decalogue;  hence  those  who 
disobey  the  commandment,  "Honor  thy  father  and 
thy  mother,"  are  lawless  (1  Tim  1  9).  The  civil 
law  is  also  the  law  of  God.  Those  breaking  it  are 
lawless,  hence  called  "transgressors."  Those  who 
are  unjust  in  their  dealings  are  also  "lawless";  for 
this  reason  the  hands  of  Pilate  and  those  who  with 
him  unjustly  condemned  Jesus  are  called  "wicked 
[unlawful]  hands"  (Acts  2  23  AV).  The  most  not- 
able example  of  lawlessness  is  the  Antichrist,  that 
"wicked  [lawless]  one"  (2  Thess  2  8). 

William  Evans 

LAWYER,  lo'yer  (vo|uk6s,  nomikos,  "according 
or  pertaining  to  law,"  i.e.  legal;  as  noun,  "an  expert 
in  law,"  "about  the  law,"  "lawyer"  [Mt  22  35; 
Lk  7  30;  10  25;  11  45.40.52;  14  3;  Tit  3  13]): 
The  work  of  the  "lawyers,"  frequently  spoken  of 
as  "scribes,"  also  known  as  "doctors"  of  the  law 
(Lk  2  40  m),  was  first  of  all  that  of  jurists.  Their 
business  was  threefold:  (1)  to  study  and  interpret 
the  law;  (2)  to  instruct  the  Heb  youth  in  the  law; 
(3)  to  decide  questions  of  the  law.  The  first  two 
they  did  as  scholars  and  teachers,  the  last  as  ad- 
visers in  some  court.  By  virtue  of  the  first-named 
function,  they  gradually  developed  a  large  amount 
of  common  law,  for  no  code  can  go  into  such  detail 
as  to  eliminate  the  necessity  of  subsequent  legis- 
lation, and  this  usually,  to  a  great  extent,  takes 
the  form  of  judicial  decisions  founded  on  the  code 
rather  than  of  separate  enactment.  And  so  it  was 
among  the  Hebrews.  The  provisions  of  their  code 
were  for  the  most  part  quite  general,  thus  affording 
much  scope  for  casuistic  interpretation.  As  a 
result  of  the  industry  with  which  this  line  of  legal 
development  had  been  pursued  during  the  centuries 
immediately  preceding  our  era,  the  Heb  law  had 
become  a  very  complicated  science ;  and  since  it 
was  forbidden  to  record  these  judicial  decisions,  a 
protracted  study  was  necessary  in  order  to  commit 
them  to  memory. 

But  since  the  law  must  have  universal  application, 
the  views  of  the  individual  scribe  could  not  be  taken 
as  a  standard;  hence  the  several  disciples  of  the  law 
must  frequently  meet  for  discussion,  and  the  opin- 
ion of  the  majority  then  prevailed.  To  these  meet- 
ings the  youth  interested  in  the  study  would  be 
invited,  that  they  might  memorize  the  formulas 
agreed  upon  and' might  clear  up  the  points  upon 
which  they  were  uncertain  by  asking  questions  of 
the  recognized  doctors  (Lk  2  40). 

Such  centers  of  legal  lore,  of  course,  would  seldom  be 
found  in  rural  communities;  the  authorities  would  natu- 
rally gather  in  large  centers  of  population,  esp— until 

70   \D in  Jerus.      While  the  deliverances  of  these  law 

schools  wen;  purely  theoretical,  yet  they  stood  in  close 
relation  to  the  practical.  Whenever  doubt  arose  regard- 
ing the  application  of  the  law  to  a  particular  case,  the 
question  was  referred  to  the  nearest  lawyer;    by  him  to 


the  nearest  company  of  lawyers,  perhaps  to  the  Sanhe- 
drin;  and  the  resultant  decision  was  henceforth  author- 
ity. Thus  the  lawyers  became  law  makers,  and  after  i  he 
destruction  of  Jerus,  which  brought  an  end  to  the  exist- 
ence of  the  Sanhedrin,  the  rabbinical  doctors  were  recog- 
nized as  the  absolute  authority  in  such  matters.  Fre- 
quently a  single  lawyer  of  great  rank,  as  for  instance 
Hillel  or  Gamaliel  I,  might  pronounce  dicta  of  unques- 
tioned recognition  witli  as  much  authority  as  a  supreme 
court  in  our  day,  though  sometimes  his  opinions  were 
received  and  corrected  by  the  legal  tribunal,  especially 
the  Sanhedrin.  Of  course,  frequently,  these  tribunals 
were  under  the  sway  of  such  a  man's  influence,  so  that 
what  he  said  upon  his  own  authority  would  be  ratified 
in  the  assembly  of  the  doctors. 

The  second  function  of  the  lawyers  was  that  of 
teachers.  The  renowned  rabbis  always  sought  to 
gather  a  company  of  pupils  about  them  whose 
business  it  was  to  repeat  the  teachers'  law  formulas 
until  they  had  "passed  into  their  flesh  and  blood." 
For  the  purposes  of  such  instruction  as  well  as  for 
the  discussion  of  the  teachers  and  the  students, 
there  were  special  schoolhouses,  which  are  often 
mentioned  in  connection  with  the  synagogues  as 
places  of  special  merit  and  privilege.  In  Jerus, 
these  law  schools  were  conducted  in  the  temple — 
probablv  in  the  hall  dedicated  to  this  special  pur- 
pose (Alt  21  23;  26  55;  Mk  14  49;  Lk  2  40; 
20  1;  21  37;  Jn  18  20).  The  students  during 
the  lectures  sat  on  the  floor,  the  teacher  on  a  raised 
platform,  hence  the  expression  "sitting  at  the  feet 
of"  (Acts  22  3;  Lk  2  40).  Finally,  the  lawyers 
were  called  upon  to  decide  cases  in  court  or  to  act 
as  advisers  of  the  court.  Before  the  destruction  of 
Jerus,  technical  knowledge  of  the  law  was  not  a  con- 
dition of  eligibility  to  the  office  of  judge.  _  Anyone 
who  could  command  the  confidence  of  his  fellow- 
citizens  might  be  elected  to  the  position,  and  many 
of  the  rural  courts  undoubtedly  were  conducted, 
as  among  us,  by  men  of  sterling  quality  but  of 
limited  knowledge.  Naturally  such  men  would 
avail  themselves  of  the  legal  advice  of  any  "doctor" 
who  might  be  within  reach,  esp.  inasmuch  as  the 
latter  was  obliged  to  give  his  services  gratuitously. 
And  in  the  more  dignified  courts  of  large  munici- 
palities, it  was  a  standing  custom  to  have  a  com- 
pany of  scholars  present  to  discuss  and  decide  any 
new  law  points  that  might  arise.  Of  course,  fre- 
quently, these  men  were  elected  to  the  office  of 
judge,"  so  that  practically  the  entire  system  of 
jurisprudence  was  in  their  hands. 

Frank  E.  Hirsch 
LAY,  la,  LAYING,  la'ing:  (1)  D^Tp,  slm,  "to put," 
and  the  Gr  equivalent,  T(9n(j.i,  tithemi,  are  very 
frequently  trd  by  "to  lay."  RV  very  often  changes 
the  AV  rendering  of  slm,  but  never  that  of  tithemi: 
1  S  15  2,  "how  he  set  himself  against  him  in  the 
way"  (AV  "he  laid  wait  for  him");  2  K  11  10, 
"So  they  made  way  for  her"  (AV  "And  they  laid 
hands  on  her"):  cf  2  Ch  23  15;  Job  24  12,  "God 
regardeth  not  the  folly"  (AY  "God  layeth  not  folly") ; 
Job  34  23,  "For  he  needeth  not  further  to  consider 
a  man"  (AV  "For  he  will  not  lay  upon  man  more"); 
Isa  28  17,  "And  I  will  make  justice  the  line" 
(AV  "Judgment  also  will  I  lay  to  the  line");  Job 
17  3,  "Give  now  a  pledge"  (AV  "Lay  down  now"). 
(2)  "P3 ,  nathan,  lit.  "to  give,"  is  very  commonly 
trd  by  "to  lay."  RV  changes  the  tr  of  AV  in  Ezk  4 
5,  "I  have  appointed";  Ezk  33  28  f,  "I  will  make 
the  land  a  desolation"  (AV  "I  will  lay  the  land  most. 
desolate").  (3)  "To  lay"  of  AV  is  frequently 
rendered  differently  in  RV;  Isa  54  11,  "I  will  set 
thy  stones"  (AV  "fay  thy  stones");  Dt  29  22,  "the 
sicknesses  wherewith  Jeh  hath  made  it  sick"  (AY 
"sicknesses  which  the  Lord  hath  laid  upon").  For 
other  differences  of  RV  and  AV  cf  Dt  21  8;  2  K  9 
25  m;  2  K  12  11;  Ezr  8  31;  Ps  104  5  m;  Isa 
53  6;  Jer  5  20;  Mk  7  8;  Lk  19  44;  Jas  1  21; 
1  Pet  2  1.  In  most  of  these  passages  the  change  of 
RV  is  due  to  the  peculiar  use  of  the  word  "to  lay" 


Lazarus 
Leah 


THE  INTER  NATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1860 


in  AV.  The  following  expressions  are  found  very 
frequently:  "to  lay  hands  on,"  "to  lay  wait,"  "to 
lay  up,"  "to  lay  aside,"  "to  lay  upon,"  "to  lay 
down,"  etc. 

"Laving  of  wait,"  AV,  is  rendered  "lying  in  wait" 
in  Xu  35  20  ff;  Acts  9  2-1  reads:  "But  their  plot 
became  known"  (AV  "But  their  laying  await  was 
known").  The  "laying  on  of  hands"  is  a  very 
general  expression.     See  Hands,  Laying  on  of. 

A.  L  Breslich 

LAZARUS,  Iaz'a-rus  (Ad^apos,  Ldzaros,  an  ab- 
ridged form  of  the  Heb  name  Eleazar,  with  a  Gr 
termination):  Means  "God  has  helped."  In  LNX 
and  Jos  are  found  the  forms  'E\ea£dp,  Eleazar, 
and  'EXsd^apos,  Eledzaros.  The  name  was  common 
among  the  Jews,  and  is  given  to  two  men  in  the 
NT  who  have  nothing  to  do  with  each  other. 

The  home  of  the  Lazarus  mentioned  in  Jn  11  1 
was  Bethany.  He  was  the  brother  of  Martha  and 
Mary  (Jn  11  1.2;  see  also  Lk  10  38- 
1.  Lazarus  41).  All  three  were  esp.  beloved  by 
of  Bethany  Jesus  (Jn  11  5),  and  at  their  home  He 
more  than  once,  and  probably  often, 
was  entertained  (Lk  10  38-41 ;  Jn  11).  As  in- 
timated by  the  number  of  condoling  friends  from 


Traditional  Tomb  of  Lazarus. 

the  city,  and  perhaps  from  the  costly  ointment 
used  by  Mary,  the  family  was  probably  well-to- 
do.  In  the  absence  of  Jesus,  L.  was  taken  sick, 
died,  and  was  buried,  but,  after  having  lain  in  the 
grave  four  days,  was  brought  back  to  life  by  the 
Saviour  (Jn  11  3.14.17.43.44).  As  a  result  many 
Jews  believed  on  Jesus,  but  others  went  and  told 
the  Pharisees,  and  a  council  was  therefore  called 
to  hasten  the  decree  of  the  Master's  death  (Jn  11 
45-f>3).  Later,  six  days  before  the  Passover,  at  a 
feast  in  some  home  in  Bethany  where  Martha  served, 
L.  sat  at  table  as  one  of  the  guests,  when  his  sister 
Mary  anointed  the  feet  of  Jesus  (Jn  12  1-3). 
Many  of  the  common  people  came  thither,  not  only 
to  see  Jesus,  but  also  the  risen  L.,  believed  in  Jesus, 
and  were  enthusiastic  in  witnessing  for  Him  during 
the  triumphal  entry,  and  attracted  others  from 
the  city  to  meet  Him  (Jn  12  9.11.17.18).  For  that 
reason  the  priests  plotted  to  murder  L.  (Jn  12  10). 
This  is  all  that  we  really  know  about  the  man,  for 
whether  the  Jews  accomplished  his  death  we  are 
not  informed,  but  it  seems  probable  that,  satiated 


with  the  death  of  Jesus,  they  left  L.  unmolested. 
Nothing  is  told  of  his  experiences  between  death 
and  resurrection  (cf  Tennyson,  "In  Memoriam," 
xxxi),  of  his  emotions  upon  coining  out  of  the  tomb, 
of  his  subsequent  life  (cf  Browning,  "A  Letter  to 
Karshish"),  and  not  a  word  of  revelation  does  he 
give  as  to  the  other  world.  His  resurrection  has 
been  a  favorite  subject  for  various  forms  of  Chris- 
tian art,  and  according  to  an  old  tradition  of  Epi- 
phanius  he  was  30  years  old  when  he  was  raised 
from  the  dead,  and  lived  30  years  thereafter. 

As  might  be  expected  this  miracle  has  been  vigorously 
assailed  by  all  schools  of  hostile  critics.  Ingenuity  has 
been  exhausted  in  inventing  objections  to  it.  Hut  all 
told,  they  really  amount  only  to  three. 

(1)  The  silence  of  the  other  Gospels. — There  is  here.no 
doubt,  some  difficulty.  But  the  desire  of  the  early 
Christians,  as  many  scholars  think,  to  screen  the  family 
from  danger  may  have  kept  the  story  from  becoming 
current  in  the  oral  tradition  whence  the  Synoptics  drew 
their  materials,  though  Matthew  was  probably  an  eve- 
witness.  But,  in  any  case,  the  Synoptics  do  not  pretend 
to  give  all  the  deeds  of  Jesus,  and  in  the  repo.t  by 
them  we  have  few  save  those  which  were  wrought  in 
Galilee.  Each  of  them  has  omitted  elements  of  highest 
interest  which  others  have  preserved.  Thus  Lk  alone 
gives  us  the  raising  of  the  widow's  son  at  Nain.  John, 
knowing  that  the  others  had  omitted  this,  tells  us  what 
he  had  himself  witnessed,  since  all  danger  to  the  family 
had  long  ago  passed  away,  as  it  was  of  especial  interest 
to  his  story,  and  he,  had  recorded  no  other  case  of  resur- 
rection. At  any  rate,  the  Gospel  writers  do  not  seem  to 
regard  a  resurrection  from  the  dead  by  the  power  of 
Jesus  as  so  much  more  stupendous  than  other  miracles, 
as  they  seem  to  modern  scholars  and  to  the  Jews,  and, 
moreover,  the  Synoptics  do  unconsciously  attest  this 
miracle  by  describing  a  sudden  outburst  of  popular 
excitement  in  favor  of  Jesus  which  can  be  accounted  for 
only  by  some  extraordinary  event. 

(2)  The  stupendous  character  of  the,  miracle. — But  to  a 
philosophical  believer  in  miracles  this  is  no  obstacle  at 
all,  for  to  omnipotence  there  are  no  such  things  as  big 
miracles  or  little  ones.  Of  course,  Martha's  statement 
as  to  the  decomposition  of  the  body  was  only  her  opinion 
of  the  probability  in  the  case,  and  He,  who  sees  the  end 
from  the  beginning  and  who  had  intended  to  raise  L., 
might  well  in  His  providence  have  watched  over  the 
body  that  it  should  not  set;  corruption.  When  all  is  said, 
"He  who  has  created  the  organic  cell  within  inorganic 
matter  is  not  incapable  of  reestablishing  life  within  the 
inanimate  substance." 

(3)  Its  non-use  as  an  accusation  against  Jesus. — The 
objection  that  Jn  11  47-53  is  inconsistent  with  the  fact 
that  in  accusing  Jesus  before  Pilate  no  mention  is  made 
of  this  miracle  by  the  enemies  of  Jesus  has  little  weight. 
Who  would  expect  them  to  make  such  a  self-convicting 
acknowledgment?  The  dismay  of  the  priests  at  the 
miracle  and  their  silence  about  it  are  perfectly  compatible 
and  natural. 

No  one  of  the  attempted  explanations  which  deny  the 
reality  of  the  miracle  can  otrer  even  a  show  of  probability. 
That  L.  was  just  recovering  from  a  trance  when  Jesus 
arrived;  that  it  was  an  imposture  arranged  by  the 
family  and  sanctioned  by  Jesus  in  order  to  overwhelm 
His  enemies;  that  it  was  a  fiction  or  parable  tr<*  into  a 
fact  and  made  up  largely  of  synoptic  materials,  an  alle- 
gorical illustration  of  the  words,  "I  am  the  resurrection, 
and  the  life,"  a  myth — such  explanations  require  more 
faith  than  to  believe  the  fables  of  the  Talm.  They  well 
illustrate  the  credulity  of  unbelief.  The  narrative  holds 
together  with  perfect  consistency,  is  distinguished  by 
vivacity  and  dramatic  movement,  the  people  who  take 
part  in  it  are  intensely  real  and  natural,  and  the  picture 
of  the  sisters  perfectly  agrees  with  the  sketch  of  them  in 
Lk.  No  morbid  curiosity  of  the  reader  is  satisfied. 
Invented  stories  arc  not  like  this.  Even  a  Renan  de- 
clares that  it  is  a  necessary  link  in  the  story  of  the  final 
catastrophe. 

The  purpose  of  the  miracle  seems  to  have  been : 

(1)  to  show  Himself  as  Lord  of  life  and  death  just 
before   He  should   be  Himself  condemned  to  die; 

(2)  to  strengthen  the  faith  of  His  disciples;  (3)  to 
convert  many  Jews;  (4)  to  cause  the  priests  to 
hasten  their  movements  so  as  to  be  ready  when  His 
hour  had  come  (Plummer,  IIDB,  III,  87). 

In  the  parable  in  Lk  16  19-31,  L.  is  pictured  as 
in  abject  poverty  in  this  world,  but  highly  rewarded 

and  honored  in  the  next.  It  is  the 
2.  The  only  instance  of  a  proper  name  used 

Beggar  in   a  parable  by  Jesus.     Some  think 

that  he  was  a  well-known  mendicant 
in  Jerus,  and  have  even  attempted  to  define  his 


1861 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Lazarus 
Leah 


disease.  But  this  is  no  doubt  simple  invention, 
and,  since  "in  Christ's  kingdom  of  truth  names 
indicate  realities,"  this  was  probably  given  because 
of  its  significance,  suggesting  the  beggar's  faith  in 
God  and  patient  dependence  upon  Him.  It  was 
this  faith  and  not  his  poverty  which  at  last  brought 
him  into  Abraham's  bosom.  Not  one  word  does 
L.  speak  in  the  parable,  and  this  may  also  be  sug- 
gestive of  patient  submission.  He  does  not  murmur 
at  his  hard  lot,  nor  rail  at  the  rich  man,  nor  after 
death  triumph  over  him.  The  parable  is  related 
to  that  of  the  Rich  Fool  (Lk  12  16-21).  This 
latter  draws  the  veil  over  the  worldling  at  death; 
the  other  lifts  it.  It  is  also  a  counterpart  of  that 
of  the  Unjust  Steward  (Lk  16  1-13),  which  shows 
how  wealth  may  wisely  be  used  to  our  advantage, 
while  this  parable  shows  what  calamities  result 
from  failing  to  make  such  wise  use  of  riches.  The 
great  lesson  is  that  our  condition  in  Hades  depends 
upon  our  conduct  here,  and  that  this  may  produce 
a  complete  reversal  of  fortune  and  of  popular  judg- 
ments. Thus  L.  represents  the  pious  indigent  who 
stood  at  the  opposite  extreme  from  the  proud, cove- 
tous, and  luxury-loving  Pharisee.  The  parable  made 
a  deep  impression  on  the  mind  of  the  church,  so  that 
the  term  "lazar,"  no  longer  a  proper  name,  has  passed 
into  many  languages,  as  in  lazar  house,  lazaretto, 
also  lazzarone,  applied  to  the  mendicants  of  Italian 
towns.  There  was  even  an  order,  half-military, 
half-monastic,  called  the  Knights  of  St.  Lazarus, 
whose  special  duty  it  was  to  minister  to  lepers. 

The  rich  man  is  often  styled  Dives,  which  is  not 
strictly  a  proper  name,  but  a  Lat  adj.  meaning 
"rich,"  which  occurs  in  this  passage  in  the  Yulg. 
But  in  Eng.  lit.,  as  early  as  Chaucer,  as  seen  in  the 
"Sompnoure's  Tale"  and  in  "Piers  Plowman,"  it 
appears  in  popular  use  as  the  name  of  the  Rich 
Man  in  this  parable.  In  later  theological  lit.  it 
has  become  almost  universally  current.  The  name 
Nineuis  given  him  by  Euthymius  never  came  into 
general  use,  though  the  Sahidic  version  has  the 
addition,  "whose  name  was  Ninue."  His  sin  was 
not  in  being  rich,  for  Abraham  was  among  the 
wealthiest  of  his  day,  but  in  his  worldly  unbelief  in 
the  spiritual  and  eternal,  revealing  itself  in  ostenta- 
tious luxury  and  hard-hearted  contempt  of  the  poor. 
Says  Augustine,  "Seems  he  [Jesus]  not  to  have  been 
reading  from  that  book  where  he  found  the  name  of 
the  poor  man  written,  but  found  not  the  name  of  the 
rich,  for  that  book  is  the  book  of  life?" 

G.  II.  Trever 

LEACH,  lech.    See  Horseleach. 

LEAD,  led  (STlS'iy,  rophcrrth):  Lead  was  one 
of  the  first  metals  to  be  used  in  the  free  state,  prob- 
ably because  it  was  so  easily  obtained  from  its  ores. 
Lead  was  found  anciently  in  Egypt  and  the  Sina- 
itic  peninsula.  There  is  no  lead  found  in  Pal  proper, 
but  in  Northern  Syria  and  Asia  Minor  it  occurs  in 
considerable  quantities,  usually  associated  with 
silver.  These  sources  no  doubt  furnished  an  im- 
portant supply  in  Bible  times.  It  was  also  brought 
by  the  Phoenicians  from  Spain  (Tarshish)  (Ezk  27 
12)  and  the  British  Isles. 

Lead  was  used,  as  it  still  is,  all  along  the  Mediter- 
ranean shores  for  sinkers.  Pieces  of  Egyp  fish- 
nets probably  dating  from  1200  BC  are  now  pre- 
served in  the  British  Museum,  with  their  lead  sink- 
ers still  attached.  Since  lead  was  the  heaviest 
metal  known  to  the  ancients,  gold  excepted,  it  was 
generally  used  for  fish-lines  and  sounding  lines  (cf 
Acts  27  28),  esp.  in  the  dense  waters  of  the  Medi- 
terranean. Moses  mentioned  the  sinking  qualities 
of  lead  in  the  sea  in  his  simile  of  the  sinking  of 
Pharaoh's  hosts  "as  lead  in  the  mighty  waters" 
(Ex  15  10). 

Lead  was  used  by  the  ancients  for  binding  stones 


together.  In  most  of  the  ancient  ruins  of  Syria 
the  Arabs  have  dug  holes  at  the  seams  between 
stones  in  walls  and  columns  in  order  to  remove  the 
iron,  bronze,  or  lead  thus  used.  In  the  museum 
of  the  Syrian  Protestant  College,  Beirut,  there  are 
several  specimens  of  cast-lead  sarcophagi  dating 
from  the  time  of  Christ. 

In  Job  19  23.24,  lead  is  mentioned  as  used  in  the 
engraving  of  permanent  records.  Two  inferences 
might  be  drawn  from  this  passage:  either  that  the 
letters  were  cut  with  a  chisel  (pen)  and  then  the 
cutting  was  filled  with  lead,  or  that  sheets  of  lead 
were  used  as  tablets  on  which  to  grave  the  record 
with  an  iron  tool.  Lead  is  frequently  referred  to 
along  with  iron,  brass,  silver  and  tin  (Nu  31  22; 
Ezk  22  18.20;  27  12).  The  use  of  lead  for 
plumblines  is  implied  in  Am  7  7.8;  Zee  4  10;  as 
a  weight  in  Zee  5  7.8.  That  OT  writers  under- 
stood the  use  of  lead  for  purifying  gold  is  shown  by 
Jcr  6  29  and  Ezk  22  18-22  (cf  Mai  3  2.3).  See 
Metals;  Refiner.  James  A.  Patch 

LEAF,  lef,  LEAVES,  levz:  Used  in  three  different 
senses,  with  reference:  (1)  To  trees  (""152,  ldleh,  "a 
coming  up"),  Gen  3  7;  8  11;  Lev  26' 36  (=nu, 
tereph);  Ezk  17  9;  cpvWov,  phtillon.  Figuratively 
(a)  of  spiritual  blessings  (Ezk  47  12;  cf  Rev  22  2) 
and  prosperity  (Ps  1  3) ;  (6)  of  moral  decay  (Isa 
64  6),  and  (c)  of  a  formal,  empty  profession  (Mt 
21  19).  (2)  To  a  book  (""lb1"!  ,  deleth),  Jer  36  23  (m 
"columns";  see  ver  2);  as  the  parchment  was  gradu- 
ally unfolded  the  successive  columns  could  be  read. 
(3)  To  doors  ("*b"*,  gela\  "side,"  ^ ,  Ma\  "a 
screen,"  "hanging"),  1  K  6  34.  The  door  of  the 
Holy  Place  consisted  of  two  halves,  but  each  half 
had  two  leaves  (cf  Ezk  41  24).         M.  O.  Evans 

LEAGUE,  leg.     See  Confederacy. 

LEAH,  le'a  (""1X5,  le'dh;  A«Ca,  Leia,  "weary," 
"dull"[?],  "wild  cow"):  Rachel's  sister,  and  the 
elder  daughter  of  Laban  (Gen  29  16).  "We  are 
told  that  her  eyes  were  "tender"  (171*131,  rakkolh). 
Gesenius  renders  it  "weak,"  LXX  do-Oeveh,  aslhe- 
neis;  accordingly,  she  was  weak-eyed,  but  by  no 
means  "blear-eyed"  (cf  Vulg).  Her  eyes  were 
lacking  that  luster  which  always  and  everywhere  is 
looked  upon  as  a  conspicuous  part  of  female  beauty. 
Jos  (Ant,  I,  xix,  7)  says  of  her,  ttjv  &\piv  ovk  evTrpewTj, 
ttn  opsin  ouk  euprepe,  which  may  safely  be  ren- 
dered, "she  was  of  no  comely  countenance." 

L.  became  the  wife  of  Jacob  by  a  ruse  on  the  part 
of  her  father,  taking  advantage  of  the  oriental  cus- 
tom of  heavily  veiling  the  prospective  bride.  When 
taken  to  task  by  his  irate  son-in-law,  Laban  excused 
himself  by  stating  it  was  against  the  ride  of  the 
place  "to  give  the  younger  before  the  first-born" 
(den  29  21-26).  Although  _  Rachel  was  plainly 
preferred  by  Jacob  to  L.,  still  the  latter  bore  him 
six  sons:  Reuben,  Simeon,  Levi,  Judah  (Gen  29 
31  ff),  Issachar,  Zebulun,  and  a  daughter,  Dinah 
(Gen  30  17-21).  Up  to  this  time  Rachel  had  not 
been  blessed  with  children  of  her  own.  Thus  the 
lesson  is  brought  home  to  us  that  Jeh  has  a  special 
and  kindly  regard  for  the  lowly  and  despised,  pro- 
vided they  learn,  through  their  troubles  and  afflic- 
tions, to  look  to  Him  for  help  and  success.  It  seems 
that  homely  L.  was  a  person  of  deep-rooted  piety 
and  therefore  better  suited  to  become  instrumental 
in  carrying  out  the  plans  of  Jeh  than  her  handsome, 
but  worldly-minded,  sister  Rachel. 

When  Jacob  decided  to  return  to  the  "land  of  his 
fathers,"  both  of  his  wives  were  ready  to  accom- 
pany him  (Gen  31  4.14).  Before  they  reached 
the  end  of  their  journey  their  courage  was  sorely 


Leannoth 
Lebanon 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


18G2 


tried  at  the  time  of  the  meeting  between  Jacob  and 
Jiia  brother  Esau.  Although  L.  was  placed  between 
the  handmaids  in  the  front,  and  Rachel  with  her 
son  Joseph  in  the  rear,  she  still  cannot  have  derived 
much  comfort  from  her  position.  We  may  well 
imagine  her  feeling  of  relief  when  she  saw  Esau 
and  his  400  men  returning  to  Seir  (Gen  33  2.16). 

According  to  Gen  49  31,  L.  was  buried  at  Mach- 
pelah.  We  cannot  know  for  a  certainty  that  she 
died  before  Jacob's  going  down  to  Egypt,  though 
it  is  very  likely.  If  she  went  down  with  her  hus- 
band and  died  in  Egypt,  he  had  her  body  sent, 
to  the  family  burying-place.  Ruth  4  11  discloses 
the  fact  that  her  memory  was  not  forgotten  by 
future  generations.  When  Boaz  took  Ruth  for  a 
wife  the  witnesses  exclaimed,  "Jeh  make  the  woman 
that  is  come  into  thy  house  like  Rachel  and  like 
Leah,  which  two  did  build  the  house  of  Israel." 

William  Baur 

LEANNOTH,  le>an'oth  (Ps  88,  title).  See 
Psalms. 

LEAPING,  lep'ing.     See  Games. 

LEASING,  lez'ing  (2T3,  kazabh,  "to  devise,"  "to 
fabricate,"  hence  "to  lie";  occurs  but  twice  in  AV 
[Ps  4  2,  RV  "falsehood";  6  6,  RV  "lies"];  the 
Heb  word  is  tr'1  "liars"  [Ps  116  11];  "lie"  or  deceive 
[Job  6  28]):  The  idea  of  treachery,  lying,  and  de- 
ceit, lies  at  the  root  of  this  word.  Joab's  conduct 
is  a  good  illustration  of  the  meaning  (2  S  3  27; 
20  8-10).  In  Ps  5  6  David  is  referring  to  the 
cunning,  treacherv,  and  falsehood  of  his  adver- 
saries; cf  2  S  13  28;  _  15  7-9.  Doubtless  David 
had  a  special  person  in  mind  as  being  guilty  of 
"leasing,"  probably  Ahithophel. 

William  Evans 

LEATHER,  leth'er.  See  Skin;  Girdle;  Tan- 
ner. 

LEAVEN,  lev"n  ("1S?TT ,  s"or,  "ppn,  hameg;  t«|ATj, 
zume;  Lat  ferment wm):  The  nomadic  ancestors  of 
the  Hebrews,  like  the  Bedouin  of  today,  probably 
made  their  bread  without  leaven;  but  leaven  came 
to  play  a  great  part  in  their  bread-making,  their 
law  and  ritual,  and  their  religious  teaching  (see  Ex 

12  15.19;  13  7;  Lev  2  11;  Dt  16  4;  Mt  13  33; 
16  6-12;   Mk  8  15  f;  Lk  12  1;  13  21). 

(1)  In  bread-making. — The  form  of  leaven  used 
in  bread-making  and  the  method  of  using  it  were 
simple  and  definite.  The  "leaven"  consist  ed  always, 
so  far  as  the  evidence  goes,  of  a  piece  of  fermented 
dough  kept  over  from  a  former  baking.  There  is 
no  trace  of  the  use  of  other  sorts  of  leaven,  such  as 
the  lees  of  wine  or  those  mentioned  by  Pliny  (Nil, 
xviii.26).  The  lump  of  dough  thus  preserved  was 
either  dissolved  in  water  in  the  kneading-trough 
before  the  flour  was  added,  or  was  "hid"  in  theflour 
(AV  "meal")  and  kneaded  along  with  it,  as  was  the 
case  mentioned  in  the  parable  (Mt  13  33).  The 
bread  thus  made  was  known  as  "leavened,"  as  dis- 
tinguished from  "unleavened"  bread  (Ex  12  15, etc). 
See  Bread. 

(2)  In  law  and  ritual. — The  ritual  prohibition  of 
leaven  during  "the  feast  of  unleavened  bread"  in- 
cluding the  Passover  (Ex  23  15,  etc)  is  a  matter 
inviting  restudy.  For  the  historical  explanation 
given    in    the    Scriptures,    see   esp.    Ex  12  34-39; 

13  3  ff ;  Dt  16  3.  The  antiquity  of  the  prohibi- 
tion is  witnessed  by  its  occurrence  in  the  earliest 
legislation  (Ex  23  18;  34  25).  A  natural  reason 
for  the  prohibition,  like  that  of  the  similar  exclusion 
of  honey,  is  sought  on  tin;  ground  that  fermentation 
implied  a  process  of  corruption.  Plutarch  voices 
this  ancient  view  of  the  matter  when  he  speaks  of  it 
as  "itself  the  offspring  of  corruption,  and  corrupt- 
ing the  mass  of  dough  with  which  it  is  mixed." 


Fermentation  is  used  in  Persius  (Sat.,  i.24)  for 
"corruption."  For  this  reason  doubtless  it,  was 
excluded  also  from  the  offerings  placed  upon  the 
altar  of  Jeh,  cakes  made  from  flour  without,  leaven, 
and  these  only,  being  allowed.  The  regulation  name 
for  these  "unleavened  cakes"  was  maccolh  (Lev 
10  12).  Two  exceptions  to  this  rule  should  be 
noted  (Lev  7  13;  cf  Am  4  5):  "leavened  bread" 
was  an  accompaniment  of  the  thank  offering  as 
leavened  loaves  were  used  also  in  the  wave  offering 
of  Lev  23  17.  Rabbinical  writers  regularly  use 
leaven  as  a  symbol  of  evil  (Lightfoot). 

(3)  In  teaching. — The  figurative  uses  of  leaven  in 
the  NT,  no  less  than  with  the  rabbins,  reflect  the 
ancient  view  of  it  as  "corrupt  and  corrupting,"  in 
parts  at  least,  e.g.  Mt  16  6  ||,  and  esp.  the  prover- 
bial saying  twice  quoted  by  Paul,  "A  little  leaven 
leaveneth  the  whole  lump"  (1  Cor  5  (if;  Gal  5 
9).  But  as  Jesus  used  it  in  Mt  13  33,  "The  king- 
dom of  heaven  is  like  unto  leaven,"  it  is  clearly  the 
hidden,  silent,  mysterious,  but  all-pervading  and 
transforming  action  of  the  leaven  in  the  measures  of 
flour  that  is  the  point  of  the  comparison. 

Literature. — Nowack,  Heb  Arch.,  II,  145  f;  Talm, 
Btrdkhoth,  17a;  Lightfoot,  Hor.  Ileb.  on  Mt  16  0. 

Geo.  B.  Eager 
LEBANA,  le-ba'na,  leb'a-na  (iC3v,  tbhdnd'),  or 
LEBANAH  (n:25 ,  I'bhanah,  "white"):   Head  of  a 
family  of  returning  exiles   (Ezr  2  45;    Neh  7  48; 
cf  1  Esd  5  29). 

LEBANON,  leb'a-non  flisnb ,  Vbhanon;  LXX 
Acpavos,    Libanos;   Vulg  Libanus):    Derived   from 

the  root  "p5  ,  labhen,  "to  be  white," 
1.   Name        probably  from  the  snow  which  covers 

its  summits  the  greater  part  of  the 
year.  "White  mountains"  are  found  in  almost  every 
country.     The  light  color  of  the  upper  limestone 


Anti-Lebanon:    Souk-W&dy-Barrada. 

may,  however,  form  a  sufficient  reason  for  the  name. 
In  prose  the  article  is  usually  connected  with  the 
name.  In  poetry  it  is  more  often  without  the 
article.  In  the  LXX,  however,  the  article  is  gen- 
erally present  both  in  prose  and  poetry. 

The    Lebanon   range    proper    borders    the    east 
coast  of  the  Mediterranean,  for  a  distance  of  100 

miles,  running  N.N.E  and  S.S.W. 
2.  General  from  the  mouth  of  the  Litany  river, 
Description  the  classic  Leontes  (which  enters  the 

sea  a  little  N.  of  Tyre),  to  the  mouth 
of  the  Eleuthurus  (Xahr  el-Kebir),  a  few  miles  N. 
of  Tripolis.  This  river  comes  through  a  depression 
between  Lebanon  and  the  Nuseiriyeh  mountains, 
known  as  "the  entrance  to  Hamath,"  and  connects 
with  a  caravan  route  to  the  Euphrates  through 
Palmyra.  For  a  considerable  distance  N.  of  the 
Litany,  the  mountain  summits  average  from  4,000 
to  0,000  ft.  in  height,  and  the  range  is  more  or  less 


1863 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Leannoth 
Lebanon 


dissected  by  short  streams  which  enter  the  Medi- 
terranean.    Most  prominent  of  these  is  the  Nahr 
ez-Zaherdny,  which,  after  running  25  or  30  miles 
in  a  southerly  direction  through  the  center  of  the 
range,  like  the  Litany,  turns  abruptly  W.  opposite 
Mt.  Hermon,  reaching  the  sea  between  Tyre  and 
Sidon.     In  roughly  parallel  courses  Nahr  el-KAwleh 
and  Nahr  Damur  descend  to  the  sea  between  Sidon 
and  Beyrout,  and  Nahr  Beyrout  just  N.  of  the  city. 
Throughout  this  district  the  mountain  recesses  are 
more  or  less  wooded.     Opposite  Beyrout  the  range 
rises  in  Jebel  Sannin  to  an  elevation  of  8,560  ft. 
Thirty  miles  farther  N.E.  the  summit  is  reached 
in  Jebel  Mukhmal,  at  an  elevation  of  10,225  ft.,  with 
several    others    of    nearly    the    same    height.     An 
amphitheater  here  opens  to  the  \\\,  in  which  is 
sheltered  the  most  frequented  cedar  grove,  and  from 
which  emerges  the  Nahr  Kadisha  ("sacred  stream") 
which  enters  the  Mediterranean  at  Tripolis.     Snow 
is  found  upon  these  summits  throughout  the  year 
(Jer  18  14),  while  formerly  the  level  area  between 
them  furnished  the  snow  fields  from  which  a  glacier 
descended  several  miles  into  the  headwaters  of  the 
Kadisha,  reaching  a  level  of  about  5,000  ft.     The 
glacier  deposited  in  this  amphitheater  a  terminal 
moraine  covering  several  sq.  miles,  which  at  its  front, 
near  Bsherreh,  is  1,000  ft.  in  thickness.     It  is  on 
this  that  the  grove  of  cedars  referred  to  is  growing. 
The  view  from  this  summit  reveals  the  geographi- 
cal features  of  the  region  in  a  most  satisfactory 
manner.      Toward    the    E.    lies   Coele-Syria    (the 
modern  Buka),  7,000  ft.  below  the  summit,  bordered 
on  the  eastern  side  by  the  mountain  wall  of  Anti- 
Lebanon,  corresponding  to  the  cliffs  of  Moab  E.  of 
the  Jordan  valley,  opposite  Judaea.    This  depression 
in  fact  is  but  a  continuation  of  the  great  geological 
fault   so   conspicuous   in    the    Jordan   valley    (see 
Arab  ah).     As   one    looks   down   into   this   valley, 
Ba'albek  appears  at  the  base  of  Anti-Lebanon,  only 
20  miles  away.     The  valley  is  here  about  10  miles 
wide,  and  forms  the  watershed  between  the  Orontes 
and  the  Litany.     To  the  N.E.  the  valley  of  the 
Orontes  is  soon  obscured  by  intervening  peaks,  but 
to  the  S.W.  the  valley  of  the  Litany  closes  up  only 
where  the  glistering  peak  of  Mt.  Hermon  pierces 
the  skv,  as  the  river  turns  abruptly  toward  the  sea 
40  miles  distant.     Toward  the  W.,  the  blue  waters 
of  the  Mediterranean,  only  25  miles  distant  as  the 
crow  flies,  show  themselves  at  intervals  through  the 
gorges  cut  by  the  rapid  streams  which  have  fur- 
rowed the  western  flanks  of  the  mountain   (Cant 
4  15);  3,500  ft.  beneath  is  the  amphitheater  many 
sq.  miles  in  area,  filled  with  the  terminal  moraine 
from  which  the  Kadisha  river  emerges,  and  on  which 
the  grove  of  cedars  (cf  1  K  4  33;   Ps  92  12;   Hos 
14  5)  appears  as  a  green  spot  in  the  center.     On- 
ward to  the  W.  the  river  gorge  winds  its  way  amid 
numerous   picturesque   village   sites   and   terraced 
fields,  every  foot  of  which  is  cultivated  by  a  frugal 
and  industrious  people.     To  the  traveler  who  has 
made  the  diagonal  journey  from  Beyrout  to  the 
cedars,  memory  fills  in  innumerable  details  which 
are  concealed  from  vision  at  any  one  time.     He 
has  crossed   Nahr  cl-Kelb  ("Dog  River"),  near  its 
mouth,  where  he  has  seen  Egyp  and  Assyr  inscrip- 
tions dating  from  the  time  of  Sennacherib's  inva- 
sion.    Ascending  this  river,  after  passing  numerous 
villages  surrounded  by  mulberry  and  olive  groves, 
vineyards,  and  fields  of  wheat,  and  pausing  to  study 
the  ruins  of  a  temple  dating  from  Rom  times,  and 
having  crossed  a  natural  bridge  at  Jisr  el-Hagar 
with  a  span  of  120  ft.,  rising  75  ft.  above  the  stream, 
he  arrives,  at  the  end  of  the  second  day,  at  the  ruins 
of  the  famous  temple  of  Venus  destroyed  by  the 
order  of  Constantine  on  account  of  the  impurity 
of  the  rites  celebrated  in  it.     Here,  too,  is  a  famous 
spring,   typical  of  many  others  which  gush  forth 


on  either  side  of  the  Lebanon  range  from  beneath 
the  thick  deposits  of  limestone  which  everywhere 
crown  its  summit.  The  flow  of  water  is  enormous, 
and  at  certain  seasons  of  the  year  is  colored  red 
with  a  mineral  matter  which  the  ancients  regarded 
with  mysterious  reverence  (see  LB,  III,  244). 
The  lower  part  of  the  amphitheater  is  covered  with 
verdure  and  a  scanty  growth  of  pine  and  walnut 
trees,  but  the  upper  part  merges  in  the  barren  cliffs 
which  lie  above  the  snow  line.  Onward,  alternately 
through  upturned  limestone  strata,  left  by  erosion 
in  fantastic  forms,  and  through  barren  areas  of  red 
sandstone,  where  the  cedars  of  Lebanon  would 
flourish  if  protected  from  the  depredations  of  man 
and  his  domestic  animals,  he  crosses  by  turns  at 
higher  and  higher  levels  the  headwaters  of  the 
Ibrahim,  Fedar,  Jozeh,  Byblus  and  the  Botrys  rivers, 
and  at  length  reaches,  on  the  fourth  day,  the  Ka- 
disha, 5  miles  below  the  cedars  of  Lebanon.  Viewed 
from  the  Mediterranean  the  Lebanon  range  pre- 
sents a  continuous  undulating  outline  of  light- 
colored  limestone  peaks,  the  whole  rising  so  abruptly 
from  the  sea  that  through  most  of  the  distance  there 
is  barely  room  for  a  road  along  the  shore,  while  in 
places  even  that  is  prevented  by  rocky  promon- 
tories projecting  boldly  into  the  sea.  The  only 
harbors  of  importance  are  at  Beyrout  and  Tripolis, 
and  these  are  only  partially  protected,  being  open 
to  the  N.W.  The  eastern  face  of  the  range  falling 
down  into  Coele-Syria  is  very  abrupt,  with  no  foot- 
hills and  but  one  or  two  important  valleys. 

Geologically  considered,  the  Lebanon  consists  of 
three  conformable  strata  of  rock  thrown  up  in  an 
anticline  with  its  steepest  face  to  the 
3.  Geology  E.  The  lowest  of  these  are  several 
thousand  ft.  thick,  consisting  of  hard 
limestone  containing  few  fossils,  the  most  character- 
istic of  which  is  Cidaris  glaudaria,  from  which  the 
formation  has  been  named  Glandarian  limestone. 
In  its  foldings  this  has  been  elevated  in  places  to  a 
height  of  5,000  ft.  Through  erosion  it  is  exposed 
in  numerous  places,  where  it  presents  picturesque 
castellated  columns,  whose  bluish-gray  sides  are 
beautifully  fluted  by  atmospheric  agencies.  The 
second  formation  consists  of  several  hundred  feet 
of  red-colored  sandstone  alternating  with  soft 
limestone  and  clay  deposits,  occasionally  contain- 
ing a  poor  quality  of  bituminous  coal,  with  pyrites 
and  efflorescent  salts.  It  is  this  that  occasionally 
colors  the  water  of  the  spring  at  Adonis.  The  char- 
acteristic fossil  is  Trigonia  syriaca.  Altogether 
this  formation  attains  a  thickness  of  1,000  ft.,  and 
it  is  on  its  exposed  surfaces  that  the  most  of  the 
Lebanon  pines  are  found.  It  contains  also  many 
signs  of  volcanic  action.  The  third  formation  con- 
sists of  hippurite  limestone,  a  cretaceous  formation, 
in  some  places  almost  wholly  composed  of  fragments 
of  the  fossils  from  which  it  derives  its  name.  This 
formation  appears  on  all  the  highest  summits,  where 
in  most  cases  it  is  nearly  horizontal,  and  in  places 
attains  a  thickness  of  5,000  ft.  Between  the  sum- 
mits of  the  range  and  the  foothills  this  formation 
has  been  almost  wholly  carried  away  by  erosion, 
thus  exposing  the  underlying  formations.  Cre- 
taceous strata  of  still  later  age  are  found  at  low 
levels  near  the  sea,  which  in  places  are  covered  by 
small  deposits  of  Tertiary  limestone,  and  by  a 
porous  sandstone  of  the  Pleistocene  age. 

The  scenery  of  the  western  slopes  of  Lebanon  is 
most  varied,  magnificent,  and  beautiful,  ami  well 
calculated,  as  indeed  it  did,  to  impress 
4.  Scenery  the  imagination  of  the  Heb  poets. 
Originally  it  was  heavily  covered  with 
forests  of  pine,  oak  and  cedar;  but  these  have  for 
the  most  part  long  since  disappeared,  except  in  the 
valley  of  Nahr  Ibrahim,  which  is  still  thickly 
wooded  with  pine,  oak  and  plane  trees.     Of  the 


Lebaoth 
Lend,  Loan 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1864 


cedars  there  remain,  besides  the  grove  at  the  head 
of  the  Kadisha,  only  two  or  three,  and  they  are  of 
less  importance.  Every  available  spot  on  the 
western  flanks  of  the  Lebanon  is  cultivated,  being 
sown  with  wheat  or  planted  with  the  vine,  the  olive, 
the  mulberry  and  the  walnut.  Irrigation  is  ex- 
tensively practised.  When  we  let  the  eye  range 
from  the  snowy  summits  of  the  mountain  over  all 
that  lies  between  them  and  the  orange  groves  of 
Sidon  on  the  seashore,  we  understand  why  the 
Arabs  say  that  "Lebanon  bears  winter  on  its  head, 
spring  on  its  shoulders,  autumn  in  its  lap,  while 
summer  lies  at  its  feet." 

In  the  more  desolate  places  jackals,  hyenas, 
wolves,  and  panthers  are  still  found  (cf  2  K  14  9). 

The  original  inhabitants  of  Lebanon  were  Hivites 

and  Gebalites  (Jgs  3  3;   Josh  13  5. (J).    The  whole 

mountain  range  was  assigned  to  the 

5.  History      Israelites,    but    was    never    conquered 

by  them.  It  seemed  generally  to  have 
been  subject  to  the  Phoenicians.  At  present  it  is 
occupied  by  various  sects  of  Christians  and  Mo- 
hammedans, of  whom  the  Maronites,  Druzcs  and 
Orthodox  Creeks  are  most  active  and  prominent. 
Since  1860  the  region  has  been  under  the  protection 
of  European  powers  with  a  Christian  governor. 
No  exact  figures  are  available,  but  the  population 
at  present  numbers  probably  about  275,000. 

Ruins  of  ancient  temples  are  numerous  through- 
out Lebanon.  Bacon  estimates  that  within  a 
radius  of  20  miles  of  Ba'iiUnk  there  are  15  ruined 
sun-temples,  the  grandeur  and  beauty  of  which 
would  have  made  them  famous  but  for  the  surpass- 
ing splendor  of  Bcfalbek. 

Anti-Libanus  (Jth  1  7;    Josh  13  5;    Cant  7  4) 

is  an  extension  northward  of  the  great  mountain 

system    facing   on    the    E.   the   great 

6.  Anti-         geological   fault  most   conspicuous  in 
Lebanon        the  valley  of  the  Jordan  (see  Jordan, 

Valley  of),  extending  from  the  Gulf 
of  Akabah  to  Antioch  on  the  Orontes  River.  The 
system  begins  at  the  Barada  River  just  N.  of  Mt. 
Hermon,  and,  running  parallel  to  Mt.  Lebanon  for 
65  miles,  terminates  at  Hums,  the  "entering  in  of 
Hamath."  The  highest  points  of  the  range  reach 
an  elevation  of  over  8,000  ft.  Eastward  the  range 
merges  into  the  plateau  of  the  great  Syrian  desert. 
South  of  BaKalbek  the  Yahfufah,  a  stream  of  con- 
siderable importance,  empties  into  the  Litany, 
while  the  Barada  (the  "Abana"  of  Scripture),  rising 
in  the  same  plateau,  flows  eastward  to  Damascus, 
its  volume  being  greatly  increased  by  fountains 
coming  in  from  the  base  of  the  dissected  plateau. 

Literature. — The  geographical  and  geological  de- 
scriptions are  largely  obtained  by  the  writer  from  an 
extended  excursion  through  the  region  in  the  company 
of  Professor  Day  of  the  Protestant  College  at  Boyrout, 
whose  knowledge  of  the  region  is  most  intimate  and 
comprehensive.  For  more  detailed  information  see 
Robinson,  BItP"-,  II,  435  if ,  493;  G.  A.  Smith,  IIGHL, 
45  if;  Burton  and  Drake,  Unexplored  Syria;  Benjamin 
W.  Bacon,  and  (i.  F.  Wright  in  Records  of  the  Past,  1906 
V,  07-83,  195-204;  Baedeker-Socin,  Pal. 

Geokge  Frederick  Wright 

LEBAOTH,  16-ba'oth,  -oth  (rfiK^b,  Hha'dth): 
An  unidentified  city  in  the  S.  of  the  territory  of 
Judah  (Josh  15  32).  It  is  the  same  as  Beth- 
lebaoth  of  Josh  19  6,  which,  by  a  clerical  error 
appears  in  1  Ch  4  31  as  "Beth-bin." 

LEBBAEUS,  le-be'us  ( Atppatos,  Lebbalos) :  Men- 
tioned in  Mt  10  3  AV  as  "Lebbaeus,  whose  sur- 
name was  Thaddaeus"  (RV  omits);  one  of  the 
twelve  apostles.     See  Thaddaeus. 

LEBONAH,  IS-bo'na  (PCinb,  l*bhonah):  A  place 
on  the  great  north  road  between  Shiloh  and 
Sheehem  (Jgs  21  19).  It  is  represented  by  the 
modern  Khan  el-Lubban,  about  3  miles  W.N.W.  of 


Seilun  ("Shiloh"),  on  the  way  to  Nablus.     It  is  a 
wretched  village  lying  on  the  slope  of  a  hill,  with 

many  rock  tombs  in  the  vicinity. 


LECAH,  le'ka  (T03,  lekhah): 
Judah  (1  Ch  4  21).' 


A  descendant   of 


LEDGE,  lej  (1310,  shalabh):  The  word  in  the 
sense  of  side-projection  is  used  in  1  K  7  28.29 
in  connection  with  the  bases  of  Solomon's  Molten 
Ska  (q.v.);  in  vs  35.36,  where  AV  uses  the  same 
word,  RV  has  "stay"  (yadh,  lit.  "hand").  RV 
likewise  has  "ledge"  (round)  for  AV  "compass" 
(karkobh)  in  the  description  of  the  altar  in  Ex  27 
5;  38  4  (see  Altar),  and  ARV  substitutes  "ledge" 
for  "settle"  Cazarah)  in  Ezk  43  14.17.20;  45  19. 
See  Temple. 

LEEKS,  leks  (Tin  ,  lidqir;  to,  irpdo-a,  id  -prdsa) : 
This  word,  elsewhere  trd  "grass,"  is  in  Nu  11  5 
rendered  "leeks"  in  all  the  ancient  VSS,  on  account 


Leek   (Allium  porrum). 

of  its  association  with  garlic  and  onions;  such  a  use 
of  the  word  occurs  in  the  Talm.  The  leek  {Allium 
porrum)  is  much  grown  today  in  Pal,  while  in  ancient 
Egypt  this  vegetable  was  renowned. 

LEES,  lez.     See  Wine. 

LEFT,  left  (5X7212 ,  sama'l,  "to  go  to  the  left,"  "to 
turn  to  the  left,"  31X72T2 ,  5X7212 ,  tfrno'l,  "the  left 
hand,"  ^fiCGTp ,  sema,U,  "belonging  to  the  left," 
"situated  on  the  left";  apicrrepos,  aristerus,  and 
euphemistically  cvtowp-os,  euonumos,  lit.  "having 
a  good  name,"  "of  good  omen"):  The  words  are 
chiefly  used  in  orientation  with  or  without  the  addi- 
tion of  the  word  "hand."  So  Abraham  says  to 
Lot:  "If  thou  wilt  take  the  left  hand  [semol],  then 
I  will  go  to  the  right;  or  if  thou  take  the  right  hand, 
then  I  will ^ go  to  the  left  [sama'l]"  (Gen  13  9). 
Frequently  in  Heb  idiom  the  right  hand  and  the 
left  are  mentioned  together  in  order  to  express  the 
idea  "everywhere,"  "anywhere,"  "altogether"  (Gen 
24  49;   Ex  14  22.29;   Nu  22  26;   Dt  2  27;   5  32; 


1S65 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Lebaoth 
Lend,  Loan 


2  Cor  6  7).  In  the  geographical  sense  the  left 
is  synonymous  with  north  (Gen  14  15;  Josh  19 
27;  Ezk  16  46;  Acts  21  3).  While  the  left 
hand  is  considered  as  weaker  than  the  right  (see 
Lefthanded),  it  is  the  hand  which  holds  the  bow 
(Ezk  39  3).  The  left  hand  is  the  side  from  which 
bad  omens  come,  and  therefore  less  lucky  and  less 
honored  than  the  right  hand  (see  Hand,  note). 

II.   L.   E.    LUERING 

LEFTHANDED,  left'hand-ed  CTO""5-  n^ » 
'titer  yadh-yamin;  LXX  &|j.<J>0Tepo8€'£ios,  ampho- 
terodexios,  i.e.  "ambidextrous"):  The  Heb  presents 
a  combination  of  words  signifying  lit.  a  man  whose 
right  hand  is  impeded  or  lame,  who  therefore  uses 
the  left  hand  instead,  or  one  who  by  habit  prefers 
the  use  of  the  left  hand,  where  others  use  the  right. 
It  is  interesting  to  note  that  in  both  instances, 
where  the  expression  occurs  in  the  Scripture,  it 
refers  to  individuals  belonging  to  the  tribe  of  Ben- 
jamin (which  name  itself  signifies  "a  son  of  the 
right  hand" !).  The  first  is  Ehud,  son  of  Gera,  who 
killed  Eglon,  king  of  Moab,  and  thereby  delivered 
Israel  from  paying  tribute  to  the  Moabitea  (Jgs  3 
15).  The  other  instance  is  that  of  the  700  selected 
Benjamites,  who,  though  lefthanded,  "could  sling 
Stones  at  a  hair-breadth,  and  not  miss"  (Jgs  20  10; 
cf  1  Ch  12  2).  H.  L.  E.  Luering 

LEG  ([1]  pitt,  shok,  Aram,  p® ,  shok;  [2]  3H3, 
kdra\  dual  E"?2H3 ,  kera~ayim;  [3]  ?{n ,  reghel;  o-KtXos, 
skelos;  AV  tr3  also  b^TZJ ,  shobhel,  and  HITS, 
c^adhah,  with  "leg,"  but  mistakenly):  (1)  The 
first  Heb  word  (shok)  denotes  the  upper  leg,  and  is 
therefore  synonymous  with  Thigh  (q.v.).  It  ex- 
presses metaphorically  the  muscular  strength,  and 
the  pride  of  the  runner.  "He  taketh  no  pleasure 
in  the  legs  of  a  man"  (Pa  147  10).  "His  legs  are 
as  pillars  of  marble,  set  upon  sockets  of  fine  gold" 
(Cant  5  15).  If  the  legs  have  lost  their  strength 
as  in  the  lame  or  the  Beri-beri  patient,  they  become 
a  metaphor  for  anything  useless,  inefficient  or  dis- 
appointing: "The  legs  of  the  lame  hang  loose;  so  is 
a  parable  in  the  mouth  of  fools"  (Prov  26  7).#  The 
Aram,  form  is  found  in  the  description  of  the  image 
of  Nebuchadnezzar,  "its  legs  of  iron"  (Did  2  33). 
(2)  Kara1,  dual  kera*ayim,  the  "leg,"  "respecting 
the  legs,"  mentioned  as  a  portion  of  the  paschal 
lamb  (Ex  12  9),  or,  usually,  in  connection  with  the 
head  and  the  inwards,  as  a  sacrificial  portion  (Ex 
29  17;  Lev  1  9.13;  Am  3  12).  The  word  des- 
ignates also  the  legs  of  leaping  insects  of  the  orthop- 
terous  family,  locusts,  etc,  which  were  permitted 
as  food  to  the  Israelites  (Lev  11  21).  (3)  Reghel, 
lit.  "foot"  (q.v.),  found  in  this  sense  only  once: 
"He  [Goliath]  had  greaves  of  brass  upon  his  legs" 
(1  S  17  6). 

Two  passages  of  wrong  tr  in  AV  have  been  cor- 
rected by  RV.  The  virgin  daughter  of  Babylon  is 
addressed:  "Make  bare  the  leg,  uncover  the  thigh" 
(Isa  47  2),  RV  renders:  "Strip  off  the  train  [sho- 
bhel], uncover  the  leg,"  the  idea  being  that  the 
gentle  maid,  who  has  been  brought  up  in  affluence 
and  luxury,  will  have  to  don  the  attire  of  a  slave 
girl  and  do  menial  work,  for  which  her  former 
garments  are  unsuited.  The  other  passage  is  in 
lsa  3  20,  where  AV  reads:  "the  bonnets,  and  the 
ornaments  of  the  legs,"  RV  corrects:  "the  head- 
tires  [e'\~idh(lh],  and  the  ankle  chains." 

In  the  NT  the  word  "leg"  is  found  only  in  con- 
nection with  the  breaking  of  the  legs  of  the  persons 
crucified  with  the  Saviour  (Jn  19  31.32.33).  We 
know  from  Rom  and  Gr  authors  that  this  was  done 
as  a  coup  de  grace  to  shorten  the  miseries  of  criminals 
condemned  to  die  on  the  cross.  The  practice  bore 
the  technical  name  of  o-KeXoKowla,  skelokopia,  Lat 
crurifragium .      The     vb.     o-KeXoKo-rretv,    skelokopein 


("to  break  the  legs"),  is  found  in  the  apocryphal 
Gospel  of  St.  Peter  (4  14),  where  it  is  distinctly 
stated  that  the  legs  of  Jesus  were  not  broken,  that 
His  sufferings  on  the  cross  might  be  extended,  while 
the  two  malefactors  crucified  with  Him  were  merci- 
fully dispatched  in  this  way.  The  crurifragium 
consisted  of  some  strokes  with  a  heavy  club  or 
mallet,  which  always  materially  hastened  the  death 
of  the  sufferer,  and  often  caused  it  almost  imme- 
diately. 

Edersheim,  in  LTJM,  II,  013,  suggests  that  the  break- 
ing of  legs  was  an  additional  punishment,  and  that  it 
was  always  followed  by  a  coup  de  grdec,  the  perforatio  or 
percussio  sub  alas,  a  stroke  with  sword  or  lance  into  the 
side.  This,  however,  is  not  borne  out  by  any  classical 
information  winch  is  known  to  me,  and  is  contradicted 
by  the  statement  of  the  evangelist  that  Jesus  received 
the  percussio,  while  the  malefactors  endured  the  cruri- 
fragium. Cf  on  this  subject,  esp.  for  parallels  from 
classical  authors,  Sepp,  l)us  Leben  Jesu,  VII,  441,  and 
Keim,  Jesus  von  Nazara  (ET),  VI,  253,  note  3. 

H.  L.  E.  Ltjering 
LEGION,  le'jun.     See  Army;   Army,  Roman. 

LEGISLATION,  lej-is-la'shun,  OF   SANCTITY. 

See  Astronomy,  1,  5. 

LEHABIM,  lc-ha'bim  (D"OHb ,  I'habhim) :  Named 
in  Gen  10  13;  1  Ch  1  11  as  descendants  of  Miz- 
raim.  They  are  probably  to  be  identified  with  the 
Lubim  (q.v.),  and  the  one  word  may  be  a  corruption 
of  the  other. 

LEHI,  le'hi.    See  Ramath-lehi. 

LEMUEL,  lem'u-el  (btflttb,  lemu'el,  or  bxi^, 
I'mo'el):  A  king  whose  words,  an  "oracle  [taught 
him  by  his  mother],"  are  given  in  Prov  31  1-9;  and 
possibly  the  succeeding  acrostic  poem  (vs  10-31) 
is  from  the  same  source.  Instead  of  translating 
the  word  after  this  name  as  "oracle,"  some  propose 
to  leave  it  as  a  proper  name,  translating  "king  of 
Massa,"  and  referring  for  his  kingdom  to  Massa 
(Gen  25  14),  one  of  the  sons  of  Ishmael,  supposedly 
head  of  a  tribe  or  sheikh  of  a  country.  It  is  to  be 
noted,  however,  that  the  words  of  Agur  in  the  pre- 
vious chapter  are  similarly  called  massa',  "oracle," 
with  not  so  clear  a  reason  for  referring  it  to  a 
country.  See  for  a  suggest  ed  reason  for  retaining  the 
meaning  "oracle"  in  both  places,  Proverbs,  Book 
of,  II,  6.  John  Franklin  Genung 

LEND,  LOAN,  Ion:  The  tr  of  7  Heb  and  2  Gr 

vbs. : 

In  the  OT:   nib,  l&w&h,  "to  join,"  "cause  to  join," 
"lend"  (Ex  22  25;    Dt  28  12.44;    Ps  37  26;    Prov  19 
17);  PHI?:,  nashah,  "to  bite,"  "lend"  (Dt 
1.  Lexical      24  11;  'jer  15  10);    TWZ,  nashah  (same 
Usages  root  as  last,   though  different   vb.   stem, 

Hiphil),  "to  cause  to  bite,"  "lend  on 
usury"  (Dt  15  2;  24  10);  -POD .  nashakh,  "to  bite," 
"lend"  "[cause  to  lend]  on  usury"  (Dt  23  19.20);  ".flD  > 
nathan,  "to  give"  (Lev  25  37,  RV  "to  give");  13237. 
'dbhat  (Hiphil),  "  to  cause  to  borrow,"  "to  lend"  (Dt  15 
6.8);  bXTlJ.  sha'al  (Hiphil),  "to  cause  to  ask,"  "to  lend" 
(Ex  1236,  RV  "ask";  1  S  1  27).  In  LXX  Savelfr, 
daneizb,  ho.vLC,u,  danlzo,  "to  lend,"  tra  |Tlb .  13237.  and 
bXTO  in  above  passages  and  in  Neh  5  4;  Prov  22  7, 
and'  Isa  24  2;  kixp^,  kichrdo,  also  tr"  ppb  and  b^TtJ 
(Ps  112  5;  Prov  13  11);  Sduetov  (^-lov)  ,  ddneion(-ion), 
"loan,"  occurs  in  Dt  15  8.10;  24  11;  4  Mace  2  8. 
In  the  NT  "lend"  tra  two  Gr  vbs.,  daneizo,  "to  iend 
money"  (Lk  6  34.35,  usually  in  commercial  sense); 
Ktxpw.1,  klchremi,  "to  lend  [as  a  friendly  act]"    (Lk  11 

5).  The  subst.  "loan,"  nbtfTlJ .  she'eldh,  occurs  only 
once  in  the  OT  (1  S  2  20  AV'and  ERV),  not  at  all  in 
the  NT. 

(1)  Lending  on  interest  to  the  poor  is  prohibited 


Lentils 
Leper,  Leprosy 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1866 


2.  History 
of  Lending 
in  the  Bible 
and  Apoc- 
rypha 


in  the  code  in  Ex  22  25.  (2)  In  the  code  in  Dt 
15  1-6;  23  19.20;  24  10.11;  28  12.44,  borrow- 
ing and  lending  are  taken  for  granted 
as  existing  in  Israel,  but  the  creditor 
is  required  to  release  his  Heb  brother 
as  debtor  in  the  7th  year  (either  the 
cancellation  of  the  loan  [so  in  Jewish 
lit.  and  early  Christian  scholars]  or  sus- 
pension of  payment  that  year  [so  most 
modern  scholars]),  though  he  may  exact  payment 
from  a  foreigner.  Israel  may  lend,  and  will  be  able 
to  lend,  because  of  Jeh's  blessing,  to  other  nations, but 
must  not  borrow  from  them.  A  pledge,  or  security, 
must  not  be  taken  in  person  by  the  creditor  from 
the  house  of  the  debtor,  nor  kept  over  night,  if  the 
debtor  be  poor.  (3)  The  code  in  Lev  25  35-38 
requires  that  the  Israelite  receive  no  interest  from 
his  poor  brother,  because  of  the  goodness  of  Jeh  to 
Israel.  (4)  Notwithstanding  the  prohibition  of  the 
early  laws  against  lending  on  interest  or  usury,  the 
same  seems  to  have  become  common  in  Israel 
before  the  exile  (Isa  24  2;  Jer  15  10),  was  prac- 
tised on  the  return,  and  was  an  evil  to  be  corrected 
by  Nehemiah  (Neh  5  7.10).  (5)  According  to 
Ps  37  26;  112  5;  Prov  19  17,  lending  to  the 
needy  was  regarded  as  a  mark  of  the  pious  Hebrew, 
but  no  interest  is  to  be  charged.  (6)  According 
to  Apoc  (Wisd  15  16;  Sir  8  12;  18  33;  20  15. 
29;  4  Mace  2  8),  borrowing  is  discouraged,  and 
lending  is  exalted  as  a  mark  of  the  merciful  man. 
(7)  Jesus  teaches  that  His  followers  should  lend, 
even  to  enemies,  to  men  from  whom  they  have  no 
reasonable  hope  of  expecting  anything  in  return, 
because  thus  to  do  is  to  be  like  the  Most  High  (Lk 
6  34.35).  He  did  not  discuss  lending  for  commer- 
cial purposes,  and  so  does  not  necessarily  forbid  it. 
Literature. — See  Driver  on  Dt  15  1-6;  Benzinger, 
Heb  Archaol.  (1894),  350  f;  Oehler,  OT  Theol.,  150,  10; 
Plummer  on  Lk  6  34.35. 

Charles  B.  Williams 

LENTILS,  len'tilz  (D'Tp'TP,  'adhashim;  <j>aKos, 
phakos;  Gen  25  34;  2  S  17  28;  23  11;  Ezk  4  9; 
AV  Lentiles):  These  are  undoubtedly  identical 
with  the  Arab.  Was,  a  small,  reddish  bean,  the 


Lentil  (Ervum  lens). 

product  of  Ervum  lens,  a  dwarf  leguminous  plant, 
half  a  foot  high,  which  is  extensively  cultivated  in 
Pal  as  a  summer  crop.  The  flour  is  highly  nutri- 
tious, and  the  well-known  food,  Revalenta  arabica, 
is  simply  one  form,  specially  prepared;  Was  are 
highly  esteemed  in  Pal,  and  are  used  in  soup  and 
as  a  "pottage"  known  as  mujedderah.  This  last  is 
of  a  reddish-brown  color  and  is  without  doubt  the 


"pottage"  of  Gen  25  34.  Lentils  were  part  of  the 
provisions  brought  to  David  when  fleeing  from 
Absalom  (2  S  17  28)  and  were  used  in  the  making 
of  the  bread  for  the  prophet  Ezekiel  (4  9).  In  a 
"plot  of  ground  full  of  lentils,"  Shammah,  one  of 
David's  "mighty  men,"  stood  and  defended  it  and 
slew  the  marauding  Philis  (2  S  23  11.12). 

E.  W.  G.  Masterman 
LEOPARD,  lep'erd  ([1]  "IE?,  namer  [Cant  4  8; 
Isa  11  6;   Jer  5  6;    13  23;   Hos  13  7;    Hab  1  8]; 

o 

cf  Arab.     -*j,  nimr,  "leopard."     [2]   Chald     w33, 

nemar  [Dnl  7  6].  [3]  irdp6a\is,  partialis  [Rev  13 
2;  Ecclus  28  23];  cf  D"H72: ,  nimrim,  Nimrim  [Isa 
15  6;  Jer  48  34],  TTTqi ,  nimrah,  Nimrah  [Nu  32 
3],  and  TVpZ*  H"1?,  beth-nimrah,  Beth-nimrah  [Nu 
32  36;  Josh  13  27]):  The  leopard  is  found  through- 


Leopard   (Felis  leopardis). 

out  Africa  and  ranges  through  Southern  Asia  from 
Asia  Minor  to  Japan,  being  absent  from  Siberia 
and  Central  Asia.  Its  range  is  much  the  same  as 
that  of  the  lion,  which  latter,  however,  does  not 
extend  so  far  to  the  E.  Like  other  animals  of  wide 
range,  it  has  local  varieties,  but  these  shade  into 
each  other  imperceptibly,  and  the  one  specific  name, 
Felis  pardus,  includes  all.  Leopards  live  in  some 
of  the  valleys  E.  and  S.  of  the  Dead  Sea,  and  in  the 
mountains  of  Sinai  and  Northwestern  Arabia. 
They  have  but  rarely  been  seen  of  recent  years  in 
Lebanon  or  the  more  settled  portions  of  Pal.  So 
far  as  can  be  judged  from  skins  which  are  available 
for  comparison,  the  leopard  of  Pal  is  rather  light  in 
color,  and  is  not  as  large  as  some  found  in  Africa 
or  India.  It  is  not  certain  that  the  place-names, 
Nimrim,  Nimrah,  and  Beth-nimrah  (q.v.),  have 
to  do  with  namer,  "leopard,"  but  their  location  is 
in  Moab,  where  leopards  are  well  known,  even  at 
the  present  day.  One  of  the  valleys  entering  the 
Dead  Sea  from  the  E.,  S.  of  the  Anion,  is  called 
W&di-en-Numeir  ("valley  of  the  little  leopard"; 
numeir,  dim.  of  nimr). 

In  the  Bible  "leopard"  occurs  mainly  in  fig- 
urative expressions,  as  a  large  and  fierce  beast. 
The  leopard  is  mentioned  with  the  lion  and  bear 
in  Dnl  7  6;  Hos  13  7;  Rev  13  2;  with  the  lion, 
wolf  and  bear  in  Isa  11  6;  with  the  lion  and  wolf 
in  Jer  5  6;  with  the  lion  alone  in  Ecclus  28  23; 
with  the  wolf  alone  in  Hab  1  8.  The  leopard  is 
smaller  than  the  lion  and  the  tiger,  but  is  more 
active  than  either.  Its  swiftness  is  referred  to  in 
Hab  1  8:  "Their  horses  also  [of  the  Chaldaeans] 
are  swifter  than  leopards."  The  spots  of  the 
leopard  are  referred  to  in  Jer  13  23:  "Can  the 
Ethiopian  change  his  skin,  or  the  leopard  his  spots?" 

The  Gr  TrdpdaXis,  partialis,  and  ir&vdrip,  pan- 
ther, were  both  applied  to  the  leopard.  "Panther" 
is  sometimes  used  of  large  leopards,  while  in  Amer- 
ica, with  its  corrupt  form  "painter,"  it  is  one  of  the 
names  applied  to  the  cougar  or  puma,  Felis  concolor, 


18G7 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Lentils 
Leper,  Leprosy 


which,  as  the  specific  name  implies,  is  not  spotted 
like  the  leopard,  or  striped  like  the  tiger. 

Alfred  Ely  Day 
LEPER,  lep'er,  LEPROSY,  lep'ro-si  (D3H£, 
cara'ath;  Xiirpa,  lepra):  A  slowly  progressing  and 
intractable  disease  characterized  by  subcutaneous 
nodules  (Heb  se'eth;  LXX  oult;  AV  "rising"),  scabs 
or  cuticular  crusts  (Heb  sappahath;  LXX  semasia) 
and  white  shining  spots  appearing  to  be  deeper  than 
the  skin  (Heb  bahereth;  LXX  telaiigema).  Other 
signs  are  (1)  that  the  hairs  of  the  affected  part  turn 
white  and  (2)  that  later  there  is  a  growth  of  "quick 
raw  flesh."  This  disease  in  an  especial  manner 
rendered  its  victims  unclean;  even  contact  with 
a  leper  defiled  whoever  touched  him,  so  while  the 
cure  of  other  diseases  is  called  healing,  that  of  lep- 
rosy is  called  cleansing  (except  in  the  case  of 
Miriam  [Nu  12  13]  and  that  of  the  Samaritan 
[Lk  17  15]  where  the  word  "heal"  is  used  in  refer- 
ence to  leprosy).  The  disease  is  described  in  the 
Papyrus  Ebers  as  ukhcdu  (the  Coptic  name  for 
leprosy  is  gent).  It  is  also  mentioned  in  ancient 
Indian  and  Japanese  history.  Hippocrates  calls 
it  "the  Phoen  disease,"  and  Galen  names  it  "ele- 
phantiasis." In  Europe  it  was  little  known  until 
imported  by  the  returning  soldiers  of  Pompey's  army 
after  his  Syrian  campaign  in  61  BC;  but  after  that 
date  it  is  described  by  Soranus,  Aretaeus  and  other 
classic  authors. 

The  first  OT  mention  of  this  disease  is  as  a  sign 
given  by  God  to  Moses  (Ex  4  6  [J]),  which  may 

be  the  basis  of  the  story  in  CAp,  I, 
1.  OT  31,    that    Moses    was    expelled    from 

Instances       Heliopolis  on  account  of  his  being  a 

leper  (see  also  I,  26  and  Ant,  III,  xi,  4). 
The  second  case  is  that  of  Miriam  (Nu  12  10), 
where  the  disease  is  graphically  described  (ER>). 
In  Dt  24  8  there  is  a  reference  to  the  oral  tradition 
concerning  the  treatment  of  lepers,  without  any 
details,  but  in  Lev  13,  14  (PC)  the  rules  for  the 
recognition  of  the  disease,  the  preliminary  quar- 
antine periods  and  the  ceremonial  methods  of 
cleansing  are  given  at  length.  It  is  worthy  of  note 
thai  neither  here  nor  elsewhere  is  there  any  mention 
of  treatment  or  remedy;  and  Jehoram's  ejaculation 
implies  the  belief  that  its  cure  could  be  accomplished 
only  by  miracle  (2  K  5  7). 


(J  roup  of  Lepers  Begging. 

The  case  of  Naaman  (2  K  6  1)  shows  that 
lepers  were  not  isolated  and  excluded  from  society 
among  the  Syrians.  The  leprosy  of  Gehazi  (2  K 
6  27)  is  said  to  have  been  the  transference  of  that 
of  Naaman,  but,  as  the  incubation  period  is  long, 
it  must  have  been  miraculously  inflicted  on  him. 
The  four  lepers  of  Samaria  of  2  K  7  3  had  been 
excluded  from  the  city  and  were  outside  the  gate. 


The  leprous  stroke  inflicted  on  Uzziah  (2  K  15  5; 
2  Ch  26  23)  for  his  unwarrantable  assumption 
of  the  prie,stly  office  began  in  his  forehead,  a  form 
of  the  disease  peculiarly  unclean  (Lev  13  43-46) 
and  requiring  the  banishment  and  isolation  of  the 
leper.  It  is  remarkable  that  there  is  no  reference 
to  this  disease  in  the  prophetical  writings,  or  in  the 
Hagiographa. 

In  the  NT,  cleansing  of  the  lepers  is  mentioned 

as  a  specific  portion  of  Our  Lord's  work  of  healing, 

and  was  included  in  the  commission 

2.  Leprosy  given  to  the  apostles.  There  are  few 
in  the  NT      individual    cases  specially    described, 

only  the  ten  of  Lk  17  12,  and  the 
leper  whom  Our  Lord  touched  (Mt  8  2;  Mk  1  40; 
Lk  5  12),  but  it  is  probable  that  these  are  only  a 
few  out  of  many  such  incidents.  Simon  the  leper 
(Mt  26  6;  Mk  14  3)  may  have  been  one  of  those 
cured  by  the  Lord. 

The  disease  is  a  zymotic  affection  produced  by  a 
microbe  discovered  by  Hansen  in  1871.     It  is  con- 
tagious,   although    not    very    readily 

3.  Nature  communicated  by  casual  contact;  in 
and  Locality  one  form  it  is  attended  with  anaes- 
of  the  thesia  of  the  parts  affected,  and  this, 
Disease         which  is  the  commonest  variety  now 

met  with  in  the  East,  is  slower  in  its 
course  than  those  forms  in  which  nodular  growths 
are  the  most  prominent  features,  in  which  parts  of 
the  limbs  often  drop  off.  At  present  t  here  are  many 
lepers  to  be  seen  at  the  gates  of  the  cities  in  Pal. 
It  is  likewise  prevalent  in  other  eastern  lands,  India, 
China,  and  Japan.  Cases  are  also  to  be  seen  in 
most  of  the  Mediterranean  lands  and  in  Norway, 
as  well  as  in  parts  of  Africa  and  the  West  Indies 
and  in  South  America.  In  former  times  it  was 
occasionally  met  with  in  Britain,  and  in  most  of 
the  older  English  cities  there  wen;  leper  houses, 
often  called  "lazarets"  from  the  mistaken  notion 
that  the  eczematous  or  varicose  ulcers  of  Lazarus 
were  leprous  (Lk  16  20).  Between  1096  and  1472, 
112  such  leper  houses  were  founded  in  England. 
Of  this  disease  King  Robert  Bruce  of  Scotland  died. 
There  was  special  mediaeval  legislation  excluding 
lepers  from  churches  and  forbidding  them  to  wander 
from  district  to  district.  Leprosy  has  been  some- 
times confounded  with  other  diseases;  indeed  the 
Gr  physicians  used  the  name  lepra  for  the  scaly  skin 
disease  now  called  psoriasis.  In  the  priestly  legis- 
lation there  was  one  form  of  disease  (Lev  13  13) 
in  which  the  whiteness  covers  all  the  body,  and  in 
this  condition  the  patient  was  pronounced  to  be 
clean.  This  was  probably  psoriasis,  for  leprosy 
does  not,  until  a  very  late  stage,  cover  all  the  body, 
and  when  it  does  so,  it  is  not  white.  It  has  been 
surmised  that  Naaman's  disease  was  of  this  kind. 
Freckled  spots  (Heb  bohak),  which  were  to  be  dis- 
tinguished from  true  leprosy  (Lev  13  39),  were 
either  spots  of  herpes  or  of  some  other  non-con- 
tagious skin  disease.  The  modern  Arab,  word  of 
the  same  sound  is  the  name  of  a  form  of  eczema. 
RV  reads  for  freckled  spot  "tetter,"  an  old  Eng. 
word  from  a  root  implying  itchiness  (see  Hamlet, 
I,  v,  71).  .     . 

The  homiletic  use  of  leprosy  as  a  type  of  sin  is 
not  Bib.  The  only  Scriptural  reference  which  might 
approach  this  is  Ps  51  7,  but  this  refers  to  Nu  19 
18  rather  than  to  the  cleansing  of  the  leper.  The 
Fathers  regarded  leprosy  as  typical  of  heresy  rather 
than  of  moral  offences.  (See  Rabanus  Maurus, 
Allegoria,  s.v.  "Lepra.") 

(1)  Leprosy  in  garments. — The  occurrence  of 
certain  greenish  or  reddish  stains  in  the  substance 
of  woollen  or  linen  fabrics  or  in  articles  made  of 
leather  is  described  in  Lev  13  47  ff,  and  when  these 
stains  spread,  or,  after  washing,  do  not  change  their 
color,  they  are  pronounced  to  be  due  to  a  fretting 


Leshem 
Levitical  Cities 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1868 


leprosy  (cam'uth  mam'ereth),  and  such  garments 
arc  1o  be  burnt.  As  among;  the  fellahin  articles  of 
clothing  are  worn  for  years  and  are  often  hereditary, 
it  is  little  wonder  that  they  become  affected  by 
vegetable  as  well  as  animal  parasites,  and  that 
which  is  here  referred  to  is  probably  some  form  of 
mildew,  such  as  Penicillium  or  mold-fungus.  The 
destruction  of  such  garments  is  a  useful  sanitary 
precaution.  Possibly  this  sort  of  decaying  gar- 
ment was  in  Job's  mind  when  he  compares  him- 
self to  a  "rotten  thing  that  consumoth,  like  a 
garment  that  is  moth-eaten"  (13  28);  see  also 
Jude  ver  23,  "the  garment  spotted  [espild?nenott\ 
by  the  flesh." 

(2)  Leprosy  in  the  house  (Lev  14  SJ^ff). — The 
occurrence  of  "hollow  streaks,  greenish  or  reddish," 
in  the  plaster  of  a  house  is  regarded  as  evidence  that 
the  wall  is  affected  with  leprosy,  and  when  such  is 
observed  the  occupant  first  clears  his  house  of  furni- 
ture, for  if  the  discoloration  be  pronounced  leprous, 
all  in  the  home  would  become  unclean  and  must  be 
destroyed.  Then  he  asks  the  priest  to  inspect  it. 
The  test  is  first,  that  the  stain  is  in  the  substance 
of  the  wall,  and,  second,  that  it  is  spreading.  In 
case  these  conditions  are  fulfilled,  it  is  pronounced 
to  be  leprosy  and  the  affected  part  of  the  wall  is 
taken  down,  its  stones  cast  outside  the  city,  its 
plaster  scraped  off  and  also  cast  outside  the  city; 
new  stones  are  then  built  in  and  the  house  is  newly 
plastered.  Should  the  stain  recur  in  the  new  wall, 
then  the  whole  house  is  condemned  and  must  be 
destroyed  and  its  materials  cast  outside  the  city. 
The  description  is  that  of  infection  by  some  fungus 
attacking  whatever  organic  material  is  in  the  mud 
plaster  by  which  the  wall  is  covered.  If  in  wood- 
work, it  might  be  the  dry  rot  (Merulius  lacrimans), 
but  this  is  not  likely  to  spread  except  where  there 
is  wTood  or  other  organic  matter.  It  might  be  the 
efflorescence  of  mural  salt  (calcium  nitrate),  which 
forms  flocculent  masses  when  decomposing  nitro- 
genous material  is  in  contact  with  lime;  but  that 
is  generally  white,  not  green  or  reddish.  Consider- 
ing the  uncleanly  condition  of  the  houses  of  the 
ordinary  fellah,  it  is  little  wonder  that  such  fungus 
growths  may  develop  in  their  walls,  and  in  such  cases 
destruction  of  the  house  and  its  materials  is  a  sani- 
tary necessity. 

It  should  be  observed  here  that  the  attitude  of 
the  Law  toward  the  person,  garment  or  house  sus- 
pected of  leprosy  is  that  if  the  disease 
4.  The  be  really  present  they  are  to  be  de- 

Legal  dared  unclean  and  there  is  no  means 

Attitude  provided  for  cure,  and  in  the  case  of 
the  garment  or  house,  they  are  to  be 
destroyed.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  disease  be 
proved  to  be  absent,  this  freedom  from  the  disease 
has  to  be  declared  by  a  ceremonial  purification. 
This  is  in  reality  not  the  ritual  for  cleansing  the 
leper,  for  the  Torah  provides  none  such,  but  the 
ritual  for  declaring  him  ceremonially  free  from  the 
suspicion  of  having  the  disease.  This  gives  a 
peculiar  and  added  force  to  the  words,  "The  lepers 
are  cleansed,"  as  a  testimony  to  Our  Lord's  Divine 
mission.  Alex.  Macalistek 

LESHEM,  le'shem.     See  Laish. 

LESSAU,  les'o  (Ata-a-aov,  Lessaou;  AV  Dessau) : 
A  place  mentioned  only  in  2  Mace  14  16  as  the 
scene  of  a  battle  between  Nicanor  and  the  Jews. 
"Dessau"  of  AV  arises  from  confusion  of  A  with  A 
in  the  Gr.  The  place  may  be  identical  with 
Adasa  (q.w). 

LET  (Kar^x«>i  kutechu) :  Usually  in  the  sense  of 
"permit"  (AS  Icetan),  but  also  in  Old  Eng.  with 
meaning  of  "hinder"  (AS  lettan).     This  latter  sense 


is  found  in  2  Thess  2  7  AV,  "Only  he  who  now  let- 
tot  b  will  let,"  where  RV  has,  "Only  there  is  one  that 
rest  rainet  h  now." 

LETHECH,    le'thek  (!jnb  ,    lethekh):     A   liquid 

measure  equivalent  to  half  a  homer   (Ifos  3  2  in) 

and  containing  about  5£  bushels.  See  Weights 
and  Measures. 

LETTER,  let'er.     See  Epistle. 

LETTERS,  let'erz.     See  Alphabet;   Writing. 

LETUSHIM,  le-too'shim,  le-tu'shim  p^Tjb , 
iHushim):  A  Dedanite  tribe  in  North  Arabia  (Gen 
25  '.V).  With  it  are  connected  the  Asshurijvi  and 
Leummim  (q.v.). 

LEUMMIM,  lO-um'im  (D^Sb,  Fummim):  A 
Dedanite  tribe  of  North  Arabia,  connected  with  the 
Letushim  (q.v.). 

LEVI,  le'vi  (lib,  levk;  Atvt,  Leal;  WH  Atvtl, 
Leuei) : 

(1)  The  3d  son  of  Jacob  by  Leah.  See  separate 
article. 

(2)  (3)  Two  ancestors  of  Jesus  in  Lk's  genealogy 
(Lk  3  24.29). 

(4)  The  apostle  Matthew.     See  Matthew. 

LEVI  fib,  lewl;  Awl,  Leuei):  The  third  of 
Leah's  sons  born  to  Jacob  in  Paddan-aram  (Gen 
29  34).  In  this  passage  the  name  is  connected 
with  the  vb.  lawdh,  "to  adhere,"  or  "be  joined  to," 
Leah  expressing  assurance  that  with  the  birth  of 
this  third  son,  her  husband  might  be  drawn  closer 
to  her  in  the  bonds  of  conjugal  affection.  There 
is  a  play  upon  the  name  in  Nu  18  2.4,  where 
direction  is  given  that  the  tribe  of  Levi  be  "joined 
unto"  Aaron  in  the  ministries  of  the  sanctuary. 
The  etymology  here  suggested  is  simple  and  reason- 
able. The  grounds  on  which  some  modern  scholars 
reject  it  are  purely  conjectural.  It  is  asserted,  e.g., 
that  the  name  is  adjectival,  not  nominal,  describing 
one  who  attaches  himself;  and  this  is  used  to  sup- 
port the  theory  that  the  Levites  were  those  who 
joined  the  Sem  people  when  they  left  Egypt  to 
return  to  Pal,  who  therefore  were  probably  Egyp- 
tians. Others  think  it  may  be  a  gentilic  form  le'ah, 
"wild  cow"  (Wellhausen,  Proleg.,  146;  Stade, 
GVI,  152) ;  and  this  is  held  to  be  the  more  probable, 
as  pointing  to  early  totem  worship! 

Levi  shared  with  Simeon  the  infamy  incurred 
at  Shechem  by  the  treacherous  slaughter  of  the 
Shechemites  (Gen  34).  Jacob's  displeasure  was 
expressed  at  the  time  (ver  3),  and  the  memory  was 
still  bitter  to  him  in  his  last  days  (49  5f).  The 
fate  predicted  for  the  descendants  of  Simeon  and 
Levi  (ver  7),  in  the  case  of  the  latter  on  account  of 
the  tribe's  stedfast  loyalty  in  a  period  of  stern  test- 
ing, was  changed  to  a  blessing  (Ex  32  26  ff).  In 
later  lit.  the  action  condemned  by  Jacob  is  men- 
tioned with  approval  (Jth  9  2ff).  Levi  was  in- 
volved in  his  brothers'  guilt  with  regard  to  Joseph 
(Gen  37),  and  shared  their  experiences  in  Egypt 
before  Joseph  made  himself  known  (chs  42-45). 
Three  sons,  Gershon,  Kohath,  and  Merari,  were 
born  to  him  in  Canaan,  and  went  down  with  the 
caravan  to  Egypt  (46  11).  Nothing  further  is 
known  of  the  personal  history  of  this  patriarch.  He 
died  and  found  sepulture  in  Egypt.  For  the  tribal 
history  and  possessions,  see  Priests  and  Levites. 

W.   EWING 

LEVIATHAN,  Ig-vl'a-than  fl^b,  Uwyathan 
[Job  41  1-34],  from  y'  Hlb,  lawdh,  "to  fold";  cf  Arab. 


1869 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Leshem 
Levitical  Cities 


)f   th 


wry  neck,  lynx  torquilla,     £yi    «j! 


abu-luwd,  from  kindred  i/>     <c<J>  lawa,  "to bend"): 

(1)  The  word  "leviathan"  also  occurs  in  Isa  27  1, 
where  it  is  characterized  as  "the  swift  serpent 
....  the  crooked  serpent";  in  Ps  104  26,  where 
a  marine  monster  is  indicated;  also  in  Ps  74  14 
and  Job  3  8.  The  description  in  Job  41  has  been 
thought  by  some  to  refer  to  the  whale,  but  while  the 
whale  suits  better  the  expressions  denoting  great 
strength,  the  words  apply  best  on  the  whole  to  the 
crocodile.  Moreover,  the  whale  is  very  seldom 
found  in  the  Mediterranean,  while  the  crocodile 
is  abundant  in  the  Nile,  and  has  been  known  to 
occur  in  at  least  one  river  of  Pal,  the  Zarka,  N.  of 
Jaffa.  For  a  discussion  of  the  behemoth  and  levia- 
than as  mythical  creatures,  see  Eli,  s.v.  "Behe- 
moth" and  "Leviathan."  The  points  in  the  de- 
scription which  may  well  apply  to  the  crocodile 
are  the  great  invulnerability,  the  strong  and  close 
scales,  the  limbs  and  the  teeth.  It  must  be  ad- 
mitted that  there  are  many  expressions  which  a 
modern  scientist  would  not  use  with  reference  to 
the  crocodile,  but  the  Book  of  Job  is  neither  modern 
nor  scientific,  but  poetical  and  ancient. 

(2)  See  Astronomy,  II,  2,  5. 

Alfred  Ely  Day 
LEVIRATE,  lev'i-rat,  LAW.     See  Marriage. 

LEVIS,  le'vis  (AevCs,  Lewis):  1  Esd  9  14, 
properly  the  Levite  of  Ezr  10  15;  "Shabbethai 
the  Levite"  for  "Levis  and  Sabbateus." 

LEVITES,  le'vits.     See  Priests  and  Levites. 

LEVITICAL,  le-vit/i-kal,  CITIES: 

I.     Legal  Provisions 

1.  Numbers 

2.  Deuteronomy 

IT.     Wellhausen's  View 
III.     Alternative  View  and  Evidence 

1.  Traces  of  the  Cities 

2.  Wellhausen's  Arguments  Answered 

3.  Van  Hoonacker's  Reply 

4.  Ezekiel's  Vision 

5.  Priestly    Cities    and    Cities    in    Which    Priests 
Dwell 

Literature 

/.  Legal  Provisions. — Nu  35  1-8  provides  that 
48  cities  should  be  given  to  the  Levites,  each  sur- 
rounded by  a  pasturage.     The  exact 

1.  Numbers  details  are  not  quite  clear,  for  in  the 

Heb,  ver  4  would  naturally  be  read 
as  meaning  that  the  pasturage  was  a  radius  of  1,000 
cubits  from  the  city  walls,  while  ver  5  makes  each 
city  the  center  of  a  square,  each  side  of  which  was 
2,000  cubits  long.  Extant  variants  in  the  VSS 
suggest,  however,  that  the  text  has  suffered  slightly 
in  transmission.  Originally  there  seems  to  have 
been  no  discrepancy  between  the  two  verses,  and 
it  may  be  doubted  whether  the  intent  was  that  the 
city  was  always  to  be  in  the  mathematical  center 
of  the  patch.  The  Levites  were  to  have  the  right 
of  redeeming  the  houses  at  any  time,  and  in  default 
of  redemption  they  were  to  go  out  in  the  Jubilee. 
The  field  was  not  to  be  sold  (Lev  25  32  f ) . 

Dt  18  8  undoubtedly  recognizes  patrimonial 
possessions   of    the    Levites   outside   the   religious 

capital,  and  sees  no  inconsistency  with 

2.  Deuter-    its  earlier  statement  that  Levi  had  no 
onomy  portion    or    inheritance    with    Israel 

(ver  1).  The  explanation  lies  in  the 
fact  that  these  cities  were  not  a  tribal  portion  like 
the  territories  of  the  secular  tribes.  The  area 
occupied  by  the  whole  48  jointly  would  only  have 
amounted  to  less  than  16  miles. 

//.  Wellhausen's  View. — Josh  21  relates  that 
this  command  was  fulfilled  by  the  allocation  of  48 
cities,  but  it  is  clear  that  some  of  those  cities  were 


not  in  fact  reduced  into  possession;  see  e.g.  Josh 
16  10;  Jgs  1  29  as  to  Gezer,  and  Jgs  1  27  as  to 
Taanach.  Wellhauscn  treats  the  whole  arrangement 
as  fictitious.  His  main  reasons  are:  (1)  that  the 
arrangement  is  physically  impracticable  in  a  moun- 
tainous country,  and  (2)  that  "there  is  not  a  his- 
torical trace  of  the  existence  of  the  Levitical  cities." 
Many  remained  in  the  hands  of  the  Canaanites  till 
a  late  period,  while  others  were  "important  but  by 
no  means  ecclesiastical  towns"  (Prolegomena,  160). 
Two  pages  later  he  says  that  "four  of  them  were 
demonstrably  famous  old  seats  of  worship,"  and 
conjectures  that  most,  if  not  all,  were  ancient 
sanctuaries.  He  also  regards  Ezekiel's  scheme  of  a 
heave  offering  of  land  (eh  45)  as  the  origin  of  the 
idea.  Yet  "Jerus  and  the  temple,  which,  properly 
speaking,  occasioned  the  whole  arrangement,  are 
buried  in  silence  with  a  diligence  which  is  in  the 
highest  degree  surprising"  (p.  164). 

///.  Alternative   View  an  J  Evidence. — In  point 

of  fact,  there  are  traces  of  some  of  the  Levitical 

cities  in  the  later  history.     Such  are 

1.  Traces  Anathoth  (1  K  2  26;  Jer  11;  32), 
of  the  Jattir  (2  S  20  26,  where,  as  shown 
Cities  in    the    art.    Priests    and    Levites 

[q.v.],  Jattirite  should  be  read  for 
the  Massoretic  Jairite),  Beth-shemesh  (1  S  6  13- 
15;  see  Priests  and  Levites  as  to  the  text). 
(From  Am  7  17  it  appears  that  Amaziah  of  Bethel 
had  land,  but  we  do  not  know  that  he  was  of  Leviti- 
cal descent  or  where  the  land  was.)     Further,  the 

fact  that  many  other  Levitical  cities 

2.  Well-  appear  to  have  been  centers  of  worship 
hausen's  points  to  the  presence  of  priests.  Was 
Arguments  the  great  high  place  of  Gibeon  (1  K 
Answered      3  4)  unserved  by  priests?     It  is  surely 

natural  to  suppose  that  during  the 
period  between  the  capture  of  the  Ark  and  its  trans- 
port to  Jerus  there  was  a  tendency  for  high  places 
to  spring  up  in  cities  where  there  wrere  priests  rather 
than  elsewhere;  indeed  there  would  probably  be 
a  disposition  on  the  part  of  unemployed  priests  to 
go  astray  in  a  direction  that  would  prove  lucrative. 
With  regard  to  the  other  objection,  Van  Hoon- 
acker's answer  is  convincing:  "As  to  the  way  in 
wLich  the  measurements  were  to  be 

3.  Van  carried  out  in  the  mountainous  country 
Hoonacker's  of  Pal,  the  legislator  doubtless  knew 
Reply             what  method  was  usually  employed. 

Besides,  we  are  free  to  believe  that  he 
only  gives  these  figures  as  approximate  indications" 
(Sacerdoce  levitique,  433). 

The  same  writer's  reply  to  the  theory  that  the 

idea  originated  with  Ezckiel  is  wholly  admirable. 

"Strictly  we  could  ask  ....  whether 

4.  Ezekiel's  Ezekiel  did  not  found  himself  on  the 
Vision  description  of  the  camp  of  the  Israel- 
ites in  the  desert.  It  is  only  too  mani- 
fest that  the  division  and  appointment  of  the  terri- 
tory as  presented  in  ch  48  of  the  prophet  are  scarcely 
inspired  by  practical  necessities,  that  they  have  a 
very  pronounced  character  of  ideal  vision;  and 
'as  no  fancy  is  pure  fancy,'  we  ought  also  to  find 
the  elements  which  are  at  the  basis  of  Ezekiel's 
vision.  The  tents  of  the  tribe  of  Levi  ranged 
around  the  tabernacle  explain  themselves  in  the 
PC;  we  may  doubt  whether  the  Levites,  deprived 
of  territory  (Ezk  44  28)  and  nevertheless  grouped 
on  a  common  territory,  in  the  conditions  described 
in  Ezk  48,  explain  themselves  with  equal  facility. 
A  camp  is  readily  conceived  on  the  pattern  of  a 
chessboard,  but  not  the  country  of  Canaan.  We 
need  not  stop  there.  It  is  in  fact  certain  that  Eze- 
kiel here  has  in  view  the  protection  of  the  holiness 
of  the  temple  from  all  profanation ;  and  in  the  realm 
of  the  ideal,  the  means  are  appropriate  to  the  end" 
(op.  cit.,  425  f). 


Leviticus 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1870 


Lastly  there  runs  through  Wellhausen's  discussion 
the  confusion  between  a  city  when;  priests  may  be 

dwelling  and  a  priestly  city.  There 
5.  Priestly  were  priests  in  Jerus,  as  there  are  today 
Cities  and  in  London  or  Chicago;  but  none  of 
Cities  in  these  three  places  can  be  regarded  as 
Which  a  priestly  city  in  the  same  sense  as  the 

Priests  Levitical  cities.     Not  one  of  them  has 

Dwell  ever  been  a  patrimonial  city  of  priests, 

or  could  be  the  origin  of  such  an 
arrangement. 

While  therefore  the  whole  of  the  cities  mentioned 
in  Josh  21  were  certainly  not  reduced  into  pos- 
session at  the  time  of  the  conquest,  the  Wellhausen 
theory  on  this  matter  cannot  be  sustained. 

Literature. — J.  Wellhausen,  Prolegomena,  159-63; 
A.  Van  Hoonacker,  Sacerdoce  livitique,  423—35  (very 
brilliant  and  important).         Harold  M.  Wiener 

LEVITICUS,  lP-vit'i-kus: 

I.     ('.  eneral  Data 

1.  Name 

2.  Character  of  Book 

3.  Unity  of  Book:    Law  of  Holiness 
Examination  of  Critical  Theory 

II.     Structure 

1.  Modern  Analyses 

(1)  Theories  of  Disintegration 

(2)  Reasons  for  Dismemberment 

(3)  Insufficiency  of  These  Reasons 

2.  Structure  of  the  Biblical  Text 

(1)  Structure  in  General 

(2)  Structure  of  the  Individual  Pericopes 

III.  OlU.lIN 

1.  Against  the  Wellhausen  Hypothesis 

(1)  The  Argument  from  Silence 

(2)  Attitude    of    Prophets    toward    Sacrificial 
System 

(3)  The  People's  Disobedience 

(4)  Indiscriminate  Saerilicing 

(5)  Dt  and  PC 

2.  Connection  with  Mosaic  Period 

(1)  PC  and  Desert  Conditions 

(2)  Unity  and  Construction  Point  to  Mosaic 
Origin 

IV.  The  Significance 

1.  Positive 

(1)  The  Law  Contains  God's  Will 

(2)  The  Law   Prepares  for  the  Understanding 
of  Christianity 

(3)  The  Law  as  a  Tutor  unto  Christ 

2.  Negative 
Literature 

/.   General  Data. — The  third  book  of  the  Pent 

is  generally  named  by  the  Jews  according  to  the 

first  word,  H"}f> 11 ,  wayyikra1   (Origen 

1.  Name       OviKpd,  Ouikrd,  by  the  LXX   called 

according  to  its  contents  Asvitikov, 
Leuitikon,  or  Aev€i/n.K6v,  Leueitikon,  by  the  Vulg, 
accordingly,  "Leviticus"  [i.e.  Liber-],  sometimes 
"Leviticum").  The  Jews  have  also  another  name 
taken  from  its  contents,  viz.  D^rp  rn"lH,  torath 
kohanim,  "Law  of  the  Priests." 

As  a  mat  ter  of  fact  ordinances  pertaining  to  the 
priesthood,    to   the   Levitical   system,   and   to   the 

cultus    constitute    a    most    important 

2.  Charac-    part    of    this    book;     but    specifically 
ter  of  Book   religious    and    ethical    commands,    as 

we  find  them,  e.g.  in  chs  18-20,  are 
not  wanting;  and  there  are  also  some  historical 
sections,  which,  however,  are  again  connected  with 
the  matter  referring  to  the  cultus,  namely  the  con- 
secration of  the  priests  in  chs  8  and  9,  the  sin  and 
the  punishment  of  two  sons  of  Aaron,  Nadab  and 
Abihu  (10  Iff),  and  the  account  of  the  stoning  of 
a  blasphemer  (24  10  ff).  Of  the  Levites,  on  the 
other  hand,  the  book  does  not  treat  at  all.  They 
are  mentioned  only  once  and  that  incidentally  in 
25  32  ff.  The  laws  are  stated  to  have  been  given 
behar  $lnay  (7  38;  25  1;  26  46;_  27  34),  which 
expression,  on  account  of  ch  11,  in  which  Jeh  is 
described  as  speaking  to  Moses  out  of  the  tent  of 
meeting,  is  not  to  be  trd  "upon"  but  "at"  Mt. 
Sinai.  The  connection  of  this  book  with  the  pre- 
ceding and  following  books,  i.e.  Ex  and  Nu,  which 


is  commonly  acknowledged  as  being  the  case,  at 
least  in  some  sense,  leaves  for  the  contents  of  Lev 
exactly  the  period  of  a  single  month,  since  the  last 
chronological  statement  of  Ex  40  17  as  the  time 
of  the  erection  of  the  tabernacle  mentions  the  1st 
day  of  the  1st  month  of  the  2d  year  of  the  Exodus, 
and  Nu  1  1  takes  us  to  the  1st  day  of  the  2d  month 
of  the  same  year.  Within  this  time  of  one  month 
the  consecration  of  the  priests  fills  out  8  days  (Lev 

8  33;  9  1).  A  sequence  in  time  is  indicated  only 
by  16  1,  which  directly  connects  with  what  is  re- 
ported in  ch  10  concerning  Nadab  and  Abihu.  In 
the  same  way  the  ordinances  given  in  10  6  ff  are 
connected  with  the  events  described  in  8  1 — 10  5. 
The  laws  are  described  as  being  revelations  of  Jeh, 
generally  given  to  Moses  (cf  1  1;  4  1;  5  14;  6  19.24 
(Heb  12.17];  7  22.28,  etc);  sometimes  to  Moses  and 
Aaron  (cf  11  1 ;  13  1 ;  14  33;  15  1,  etc),  and,  rarely, 
to  Aaron  alone  (10  8).  In  10  12  ff,  Moses  gives 
some  directions  to  the  priests,  which  are  based  on 
a  former  revelation  (cf  6  16  [Heb  9]  ff ;  7  37  ff).  In 
10  10 ff,  we  have  a  difference  of  opinion  between 
Moses  and  Aaron,  or  rather  his  sons,  which  was 
decided  on  the  basis  of  an  independent  applical  ion  of 
principles  given  in  Lev.  Most  of  these  commands 
are  to  be  announced  to  Israel  (1  2;  4  2;  7  23.29; 

9  3ff;  11  2;  12  2;  15  2;  18  2,  etc);  others  to 
the  priests  (6  9.25  [Heb  2.18];  21  2;  22  2,  etc);  or 
to  the  priests  and  the  Israelites  (17  2;  22  IS),  while 
the  directions  in  reference  to  the  Day  of  Atonement, 
with  which  Aaron  was  primarily  concerned  (16  2), 
beginning  with  ver  29,  without  a  special  super- 
scription, are  undeniably  changed  into  injunctions 
addressed  to  all  Israel;  cf  also  21  24  and  21  2. 
As  the  Book  of  Ex  treats  of  the  communion  which 
God  offers  on  His  part  to  Israel  and  which  cul- 
minates at  last  in  His  dwelling  in  the  tent  of  meeting 
(40  34  ff ;  cf  under  Exodus,  I,  2),  the  Book  of  Lev 
contains  the  ordinances  which  were  to  be  carried 
out  by  the  Israelites  in  religious,  ethical  and  cul- 
tural matters,  in  order  to  restore  and  maintain  this 
communion  with  God,  notwithstanding  the  im- 
perfections and  the  guilt  of  the  Israelites.  And  as 
this  book  thus  with  good  reason  occupies  its  well- 
established  place  in  the  story  of  the  founding  and 
in  the  earliest  history  of  the  theocracy,  so  too  even 
a  casual  survey  and  intelligent  glance  at  the  con- 
tents of  the  book  will  show  that  we  have  here  a  well- 
arranged  and  organic  unity,  a  conviction  which  is 
only  confirmed  and  strengthened  by  the  presentation 
of  the  structure  of  the  book  in  detail  (see  under  II, 
below). 

As  a  rule,  critics  are  accustomed  first  of  all  to 
regard  chs  17-25  or  26  as  an  independent  section, 
and  find  in  these  chapters  a  legal  code 
3.  Unity  of  that  is  considered  to  have  existed  at 
Book:  Law  one  time  as  a  group  by  itself,  before  it 
of  Holiness  was  united  with  the  other  parts. 

It  is  indeed  true  that  a  series  of  peculiarities  have 
been  found  in  these  chapters.  To  these  peculiarities 
belongs  the  frequent  repetition  of  the  formula:  "I  am 
Jeh  vour  God"  (18  2.4;  19  2.4,  etc);  or  "I  am  Jeh" 
(18  5.6.21;  19  14.16,  etc),  or  "I  am  Jeh  ....  who 
hath  separated  you"  (20  24),  or  "who  sanctifleth  you" 
(20  8;  21  8.15.23,  etc).  To  these  peculiarities  belong 
the  references  in  words,  or,  in  fact,  to  the  land  of  Canaan, 
into  which  Israel  is  to  be  led  (18  3.24  ff;  19  23  ff.29; 
20  22  tr;  23;  25),  and  also  to  Egypt,  out  of  which  He 
has  led  the  people  (18  3;  19  34;  22  33;  26  13.45,  etc); 
as,  further,  the  demand  for  sanctification  (19  2),  or  the 
warning  against  desecration  (19  12;  21  23,  etc),  both 
based  on  the  holiness  of  Jeh.  In  addition,  a  number  of 
peculiar  expressions  are  repeatedly  found  in  these  chap- 
ters. Because  of  their  contents  these  chapters  have, 
since  Klostermann,  generally  been  designated  by  the 
letter  H  (i.e.  Law  of  Holiness);  or,  according  to  the  sug- 
gestion of  Dillmann,  by  the  letter  S  (i.e.  Sinaitic  Law.), 
because,  according  to  25  1 ;  26  46,  they  are  said  to  have 
been  given  at  Mt.  Sinai,  and  because  in  certain  critical 
circles  it  was  at  one  time  claimed  that  these  chapters 
contain  old  laws  from  the  Mosaic  period,  although  these 
had  been  changed  in  form.  These  earlier  views  have 
apparently  now  been  discarded  by  the  critics  entirely. 


1871 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Leviticus 


Examination  of  critical  theory. — We,  however,  do 
not  believe  that  it  is  at  all  justifiable  to  separate 
these  laws  as  a  special  legal  code  from  the  other 
chapters.  In  the  first  place,  these  peculiarities, 
even  if  such  are  found  here  more  frequently  than 
elsewhere,  are  not  restricted  to  these  chapters  ex- 
clusively. The  Decalogue  (Ex  20  2)  begins  with 
the  words,  "I  am  Jeh  thy  God,  who  brought  thee 
out  of  the  land  of  Egypt,  out  of  the  house  of  bond- 
age." Ex  22  31  contains  the  demand,  "Ye  shall 
be  holy  men  unto  me."  Ex  29  44.45  contains  a 
promise  that  God  will  dwell  in  the  midst  of  the 
Israelites,  so  that  they  shall  learn  that  He  is  Jeh, 
their  God,  who  has  brought  them  out  of  Egypt  in 
order  to  dwell  in  their  midst  as  Jeh,  their  God  (cf, 
further,  Ex  6  6-8;  31  13  f;  Lev  10  10.11;  11  44; 
Nu  15  37-41;  33  52f.55f;  Dt  14  2.21).  It  is  a 
more  than  risky  undertaking  to  find  in  these  and 
in  other  sections  scattered  remnants  of  H,  esp.  if 
these  are  seen  to  be  indispensable  in  the  connec- 
tion in  which  they  are  found,  and  when  no  reason 
can  be  given  why  they  should  be  separated  from 
this  collection  of  laws.  Then,  too,  the  differences 
of  opinion  on  the  part  of  the  critics  in  assigning 
these  different  parts  to  II,  do  not  make  us  favorably 
inclined  to  the  whole  hypothesis.  Hoffmann,  esp. 
{Die  ivichtigsten  Instanzen  gegen  die  Graf-Well- 
hausensche  Hypothese,  16  ff),  has  shown  how  impos- 
sible it  is  to  separate  H  from  the  other  ordinances 
of  the  PC  in  so  radical  a  manner.  In  saying  this 
we  do  not  at  all  wish  to  deny  the  peculiar  character 
of  these  chapters,  only  we  do  not  believe  that  ch  17 
can  be  added  or  ch  26  can  be  taken  away  from  this 
section;  for  in  ch  17  all  the  characteristic  peculiari- 
ties of  the  Holiness  Law  are  lacking;  and,  on  the 
other  hand,  in  ch  26  the  expression  "I  am  Jeh  your 
God,"  or  a  similar  one  in  vs  12.13.44  f,  is  found. 
The  subscription  in  ver  46  connects  ch  26  with  the 
preceding;  and,  further,  the  reference  to  the  Sab- 
batical year  as  described  in  ch  25,  found  in  26  34  f . 
43,  is  not  to  be  overlooked.  Finally,  also,  other 
legal  codes,  such  as  that  in  the  first  Book  of  the 
Covenant  (Ex  23  20-33)  and  that  of  Dt  (27  11- 
28  68)  close  with  the  offer  of  a  blessing  or  a  curse. 

The  chapters  under  consideration  (Lev  18-26) 
are  most  closely  connected  with  each  other  solely 
through  their  contents,  which  have  found  expression 
in  a  particular  form,  without  those  facts  being  suffi- 
cient to  justify  the  claim  of  their  being  a  separate 
legal  code.  For  since  in  chs  1-17  all  those  things 
which  separate  the  Israelites  from  their  God  have 
been  considered  and  bridged  over  (cf  chs  1-7,  the 
laws  concerning  sacrifices;  chs  8-10,  the  mediator- 
ship  of  the  priests;  chs  11-15,  the  unclean  things; 
ch  16,  the  Day  of  Atonement ;  ch  17,  the  use  made 
of  blood),  we  find  in  chs  18-26  an  account  of  the 
God-pleasing  conduct,  which  admits  of  nothing 
that  desecrates;  namely,  chs  18-20  contain  laws 
dealing  with  marriage  and  chastity  and  other  matters 
of  a  religious,  ethical  or  cultural  kind,  together  with 
the  punishments  that  follow  their  transgression; 
chs  21  f  determine  the  true  character  of  the  priests 
and  of  the  sacred  oblations;  chs  23  f,  the  conse- 
cration of  the  seasons,  of  life  and  death,  etc;  ch  25, 
the  Sabbath  and  the  Jubilee  year;  ch  26  contains 
the  offer  of  a  blessing  or  a  curse.  Chs  1-17  have, 
as  it  were,  a  negative  character;  chs  18-26  a  posi- 
tive character.  In  chs  1-17  the  consciousness  of 
what  is  unclean,  imperfect  and  guilty  is  awakened 
and  the  possibility  of  their  removal  demonstrated; 
while  in  chs  18-26  the  norm  of  a  holy  life  is  set 
forth.  Even  if  these  two  parts  at  certain  places 
show  so  great  a  likeness  that  the  occurrence  of  an 
interchange  of  ordinances  could  be  regarded  as 
possible,  nevertheless  the  peculiar  character  of  each 
part  is  plainly  recognized;  and  this  is  also  a  very 
essential  argument  for  the  view  that  both  parts 


have  one  and  the  same  author,  who  intentionally 
brought  the  two  parts  into  closer  connection  and 
yet  separated  the  one  from  the  other.  On  this 
supposition  the  peculiarities  of  chs  18-26  are  suffi- 
ciently explained,  and  also  the  positive  contents  of 
these  chapters  and  the  fact  that  just  these  chapters 
are  referred  to  in  preexilic  lit.  oftener  than  is  the 
case  with  chs  1-17,  and  particularly  the  close  con- 
nection between  Ezk  and  H  is  to  be  regarded  as  a 
consequence  of  the  common  tendency  of  both 
authors  and  not  as  the  result  of  their  having  used 
a  common  source  (see  Ezekiel,  II,  2).  In  26  46 
we  have  what  is  clearly  a  conclusion,  which  corre- 
sponds to  25  1;  7  37  f;  1  1,  and  accordingly 
regards  chs  1-26  as  a  unity;  while  ch  27,  which 
treats  of  vows  and  of  tithes,  with  its  separate  sub- 
scription in  ver  34,  shows  that  it  is  an  appendix  or 
a  supplement,  which  is,  however,  in  many  ways 
connected  with  the  rest  of  the  book,  so  that  this 
addition  cannot,  without  further  grounds,  be  re- 
garded as  pointing  to  another  author. 

//.  Structure. — Modern  criticism  ascribes  the 
entire  Book  of  Lev,  being  a  special  legal  code,  to 

the  PC.  The  questions  which  arise 
1.  Modern  in  connection  with  this  claim  will 
Analyses       be   discussed   under    III,    below.     At 

this  point  we  must  first  try  to  awaken 
a  consciousness  of  the  fact,  that  in  this  special  par- 
ticular, too,  the  documentary  theory  has  entered 
upon  the  stage  of  total  disintegration;  that  the 
reasons  assigned  for  the  separation  of  the  sources 
are  constantly  becoming  more  arbitrary  and  sub- 
jective; and  that  the  absurd  consequences  to  which 
they  consistently  lead  from  the  very  outset  arouse 
distrust  as  to  the  correctness  of  the  process.  Just 
as  in  the  historical  parts  the  critics  have  for  long 
been  no  longer  content  with  J  (Jahwist)  and  E 
(Elohist),  but  have  added  a  J1  and  J2,  an  E1  and  E2, 
and  as  Sieve rs  and  Gunkel  have  gone  farther,  and 
in  detail  have  completely  shattered  both  J  and  E 
into  entirely  separate  fragments  (see  Genesis),  so 
P,  too,  is  beginning  to  experience  the  same  fate. 
It  is  high  time  that,  for  both  the  historical  and  the 
legal  sections,  the  opposite  course  be  taken,  and 
that  we  turn  from  the  dismemberment  to  the  com- 
bination of  these  documents ;_  that  we  seek  out  and 
emphasize  those  features  which,  in  form  and  con- 
tent, unite  the  text  into  a  clear  unity.  For  this 
reason  we  lay  the  greatest  stress  on  these  in  this 
section,  which  deals  with  the  structure  of  the  book, 
and  which  treats  of  the  matter  (1)  negatively  and 
(2)  positively  (see  also  Exodus,  II). 

(1)  Theories  of  disintegration. — We  have  already 
seen  in  the  art.  Day  op  Atonement  (I,  2,  [2])  in 
connection  with  Lev  16  an  example  of  these  at- 
tempts at  dissection,  and  here  still  add  several  ex- 
amples in  order  to  strengthen  the  impression  on  this 
subject. 

(a)  General  considerations:  If  we  for  the  present  dis- 
regard the  details,  then,  according  to  Bertholet  (Kurzer 
Hand-Kommentar  zum  Alien  Testament),  not  only  chs  17- 
26  (see,  above,  under  I)  at  one  time  existed  as  a  separate 
legal  corpus,  but  also  the  sacrificial  legislation  in  chs 
1-7,  and  also  the  laws  concerning  the  clean  and  the  un- 
clean in  chs  11-15-  Concerning  ch  16  see  above.  Then, 
too,  ch  27  is  regarded  as  a  supplement  and  is  ascribed  to 
a  different  author.  Finally,  the  so-called  "fundamental 
document"  of  P  (marked  Pg)  contained  only  parts  from 
chs  9  f  (also  a  few  matters  from  ch  8).  as  also  one  of  the 
three  threads  of  ch  16,  for  Lev  8-10,  it  is  said,  described 
the  consecration  of  the  priests  demanded  in  Ex  25  If. 
which  also  are  regarded  as  a  part  of  Pg,  and  ch  16  1.  is 
claimed  to  connect  again  with  Lev  10  (cf  on  this  point 
D\t  of  Atonement,  I,  2).  All  these  separate  parts  of 
Lev  (i.e.  chs  1-7,  8-10,  11-15,  16,  17-26,  27)  are  further 
divided  into  a  number  of  more  or  less  independent  sub- 
parts; thus,  e.g.,  chs  1-7,  containing  the  sacrificial  laws, 
are  made  to  consist  of  two  parts,  viz.  chs  1-5  and  chs 
6-7;  or  the  laws  concerning  the  clean  and  the  unclean 
in  chs  11-15  are  divided  into  the  separate  pieces,  chs  11, 
12;  13  1-46;  and  these  are  regarded  as  having  existed 
at  one  time  and  in  a  certain  manner  independently  and 


Leviticus 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1872 


separated  from  each  other.  But  how  complicated  in 
detail  the  composition  is  considered  to  be,  we  can  see 
from  chs  17  26. 

(6)  Chs  17  26  considered  in  detail:  While  Baentsch 
(Hand-Kommentar  zum  Allen  Testament)  accepts,  to 
begin  with,  three  fundamental  strata  (H1=chs  18-20  and 
certain  portions  from  chs  23-25;  H-=chs  21  f;  H3  =  ehl7), 
Bertholet,  too  (op.  ci't.,  x),  regards  the  development  of 
these  chapters  as  follows:  "In  detail  we  feel  justified  in 
separating  the  following  pieces:  (i)  17  3.4  (5.7a)  .8.9. 10- 
14;  (ii)  18  7-10. 12-20.22  f;  and  this  united  with  (iii) 
19  3  f.ll  f.27  f.30.31. 35.36,  which  was  probably  done 
by  the  author  of  (iii).  The  following  were  inserted  by 
the  person  who  united  these  parts,  viz.  18  6.27.25.26.28. 
30;  (iv)  19  9.10.13-18.19.29.32;  (v)  19  5-8.23-26;  (vi) 
202(3).6(27);  (vii)  20  9.10-21;  19  20;  (viii)  21  16-5.7. 
9-15.176-24;  22  3.S.  10-14. 186-25. 27-30;  (ix)  23  10-20. 
39-43;  (x)  24  15-22,  except  vs  16o36;  (xi)  25  2-7  (4). 
18-22. 35-38. 39.40a.42  f . 47. 53.55;  (xii)  25  8a.96.10a.13. 
14-16.17.24  f.  In  uniting  these  pieces  Rh  (the  Redac- 
tor of  theLaw of  Holiness)  seems  to  have  added  de  suo  the 
following:  17  5  (beginning);  18  26-5. 21. 24. 26a, 3. 29;  19 
33f.37;  20  4f.7f.2220;  21  6.8;  22  2.9.15f.31-33;  23  22; 
25  11  f;  26  1  f.  At  the  same  time  he  united  with  these 
an  older  parenetic  section,  26  3-45,  which,  by  insert- 
ing vs  10.34  f. 39-43,  lie  changed  into  a  concluding  ad- 
dress of  this  small  legal  code.  All  the  rest  that  is  found 
in  chs  17  26  seems  to  be  the  result  of  a  revision  in  the 
spirit  of  P,  not,  however,  as  though  originally  it  all  came 
from  the  hand  of  Rp  (Redactor  P).  That  he  rather 
added  and  worked  together  older  pieces  from  P  (which  did 

not  belong  to  Pg)  is  seen  from  an  analysis  of  ch  23 

As  far  as  the  time  when  these  parts  were  worked  to- 
gether is  concerned,  we  have  a  reliable  terminus  ad  quern 
in  a  comparison  of  Xeh  8  14-18  with  Lev  23  36  (P). 
39  fl  (If).  Only  we  must  from  the  outset  remember, 
that  still,  after  the  uniting  of  these  different  parts,  the 
marks  of  the  editorial  pen  are  to  be  noticed  in  the  follow- 
ing chs,  17  26,  i.e.  that  after  this  union  a  number  of  addi- 
tions were  yet  made  to  the  text.  This  is  sure  as  far  as 
23  26-32  is  concerned,  and  is  probable  as  to  24  1-9. 
10-14.23;  25  32-34;  and  that  this  editorial  work  even 
went  so  far  as  to  put  sections  from  P  in  the  place  of  parts 
of  H  can  possibly  be  concluded  from  24  1-9." 

(c)  Extravagance  of  critical  treatment:  This  is 
also  true  of  ell  the  other  sections,  as  can  be  seen  by 
a  reference  to  the  books  of  Bertholet  and  Baentsch. 
What  should  surprise  us  most,  the  complicated  and 
external  manner  in  which  our  Bib.  text,  which  has 
such  a  wonderful  history  back  of  it,  is  declared  by 
the  critics  to  have  originated,  or  the  keenness  of  the 
critics,  who,  with  the  ease  of  child's  play,  are  able 
to  detect  and  trace  out  this  growth  and  develop- 
ment of  the  text,  and  can  do  more  than  hear  the 
grass  grow?  But  this  amazement  is  thrust  into  the 
background  when  we  contemplate  what  becomes  of 
the  Bible  text  under  the  manipulations  of  the 
critics.  The  compass  of  this  article  makes  it  im- 
possible to  give  even  as  much  as  a  general  survey 
of  the  often  totally  divergent  and  contradictory 
schemes  of  Baentsch  and  Bertholet  and  others  on 
the  distribution  of  this  book  among  different 
sources;  and  still  less  possible  is  it  to  give  a  criti- 
cism of  these  in  detail.  But  this  critical  method 
really  condemns  itself  more  thoroughly  than  any 
examination  of  its  claims  would.  All  who  are  not 
yet  entirely  hypnotized  by  the  spell  of  the  docu- 
mentary hypothesis  will  feel  that  by  this  method 
all  genuine  scientific  research  is  brought  to  an  end. 
If  the  way  in  which  this  book  originated  had  been 
so  complicated,  it  certainly  could  never  have  been 
again  reconstructed. 

(2)  Reasons  for  dismemberment. — We  must  at 
this  place  confine  ourselves  to  mentioning  and  dis- 
cussing several  typical  reasons  which  are  urged  in 
favor  of  a  distribution  among  different  authors. 

(a)  Alleged  repetitions:  We  find  in  the  parts  be- 
longing to  P  a  number  of  so-called  repetitions.  In 
chs  1-7  we  find  a  twofold  discussion  of  the  five 
kinds  of  sacrifices  (1-5;  6  Iff);  in  ch  20  punitive 
measures  are  enacted  for  deeds  which  had  been 
described  already  in  ch  18;  in  19  3.30;  23  3;  26 
2  the  Sabbath  command  is  intensified;  in  19  5ff; 
22  29  f,  we  find  commands  which  had  been  touched 
upon  already  in  7  15  ff;  19  9f  we  find  almost  ver- 
bally repeated  in  23  22;  24  2  ff  repeats  ordinances 
concerning  the  golden  candlestick  from  Ex  27  20 


ff,  etc._  The  existence  of  these  repetitions  cannot 
be  denied;  but  is  the  conclusion  drawn  from  this 
fad  correct?  It  certainly  is  possible  that  one  and 
the  same  author  could  have  handled  the  same  ma- 
terials at  different  places  and  from  different  view- 
points, as  is  the  case  in  chs  1-7  in  regard  to  the  sac- 
rifices. Chs  18  and  20  (misdeeds  and  punishments) 
are  even  necessarily  and  mutually  supplementary. 
Specially  important  laws  can  have  been  repeated, 
in  order  to  emphasize  and  impress  them  all  the  more; 
or  they  are  placed  in  peculiar  relations  or  in  a  unique 
light  (cf,  e.g.,  24  1  ff,  the  command  in  reference 
to  the  golden  candlestick  in  the  pericope  chs  23-24; 
see  below).  Accordingly,  as  soon  as  we  can  furnish 
a  reason  for  the  repetition,  it  becomes  unobjection- 
able; and  often,  when  this  is  not  the  case,  the  ob- 
jections are  unremoved  if  we  ascribe  the  repeti- 
tions to  a  new  author,  who  made  the  repetition  by 
way  of  an  explanation  (see  Exodus,  II,  2,  [">]). 

(b)  Separation  of  materials:    Other  reasons  will 
probably  be  found  in  uniting  or  separating  materials 
that  are  related.     That  ch  16  is  connected  with 
chs  8-10,  and  these  connect  with  Ex  25  ff,  is  said 
to  prove  that   this  had  been  the  original  order  in 
these   sections.     But   why   should    materials    that, 
are  clearly   connected  be   without  any  reason  torn 
asunder  by  the  insertion  of  foreign  data?     Or  has 
the  interpolator  perhaps  had  reasons  of  his  own  for 
doing   this?     Why   are  not  these  breaks  ascribed 
to  the  original  author?    The  sacrificial  laws  in  chs 
1-7  are  properly  placed  before  Lev  8-10,  because 
in  these  latter  chapters  the  sacrifices  are  described 
as  already  being  made  (9  7.15,  the  sin  offering;  9 
7.12. 1G,  the  burnt  offering;   9  17;   10  12,  the  meal 
offering;   9  18,  the  peace  offering;  9  3  f,  all  kinds). 
In  the  same  way  chs  11-15,  through  15  31,  are  in- 
wardly connected  with   Lev  16,  since   these  chap- 
ters speak  of  the  defiling  of  the  dwelling-place  of 
Jeh,  from  which  the  Day  of  Atonement  delivers 
(16  16f.33).     As  a  matter  of  course,  the  original 
writer  as  well  as  a  later  redactor  could  have   at 
times  also  connected  parts  in  a  looser  or  more  ex- 
ternal manner.      In  this  way,  in  7  22  ff,  the  com- 
mand not  to  eat  of  the  fats  or  of  the  blood  has  been 
joined  to  the  ordinances  with  reference  to  the  use 
of  the  peace  offerings  in  7  19  ff.     This  again  is  the 
ease  when,  in  ch  2,  vs  1 1-13  have  been  inserted  in  the 
list  of  the  different  kinds  of  meal  offering;  when  after 
the  general  scheme  of  sin  offerings,   according  to 
the  hierarchical  order  and  rank  in  ch  4,  a  number  of 
special  cases  are  mentioned  in  5  1  ff;  and  when  in  5 
7  ff  commands  are  given  to  prevent  too  great  poverl  y ; 
or  when  in  6  19  ff  the  priestly  meal  offerings  are 
found  connected  with  other  ordinances  with  refer- 
ences to  the  meat  offerings  in  general  (6  14  ff) ;  or 
when  the  share  that  belongs  to  the  priest  (7  8  ff; 
is  found  connected  with  his  claim  to  the  guilt  offer- 
ing (7  1  ff);    or  the  touching  of  the  meat  offering 
by  something  unclean  (7  19  ff)  is  found  connected 
with  the  ordinances  concerning  the  peace  offerings; 
or  when  in  ch  11  the  ordinances  dealing  with  the 
unclean  animals  gradually  pass  over  into  ordinances 
concerning    the  touching  of    these   animals,   as  is 
already  indicated   by  the  subscription   11  4.6  f  (cf 
with  ver  2).     Still  more  would  it  be  natural  to  unite 
different  parts  in  other  ways  also.     In  this  way  the 
ordinances  dealing  with  the  character  of  the  sacri- 
fices in  22  17-30  could,  regarded  by  themselves,  be 
placed  also  in  chs  1-7.     But  in  ch  22  they  are  also 
well  placed.     On  the  other  hand,  the  character  of 
chs  1-7  would  have  become  too  complicated  if  they 
were  inserted  here.     In  such  matters  the  author 
must  have  freedom  of  action. 

(c)  Change  of  singular  and  plural:  Further,  the  fre- 
quent change  between  the  sing,  and  the  pi.  in  the  ad- 
dresses found  in  the  laws  which  are  given  to  a  body  of 
persons  is  without  further  thought  used  by  the  critics  as 
a  proof  of  a  diversity  of  authors  in  the  section  under  con- 


1873 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Leviticus 


sideration  (cf  10  12fl;  19  9.11  ff,15ff,  etc).  But  how 
easily  this  change  in  numbers  can  be  explained!  In  case 
the  pi.  is  used,  the  body  of  the  people  are  regarded  as  hav- 
ing been  distributed  into  individuals;  and  in  the  case  of  a 
more  stringent  application  the  pi.  can  at  once  be  con- 
verted into  the  sing.,  since  the  author  is  thinking  now 
only  of  separate  individuals.  Naturally,  too,  the  sing. 
is  used  as  soon  as  the  author  thinks  again  rather  of  the 
people  as  a  whole.  Sometimes  the  change  is  made 
suddenly  within  one  and  the  same  verse  or  run  of  thought; 
and  this'  in  itself  ought  to  have  banished  the  thought  of  a 
difference  of  authors  in  such  cases.  In  the  case  of  an 
interpolator  or  redactor,  it  is  from  the  outset  all  the  more 
probable  that  he  would  have  paid  more  attention  to  the 
person  used  in  the  addresses  than  that  this  would  have 
been  done  by  the  original  writer,  who  was  completely 
absorbed  by  the  subject-matter.  Besides,  such  a  change 
in  number  is  frequently  found  in  other  connections  also; 
cf  in  the  Book  of  the  Covenant  (Ex  22  20-25.29f;  23 
9fF;  cf  l)t  12  2ff.l3ff).  In  regard  to  these  passages, 
also,  the  modern  critics  are  accustomed  to  draw  the  same 
conclusion;  and  in  these  cases,  too,  this  is  hasty.  In  the 
same  way  the  change  in  the  laws  from  the  3d  to  the 
2d  person  can  best  be  explained  as  the  work  of  the 
lawgiver  himself,  before  whose  mind  the  persons  addressed 
are  more  vividly  present  and  who,  when  speaking  in 
the  2d  person,  becomes  personal  (cf  Lev  2  4  fl  with  2 
1-3,  and  also  1  2;  3  17;   6  18.21.25 If). 

(d)  Proofs  of  religious  development:  A  greater 
importance  seemingly  must  be  attributed  to  the 
reasons  based  on  a  difference  in  the  terminology 
or  on  contradictions  in  the  laws,  as  these  appear 
to  lead  to  a religio-historical  development.  But  the 
following  examples  are  intended  to  show  how  all- 
important  it  is  to  be  slow  in  the  acceptance  of  the 
materials  which  the  critics  offer  in  this  connection. 

(3)  Insufficiency  of  these  reasons. — (a)  In  5  1-7,  in  the 
section  treating  of  the  sin  ottering  (4  1 — 5  13),  we  find 
the  word  'dsham,  which  also  signifies  "guilt  offering" 
(cf  vs  14  tf ;  7  1  if).  Accordingly,  it  is  claimed,  the  author 
of  5  1-7  was  not  yet  acquainted  with  the  difference  be- 
tween the  two  kinds  of  offerings,  and  that  this  part  is 
older  than  that  in  4  1  if;  5  14ff.  However,  in  5  1  ff  the 
word  'dsham  is  evidently  used  in  the  sense;  of  "repent- 
ance," and  does  not  signify  "sin  offering"  at  all;  at 
any  rate,  already  in  vs  Of  we  find  the  characteristic 
tevmhatta'th  to  designate  the  latter,  and  thus  tins  section 
appears'as  entirely  in  harmony  with  the  connection. 

(h)  Critics  lind  a  contradiction  in  6  26;  7  33.7,  and 
in  6  29;  7  31.6,  since  in  the  first  case  the  officiating 
priest  and  in  the  other  case  the  entire  college  of  priests 
is  described  as  participating  in  the  sacrifice.  In  reply 
it  is  to  be  said  that  the  first  set  of  passages  treat  of  the 
individual  concrete  cases,  while  the  second  set  speak  of 
the  general  principle.  In  7  8  f,  however,  where  the 
individual  officiating  priest  is  actually  put  in  express  con- 
trast witli  all  the  sons  of  Aaron,  the  matter  under  con- 
sideration is  a  difference  in  the  meal  offerings,  which, 
beginning  witli  ch  2,  could  be  regarded  as  known.  Why 
this  difference;  is  made  in  the  use  of  this  sacrifice  is  no 
longer  intelligible  to  us,  as  we  no  longer  retain  these 
sacrifices,  nor  are  we  in  possession  of  the  oral  instruction 
which  possibly  accompanied  the  written  formulation 
of  these  laws;'  but  this  is  a  matter  entirely  independent 
of  the  question  as  to  the  author. 

(c)  According  to  Ex  29  7;  Lev  4  3.5.16;  6  20.22; 
8  12;  16  32;  21  10.12,  the  high  priest  is  the  only  one 
who  is  anointed;  while,  on  the  other  hand,  in  Ex  28  41; 
29  21;  30  30;  40  15;  Lev  7  36;  10  7,  all  the  priests  are 
anointed.  But  the  text  as  it  reads  does  not  make  it 
impossible  that  there  was  a  double  anointing.  Accord- 
ing to  the  first  set  of  passages,  Aaron  is  anointed  in  such 
a  manner  that  tin-  anointing  oil  is  poured  out  upon  his 
head  (cf  esp.  Ex  29  7  and  Lev  8  12).  Then,  too,  he 
and  all  his  s.ms  are  anointed  in  such  a  way  that  a  mixture 
of  tha  oil  and  of  the  blood  is  sprinkled  upon  them  and 
on  their  garments  (cf  esp.  Ex  29  2t  and  Lev  8  30). 
Were  we  here  dealing  with  a  difference  in  reference  to  the 
theory  and  the,  ranks  of  the  priesthood,  as  these  dis- 
cussions were  current  at  the  time  of  the  exile  (see  III, 
below),  then  surely  the  victorious  party  would  have  seen 
to  it  that  their  views  alone  would  have  been  reproduced 
in  these  laws,  and  the  opposing  views  would  have  been 
suppressed.  But  now  both  anointings  are  found  side 
by  side,  and  even  in  one  and  the  same  chapter! 

(d)  The  different  punishments  prescribed  for  carnal 
intercourse  with  a  woman  during  her  periods  in  15  24 
and  20  18  are  easily  explained  by  the  fact  that,  in  the 
first  passage,  the  periods  are  spoken  of  which  only  set 
in  during  the  act,  and  in  the  second  passage,  those  which 
had  already  set  in  before.  .      ,  . 

(e)  As  far  as  the  difference  in  terminology  is  con- 
cerned, it  must  be  remembered  that  in  their  claims  the 
critics  either  overlook  that  intentional  differences  may 
decide  the  preference  for  certain  words  or  expressions; 
or  else  they  ignore  the  fact  that  it  is  possible  in  almost 
every  section  of  a  writer's  work  to  find  some  expressions 
which  are  always,  or  at  least  often,  peculiar  to  him;    or 


finally,  they  in  an  inexcusable  way  ignore  the  freedom 
of  selection  which  a  writer  has  between  different  syno- 
nyms or  his  choice;  in  using  these. 

All  in  all,  it  must  be  said  that  however  much  we 
acknowledge  the  keenness  and  the  industry  of  the 
modern  critics  in  clearing  up  many  difficulties,  and 
the  fact  that  they  bring  up  many  questions  that 
demand  answers,  it  nevertheless  is  tin;  fact  that 
they  take  the  matter  of  solving  these  problems 
entirely  too  easily,  by  arbitrarily  claiming  different 
authors,  without  taking  note  of  the  fact  that  by 
doing  this  the  real  difficulty  is  not  removed,  but 
is  only  transferred  to  another  place.  What  could 
possibly  be  accepted  as  satisfactory  in  one  single 
instance,  namely  that  through  the  thoughtlessness 
of  an  editor  discrepancies  in  form  or  matter  had 
found  their  way  into  the  text,  is  at  once  claimed 
to  be  the  regular  mode  of  solving  these  difficult  ies — 
a  procedure  that  is  itself  thoughtlessness.  On  the 
other  hand,  the  critics  overlook  the  fact  that  it 
makes  little  difference  for  the  religious  and  the  ethi- 
cal value  of  these  commands,  whether  logical,  sys- 
tematic, linguistic  or  aesthetic  correctness  in  all 
their  parts  has  been  attained  or  not;  to  which  must 
yet  be  added,  that  a  failure  in  the  one  particular 
may  at  the  same  time  be;  an  advantage  in  the  other. 
In  this  respect  we  need  recall  only  the  anacoluths 
of  t  he  apostle  Paul. 

(1)  Structure  in  general. — The  most  effective 
antidote  against  the  craze  to  split  up  the  text  in 
the  manner  described  above  will  be 
2.  Structure  found  in  the  exposition  of  all  those 
of  the  features   which   unite    this    text    into 

Biblical  one  inseparable  wlmle.     What  we  have 

Text  tried    to    demonstrate    in    the    arts. 

Genesis;  Exodus,  II;  Day  op 
Atonement,  I,  2  (cf  also  Ezekiel,  I,  2,  [2])  can  be 
repeated  at  this  point.  The  Boe>k  of  Lev  shows 
all  the  marks  of  being  a  we'll-constructed  and  or- 
ganic literary  product,  which  in  its  fundamental 
characteristics  has  already  been  outlined  under  I 
above.  And  as  this  was  deme  in  the  several  articles 
just  cited,  we  can  here  aeld  further,  as  a  confirma- 
tory factor  in  favor  of  the  acceptance  of  an  inner 
literary  unity  of  the  book,  that  the  division  of  the 
boeik  into  its  logical  parts,  even  down  to  minute 
details,  is  here,  as  is  so  often  the  case  elsewhere, 
not  only  virtually  self-evident  in  many  particulars, 
but  that  the  use  made  of  typical  numbers  in  many 
passages  in  this  adjustment  of  the  parts  almost 
forces  itself  upem  our  recognition.  In  other  phie.es 
the  same  is  at  least  suggest  eel,  and  can  be  traced 
throughout  the  be>ok  without  the  least  vmlence  to 
the  text.  The  system  need  not  be  forced  upon  the 
materials.  We  often  find  sections  but  loosely  cem- 
nected  with  the  preceding  parts  (e:f  under  1  above1) 
and  not  united  in  a  strictly  logical  manner,  but 
which  are  nevertheless  related  in  thought  and  asso- 
ciation of  ideas.  In  harmony  with  the  division  of 
the  Book  of  Gen  we  find  at  once  that  the  general 
contents,  as  mentioned  under  I  abe>ve,  easily  fall 
into  10  pericopes,  anel  it  is  seen  that  these  consist 
of  2  sets  each  of  5  pericopes  together  with  an 
appendix. 

(a)  Ten  pericopes  in  two  parts:  Part  I,  the 
separation  from  Ge>d  and  the  removal  of  this  sep- 
aratum: (i)  chs  1-7;  (ii)  chs  8-10;  (iii)  chs  11-15; 
(iv)  ch  16;    (v)  ch  17. 

Part  II,  the  normal  conduct  of  the  people  of 
Gexl:  (i)  chs  18-20;  (ii)  chs  21-22;  (iii)  chs  23-24; 
(iv)  ch25;    (v)  ch  26. 

Appendix,  ch  27 ;  cf  for  the  number  10  the  division 
of  Ex  1  8—7  7;  7  8— 13  16;  13  17—18  27;  also 
the  Decalogue,  20  Iff;  21  1—23  19;  32  1  35  1; 
and  see  Exodus,  II,  2;  anel  in  Lev  probably  18  6-18; 
19  0-18,  and  with  considerable  certainty  19  1-37 
(see  be;low). 


Leviticus 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1874 


(6)   Correspondence  and  connections:    I  leave  out  of 

consideration  in  this  case  the  question  whether  an 
intentional  correspondence  among  the  different  parts 
be  traced  or  not.  even  in  their  details.  Thus,  e.g.,  when 
the  2d  pericope  (chs  8-10  and  21  f)  treats  particularly 
of  the  order  of  the  priests,  or  when  the  4th  pericope  of 
the  2d  set  (eh  25)  states  that  the  beginning  of  the  Year 
of  Jubilee  fell  on  the  loth  day  of  the  7th  month,  i.e.  on 
the  Day  of  Atonement  as  described  in  Ley  16,  in  the 
4th  pericope  of  the  1st  set  (cf  25  0  with  16  29);  or  when 
both  sets  close  with  two  shorter  pericopes,  which  evi- 
dently express  high  stages  of  development  (chs  16  and 
17,  respectively,  chs  25  and  26  treating  of  the  Day  of 
Atonement,  of  the  use  made  of  blood  and  the  purposes 
of  blood  for  the  altar  or  the  Jubilee  Year,  of  the  blessing 
and  the  curse). 

And,  ;ts  fur  as  the  order  in  other  respects  is  con- 
cerned, if  is  throughout  to  be  regarded  as  founded 
in  the  subject-matter  itself  that  chs  1-17  must  pre- 
cede chs  18-26.  First  that  which  separates  the 
people  from  God  must  be  removed,  and  then  only 
is  a  God-pleasing  conduct  possible.  Just  as  easily, 
and  in  agreement  with  the  context,  it  is  possible 
that  the  consecration  of  the  priests  in  chs  8-10  pre- 
supposes the  sacrificial  lorah  (chs  1-7;  cf  under  1 
above)  and  follows  the  latter,  and  is  immediately 
introduced  by  the  mention  made  of  the  installation 
sacrifices  for  which  otherwise  there  are  no  reasons 
assigned  in  the  concluding  formula  in  7  37  (cf  8 
22-32).  The  Day  of  Atonement  (eh  16),  which  in 
vs  16  f  and  33  is  spoken  of  in  connection  with  the 
purification  of  the  sanctuary,  is  in  turn  introduced 
by  chs  11-15,  or  more  particularly  by  the  remark 
im  15  31,  where  mention  is  made  of  the  pollution  of 
the  dwelling-place  of  Jeh.  And  on  the  other  hand, 
the  ordinances  dealing  with  the  priests  (chs  8-10)  in 
10  10,  where  the  command  is  given  to  discriminate 
between  what  is  holy  and  what  is  unholy  and  to 
teach  Israel  accordingly,  already  point  to  the  con- 
tents of  chs  11-15.  The  sacrifices,  with  which  the 
first  part  in  chs  1-7  begins,  are  taken  up  again  by 
the  conclusion  in  ch  17,  in  the  commandment  con- 
cerning the  blood  for  the  altar.  The  second  part, 
too,  already  at  the  beginning  (chs  18-20)  in  its 
religiously  cultural  and  ethical  ordinances,  shows 
in  the  clearest  possible  manner  what  matters  it 
proposes  to  discuss.  In  this  way  the  systematic 
structure  of  the  book  is  apparent  in  all  particulars. 

Close  connections:  comparison  with  Ex:  And, 
further,  the  different  pericopes  are  also  so  closely 
connected  among  themselves  and  with  the  corre- 
sponding pericopes  in  the  books  of  Ex  and  Nu,  that 
many  have  thought  it  necessary  to  regard  them 
as  a  special  body  of  laws.  But  the  connection  is 
so  close  and  involves  all  the  details  so  thoroughly, 
that  all  efforts  to  divide  and  distribute  them  after 
the  examples  described  under  1  above  must  fail 
absolutely.  We  shall  now  give  the  proofs  for  the 
different  pericopes  in  Lev,  but  in  such  a  manner  as 
to  take  into  consideration  also  Ex  25-31;  35  ff, 
treating  of  the  tabernacle  and  its  utensils  and  the 
Aaronitic  priesthood,  which  are  most  intimately 
connected  with  Lev.  All  details  in  this  matter 
will  be  left  out  of  consideration. 

(a)  Tabernacle  and  priesthood:  That  Lev  8-10  (the 
consecration  of  the  priests,  etc),  together  with  Ex  25 
ff,  constitutes  a  single  whole  is  accepted  on  all  hands. 
But  the  tent  of  meeting  and  its  utensils,  and  also  the 
priesthood,  both  with  atul  without  any  emphasis  on  the 
Aaronitic  origin,  are  presupposed  also  in  almost  each 
one  of  the  other  pericopes  of  Lev;  cf  for  chs  1-7,  eg 
1  3.5;  3  2.8.13;  4  4.5.7.14.16.18;  6  26  (tent  of  meet- 
ing); 1  5.12;  3  5;  4  7.25.30;  6  12  (altar  of  burnt 
sacrifices);  4  7.18  (altar  of  incense  sacrifices);  4  6.17 
(veil);  6  9.19  (court);  1  5.7.8.11;  2  2;  3  2.5.8.13; 
6  9.14.16.20.25,  etc  (Aaron  and  his  sons  as  priests);  for 
chs  11-15  see  12  4.6;  14  11.23;  15  14.29.31  (sanctuary, 
tent  of  meeting,  dwelling-place) ;  11  l;  12  6f;  13  iff; 
14  2ff.33ff;  15  1  (priesthood);  for  ch  16  see  vs  2.7. 
16f.20.23. 33  (sanctuary  and  Holy  of  Holies,  tent  of 
meeting);  16  2.12  (veil);  16  2.13  ff  (lid  of  the  Ark  of 
the  Covenant);  16  12.18.20.33  (altar);  16  1  ff  (Aaronitic 
priesthood);  for  ch  17  see  vs  4-6.9  (tent  of  meeting); 
vs  6.11  (altar);  ver  5  (priesthood);  for  chs  18-20  see 
19  30.21    (sanctuary  of  Jeh,   tent  of  meeting);    19  22 


(priesthood);  for  ch  21  f  see  21  12  (sanctuary);  21  23 
(sanctuaries  of  Jeh);  21  23  (veil,  altar) ;  21  llf.21  (Aaron- 
itic priesthood);  for  chs  23,  24  see  23  2.4.21.24.27.36 f 
(sanctuary);  24  1  if  (candlestick,  tent  of  meeting); 
24  5  If  (table  of  showbread);  23  10.20  (priesthood); 
24  3.!)  (Aaronitic  priesthood);  for  ch  26  see  vs  2.11.31 
(sanctuary,  dwelling-place  of  Jeh,  sanctuaries);  for  ch 
27  see  vs  10.33  (sanctuary);    vs  8  ff  (priesthood). 

(li)  In  the  same  way  the  sacrificial  laws  of  chs  1-7  are 
mentioned  in  the  following  pericopes  as  matters  that  are 
well  known.  For  chs  8-16  see  9  7.15  (sin  offering); 
9  7.12.16  (burnt  offering);  9  17;  10  12  (meal  offering  i ; 
9  18  (peace  offering);  9  3f  (all  together);  cf  also  Ex 
29  14.18.28.  In  Lev  9  21;  10  14  f  (wave-breasts  and 
heave-thigh)  direct  reference  is  made  to  7  30-36.  In 
the  same  manner  10  16  ff  presupposes  the  ordinances 
dealing  with  the  different  ways  of  offering  the  sin  offer- 
ings in    4  3ff.l3ff;    6  24-30;    for  chs   11-15   see  12  6ff: 

14  12  If  (cf  esp.  14  13  with  4  24);  14  21  ff;  15  14  f. 
29  f;  for  ch  16  see  vs  3.5  f. 9. 11. 15.24  f. 27;  for  ch  17  see 
vs  5  ff.8.1 1 ;  for  chs  18-20  see  19  6  ff.21  f  (here  is  there- 
fore the  'dshdm  found  in  II,  which  is  claimed  to  be  of  a 
later  date);  for  ch  21  f  see  21  6.21  f;  22  17  fl.29f;  for 
chs  23,  24  see  23  12  f ;  18  19.27.37;  24  9;  for  ch  26  see 
vs.30f;    for  ch  27  cf  vs  15.19.27.31  with  5  16;    6  5. 

(y)  Laws  on  clean  and  unclean:  The  laws  in  refer- 
ence to  the  clean  and  tin;  unclean  in  chs  11-15  are  also 
interwoven  with  the  whole  book.  For  chs  1-7  see  5  2f- 
6  27;  7  19  ff;  for  chs  810  see  10  10  f;  for  eh  16  see  vs 
16.19;  for  ch  17  see  vs  13.15  f;  for  chs  18-20  cf  20  25 
with  11  44.  and  in  general  with  ch  11;  for  chs  21  f  see  21 
10;  13  45;  22  3  ff  with  chs  13-15;  for  ch  27  see  vs  11 
and  27,  as  also  ch  11. 

(6)  The  laws  in  reference  to  the  Day  of  Atonement 
found  in  Lev  16  are  prepared  for  by  those  found  in  chs  11- 
15,  viz.  in  14  4  ff.49  ff  (the  ceremony  with  the  two  birds 
in  connection  with  the  purification  from  leprosy),  and  in 

15  31  (cf  16  16.19;  see  above).  For  chs  23,"  24  cf  23 
26  ff  with  16  29  If,  and  for  25  9  with  16  29  see  above; 
cf  also  Ex  30   10. 

(«)  Ch  17  is  reechoed  in  chs  1-7  (7  26  f)  and  in  chs 
18-20  (19  26). 

(0  Finally  ch  25  (Year  of  Rest  and  Year  of  Jubilee) 
is  presupposed  in  ch  26  (vs  34L43)  and  in  ch  27  (vs  17 
ff.23f). 

The  above,  however,  by  no  means  exhausts  this 
list  of  references  and  similar  thoughts,  and  we  have 
here  given  only  some  leading  illustrations.  What 
literary  tricks  must  be  resorted  to  when,  over 
against  this  overwhelming  mass  of  evidence,  critics 
yet  insist  that  the  different  parts  of  the  book  were 
originally  independent  writings,  esp.,  too,  when 
the  entire  tabernacle  and  utensils  of  the  Aaronitic 
priesthood,  the  Day  of  Atonement,  the  Year  of 
Jubilee,  the  whole  sacrificial  scheme  and  the  laws 
dealing  with  the  great  festivals,  the  restriction  of 
the  slaying  of  the  sacrificial  animals  to  the  central 
sanctuary,  are  regarded  as  the  products  of  imagina- 
tion alone,  according  to  the  Wellhausen  hypothesis 
(cf  III,  below,  and  see  also  Exodus,  III,  5;  Day  of 
Atonement,  III,  1;  Ezekiel,  II,  2).  And  how 
little  is  gained  in  addition  when,  as  is  sometimes 
done,  in  a  most  arbitrary  manner,  the  statements 
found  in  chs  1-3  concerning  the  tabernacle  of  reve- 
lation ("tent  of  meeting")  and  concerning  Aaron's 
sons,  or  concerning  Aaron  and  his  sons  together,  are 
regarded  as  later  additions.  In  Lev  and  Ex  25  ff, 
35  ff,  everything  is  so  entirely  of  one  and  the  same 
character  and  has  so  clearly  emanated  from  one  and 
the  same  spirit,  that  it  is  impossible  to  separate 
from  this  product  any  constituent  parts  and  to 
unite  these  into  groups  that  were  originally  inde- 
pendent, then  to  split  up  these  still  further  and  to 
trace  the  parts  to  their  sources,  and  even  to  con- 
struct a  scheme  of  religious  and  historical  develop- 
ment on  this  reconstruction  of  the  sources. 

(2)  Structure  of  the  individual  pericopes. — As  the 
windows  and  the  column  capitals  of  a  mediaeval 
cathedral  are  arranged  according  to  different  schemes 
and  this  divergence  is  regarded  as  an  enrichment 
of  the  structure,  thus,  too,  we  find  it  to  be  in  the 
structure  of  the  various  pericopes  of  the  Book  of 
Lev.  These  latter,  too,  possess  a  certain  symphony 
of  different  tones,  but  all  are  rhythmically  arranged, 
and  only  when  united  do  they  produce  the  entire 
symphony. 

(a)  The  laws  concerning  the  sacrifices  (Lev  1- 


1875 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Leviticus 


7):  In  the  first  place,  the  five  different  kinds  of 
sacrifices  in  Israel  are  mentioned  in  succession 
twice,  in  1  1—7  21:  Part  I,  chs  1-5,  namely  (i)  ch 
1,  burnt  offerings;  (ii)  ch  2,  meal  offering;  (iii)  ch 
3,  peace  offerings;    (iv)  4  1     5  13,  sin  offering;   (v) 

5  14-26,  guilt  offering;  Part  II,  6  1—7  21,  namely 
(i)  6  8-13,  burnt  offerings;  (iij  6  14-23,  meal  offer- 
ing; (iii)  6  24-30,  sin  offering;  (iv)  7  1-7  with 
appendix,  vs  8-10,  dealing  with  that  part  of  the 
sacrifices  which  belongs  to  the  priest  (see  under  1, 
above),  guilt  offering;  (v)  7  11—21,  peace  offer- 
ings. With  this  is  found  connected  in  7  22-27  the 
prohibition  of  the  use  of  the  fat  or  the  blood,  and 
in  7  28-36,  the  laws  concerning  the  wave-breast 
and  the  heave-thigh.  We  have  accordingly  at  once 
twelve  of  these  laws  (cf  on  Ex  25  1  —30  10  in  art. 
on  Exodus,  II,  2,  [5]  and  on  Ezekiel,  I,  2.  [.">]).  But 
even  apart  from  this  we  have  no  right  to  ascribe 
chs  1-5  and  6  1 — 7  21,  on  the  ground  that  they  arc 
duplicates,  to  different  authors. 

That  there  is  a  difference  between  these  two  accounts 
is  proved,  not  only  by  the  fact  that  the  first  set  of  laws 
from  chs  1-5  is  addressed  to  all  the  Israelites  (ef  1  2; 
4  2),  and  the  second  set  6  <S;  7  21  to  Aaron  and  his  sons 
(ef  6  9.25);  but  the  second  set  has  also  in  content  a 
number  of  altogether  different  viewpoints  as  compared 
Willi  the  first  set.  so  that  t  lie  same  author  found  himself 
induced  or  compelled  to  write  both  sets.  On  the  other 
hand,  the  fact  that  both  have  the  same  author  is  evident 
from  the  very  close  connection  between  the  two  sections. 
In  addition  to  the  fact  that  both  make  mention  of  all 
five   kinds  of  sacrifices,    we  can   yet  compare  3  5  with 

6  22  (fat  pieces  of  the  peace  offering  over  the  burnt 
sacrifices  upon  the  pieces  of  wood);  and,  further,  the 
express  reference  of  6  17  to  ch  4,  while  6  30  presupposes 
the  distinct  separation  of  the  sin  offering,  the  blood  of 
which  is  brought  into  the  tent  of  meeting,  from  the  other 
sacrifices,  as  these  are  given  in  4  3  ff.13  ff  over  against 
4  22  tr.27  ff.  Oh  4,  with  its  reference  to  the  peace 
offerings  (vs  10.26.31.35),  is  again  most  closely  connected 
with  ch  3.  We  must  accordingly  insist  that  the  whole 
account  is  most  intimately  interwoven.  Over  against 
this,  the  omission  within  the  first  set,  chs  1-5,  in  5  14-10, 
of  the  ritual  for  the  peace  offering,  is  sufficiently  explained 
only  by  the  fact  that  this  ritual  was  to  be  used  in  the 
second  set  (6  8—7  21),  and  here  for  the  first  time  only  In 

7  1-15,  which  fact  again  speaks  for  the  same  author 
for  both  sets  and  against  the  supposition  that  they  were 
merely  mechanically  united  by  a  redactor.  The  fact 
that  the  second  set  6  8-7  21  has  a  different  order  from 
that  of  chs  1-5,  by  uniting  the  sin  offering  immediately 
with  the  meal  offering  (6  21  ff  with  vs  14-2:5),  is  probably 
on  account  of  the  similar  ordinances  in  7  9  and  7  19 
(manner  of  eating  the  meal  offering  and  the  sin  offering). 
On  the  other  hand,  the  position  of  the  peace  offering  at 
the  close  of  the  second  set  (7  1 1  ff)  furnished  the  pos- 
sibility  of  giving  to  the  piece  of  the  entire  pencope  em- 
braced in  7  22-27.28-36  a  suitable  conclusion;  since 
7  22  ff  (prohibition  of  the  eating  of  the  fat  and  the 
blood),  connected  with  7  10  ff.  contained  in  7  28  fl  an 
ordinance  that  pertained  to  the  peace  offering  (heave- 
breast  and  wave-thigh).  At  any  rate,  these  last  two 
pieces  are  to  be  regarded  separately  from  the  rest,  since 
they  are  no  longer  addressed  to  the  priests,  as  is  6  8 — 
7  21,  but  to  all  Israel;  cf  7  23.29.  On  some  other  data 
less  intimately  connected  with  the  matter,  cf  above 
under  1. 

(6)  Consecration  of  priests  and  related  matters 
(Lev  8-10):  In  this  pericope,  as  in  the  following, 
down  to  ch  17  inclusive,  but  esp.  from  ch  11  on,  the 
principle  of  division  on  the  basis  of  the  number 
four  predominates,  in  many  cases  in  the  details, 
too;  so  that  this  could  scarcely  be  regarded  as  an 
accidental  feature  (cf  also  the  history  of  Abraham 
in  Gen  12-26;  further,  in  Ex  35  4—40  38;  and  in 
Exodus,  II,  2,  [7];  Lev  16,  under  Day  of  Atone- 
ment, I,  2,  [1]);  Dt  12-26,  too,  is  probably  to  be  di- 
vided on  this  principle,  even  to  the  minutest  details 
(cf  finally  Lev  21—22  16;  22  17-30;  chs  23  f 
and  26). 

(i)  Ch  8,  treating  of  the  first  seven  days  of  the 
consecration  of  the  priests:  The  outline  is  found  in 
ver  2,  namely  Aaron,  the  sacred  garments,  the 
anointing  oil,  the  bullock  of  the  sin  offering,  two 
rams,  unleavened  bread  (cf  vs  0.7  ff.10  ff.14  ff.18  ff. 
22  ff.26  ff).  (ii)  Ch  9  thefirst  sacrifices  of  Aaron  and 
his  sons  on  the  8th  day  (vs  2-4  contain  the  outline, 


after  the  manner  of  8  2;  cf  vs  7ff.ll  ff,  the  sin 
offering  and  the  burnt  ottering  of  Aaron,  with  ver 
2;  also  vs  15-18,  treating  of  what  the  people 
brought  for  the  sacrifices,  with  vs  3  f ;  but  it  is  to 
be  noticed  that  the  meal  offering  and  the  peace 
offering  [vs  17.18]  are  given  in  inverted  order  from 
that  found  in  vs  3  f).  Here  too  we  find  the  number 
seven,  if  we  add  the  burnt  offering  for  the  morning 
(ver  17).  (iii)  10  1-7,  the  sin  of  Nadab  and  Abihu 
and  their  punishment  by  death;  (iv)_10  8-20, 
ordinances   concerning   the  priests,   occasioned   by 

8  1 — 10  7  and  provided  with  a  new  superscription 
in  10  8,  namely  (a)  10  8,  dealing  with  the  pro- 
hibition of  the  use  of  wine  and  intoxicants;    (/3)  10 

9  f ,  distinction  between  the  holy  and  the  unholy; 
(7)  10  12-15,  the  eating  of  the  sacred  oblations; 
(5)  10  16-20,  the  treatment  of  the  goat  for  the  sin 
offering. 

(r)  Laws  concerning  the  clean  and  unclean  (Lev 
11-15) :  (i)  ch  11,  treating  of  clean  and  unclean  ani- 
mals. The  outline  of  the  chief  contents  is  found  in 
11  46  with  a  free  transposition  of  one  number. 
There  are  accordingly  four  pieces,  viz.  (a)  vs  2-8, 
quadrupeds;  (|8)  vs  9-12,  water  animals;  (7)  vs 
13-23,  birds  (with  an  appendix,  treating  of  contact 
with  the  unclean,  vs  24-28,  which  give  a  summary 
of  the  animals  mentioned  [a+7];  see  under  1);  (8) 
vs  29-45,  the  small  animals  upon  the  earth  (again 
in  four  subdivisions,  viz.  [i]  vs  29-38;  [ii]  vs  39  If; 
[iii]  vs  41  f;    [iv]  vs  44  f). 

(ii)  Ch  12  treats  of  women  in  confinement,  also 
in  four  pieces  (vs  2-4,  birth  of  a  male  child;  ver  5, 
birth  of  a  female  child;  vs  6  f,  purification  cere- 
mony; ver  S,  ordinances  in  case  of  extreme  poverty). 
These  parts  are  not  joined  logically,  but  in  a  rather 
external  manner. 

(iii)  The  passage  13  1 — 14  53,  containing  the 
laws  of  leprosy,  with  the  subscription  in  14  54  ff. 
(Because  seven  points  are  to  be  enumerated,  ver  55 
[garments  and  houses],  this  is  not  as  in  its  further 
exposition  separated  from  the  other  laws  and _  is 
placed  in  their  midst.)  The  exposition  contains 
four  pieces,  viz.  (a)  13  1-44,  leprosy  on  human 
beings  (with  concluding  verses,  45  f),  with  seven 
subdivisions,  of  which  the  first  five  longer  ones  are 
constructed  along  fairly  parallel  lines,  and  again 
can  be  divided  into  four  sub-subdivisions,  viz.  vs 
1-8;  9-17;  18-23;  24-28;  29-37;  38  f;  40-44. 
The  significance  of  the  number  seven  for  the  struc- 
ture (see  [2],  [b],  i,  above)  is  akin  to  that  found,  e.g., 
in  Ex  24  186—31  18  (see  Exodus,  II,  2,  [5]);  Lev 
8,  9  (see  above);  Lev  23,  25,  and  27;  and  possibly 
26  3-13.14-39  (see  below);  finally,  the  whole  Book 
of  Ex  is  divided  into  seven  parts  (see  Exodus,  II,  1). 
(p)  13  47-59,  leprosy  in  connection  with  garments, 
with  four  subdivisions,  namely  vs  47-50;  51  f ;  53  f ; 
')')  ff.  The  last  subdivision  can  again  be  readily 
separated  into  four  sub-subdivisions,  viz.  vs  55; 
56;  57;  58.  (7)14  1-32,  purifications  (ver  2  being 
a  special  superscription),  with  4  subdivisions,  viz. 
(i)  vs  26-3a,  the  leper  before  the  priest;  (ii)  vs 
36-9,  the  purification  ceremonies  on  the  first  seven 
davs,  again  divided  into  4  sub-subdivisions:  vs 
36f;  5-7;  8;  9;  (iii)  vs  10-20,  the  ceremony  of 
the  eighth  day  (4  sacrifices,  namely  vs  12-18,  guilt 
offering;  ver  19a,  sin  offering;  ver  196,  burnt  offer- 
ing; ver  20,  meal  offering;  in  the  4  sacrifices 
(5  12 — 6  7)  there  are  again  4  different  actions:  vs  14; 
15  f;  17;  18;  (iv)  vs  21-32  (in  cases  of  poverty) 
(8)  14  33-53,  leprosy  in  houses,  with  four  subdi- 
visions: vs  33-35;  36-38;  39-42;  43-53. 

(iv)  Ch  15,  sickness  or  natural  issues,  with  4 
subdivisions,  viz.  (<x)  15  1-15,  checked  or  running 
issues  together  with  their  purification  (vs  3-12  con- 
tain 12  laws:  vs  3;  4a;  46;  5;  6;  7;  8;  9;  10a;  106; 
11;  12);  (/3)  vs  16-18,  issue  of  seed;  (7)  vs  19-24, 
periods;   (8)  vs  25-30,  other  flows  of  blood  and  their 


Leviticus 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1870 


purification,  a  +  ft  refer  to  men  and  7  +  5  to 
women;  and  in  addition  to  these  implied  sugges- 
tions, as  a-\-8  to  dealing  with  abnormal  issues  and 
their  purification  ceremonies,  ft-\-j  with  normal 
issues. 

(d)  The  Day  of  Atonement,  (Lev  18):  See  IV,  1, 
(2),  2,  and  under  Atonement,  Day  of. 

(e)  Uses  and  significance  of  the  blood  of  sacri- 
fices (Lev  17)  :  (i)  \'s  3-7,  only  one  place  for  kill- 
ing the  sacrifices  and  the  rejection  of  all  foreign 
cultures;  (ii)  vs  S.9,  only  one  place  for  sacrificing; 
(iii)  vs  10-14,  prohibitive  of  eating  the  blood;  (iv) 
ver  15,  pertaining  to  carcases  of  animals  found  dead 
or  which  have  been  torn  by  wild  beasts. 

Here  the  form  and  the  contents  of  the  section  have 
been  brought  into  perfect  harmony  by  the  author.  Vs 
3  tr.  Sir.  10  If.  K5  ff  begin  with  same  words,  and  each 
contains  a  similar  formula  in  reference  to  the  punish- 
ment, while  logically  vs  10  tr  and  13  If  are  evidently  only 
subdivisions  of  the  third  part  in  vs  10-14,  which  treats 
of  the  prohibition  of  eating  blood.  In  the  fourth  di- 
vision, again,  while  in  substance  connected  with  the  rest, 
there  is  lacking  the  formal  agreement  with  the  first  three 
divisions. 

(/)  (f/)  (Lev  18-20,  21):  These  naturally  fall 
each  into  2  parts.  Chs  18-20  contain  (i)  chs  18  f, 
religious  and  ethical  laws;  (ii)  ch  20,  laws  dealing 
with  punishments. 

(/i)  Religious  and  ethical  laws  (chs  18  f) :  (a) 
ch  18:  Ordinances  with  reference  to  marriage  and 
chastity,  (a.)  18  1-5,  introductory;  (ft)  vs  6-18, 
prohibition  of  marriage  between  kindred  of  blood; 
(7)  vs  19-23,  prohibition  of  other  sexual  sins;  (5) 
vs  24-30,  warnings. 

The  subdivision  OS)  can  perhaps  be  divided  into  10 
subordinate  parts,  if  it  is  permitted  to  combine  the 
different  degrees  of  relationship  mentioned  in  vs  12-14 
(viz.  7.8.9.10.11.12-14.15.16.17.18).  Since  (7)  of  itself 
manifestly  consists  of  5  ordinances  (vs  19.20.21.22.23), 
this  whole  section,  if  we  are  permitted  to  divide;  (a)  into 
5  commandments  (vs  2. 3a. 3b. 4. 5)  and  (<>)  also  into  5  (vs 
24  f.  26-28. 29. 300.306),  would  contain  5X5  words;  but 
this  is  uncertain. 

(h)  Ch  19:  various  commands  of  the  deepest 
significance.  In  order  to  discover  the  divisions  of 
this  chapter  we  must  note  the  characteristic  for- 
mula, "I  am  Jeh,  your  ( iod,"  or  a  similar  expression, 
which  often  appears  at  the  beginning  and  at  the 
end  of  certain  divisions,  e.g.  in  series  (1)  (0)  and 
(10),  but  which  in  the  middle  series  appears  in  each 
case  only  once,  and  which  in  all  the  series  is  found 
also  at  the  conclusion. 

In  this  way  we  can  compute  10  tctralogues.  Thus 
after  tin;  superscription  in  ver  2  containing  a  summary, 
we  have  (i)  vs  3.4  (vs  3a. 36. 4a. 46) ;  (ii)  vs  5-10  (vs  5  f . 
7f.9.10);  (iii)  vs  11  f  (vs  11a. 116a. 116/3. 12) ;  (iv)  vs 
13  f  (vs  13a. 136. 14a. 146);  (v)  vs  15  f  (15a. 156. 16a. 166) ; 
(vi)  vs  17  f  (vs  17a. 176. ISa. 186);  (vii)  vs  19-25  (vs 
19a. 196. 20-22. 23-25);  (viii)  vs  26-28  (vs  26a. 266. 27. 28), 
(ix)  29-32  (vs  29.30.31.32) ;  (x)  vs  33-36  (vs  33.34.35.36) ; 
ver  37  constitutes  the  conclusion  of  the  whole.  (Note 
that  the  number  ten  here  is  certain  in  the  conviction  of 
the  present  writer;  but  he  is  not  quite  so  sure  of  the 
number  of  subdivisions  within  the  main  divisions;  wo 
may  have  to  do  here  with  pentalogues  and  not  with 
tctralogues.  If  this  is  the  case,  then  the  agreements 
with  ch  18  would  under  certain  circumstances  be  even 
greater. ) 

Possibly  groupings  of  two  can  yet  form  a  closer 
union  (cf  on  Ex  1-18,  21-23,  Exodus,  II,  2,  [1-4]). 
At  any  rate  (iii)  and  (iv)  can  be  summarized  under 
the  general  heading  of  defrauding  one's  neighbors; 
(v)  and  (vi)  under  that  of  observation  of  the  laws; 
(vii)  and  (viii)  under  that  of  heathen  abuses;  while 
(ix)  and  (x)  perhaps  intentionally  mingle  together 
the  religious  and  cultural  and  ethical  elements,  in 
order  thereby  already  to  express  that  all  these  things 
are  most  intimately  connected  (but  cf  also  vs  12.14. 
17,  in  the  middle  sections).  In  vs  5  ff.20  ff .23  ff, 
the  author  develops  his  subject  somewhat  more 
fully. 

(/ii)  Laws  dealing  with  punishments  (ch  20): 
The  regulations  in  reference  to  punishments  stand 


in  such  close  relation  to  the  contents  of  ch  18  and 
to  parts  of  ch  19,  that,  it  is  absolutely  incompre- 
hensible how  the  critics  can  assign  these  three 
chapters  to  different  authors.  Even  if  certain 
regulations  of  ch  18  are  not  found  here  in  ch  20 
(vs  7.10.176.18),  and  even  if  another  order  has 
been  followed,  this  variation,  which  doubtless  also 
hangs  together  with  a  new  grouping  of  the  mate- 
rials, is  rather  an  advantage  than  a  disadvantage; 
for  the  whole.  It  is  impossible  to  conceive  that 
a  redactor  would  have;  altered  anything  in  two 
entirely  parallel  and  similar  texts,  or  would  him- 
self have  written  a  parallel  text  differing  from  the 
other.  Ch  20  can  probably  be  divided  into  4  parts, 
viz.  (i)  vs  1-8,  punishments  for  idolatry  and  witch- 
craft with  a  concluding  formula,  vs  7f;  (ii)  vs 
9-18,  punishment  of  death  for  ten  crimes,  all  of 
which,  with  the  exception  of  the  first,  are  of  a  sexual 
nature  (vs  9-18).  It  is  a  question  whether  tin;  first 
in  the  second  group  (ver  14),  i.e.  the  sixth  in  the 
whole  series,  was  intended  to  be  made  prominent 
by  the  peculiar  character  of  the  punishment  (burn- 
ing to  death);  (iii)  vs  19-21,  other  sexual  sins,  with 
lighter  punishments;  (iv)  vs  22-27,  with  4  subdi- 
visions (warning,  vs  22  f;  promise,  ver  24;  em- 
phatic repetitions  of  two  commands  already  given, 
vs  25  ff;  [cf  with  11  44  ff,  and  in  general  with 
ch  11];  and  ver  27  with  19  26.31;  20  6).  Per- 
fectly certain  in  this  chapter  is  the  fact,  that 
the  different  kinds  of  punishments  are  likewise; 
decisive  for  their  order.  It  is  doubtless  not  to  be 
regarded  as  accidental  that  both  at  the  beginning 
and  at  the  end  death  by  stoning  is  mentioned. 

((/)  (Lev  21  1 — 22  33):  (i)  Laws  concerning  the 
quality  of  the  priests  (21  1-22.16);  and  (ii)  con- 
cerning sacred  oblations  (22  17-30)  with  the  sub- 
scription vs  31-33. 

(gi)  Qualities  of  priests:  21  1 — 22  16  in  four  sec- 
tions (21  lff.10ff.16ff;  22  Iff;  note  also  in  21 
18-20  the  12  blemishes;  in  22  4-8  the  7  cases  of 
uncleanness) . 

(<7ii)  Sacred  oblations:  22  17-30  in  four  sections 
(22   18-20.21-25.26-28.29  f). 

(h)  Consecration  of  seasons,  etc  (chs  23,  24): 
(i)  ch  23,  laws  for  the  feasts  (7  sections,  viz.  vs  3. 
4f.6-14.15-22.23-25.26732.33-36,  with  the  appen- 
dix that  in  every  particular  suits  the  connection, 
in  vs  39  ff,  added  to  the  feast  of  the  tabernacles;; 
(ii)  24  1-4,  treating  of  the  sacred  candlestick,  which 
represents  the  moral  conduct  of  the  Israelites,  and 
for  this  reason  suits  admirably  in  the  connection; 
as  this  is  true  also  of  (iii)  24  5-9,  treating  of  the 
shewbread,  which  represents  the  results  of  the  labor 
of  Israel;  (iv)  24  10-23,  containing  the  report  of 
the  punishment  of  a  blasphemer  of  God  and  of  one 
who  cursed. 

Probably  the  example  was  made  of  a  person  who  took 
the  name  of  (iod  in  vain  at  the  time  which  this  chapter 
describes.  But  possibly  there  is  a  still  closer  connection 
to  be  found  with  that  which  precedes.  The  shewbread 
and  the  candlestick  were  found  in  the  holy  place,  which 
with  its  utensils  pictured  the  relation  of  Israel's  char- 
acter to  their  (iod;  while  the  utensils  in  the  Holy  of 
Holies  indicated  God's  relation  to  His  people  (cf  Hengs- 
tenberg,  Beitrage,  III,  644  if).  But  since  the  holy  place, 
in  addition  to  the  shewbread  and  the  candlestick,  con- 
tained only  the  incense  altar,  which  symbolized  the 
prayers  of  Israel,  and  as  the  biasphemer  represents  the 
exact  opposite  of  prayer,  it  is  probable  that  in  24  10  tr 
prayer  is  indicated  by  its  counterpart.  This  section 
consists  of  4  parts,  viz.  vs  10-12;  _  13-14;  15-22  (giving 
a  series  of  punishments  for  certain  wrongdoings  which 
are  more  or  less  closely  connected  with  that  found  in  the 
text) ;    ver  23. 

(i)  Sabbatic  and  Jubilee  years  (ch  25):  Sabbatic 
and  Jubilee  years  in  7  sections,  viz.  vs  1-7;  8-12; 
13-28;   29-34;   35-38;   39-46;   47-55. 

(j)  Conclusion:  Curse  and  blessing  (ch  26): 
The  grand  concluding  chapter,  offering  a  curse  and 
a  blessing  and  containing  all  the  prophetic  utter- 


1877 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Leviticus 


1.  Against 
the  Well- 
hausen 
Hypothesis 


ances  of  later  times  in  a  nutshell,  viz.  (i)  vs  1-2, 
repetition  of  four  important  demands  (vs  la.lb.2a. 
26);  (ii)  26  3-13,  the  blessing,  possibly  to  be  di- 
vided into  7  stages,  one  more  spiritual  than  the 
other;  (iii)  26  4-39,  the  curse,  possibly  to  be  di- 
vided into  seven  stages,  one  more  intense  than  the 
other  (cf  also  the  play  on  words  7  times  repeated,  in 
reference  to  shabbath,  possibly  found  in  vs  34  f,  and 
certainly  found  in  vs  18.21.24.27  f);  (iv)  26  40-45, 
the  mercy  finally  shown  by  Jeh  for  His  covenant's 
sake. 

(k)  Appendix:  Finally,  the  appendix  in  eh  27, 
dealing  with  vows  and  tithes,  in  7  parts,  viz.  vs 
1-8;    9-13;    14-15;    16-21;   26 f;   28-29;   30-33. 

///.  Origin. — As  in  the  art.  Atonement,  Day  of, 
1,2,  (2),  we  took  a  stand  against  the  modern  attempts 
at  splitting  up  the  text,  and  in  III,  1 
against  the  theory  of  the  late  origin 
of  the  whole  pericope,  we  must,  after 
trying  under  II  to  prove  the  unity  of 
the  Book  of  Lev,  yet  examine  the 
modern  claim  that  the  book  as  a  whole 
is  the  product  of  later  times.  Since  the  entire  book 
is  ascribed  to  the  PC  (see  II,  1  above),  the  answer 
to  the  question  as  to  the  time  when  it  was  written 
will  depend  on  the  attitude  which  we  take  toward 
the  Wellhausen  hypothesis,  which  insists  that  the 
PC  was  not  published  until  the  time  of  the  exile 
in  444  BC  (Neh  8-10). 

(1)  Argument  from  silence. — One  of  the  most 
important  proofs  for  this  claim  is  the  "argument 
from  silence"  (argumentum  e  silentio).  How  care- 
ful one  must  be  in  making  use  of  this  argument  can 
be  seen  from  the  fact  that,  e.g.,  the  high  priest  with 
his  full  title  is  mentioned  but  a  single  time  in  the 
entire  Book  of  Lev,  namely  in  21  10;  and  that  the 
Levites  are  not  mentioned  save  once  (25  32  ff), 
and  then  incidentally.  As  is  well  known,  it  is  the 
adherents  of  the  Wellhausen  hypothesis  themselves 
who  now  claim  that  the  bulk  of  the  entire  literature 
of  the  OT  originated  in  the  post-exilic  period  and 
long  after  the  year  444  BC.  Leaving  out  of  con- 
sideration for  the  present  the  Books  of  Ch,  Ezr  and 
Neh,  all  of  which  describe  the  history  of  Israel  from 
the  standpoint  of  P,  we  note  that  this  later  liter- 
ature' is  not  any  richer  in  its  references  to  P  than 
is  the  older  literature;  and  that  in  those  cases  where 
such  references  are  found  in  this  literature  assigned 
to  a  late  period,  it  is  just  as  difficult  to  decide 
whether  these  passages  refer  merely  to  a  custom  or 
to  a  codified  set  of  laws. 

(2)  Attitude  of  prophets  toward  sacrificial  system. 
—A  further  proof  against  the  preexilic  origin  of  the 
priestly  legislation  is  found  in  what  is  claimed  to 
be  the  hostile  attitude  of  the  prophets  to  the  sacri- 
ficial system  (cf  Am  5  21  ff;  4  4f;  Hos  6  6; 
Mic6  6ff;  Isalllff;  Jer  6  20;  7  21  ff ;  Ps 
40  6;  50  8.9:  51  16  f).  But  this  cannot  possibly 
be  an  absolute  antithesis;  for  in  this  case,  it  would 
be  directed  also  against  the  Books  of  the  Covenant 
and,  in  part,  too,  against  Dt,  which  books  in  Ex  20 
24;  22  19;  23  18;  34  25;  Dt  12  5  f.  11. 13.17. 
26;  15  19-23;  16  2.5  f;  17  1;  18  1.3  also  give 
directions  for  sacrifices,  and  which,  at  least  in  part, 
are  yet  regarded  as  older  writings.  Further,  these 
passages  under  discussion  are  also,  in  part,  as- 
signed to  a  later  and  even  a  very  late  period  (cf 
even  such  cases  as  Ps  40  6;  50  8f;  51  16  f;  Mic 
6  6  ff,  and  in  addition  also  Mai  1  10),  i.e.  they  are 
assigned  to  a  time  in  which,  according  to  the  views 
of  the  critics,  the  priestly  laws  are  said  to  have  had 
their  origin  or  were  already  regarded  as  authorita- 
tive. As  a  rule,  the  prophets  make  sacrifices,  Salt- 
bat  lis,  sacred  places  and  persons  a  part  of  their 
pictures  of  the  future;  cf,  as  far  as  sacrifices  are 
concerned,  e.g.  Jer  17  26;  31  14;  33  14  ff.  Fi- 
nally,   Lev  26  31    shows   how,    under   certain   cir- 


cumstances, even  P  can  declare  sacrifices  to  be  use- 
less. 

(3)  The  people's  disobedience.  —  Further,  the 
transgressions  of  the  Levitical  laws  in  the  course 
of  Israel's  history  cannot  be  regarded  as  a  proof  of 
the  non-existence  of  the  priestly  legislation  in  pre- 
exilic times.  This  is  clear  from  an  analogous  case. 
Idolatry  was  forbidden  by  the  Books  of  the  Cove- 
nant (Ex  20-24;  34),  which  are  recognized  as 
ancient  documents;  but  according  to  2  K  22  the 
pious  king  Josiah  down  to  the  year  622  BC  takes  no 
offence  at  idolatry.  Even  after  the  reformation, 
which  had  been  inaugurated  in  consequence  of  the 
finding  of  the  Book  of  the  Law  in  the  temple  during 
the  reign  of  Josiah  (2  K  22  f),  idolatry  was  again 
practised  in  Israel,  as  is  proved  by  Ezk  8  and  Jer 
44,  notwithstanding  that  the  Books  of  the  Covenant 
and  Dt  already  were  extant  at  that  time,  even 
according  to  the  views  of  the  critics. 

But  let  us  pass  on  to  P  itself,  and  not  forget  that 
the  directions  given  for  the  Jubilee  Year  (Lev  25), 
according  to  Jewish  tradition,  were  never  actually 
observed.  According  to  the  reasoning  of  the  crit  ics, 
t  his  law  could  not  be  in  existence  even  in  the  present 
dav.  According  to  all  reports  the  transgressions 
of  'the  Divine  ordinances  began  even  as  early  as  the 
Mosaic  period;  cf  Ex  32  (J,  E,  golden  calf);  Am 
5  25;  Ezk  20;  Dt  12  8  and  also  Lev  17  7  (sac- 
rifice to  the  Satyrs  in  PC).  This  condition  of 
affairs  can  readily  be  understood  because  the  reli- 
gion of  Jeh  does  not  claim  to  be  an  emanation  from 
the  spirit  of  the  people,  but  the  result  of  a  revela- 
tion from  on  high.  In  the  light  of  these  facts  can 
we  be  surprised,  that  in  the  times  of  the  Judges, 
when  a  great  prophetic  leader  was  so  often  not  to 
be  found  in  Israel,  the  apostasy  was  so  great  and 
so  widespread?  But  all  of  these  cases  of  disobe- 
dience, that  have  been  demonstrated  as  actual  fads 
in  Israel's  history,  are  not  able  to  eliminate  the  fact 
that  there  are  many  data  to  prove  the  existence  of 
a  central  sanctuary  already  in  the  earliest  history 
of  the  people,  which  fact  presupposes  as  a  matter 
of  course  that  there  were  also  laws  for  the  cult  us  in 
existence  (see  Exodus,  III,  5).  We  must  further 
not  forget  how  the  sacrifices  of  the  sons  of  Samuel 
(1  S  2  11  ff ) ,  notwithstanding  all  their  arbitrary 
conduct,  presupposes  such  passages  as  Lev  7  30- 
32;  10  15;  Ex  29  31  f;  Lev  8  31;  Nu619i; 
Lev  7  23-32;  or  that  the  high  priest,  as  described 
in  PC,  is  already  before  the  year  444  BC  as  well- 
known  a  character  as  he  is  after  the  exile  (cf  Eze- 
kikl,  II,  2);  or  that  the  question  of  Hag  2  1 1  ff 
takes  into  consideration  a  code  of  cultus-laws,  ami 
that  the  answer  is  given  on  the  basis  of  Lev  6  27; 
Nu  19  22. 

(4)  Indiscriminate  sacrificing.— To  this  must  be 
added  that  the  transgressions,  to  which  the  critics 
appeal  in  proof  of  their  claims,  and  which  they 
abuse  for  their  own  purposes,  must  in  part  be  inter- 
preted differently  from  what  they  are.  In  the  case 
of  sacrificing  indiscriminately  at  any  place  whatever, 
and  by  any  person  whatever,  we  have  in  many  cases 
to  deal  with  extraordinarv  instances  of  theophanies 
(cf  Jgs  2  1  ff;  6  11  ff;  13  1  ff),  as  these  had  been 
foreseen  in  Ex  20  24.  Even  the  Book  of  Dt  does 
not  insist  throughout  (cf  16  21)  that  the  sacrifices 
must  be  made  at  one  and  the  same  place  (cf  also 
PC:  Lev  24  31;  Josh  22).  After  the  rejection 
of  Shiloh,  at  which  the  central  sanctuary  had  been 
deposited,  as  recorded  in  1  S  4,  the  cultural  ordi- 
nances of  PC,  as  we  learn  from  Jer  7  11  ff;  26  6; 
Ps  78  59  ff,  became  more  or  less  a  dead  letter. 
I'fven  the  Books  of  Ch,  which  throughout  record 
history  from  the  standpoint  of  the  PC,  at  tins 
period  and  down  to  the  dedication  of  the  temple 
take  no  offence  at  the  cultural  acts  of  a  Solomon  in 
contrast  with  their  attitude  toward  the  conduct  of 


Leviticus 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1S78 


Uzziah  (see  2  Ch  1  (5;  6  1-4;  7  1-7,  as  compared 
with  26  16  ff).  In  the  same  way  the  pious  people 
in  the  Northern  Kingdom,  after  it  had,  by  Divine 
consent,  been  separated  from  the  Southern,  could 
not  do  otherwise  than  erect  altars  for  themselves, 
since  they  could  not  participate  in  the  worship  of 
the  calves  in  Bethel  and  Dan.  Further,  modern 
criticism  overlooks  the  fact  that  what  is  regular 
and  normal  is  much  less  liable  to  be  reported  in  his- 
torical narrative  than  that  which  is  irregular  and 
abnormal. 

(5)  Dt  ami  PC,  etc. — It  is  not  possible  at  this  place  to 
enter  into  further  details;  we  accordingly  refer  only  to 
Exoih's,  ill  and  IV;  Day  of  Atonement,  III,  and  esp. 
Ezekiel,  II.  2.  where  the  proof  lias  been  furnished  that 
this  prophet  belongs  to  a  later  period  than  PC  as  far  as 
Ezk  40-48  (containing  his  picture  of  the  future)  in  Ken- 
oral  is  concerned,  and  as  far  as  Ezk  44  4  If  (where  it  is 
claimed  that  the  prophet  first  introduces  the  distinction 
between  priests  and  Levites)  in  particular  is  concerned. 
All  the  important  problems  that  are  connected  with  this 
matter,  esp.  the  difficulties  which  result  from  the  Well- 
hausen  hypothesis,  when  the  questions  as  to  the  purpose, 
the  form,  the  success  and  the  origin  of  the  priestly  legis- 
lation come  under  consideration,  an;  discussed  in  my 
book,  Are  the  Critics  Righlf  The  result  of  this  investi- 
gation is  all  the  more  noteworthy,  as  I  was  myself 
formerly  an  adherent  of  the  Wellhausen  school,  but  was 
forced  to  the  conclusion  that  this  hypothesis  is  un- 
tenable. 

We  have  here  yet  to  refer  to  the  one  fact  that  the 
relation  of  Dt  and  the  PC,  as  far  as  Lev  in  par- 
ticular is  concerned,  justifies  the  scheme  of  P  fol- 
lowed by  D  as  the  historical  order,  while  Well- 
hausen makes  D  older  than  P.  Dt  10  8f;  33  8  ff 
presuppose  more  detailed  ordinances  in  reference  to 
the  priests  such  as  those1  which  have  been  given  in 
P.  The  book  of  Dt  further  takes  into  account 
different  kinds  of  sacrifices  (cf  12  5  f.ll. 13. 17.26; 
15  19-23;  17  1;  18  1.3,  such  as  are  described  in 
Lev  1  ff ) .  The  law  in  Dt  14  (ordinances  with 
reference  to  what  is  clean)  agrees  almost  word  for 
word  with  Lev  11,  and  is  in  such  perfect  harmony 
with  the  linguistic  peculiarities  of  PC,  that  Lev  11 
must  l)e  regarded  as  the  original,  and  not  vice  versa. 
Dt  24  8f  refers  directly  to  the  injunctions  concern- 
ing leprosy,  as  we  find  these  in  Lev  13  f ,  and  the 
Deuteronomic  passage  is  doubtless  modeled  after 
that  of  Lev.  Dt  12  15.22;  15  22  cannot  be  under- 
stood at  all,  except  in  the  light  of  Lev  17  13.  Dt 
26  14  ff  again  expressly  takes  into  account  ideas 
that  have  been  taken  from  Lev  22  3  ff.  As  far  as 
the  laws  dealing  with  the  great  feasts  in  Dt  16 
are  concerned,  it  is  impossible  to  understand  ver  9 
without  Lev  23  15ff.l0f;  and  the  designation 
"feast  of  tabernacles"  in  vs  13  ff  cannot  even  be 
understood  without  a  reference  to  such  a  law  as  we 
find  in  Lev  23  39  ff .  _  The  other  passages  to  be 
discussed  on  this  subject  lead  us  to  the  following 
results. 

Even  if  the  Book  of  Dt  were  the  product  of  the 
7th  cent.  BC,  the  facts  that  have  been  stated  above 
would  nevertheless  disprove  the  claim 
2.  Connec-  of  the  Wellhausen  hypothesis  as  to  an 
tion  with  exilic  or  post-exilic  date  for  the  PC. 
Mosaic  But  if  Dt,  even  in  its  essential  and 

Period  fundamental  parts,  merely,  is  Mosaic 

(cf  Are  the  Critics  Right?  1-55),  then 
the  PC  which  is  still  older  than  Dt  must  also  belong 
to  the  Mosaic  period. 

(1)  PC  and  desert  conditions. — This  conclusion 
is  in  this  point  confirmed  still  further  by  a  series 
of  facts.  As  Dt  permits  the  firstborn  to  be  ran- 
somed (Dt  14  22  ff),  but  the  PC  demands  their 
consecration  in  natura  (Lev  27  26  f;  cf  Nu  18 
15  ff),  the  latter  ordinances  could  be  preferred  and 
enforced  only  during  the  wandering  in  the  desert, 
where  the  whole  nation  was  in  the  neighborhood  of 
the  sanctuary.  The  fact  that  the  ordinances  deal- 
ing with  the  domestic  celebration  of  the  Passover 
in  the  private  houses  on  the  14th  of  Nisan  and  the 


holy  convocation  on  the  15th  of  Nisan  at  the  sanc- 
tuary could  be  carried  out  only  during  the  wander- 
ings in  the  desert  (cf  Ex  12  311.6;  Lev  23  5;  Nu 
28  16;  Lev  27  (iff;  Nu  28  17ff),  and  that  this 
was  changed  in  Dt  16  5  f  to  correspond  to  changed 
conditions,  can  be  seen  by  reference  to  Exodus, 
III,  3.  Still  more  important  is  a  third  command  in 
Lev  17  in  comparison  with  Dt  12.  The  command- 
ment that  every  animal  that  is  to  be  slain  is  to  be 
brought  to  the  central  sanctuary  can  have  a  pur- 
pose only  for  the  Mosaic  period,  and  could  not  even 
have  been  invented  at  a  later  period.  Because  of 
the  entrance  of  Israel  into  Canaan,  the  Book  of  I  )t 
changes  this  ordinance  in  such  a  way  that  from  this 
time  on  the  killing  of  the;  animals  is  permitted  at 
any  place  (12  13ff.20ff).  The  different  commands 
in  reference  to  the  carcases  of  animals  that  have  died 
and  of  those  torn  to  pieces  are  all  dependent  on  Lev 
17.  In  Dt,  14  21,  it  was  possible  to  forbid  the  use 
of  such  animals  absolutely  for  Israel,  because  from 
now  on,  and  in  contrast  to  Lev  17,  the  killing  of 
sacrificial  animals  was  permitted  at  any  place  (vs 
13  ff).  In  Ex  22  30  all  use  of  such  meat  could 
be  forbidden,  because  Lev  17,  with  its  command 
to  bring  all  blood  to  the  sanctuary,  had  not  yet 
been  given.  Lev,  now,  on  the  other  hand,  forbids 
this  use  only  to  the  priests  (22  8),  and  sees  in  this 
use  in  the  case  of  the  other  Israelites  only  a  transi- 
tory defilement  (cf  Lev  17  15;  11  40)";  and  in 
7  24  forbids  only  the  use  of  the;  fat,  but  not  of  the 
meat  of  these  animals;  for  now,  according  to  Lev 
17  1  ff,  all  the  killing  is  a  sacrifice  which  only 
those  who  are  clean  were  permitted  to  eat  and 
which  could  not  be  secured  at  all  times  (cf  Hoff- 
mann, op.  fit.,  23  f). 

Our  exposition  of  Lev  17  1  ff  is,  however,  in 
another  respect  also  of  the  greatest  significance,  for 
in  vs  4-6.8  f  the  tent  of  meeting  is  presupposed 
as  existing;  in  vs  5.8  also  different  kinds  of  sacri- 
fices, and  in  ver  6  the  priesthood;  so  that  at  once 
further  ordinances  concerning  the  tent  of  meeting, 
the  sacrificial  code,  the  priesthood,  such  as  we  find 
in  Ex  25  ff;  35  ff;  Lev  17;  Ex  29;  Lev  8—10 
21  ff,  were  possible  and  necessary,  and  these  very 
laws  must  probably  originate  in  and  date  from  the 
Mosaic  period.  This  same  conclusion  is  sustained 
by  the  following  considerations.  For  what  other 
source  or  time  could  be  in  harmony  with  such  state- 
ments found  very  often  in  other  parts  of  Lev  also, 
as  "into  the  camp"  in  4  11  ff;  6  11;  13  46;  14  3.8 
(unconscious  contrast  to  later  times);  14  33  ff. 40. 
41.45.53;  16  26-28;  24  10-23;  or  "into  the  desert," 
in  16  10.21L  In  5  15.18;  6  6  (cf  also  27  2ff),  the 
words  "according  to  thy  estimation"  are  addressed 
personally  to  Moses.  In  6  20  a  calculation  is  based 
on  the  day  on  which  Aaron  was  consecrated  to  the 
priesthood,  while  ver  22  is  the  first  that  has  general 
coloring.  Such  hints,  which,  as  it  were,  have  only 
been  accidentally  scattered  in  the  body  of  the  laws, 
and  which  point  to  the  situation  of  the  lawgiver  ami 
of  his  times,  are  of  especial  value  for  the  argument 
in  favor  of  the  Mosaic  origin  of  these  laws.  Further, 
we  everywhere  find  that  Aaron  and  his  sons  are 
as  yet  the  only  incumbents  of  the  priestly  office 
(cf  1  5.7.8.11;  2.3;  3  13;  6  9.14.16,  etc).  All  the 
laws  claim  to  have  been  given  through  Moses 
or  Aaron  or  through  both  at  Mt.  Sinai  (see  I  above). 
And  who,  in  later  times,  if  it  was  the  purpose  to 
magnify  the  priesthood  of  Aaron,  would  have 
thought  of  inventing  the  fact  that  on  the  Day  of 
Atonement  and  on  other  occasions  it  was  necessary 
for  Aaron  to  bring  a  burnt  offering  and  a  sin  offer- 
ing for  himself  (Lev  16;  8-10;  6  19  ff),  or  that 
Moses  in  his  view  of  a  certain  cultural  act  had  been 
mistaken  (cf  Lev  10  16  ff)?  The  law  concerning 
the  Jubilee  Year  (Lev  25)  presupposes  that  each 
tribe  is  confined  in  its  own  district  and  is  not  inter- 


1879 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Leviticus 


mingled   with   the  other   tribes,    a  presupposition 

which  was  no  longer  possible  after  the  occupation 
of  Canaan,  and  is  accordingly  thinkable  only  in  the 
Mosaic  times.  And  now  let  us  remember  that  this 
fact,  when  we  recall  (see  II,  above)  that  the  unity 
of  the  book  was  proved,  is  a  ground  for  claiming 
that  the  entire  book  dates  from  the;  Mosaic  period. 
As  far  as  Lev  at  least  is  concerned,  there  is  nothing 
found  in  the  book  that  calls  for  a  later  date.  Lev 
18  24  ff  can  be  regarded  as  post-Mosaic  only  if  we 
translate  these  verses  thoughtlessly,  as  though  the 
inhabitants  of  the  country  were  here  described  as 
being  expelled  earlier.  On  the  other  hand,  in  ver 
24,  just  as  is  the;  case  with  the  parallel  passage,  20 
22  ff,  the  idea  is,  without  any  doubt,  that  Israel 
is  not  yet  in  the  Holy  Land.  Accordingly  the  waw 
consecutives  at  this  place  are  to  be  regarded  not  as 
indicating  temporal  but  logical  sequences.  In  the 
passage  18  27,  we  further  find  the  archaic  form  ha' el 
for  ha'elleh;  cf  in  the  Pent  Gen  19  8.25;  26  3.4; 
Dt  4  42;  7  22;  19  11.  Just  as  little  does  ch  26 
take  us  into  the  exilic  period.  Only  dogmatical 
prejudices  can  take  offence  at  prediction  of  the 
exile.  Lev  26  cannot  be  regarded  as  a  "prophecy 
after  the  event,"  for  the  reason,  too,  that  the  resto- 
ration of  the  people  by  God's  pardon  is  here  prom- 
ised (cf  vs  40  ff).  And,  too,  the  exile  is  not  the  only 
punishment  with  which  Israel  is  threatened;  and 
finally  as  far  as  Israel  is  concerned,  by  the  side  of 
the  statements  concerning  their  dwelling  in  one 
single  country  (vs  34.3K.41.44),  it  is  also  said  that 
they  are  to  be  scattered  among  many  nations  and 
countries  (cf  vs  23.36.39). 

(2)  Unity  and  construction  point  to  Mosaic 
origin. — If  to  this  we  yet  add  the  unity  of  the 
thought  and  of  the  external  construction,  looking 
at  the  whole  matter,  we  do  not  see  anything  that 
would  lead  us  to  accept  a  post-Mosaic  period  for 
this  book.  Then,  too,  it  is  from  the  outset  in  itself 
oidy  probable  that  Moses  gave  his  people  a  body 
of  cultus-laws  and  did  not  leave  this  matter  to 
chance.  We  need  oidy  think  of  the  great  role 
which  among  the  oriental  peoples  was  assigned  to 
their  religious  cult  us.  It  is  indeed  nowhere  said, 
in  so  many  words,  that  Moses  wrote  even  the  laws 
of  the  PC.  But  the  references  made  by  Dt  to  the 
PC;  the  fact  that  Nu  33,  which  also  is  credited  to 
Moses,  is  characterized  by  the  style  of  PC;  further, 
that,  the  author  of  Dt  could  write  in  the  style  of  P 
(cf  Dt  14  with  Lev  11) ;  and,  per  contra,  that  the 
author  of  Lev  26  had  the  mastery  of  the  style 
peculiar  to  Dt  (cf  Dt  28) — all  this  makes  it  probable 
that  Moses  even  wrote  these  things  himself;  at  any 
rate,  no  reasons  can  be  cited  against  this  view. 
Very  interesting  in  connection  with  the  question  of 
the  unity  of  the  Pent  are  the  close  connecting  links 
between  Lev  18  24  ff;  20  22  ff,  and  JE.  The 
question  whether  Moses  in  the  composition  of  the 
book  made  use  of  his  own  notes  or  of  those  of  others, 
cannot  be  decided;  but  this  is  an  irrelevant  matter. 
What  the  facts  may  be  in  reference  to  the  develop- 
ment of  other  ordinances,  which  have  taken  differ- 
ent forms  in  the  Books  of  the  Covenant  and  in  PC, 
or  in  Dt  and  in  PC,  and  whether  the  existence  of 
these  differences  in  the  cases  of  particular  laws 
compels  us  to  accept  later  additions,  cannot  be  dis- 
cussed at  this  place.  Yet  from  the  outset  it  is  to 
be  emphasized  that  already  in  the  Mosaic  period 
there  could  possibly  have  been  reasons  for  chang- 
ing some  of  these  laws;  esp.  was  this  so  in  the  Book 
of  Dt,  just  before  the  people  entered  the  promised 
land  (cf  e.g.  the  laws  concerning  tithes,  Dt  12 
6f.l7ff;  14  22  ff;  26  12  ff;  Lev  27  30  ff;  Nu  18 
20  ff,  or  the  laws  concerning  contributions  for  sacri- 
fices, Dt  18  3;    Lev  7  29  ff). 

Then,  too,  the  decision  whether  this  development  took 
place  as  early  as  the  time  of  Moses  or  not  is  not  to  be 


made  dependent  on  the  possibility  of  our  being  able  to 
explain  the  reasons  for  such  changes.  We  lack  both  the 
daily  practice  in  these  cultural  ordinances,  as  also  the 
oral  instruction  which  makes  these  ordinances  intelli- 
gible. The  manner  in  which  in  Lev  1  it  the  ditFerent 
kinds  of  sacrifices  are  introduced  sounds  as  though  these 
were  already  known  to  the  people  and  were  practised 
by  them,  except  in  the  case  of  sin  and  guilt  offerings. 
This  is  further  in  harmony  with  earlier  narratives,  which 
already  report  concerning  sacrifices.  It  is  possible  that 
in  this  way  we  can  also  explain  a  certain  relationship 
between  the  Jewish  sacrificial  ritual  and  that  of  Babylon 
(cf  Zimmern,  Beitr&ge  zur  Kenntnis  der  babylouischen 
Religion).  The  ordinances  in  reference  to  tin:  clean  and 
the  unclean  may  also  have  emanated  from  religious  and 
ethical  ideas  which  are  older  than  Moses'  times.  In  this 
matter  the  thought  was  decisive,  that  everything  that 
was  impure,  everything  that  suggested  death  or  decay 
or  sin  or  displeasure  to  God,  should  be  kept  separated 
and  apart  from  the  religion  of  Jeh.  In  all  such  cases 
it  is  not  the  newness  of  the  laws  but  their  adapt  ability 
to  the  character  and  spirit  of  the  Jeh-religion  that  is  to 
be  regarded  as  the  decisive  factor. 

IV.  The  Significance.  —  (1)  The  law  contains 
God's  will,  although  in  transitory  form.  In  the  art. 
Ezekiel  under  II,  2,  (3)  we  have  re- 
1.  Positive  ferred  to  the  fact  that  Leviticism  is  an 
important  and  necessary  stage  in  the 
development  of  true  religion,  and  that  the  entire  OT 
did  not  advance  beyond  this  stage  and  was  not  in- 
tended to  go  beyond  it.  The  leading  prophets 
(Isa  40  ff,  Jer,  Ezk),  even  in  their  visions  of  the 
future,  cling  to  the  temple,  sacrifices,  holy  obla- 
tions, sacred  seasons  and  persons.  Christianity 
was  the  first  to  discard  this  external  shell,  after  it 
had  ripened  the  kernel  that  was  concealed  in  this 
shell  (cf  worship  in  the  spirit  and  in  the  truth,  Jn 
4  20-24).  Down  to  this  time,  kernel  and  shell 
were  inseparably  united.  This  must  not  be  for- 
gotten, if  we  would  appreciate  the  Book  of  Lev 
properly.  It  is  true  that  this  book  to  a  large  extent 
deals  with  laws  and  ordinances,  to  which  we  Chris- 
tians should  not  and  need  not  return  (cf  the  voice 
from  heaven  to  Peter,  Acts  10  15,  "What  God  hath 
cleansed,  make  not  thou  common,"  and  Paul's 
opposition  to  all  work-righteousness  that  was  based 
on  compliance  with  these  external  institutions, 
e.g.  in  Rom,  Gal,  Col,  as  also  his  independent  atti- 
tude over  against  the  Jewish  law  in  those  cases 
where  it  could  not  be  taken  into  consideration  as 
the  way  to  salvation;  cf  Acts  21  17  ff;  Rom  14 
Iff;  1  Cor  9  19  ff).  But  these  laws  and  ordi- 
nances were  something  more  than  merely  external 
matters,  since  they  contained  the  highest  religious 
thoughts.  We  surely  should  not  forget  from  the 
outset  that  Lev  19  contains  also  the  word,  "Thou 
shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself"  (ver  18),  a 
command  which  in  vs  33  f  is  even  made  to  cover 
the  strangers  too,  and  which  by  Jesus,  next  to  the 
absolute  love  demanded  for  God,  is  designated  as 
the  chief  commandment  of  the  law  (Mt  22  39); 
and  when  in  19  17  f  the  hatred  of  the  brother  and 
desire  for  revenge  on  him  are  forbidden,  we  already 
seem  to  breathe  tin;  atmosphere  of  Christianity. 
The  entire  ch  19  is,  in  addition,  as  it  were,  a  sermon 
on  almost  all  of  the  commandments  of  the  Deca- 
logue, the  abiding  authority  of  which  the  Christian, 
after  the  example  and  interpretation  of  Jesus,  will 
at  once  recognize.  But  as  the  Decalogue  itself  is 
found  inclosed  in  the  specifically  Jewish  national 
shell  (cf  Ex  20  2,  exodus  out  of  Egypt;  ver  8, 
Sabbath  commandment;  ver  12,  promise  of  the 
holy  land;  ver  17,  slaves),  so,  too,  this  is  the  case 
in  Lev  19  (cf  vs  3.0  ff. 20-22.23-25.29.30.33  f). 
But  how  little  the  specifically  Levitical  ordinances, 
in  the  narrower  sense  of  the  term,  exclude  the  spirit- 
ual factor,  and  how  closely  they  are  interwoven 
with  the  deepest  of  thoughts,  can  be  seen  from  ch 
26,  according  to  which  all  merely  external  sacrifices, 
into  which  formalism  naturally  the  Levitical  legal 
code  could  degenerate,  do  not  protect  from  punish- 
ment, if  the  heart  remains  uncircumcised  (vs  30  f  .41). 


Leviticus 
Libnah 


TMIO  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1880 


Above  all,  thorn  .-ire  four  loading  thoughts  which 
arc  emphasized  forcibly,  particularly  by  the  legal 
system  of  1'C.  In  reality  all  times,  all  places,  all 
property,  all  persona  are  sacred  to  Cod.  But  as 
it  is  impossible  that  this  ideal  should  be  realized 
in  view  of  the  imperfections  and  guilt  of  man,  it 
was  decided  that  certain  particular  seasons  and 
places,  gifts  and  persons  should  be  separated  from 
others,  and  that  in  these  this  sacredness  should  be 
realized  as  far  as  possible,  and  that,  these  repre- 
sentatives should  by  their  mere  existence  contin- 
ually remind  the  people  of  Cod's  more  compre- 
hensive claims,  and  at  the  same  time  arouse  and 
maintain  the  consciousness  that  their  entire  life 
was  to  be  saturated  by  the  thoughts  of  a  holy  God 
and  His  demands.  From  this  point  of  view,  none 
of  the  particular  laws  are  worthless;  and  when  they 
are  once  appreciated  in  this  their  central  signifi- 
cance, we  can  understand  that  each  law  has  its 
share  in  the  eternal  authority  of  the  law  (of  Mt  5 
17  f).  Paul,  too,  who  absolutely  rejects  the  law 
as  a  way  to  salvation  expresses  no  doubt  that  the 
law  really  contains  the  will  of  Cod  (Rom  8  3  f ) ; 
and  ho  declares  that  it  was  the  purpose  of  the  send- 
ing of  Jesus,  t  hat  t  he  demands  made  upon  us  by  the 
law  should  be  fulfilled;  and  in  Rom  13  10  he  tolls 
us  that  love  is  the  fulfilment  of  the  law  (cf  vor  8); 
and  according  to  Rom  7  12,  it  is  certain  that  the 
law  is  holy  and  the  commandment  is  holy,  righteous 
and  good. 

(2)  The  law  prepares  for  the  widerstanding  of 
Christianity. — But  the  ceremonial  law,  too,  con- 
tains not  only  the  demands  of  God's  will.  It  pre- 
pares also  for  the  understanding  of  the  work,  the 
person  and  the  mission  of  Jesus.  In  Ex  25  8;  29 
45  f ;  40  34  IT  the  indwelling  of  God  in  the  tent  of 
mooting  is  declared,  which  prophesied  the  incarna- 
tion of  God  in  Christ  Jesus  (Jn  1  14);  and  then 
the  indwelling  of  God  through  the  Holy  Ghost  in 
the  Christian  congregation  (1  Pet  2  5;  Eph  4  12) 
and  in  the  individual  (I  Cor  3  10;    6  19;    2  Cor 

6  10;  Jn  14  23).  Through  the  sacrificial  system 
in  Lev  1-7,  and  the  ordinances  of  the  Day  of 
Atonement  (Lev  16),  we  are  enabled  to  understand 
the  character  of  sin,  of  grace  and  of  the  forgiveness 
of  sin  (cf  Atonement,  Day  op,  II).  Let  us  remem- 
ber to  what  extent  Jesus  and  Paul,  the  Ep.  to  the 
Ho,  and  the  other  NT  writings  operate  with  OT 
thoughts,  particularly  with  those  of  Lev  (priest- 
hood, sacrifices,  atonement,  Passover,  signification 
of  blood,  etc),  and  Paul  correctly  says  that  the 
righteousness  of  Cod  was  prophesied,  not  only  by 
the  prophets,  but  also  by  the  law  (Rom  3  21). 

(3)  The  law  as  a  tutor  unto  Christ. — Finally,  the 
ceremonial  law  too  has  the  purpose  to  protect  Israel 
from  the  errors  of  the  heathen,  a  thought  that  is 
os]).  emphasized  in  the  Law  of  Holiness  (cf  Lev  18 
3.24  ff;  19  20  ff;  20  2  ff.22  ff ;  26  1)  and  which  is 
in  harmony  with  the  elementary  stage  of  Israel's 
education  in  the  OT,  when  the  people  still  stood  in 
need  of  the  "tutor  ....  unto  Christ"  (Gal  3 
23  f;  4  1).  This  already  loads  us  over  to  the 
negative  side,  which  Paul  particularly  emphasizes. 

The  law  is  in  itself  holy,  and  the  commandment 
is  holy  and  righteous  and  good   (Rom  7  12),  but 

it  has  lost  its  power  because  the  flesh 
2.  Negative  of  man  is  sinful   (cf  Rom  8  3);    and 

thus  it  happens  that  the  law  is  the 
occasion  for  sin  and  leads  to  a  knowledge  of  sin  and 
to  an  increase  of  sin   (cf  Rom  3  20;    4  15;    5  20; 

7  13);  and  this  shall  bo  brought  about  according 
to  the  purposes  of  God  in  order  that  in  upright 
hearts  the  desire  for  forgiveness  should  arise.  It  is 
true  that  nothing  was  so  well  adapted  as  were  the 
details  of  the  law,  to  bring  to  consciousness  in  the 
untutored  mind  that  in  which  man  yet  came  short 
of  the  Divine  commands.     And  as  far  as  the  removal 


of  the  guilt  was  concerned,  nothing  was  needed 
except  the  reference  to  this  in  order  to  make 
men  feel  their  imperfections  (cf  He  7-10).  God 
merely  out  of  grace  was  for  the  time  being  con- 
tented with  the  blood  of  goats  and  of  calves  as  a 
means  for  atonement;  He  was  already  counting 
on  the  forgiveness  in  Christ  (Rom  3  25").  All  the 
sacrifice's  in  Lev  1-7,  e.g.,  did  not  make  the  ritual 
of  the  Day  of  Atonement  superfluous  (Lev  16); 
and  in  this  case  tin;  very  man  who  brought  the  sac- 
rifice was  also  a  sinful  Croat  ure  who  must  first  secure 
the  forgiveness  of  God  for  himself.  Only  Jesus, 
at  once  the  perfect  priest  and  the  perfect  sacrifice, 
has  achieved  tin;  perfect  redemption.  It  according- 
ly remains  a  fact  that  the  righteousness  which  avails 
before  God  can  be  secured  only  through  faith  in 
Jesus  Christ,  and  not  through  the  deeds  of  the  law 
(Rom  and  Gal). 

The  law  with  its  incomplete  atonement  and  with 
its  arousing  of  the  consciousness  of  sin  drives  man 
to  Jesus;  and  this  is  its  negative  significance. 
Jesus,  however,  who  Himself  has  fulfilled  the  de- 
mands of  the  law,  gives  us  through  His  spirit  the 
power,  that  the  law  with  its  demands  (1,  [1] 
above)  may  no  longer  stand  threateningly  over 
against  us,  but  is  now  written  in  our  hearts.  In 
this  way  the  OT  law  is  fulfilled  in  its  transitory 
form,  and  at  the  same  time  becomes  superfluous, 
after  its  eternal  contents  have  been  recognized, 
maintained  and  surpassed. 

Literature. — Comms.  by  Ryssel,  Lange,  Keil, 
Strack,  Baentsch,  Bertholet;  esp.  for  the  Law  of  Holi- 
ness sec  Horst,  Lev  17-26  and  Ezk;  Wurster,  ZATW, 
1884,  112  If;  Baentsch,  Das  Heiligkeitsgcsetz;  Kloster- 
niann,  Der  Pentateuch,  368  ff;  Delitzsch,  Zeitschrift 
fur  kirch.  Wissenschaft  und  Leben,  1880,  617  ff;  Intros 
to  the  OT  by  Baudissin,  Strack,  Kuenen,  Konig,  Cornill, 
Driver,  Sellin;  Archaeology,  by  Benzinger,  Nowack; 
History  of  Israel,  by  Kohler,  Konig,  Kittel,  Oettli, 
Klostermann,  Stadc,  Wcllhausen;  for  kindred  laws  in 
Babylonia,  cf  Zimmern,  Beitrage  zur  Kenntnis  der  babyl. 
Religion;  against  the  Graf-Wellhausen  hypothesis, 
Moller,  Are  the  Critics  Right  f  (ib,  "Literature"),  and 
art.  EzEKiELin  this  Encyclopaedia;  Orr,  POT;  Wiener, 
EPC,  OP;  Hoffmann,  Die  wichtigsten  Instanzen  gegen  die 
Graf-Wellhausensche  Hypothesc;  Kegel,  With.  Vatke  und 
die  Graf-WelUiausensche  Hypothese. 

Wilhelm  Moller 
LEVY,  lev'i.     See  War. 

LEWD,  lud,  LEWDNESS,  lud'nes  (nET,  zim- 
mah,  rnSTp  ,  mczimmah,  P^HI ,  nabhlfdh;  irovripds, 
potieros,  p<j8iovp-yT]|xa,  rhadiourgema) : 

There  are  three  Heb  words  trd  "lewd,"  "lewd- 
ness": (1)  Zimmdh,  meaning  a  "plan,"  a  "purpose," 
so  trd  several  times  and  then  shading 

1.  In  the       off  into  "evil  plan";  trd  also  "heinous 
OT  crime,"   "wicked  purpose  or    device." 

It  is  the  most  frequent  word  for 
"lewdness":  Ezk  16  27,  "lewd  way";  found  in  Jgs 
20  0;  Ezk  16  27.43.58;  22  9.11;  23  21.27.29.35.44. 
48.49;  24  13;  Hos  6  9.  (2)  Mezimmah  means  a 
"plan,"  generally  "[evil]  machination";  used  only 
in  Jer  11  15,  "lewdness."  (3)  Nabhluth,  meaning 
"disgrace"  in  reference  to  females.  Found  only  in 
Hos  2  10,  ARVm  "shame." 

The  word  trd  "lewd,"  "lewdness"  in  AV  occurs 
only  twice  in  the  NT,  and  in  each  instance  is  more 

correctly  trd  in  RV  by  another  word: 

2.  In  the        (1)  Poncros,  found  in  Acts  17  5,  trd  in 
NT  ARV  "vile."     The  Gr  word  elsewhere 

istrd  "bad,"  "evil,"  "grievous,"  "harm- 
ful," "malicious,"  "wicked."  AV  "lewd"  gives  the 
wrong  impression.  The  idea  of  unchastity  is  not 
present  in  the  text  or  context.  (2)  Rhadiourgema 
likewise  occurs  only  once,  viz.  Acts  18  14,  and  is 
correctly  trd  in  RV  and  ARV  "wicked  villany."  The 
thought  of  impurity  or  lewdness  is  foreign  to  the 
meaning  in  this  connection. 

William  Edward  Raffety 


1881 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Leviticus 
Libnah 


LIBANU3,  lib'a-nus.     See  Lebanon. 

LIBATION,  ll-ba'shun.     See  Sacrifice. 

LIBERAL,  lib'er-al,  LIBERALITY,  lib-Sr-al'i-ti, 
LIBERALLY,  lib'er-al-i:  The  different  tonus  of  the 
word  all  refer  to  one  who  is  generous,  bountiful, 
willing  and  ready  to  give  and  to  help.  Both  the 
Ileb  words  of  the  OT  and  the  Gr  words  of  the  NT 
trd  into  the  Eng.  word  "liberal"  have  a  deeper  and 
nobler  meaning  than  is  generally  conveyed  by  the 
Eng.  word.  In  Prov  11  25,  the  liberal  soul 
(nephesh  Irrdkhuh)  means  a  soul  that  carries  a  bless- 
ing. In  Isa  32  5,  ARV  has  "bountiful"  where  AV 
has  "liberal,"  and  in  ver  8  "noble"  takes  the  place 
of  "liberal"  (nadhibh).  The  principal  Gr  words 
are  a.Tr\6Ti]s)  haplotes,  lit.  "simplicity,"  "sincerity," 
and  xapej,  ckdris,  "grace,"  "favor."  h\  1  Cor 
16  3,  "bounty"  substitutes  "liberality."  It  is  well 
to  bear  in  mind  that  a  Bib.  liberality  can  spring  only 
out  of  a  noble  soul,  and  is  Godlike  in  its  genesis  and 
spirit.  G.  II.  Gerberding 

LIBERTINES,  lib'er-tinz,  li-bur'tinz  (AiBcpTivoi, 

Libertinoi):  These  were  among  Stephen's  oppo- 
nents: "There  arose  certain  of  them  that  were  of 
the  synagogue  called  [the  synagogue]  of  the  Liber- 
tines, and  of  the  Cyrenians,  and  of  the  Alexandrians, 
and  of  them  of  Cilicia  and  Asia,  disputing  with 
Stephen"  (Acts  6  9). 

I  Tow  many  synagogues  are  denoted  ?  The  answer  may 
aid  in  the  interpretation  of  "Libertine.:)" :  (1)  The  words 
may  be  read  as  denoting  one  synagogue 
1  »qVna  (Calvin).  However  (a)  the  number  of 
x.  oyna-  worshippers  would  be  extremely  large,  (6) 
gogue  of  the  bond  of  union  is  not  obvious,  (c)  rab- 
the  Liber-  binic  tradition  speaks  of  4S0  synagogues 
,•"    ,,  in  Jerus.     (2)  The  double  tf>n  ("of  them") 

lines  seems  to  denote  two  parties,  the  one  con- 

sisting "of  them  that  were  of  the  syna- 
gogue called  [the  synagogue]  of  Libertines  and  Cy- 
renians and  Alexandrians,"  the  other  "of  them  of 
Cilicia  and  Asia"  (Winer,  Weudt,  Holtzmann).  But 
the  second  ton  is  dependent  on  synagogue.  "As  Cy- 
renians and  Alexandrians  both  belong  to  towns  .... 
a  change  of  designation  would  be  necessary  when  the 
Jews  of  whole  provinces  came  to  be  mentioned:  this 
being  the  case,  the  article  could  not  but  be  repeated, 
without  any  reference  to  the  t&n  before"  (Alfonli. 
(3)  There  were  three  synagogues:  (a)  that  of  the  Liber- 
tines, (6)  that  of  the  Cyrenians  and  Alexandrians  and 
(c)  that  "of  them  of  Cilicia  and  Asia"  (Alford).  There 
is  no  grammatical  reason  for  this  division,  but  it  is  based 
on  an  interpretation  of  "Libertines."  There  were 
"  Libertines,"  Africans  and  Asiatics.  (4)  Each  party 
had  a  separate  synagogue  (Schiirer,  Hausrath).  The 
number  of  worshippers,  their  different  origin  and  con- 
nections, and  the  number  of  synagogues  in  Jerus  give 
weight  to  this  view. 

(1)  They  are  "frccdmen,"  liberated  slaves  or  their 
descendants.     Against  this  it  is  held  that  the  Gr 

equivalent  (apeleutheroi)  would  have 
2.  Interpre-  been  used  in  this  case.  However,  the 
tation  of  Rom  designation  would  be  common  all 
"Liber-  over  the  empire.     In  what  sense  were 

tines"  they  "freedmen"?    Various  answers  are 

given:  («)  they  were  freedmen  from 
Jewish  servitude  (Lightfoot);  (6)  they  were  Kalian 
freedmen  who  had  become  proselytes;  (c)  they  were 
"the  freedmen  of  the  Romans"  (Chrysostom),  the 
descendants  of  Jewish  freedmen  at  Rome  who  had 
been  expelled  by  Tiberius.  In  G3  BC  Pompey  had 
taken  prisoners  of  war  to  Rome.  These,  being 
liberated  by  those  who  had  acquired  them  as  slaves, 
formed  a  colony  on  the  banks  of  the  Tiber  (Philo, 
Legat.  ad  Caium).  Tacitus  relates  that  the  senate 
decreed  (19  AD)  that  a  number  of  Jewish  Liber- 
tines should  be  transported  to  Sardinia,  and  that 
the  rest  should  leave  Italy,  unless  they  renounced, 
before  a  certain  day,  their  profane  customs  {Ann. 
ii,  85;  see  also  Jos,  Ant,  XVIII,  iii,  5).  Many 
would  naturally  seek  refuge  in  Jerus  and  build  there 
a  synagogue. 


(2)  They  are  an  African  community.  There 
were  two  synagogues,  one  of  which  was  Asiatic. 
In  the  other  were  men  from  two  African  towns 
(Cyrene  and  Alexandria),  therefore  the  Libertines 
must  have  been  African  also,  all  forming  an  African 
synagogue.  Various  explanal  ions  are  given :  (a) 
They  were  inhabitants  of  Libert tmi,  a  town  in 
Africa  proper:  an  "Episcopus  Ecclesiae  Catholicae 
Libertinensis"  sat  in  the  Synod  of  Carthage  (411 
AD).  (6)  Some  emend  the  text;  Wetstein  and 
Blass,  following  the  Armenian  VS,  conjecture 
Libustinon,  "of  the  Libystincs."  Schulthess  reads 
for  "Libertines  and  Cyrenians"  {Libertinon  kal 
Kurenalon)  "Libyans,  those;  about  Cyrene"  {Lib- 
tidn  tdn  katd Kurtnen)  (cf  Acts  2  10). 

These  emendations  are  conjectural;  the  MSS 
read  "Libertines."  It  seems,  therefore,  that  2,  (1) 
(c)  above  is  the  correct  interpretation. 

S.  F.  Hunter 

LIBERTY,  lib'er-ti  ("fl-ft,  deror,  nrn ,  ruhubh; 
iXevdepLa,  eleutheria) :  The  opposite;  of  servitude 
or  bondage,  hence  applicable  to  captives  or  slaves 
set  free  from  oppression  (thus  d'ror,  Lev  25  10; 
Isa  61  1,  etc).  Morally,  the  power  which  enslaves 
is  sin  (.In  8  34),  and  liberty  consists,  not  simply  in 
external  freedom,  or  in  possession  of  1  he  formal  power 
of  choice,  but  in  deliverance  from  the  darkening  of 
the  mind,  the  tyranny  of  sinful  lust  s  and  1  he  enthral- 
ment  of  the  will,  induced  by  a  morally  corrupt  state. 
In  a  positive  respect,  it  consists  in  the  possession 
of  holiness,  with  the  will  and  ability  to  do  what  is 
right  and  good.  Such  liberty  is  possible  only  in  a 
renewed  condition  of  soul,  and  cannot  exist  apart 
from  godliness.  Even  under  the  OT  godly  men 
could  boast  of  a  measure  of  such  liberty  (Ps  119 
4"),  rahabh,  "room,"  "breadth"),  but  it  is  the  gospel 
of  Christ  which  bestows  it  in  its  fulness,  in  giving 
a  full  and  clear  knowledge;  of  God,  discovering  the 
way  of  forgiveness,  supplying  the  highest  motives 
to  holiness  and  giving  the  Holy  Spirit  to  destroy 
the  power  of  sin  and  to  quicken  to  righteousness. 
In  implanting  a  new  life  in  the  soul,  the  gospel  lifts 
the  believer  out  of  the  sphere  of  external  law,  and 
gives  him  a  sense  of  freedom  in  his  new  filial  relation 
to  God.  Hence  the  NT  expressions  about  "the 
glorious  liberty"  of  God's  children  (Rom  8  21  AV; 
cf  Gal  2  4;  5  13,  etc),  about  liberty  as  resulting 
from  the  possession  of  the  Spirit  (2  Cor  3  17), 
about  "the  perfect  law  of  liberty"  (Jas  1  25).  The 
instrument  through  which  this  liberty  is  imparted 
is  "the  truth"  (Jn  8  32).  Christians  are  earnestly 
warned  not  to  presume  upon,  or  abuse  their  liberty 
in  Christ  (Gal  5  13;    1  Pet  2  16).      James  Our 

LIBNAH,  lib'na  (HSl? ,  libhndh,  "whiteness," 
"transparency,"  "pavement"  [cf  Ex  24  10  where 
r^b,  libhnaih,  is  trd  "paved  work"  or  a  "compact 
foundation"];   AeBvd,  Lebnd): 

(1)  A  desert  camp  of  the  Israelites  between 
Rimmon-perez  and  Rissah  (Nu  33  20.21).  Prob- 
ably the  same  as  Laban  (Dt  11).  See  Wander- 
ings of  Israel. 

(2)  A  town  in  the  Shephelah  of  Judah  (Josh  15 
42).  "Joshua  passed  from  Makkedah,  and  all 
Israel  with  him,  unto  Libnah,  and  fought  against 
Libnah:    and  Jeh  delivered  it  also,  and  the  king 

thereof,  into  the  hand  of  Israel And  Joshua 

passed  from  Libnah,  and  all  Israel  with  him,  unto 
Lachish,  and  encamped  against  it,  and  fought 
against  it"  (Josh  10  29-31;  12  15).  It  was  one 
of  the  cities  given  to  the  "children  of  Aaron"  (Josh 
21  13;  1  Ch  6  57).  In  the  reign  of  Joram,  Lib- 
nah joined  the  Edomites  in  a  revolt  against  the  king 
of  Judah  (2  K  8  22;  2  Ch  21  10).  In  the  reign 
of  Hezekiah,  Libnah  was  besieged  by  Sennacherib 
(2  K  19  8;    Isa  37  8).     The  wife  of  King  Josiah 


Libni 
Libraries 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1882 


was  "I  lamuial  the  (laughter  of  Jeremiah  of  Lib- 
nali,"  she  was  the  mother  of  Jehoahaz  and  Zede- 
kiah  (2  K  23  31;    24  IS;    Jer  52  1). 

The  site  of  this  important,  stronghold  remains 
unknown.  In  the  Onom  it  is  described,  under  the 
name  Lobana  or  Lobna,  as  near  Eleutheropolis 
(Beit  J vbrht).  All  the  indications  point  to  a  site 
in  the  S.W.  of  the  Shephelah,  not  very  far  from 
Laehish.  The  Palestine  Exploration  Fund  sur- 
veyors suggested  (I'EF,  III,  259)  the  commanding 
site  Wrdk  el  Menshiyeh,  or  rather  the  white  chalky 
mound  2o.O  ft.  high  to  the  N.  of  this  village,  and 
Stanley  proposed  Tell  es  Nafi.  (Both  these  identi- 
fications are  due  to  the  interpretation  of  Libnah  as 
meaning  "whiteness.")  In  the  PEFS  (1897,  Sh  XX  i 
Conder  suggests  a  ruin  called  el  Bendwy,  10  miles 
S.E.  of  Laehish.  E.  AY.  (1.  Masterman 

LIBNI,  lib'nl  ("-rnb ,  libhni): 

(1)  Son  of  Gershon  (Ex  6  17;  Nu  3  18;  1  Ch 
6  17.20).  Families  who  traced  their  descent  from 
Libni  are  called  Libnites  (Nu  3  21;   26  58). 

(2)  A  son  of  Merari   (1   Ch  6  29).     See  Ladan. 

LIBNITES,  lib'nits  P^H,  ha-libhni).  See 
Libni. 

LIBRARIES,  ll'bra-riz,  li'brer-iz: 

1.  The  Bible  a  Library 

2.  Mythological  and  Apocryphal  Libraries 

3.  Libraries  for  the  Dead 

4.  Memory  Libraries 

5.  Prehistoric  and  Primitive  Libraries 
0.  Mesopotamia!!  Period 

7.  Patriarchal  Period 

8.  Egyptian  Period 

9.  The  Exodus 

10.  Palestine  at  the  Conquest 

11.  Period  of  the  Judges 

12.  Saul  to  the  Maccabees 

13.  NT  Times 

14.  Bookcases  and  Buildings 
Literature 

A  library  is  a  book  or  books  kept  for  use,  not  for 
sale.  A  one-book  library  is  just  as  much  a  library 
as  a  one-cell  animal  is  animal.  The  earliest  libra- 
ries, like  the  earliest  plants  and  animals,  were  very 
simple,  consisting  of  a  few  books  or  perhaps  only  a 
single  tablet  or  manuscript.  An  archive  is  a  library 
of  official  documents  not  in  active;  use;  a  registry, 
a  library  of  going  documents. 

The  Bible  is  itself  a  library.  During  the  Middle 
Ages  it  was  commonly  called,  first,  "The  Divine; 
Library,"  and  then,  "The  Library" 
1.  The  (Bibliotheca),    in    the   same   exclusive 

Bible  a  sense  as  it  is  now  known  as  "The  Book" 

Library  (Biblia  as  Lat  sing.).     Even  the  word 

"Bible"  itself  is  historically  "Library" 
rather  than  "Book"  (for  it  was  originally  the  neuter 
pi.  Biblia,  "The  Books";  cf  Did  9  2).  The  Bible 
is  also  a  library  in  that  it  is  an  organized  collection 
of  books  rather  than  a  single  work. 

This  fact  that  the  Bible  is  itself  a  library  is  in- 
creasingly mentioned  of  late,  esp.  in  OT  studies 
(Kent,  Narratives  of  the  Beginnings  of  llcb  History,  1, 
"The  Old  Testament  as  a  Library";  Dclitzsch, 
Babel  and  Bible,  4,  "the  Old  Testament,  that  small 
library  of  books  of  the  most  multifarious  kind"). 
Its  profound  bearing  on  the  theory  of  the  composi- 
tion and  inspiration  of  the  Bible  (cf  Book)  has  given 
the  fact  new  significance  and  makes  an  understand- 
ing of  the  nature  of  a  library  one  of  the  best  tools 
for  the  interpretation  of  the  Bible  in  the  face  of 
modern  problems.  While  it  is  not  possible  to  elabo- 
rate this  within  these  limits,  it  may  be  said  briefly 
that  the  logical  end  of  the  application  of  the  doct  rine 
of  evolution  to  books  and  libraries  is  that  the  Bible 
is,  like  man,  the  result  of  natural  selection,  and  is  as 
unique  among  books  as  man  among  the  animals. 
And,  whatever  may  be  true  of  men,  in  the  case  of 


bonks  the  formation  of  a  book-library  by  natural 
selection  tends  toward  the  elimination  of  error. 
The  more;  numerous  the  individuals  and  the  longer 
the  period,  the  greater  the  reduction  of  error,  so 
that  the  logical  inference  as  to  the  Bible  is  that  on 
purely  natural  grounds  it  may  be,  or  is,  the  nearest 
approximation  to  inerrancy  among  books,  because 
of  its  history  as  a  library.  This  does  not  quite  lead 
to  the  position  that  the  Bible  is  as  unique  among 
books  as  Jesus  Christ  among  men,  but  under  the 
doctrine  of  a  creative  Providence,  it  does  imply 
what  may  be  called  real  superhuman  authorship 
and  authority. 

Somewhat  apart  from  historical  libraries,  but  closely 
connected  with  Bible  study,  are  the  alleged  superhuman 

libraries,  libraries  of,  or  written  by,  the 
9  tvTtj+Vi^  gods,  libraries  for  the  dead  and  apocryphal 
/..  iviymo-  jjbraries.  The  Vedas  are  said  to  have  ex- 
logical  and  isted  as  a  collection  even  before  the  Creator 
Apocryphal  created  Himself  {Mann  1  21).  Allreligions 
T  ;k.-o/;^o  have  their  book-gods — Thoth  and  Seshait, 
i^iDranes         Apollo,    Hermes,    Minerva.    Ida,    Bridget, 

Soma,  Brahma,  Odin,  Kvasir,  Ygdrasil 
and  mp.ny  others.  To  the  ancient  Babylonians  the 
whole  firmament  was  a  library  of  "celestial  tablets." 
The  mythological  ideas  often  have  important  bearing  on 
Bib.  doctrines,  e.g.  the  Creation,  the  Word,  the  Tree  of 
Life,  the  Book  of  Life,  the  Holy  Spirit.  Apocryphal 
libraries  include  the  library  which  Jeh  is  alleged  to  have 
formed  on  the  7th  day  of  creation  on  a  mount  E.  of  the 
Garden  of  Eden,  and  other  libraries  ascribed  to  Enoch, 
Noah  and  Seth.     See  for  this  the  OT  pseudepigrapha. 

Another  class  of  collections  of  real  books,  written  or 
gathered   for    mythological   purposes,   is   what   may   be 

called  libraries  for  the  dead.     It  is  well 

3.  Libra-        known  that  in  most  countries  of  antiquity, 

•'      r  at  one  time  or  another,  and  among  primi- 

1/    -r\      j         *'v(>  Pe°Ple  I'^e  the  American  Indians,  in 

the  Dead         modern  times,  it  has  been  the  custom  to 

bury  with  the  dead  the  things  which 
friends  thought  would  be  useful  in  the  Elysian  fields  or 
happy  hunting  grounds,  or  on  the  way  thither — the 
bow  and  horse  of  the  warrior,  the  ushabti  servants, 
children's  playthings,  the  models  of  food  objects,  and 
so  on.  This  same  motive  led  also  to  the  burying  of 
books  with  the  dead.  For  long  periods  in  the  history 
of  Egypt  every  Egyptian  of  any  position  was  buried  with 
one  or  more  books.  These  books  were  not  his  chance 
possessions,  buried  with  him  as,  in  some  burials,  all 
a  man's  personal  belongings  are,  but  books  selected  for 
their  usefulness  to  him  after  death.  For  the  most  part 
these  were  of  the  nature  of  guidebooks  to  the  way  to 
the  heavenly  world,  magic  formulae  for  the  opening  of 
doors,  instruction  as  to  the  right  method  of  progress 
toward,  or  introduction  into,  paradise,  etc.  These  books 
were  afterward  gathered  together  and  form  what  is  now 
known  as  "the  Book  of  the  Dead"  and  other  such  books. 
In  modern  times  the  actor  or  professional  story-teller 
often  has  in  memory  a  collection  of  remembered  books 

which  is  in  effect  a  library.  Among  primi- 
a  MA-mnrv  tive  peoples  the  medicine-man  was  lit.  a 
*V .  *  library  of  tribal  traditions.  The  priests 
Libraries         ()f  India  and  the  minstrels  of  Greece  or  of 

the  Middle  Ages  often  had  a  large  reper- 
tory. By  the  prevailing  theory  of  the  origin  of  the 
books  of  the  OT  such  memory  traditions,  transmitted 
orally,  were  the  chief  source  of  the  Hex.  but  in  view  of 
what  is  now  known  of  the  library  situation  of  the  time, 
this  must  be  doubted. 

In  general  terms  it  may  be  said  that  when  man  began 
not  only  to  make  but  to  keep  records,  libraries  began. 

Even  a  memorial  stone  contains  the  germ 
ir     p  of    a    mnemonic    library.     The    primitive 

°*    "r6-  medicine-man's      collection      of      notched 

historic  and  message  sticks,  tallies,  quipus  or  wampum 
Primitive  belts  is  a  great  advance  in  complexity  on 
T  'hrorioc  these,  and  the  simplest  collection  of  pic- 
•Laoranes        turo  narratives  of  Hottentot  or  American 

Indian,  an  advance  on  this.  A  com- 
bination of  pictures  with  signs  is  still  another  forward 
step,  and  this  step  is  already  to  be  found  in  the  Pyre- 
nean  caves  of  the  Stone  Age  (see  Writing).  Most  of 
these  earliest  libraries  were  kept  at  the  sanctuary.  The 
gathering  together  of  books  in  libraries  had  its  origin 
in  the  ideas  of  (1)  preservation,  (2)  gathering  together 
like  books  in  order  to  join  together  their  contents,  and 
(3)  circulation — the  great  modern  expansion  of  the  idea. 
The  owner  of  ilocks  and  herds  gathers  together  his  lists 
of  cattle  or  other  possessions,  his  receipts  for  purchases 
and  record  of  sales,  whether  these  are  recorded  on  the 
walls  of  his  cave  or  on  wooden  tallies  or  on  knotted  cords 
or  on  clay  tablets  gathered  in  little  jars  and  buried  under 
the  floor  of  his  house.  Large  owners  and  sovereigns  and 
the  temples  of  Egypt  and  Assyria  gathered  large  stores 
of  these  archival  records  and  with  them  records  of  trib- 
ute, oracles,  etc.  As  early  as  2700  BC  we  have  the 
account  of  King  Dedkere  isesi,  his  archival  library  and 


1883 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Libni 
Libraries 


his  librarian  Senczemib.  The  annals  of  Thutmose  III 
were  preserved  in  the  palace  library  as  well  as  cut  in 
selections  on  the  walls  of  the  temple.  A  few  years  later, 
and  we  know  that  the  archival  records  were  kept  in  a 
special  room  in  the  palace  at  Amarna — and  many  of  the 
records  themselves  were  found  there.  All  this  was  before 
the  year  1300. 

Bible  history  through  the  10th  chapter  of  Gen 

covers  the  whole  civilized  world,  but  its  main  line 

up  to  about  2000  BC  is  almost  wholly 

6.  Mesopo-  Mesopotanhan.     Up   to   the   time   of 
tamian  Abram's   migration  from   Haran,   the 
Period  history  of  Bib.  libraries  and  the  his- 
tory  of   Bab   and   Sumerian   libraries 

are  one.  Most  of  the  cities  mentioned  in  this  period 
are  now  known  to  have  had  collections  of  books  in 
those  days.  At  the  time  when  Abram  left  Haran 
there  were  hundreds  of  collections  of  written  docu- 
rn  nts  in  scores  of  different  geographical  localities 
an  I  containing  millions  of  tablets. 

From  Abram's  emigration  out  of  Haran  to  Jacob's 

emigration  to  Egypt  was,  on  the  face  of  Bib.  data, 

mainly  a  time  of  wandering  in  Pal,  but 

7.  Patriar-     this  was  not  wholly  nomad  nor  wholly 
chal  Period   Palestinian.     Whether   there   were   li- 
braries in  Pal  at  this  time  or  not,  the 

Patriarchs  were  all  in  close  personal  contact  with 
the  library  lands  of  Babylonia  and  Egypt.  Abram 
himself  was  familiar  with  both  Mesopotamia  and 
Egypt.  His  son  Ishmael  married  an  Egyptian,  his 
soii  Isaac  a  Mesopotanhan.  His  grandson  Jacob 
married  two  wives  from  between  the  rivers,  and  had 
himself  20  years'  residence  in  the  region. _  While  it 
does  not  appear  that  Isaac  lived  at  any  time  either 
in  Syria  or  in  Egypt,  during  most  of  his  life  all  the 
members  of  his  nearest  family,  father,  mother,  wife, 
sons'  wives,  had  had  from  one  to  three  score  years' 
life  in  the  mother-country.  Whether  there  were 
public  records  in  this  region  at  this  time  is  another 
matter,  but  it  would  seem  that  the  whole  region 
during  the  whole  period  was  under  the  influence  of 
the  Bab  civilization.  It  was  freely  traversed  by 
trading  caravans,  and  the  Hittite  and  Mesopo- 
tanhan records  extend  at  least  a  little  back  into 
this  period. 

The  Egyp  period  of  Bible  history  begins  with  the 

immigration  of  Jacob  and  his  sons,  but  fringes  back 

to  the  visit  of  Abram  (Gen  12  10-20), 

8.  Egyptian  if  not  to  Mizraim  of  Gen  10  6.  On 
Period  the  other  hand,  it  ends  properly  with 

the  exodus,  but  fringes  forward 
through  frequent  points  of  contact  to  the  flight  of 
the  Virgin  and  Pentecost.  Whether  the  sojourn 
was  430  or  215  years,  or  less,  it  was  a  long  residence 
at  a  time  when  libraries  were  very  nourishing  in 
Egypt.  Already  at  the  time  of  Abram's  visit,  col- 
lections of  books,  not  only  of  official  accounts,  but 
of  religious  texts,  medical  texts,  annals,  and  the  like, 
had  been  common  in  Egypt  for  nearly  1,000  years, 
and  had  perhaps  existed  for  1,000  years  or  more 
before  that. 

Under  the  older  of  the  modern  datings  of  the 
exodus,  the  period  of  the  sojourn  included  the 
times  of  Thothmes  III  (Thutmose),  and  in  this  reign 
there  are  peculiarly  interesting  records,  not  only  of 
the  existence  of  temple  and  palace  libraries,  but  of 
the  nature  of  their  contents.  The  official  recorder  of 
Thothmes  HI,  accompanying  him  on  his  campaign 
in  Syria  and  Pal,  set  down  each  day  the  events  of 
the  day,  while  he  or  others  also  made  lists  of  tribute, 
spoils,  commissary  matters,  etc.  These  daily  rec- 
ords were;  deposited  in  the  palace  library,  as  it 
appears,  but  a  narrative  compiled  from  these  and 
written  on  a  leather  roll  was  deposited  in  the  temple 
library,  and  from  this  roll  in  turn  an  abstract  was 
engraved  on  the  walls  of  the  temple,  where  it  remains 
to  this  dav.  This  probably  gives  the  library  sit- 
uation of  the  time  in  a  nutshell:    (1)  the  simple 


saving  of  utilitarian  documents,  often  on  papyrus 
or  wood  tablets,  (2)  the  gathering  of  books  written 
for  information  on  more  durable  material,  (3)  pre- 
serving choice  books  for  posterity  by  a  local  series 
of  inscriptions. 

The  rolls  must  have  been  kept  in  chests  or  in 
small  boxes,  like  the  box  containing  the  medical 
papyri  of  King  Neferikere  some  1,300  years  before, 
or  the  "many  boxes"  at  Edfu  long  after.  Many 
pictures  of  these  book-chests  or  bookcases  arc  found 
in  the  monuments  (Birt,  Buchrolle,  12,  15  ff). 

Again,  the  palace  library  of  King  Akhnaton  (c 
1380  BC)  at  Amarna,  which  contained  collections 
of  the  royal  foreign  correspondence  on  (day  tablets, 
has  been  excavated.  Its  bricks  bear  the  inscription, 
"Place  of  the  records  of  the  palace  of  the  king,"  and 
some  hundreds  of  tablets  from  this  spot  have  been 
recovered. 

At  the  time  of  the  exodus  there  were  thus  prob- 
ably libraries  in  all  palaces,  temples  and  record 
offices,  although  the  temple  libraries  were  by  no 
means  confined  to  sacred  writings  or  the  palace  to 
secular.  There  were  also  at  least  archives,  or  regis- 
ters, in  the  royal  treasury  and  in  all  public  depart- 
ments. Schools  for  scribes  were,  it  would  seem, 
held  in  the  palace,  temple  and  treasury  libraries. 
There  were,  therefore,  apparently,  at  this  time 
millions  of  documents  or  books,  in  hundreds  of 
organized  collections,  which  could  be  called  archives 
or  libraries. 

Supposing  any  exodus  at  all,  Moses  and  Aaron 
and  all  the  Heb   "officers"    ("scribes"  or  writers) 
under    the    Egyp   taskmasters    (Ex  5 
9.  The  6.10.14.15.19),    brought    up    as    they 

Exodus  were  in  the  scribal  schools,   were  of 

course  quite  familiar  with  the  Egyp 
ways  of  keeping  their  books.  It  is  not  surprising, 
therefore,  to  find  the  first  and  chief  provision  which 
Moses  made  for  the  Tabernacle  was  a  book-chest 
for  the  preservation  of  the  sacred  directions  given 
by  Jeh.  It  makes  little  difference  whether  the 
account  is  taken  in  its  final  form,  divided  horizon- 
tally into  Ex,  Lev,  Nu,  Dt  and  Josh,  or  divided  per- 
pendicularly into  J,  E,  D,  P,  the  fact  of  the  ark  and 
enough  of  its  details  are  given  even  in  the  very  old- 
est sources  to  show  that  the  authors  understood 
the  ark  to  be  a  glorified  book-chest  in  or  near  which 
were  kept  written  documents:  the  tables  of  stone, 
the  inscribed  rod,  all  the  testimony  given  from  the 
mercy-seat  which  formed  its  lid,  and  perhaps  the 
Book  of  Dt.  The  ark  is  in  fact  much  the  size  and 
shape  of  a  portable  bookcase,  and  the  LXX  tr 
renders  the  word  by  the  ordinary  technical  Gr  word 
for  the  book-chest  (kibutus;  cf  Birt,  op.  cit.,  248-49). 
It  appears  also  to  have  been  the  later  Heb  word  for 
book-chest  (cf  Jew  Erie,  II,  107  ff).  At  the  exodus, 
whenever  that  may  have  been,  Moses  is  alleged  to 
have  made  the  ark  the  official  library,  and  in  it 
apparently  he  is  thought  to  have  kept  the  oracles 
as  uttered  from  time  to  time  and  the  record  of  his 
travels  from  day  to  day  (as  well  as  the  tables  of 
stone),  precisely  as  the  scribe  of  Thutmose  recorded 
his  Syrian  campaigns  from  day  to  day.  This 
record  (if  it  was  a  record)  was  in  all  likelihood  on  a 
leather  roll,  since  this  became  the  traditional  form 
of  books  among  the  Hebrews,  and  this  too  was  like 
the  annals  of  Thutmose.  When  the  tribes  sepa- 
rated to  N.  and  S.,  the  books  may  have  been  either 
separated  or  copied,  and  doubtless  they  suffered 
much  wear  and  tear  from  the  harsh  times  until  we 
find  Dt  turning  up  again  in  a  temple  library  (2  K 
22  8ff;  2  Ch  34  14  ff). 

The  evidence  from  Egyp,  Bab,  Mitannian, 
Amorite  and  Hittite  documents  shows  the  exist- 
ence of  official  chanceries  and  by  implication  of 
archives  throughout  the  whole  region  of  Syria  and 
Pal    at   the    time    wdien    the    "Hebrew"    invasion 


Libraries 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1SS4 


began  (Winckler,  Tellel-Amarna  Tablets).    The  Am 

Tab  and  the  1  ablets  from  the  Hittite  archives  at. 

Boghaz-keui    (Winckler,    DOG    Milt., 

10.  Pales-  1907,  no.  35)  include  actual  letters  from 
tine  at  the  the  princes,  elders  and  governors  of 
Conquest       dozens  of  places,  scattered  all  over  this 

region  from  Egypl  to  the  land  of  the 
Hittites  and  the  Mitannians.  These  places  include 
among  others  Jerus,  Damascus,  Tyre,  Sidon,  Aeco, 
Ashkelon,  Gaza,  Lachish,  Keilah  and  Aijalon. 

Remains  of  two  of  such  archival  libraries  have 
been  dug  up — one  at  Lachish  and  one  at  Taanach 
near  Megiddo,  both  dating  back  to  the  14th  cent. 
BC. 

Whether  there  were  temple  libraries  as  well  does 
not  appear  so  clearly  from  external  evidence  but 
may  probably  be  inferred  from  the  names,  Debir 
and  (perhaps)  Nebo,  as  well  as  from  the  well- 
known  fact  that  each  of  the  many  city-lands  must 
have  had  its  center  of  worship.  When  it  was 
thought  that  writing  did  not  exist  to  any  extent 
in  Pal  before  the  time  of  David,  it  was  the  fashion 
to  account  for  the  name  of  the  city  of  "Kirjath 
Sepher,"  the  "City  of  Books,"  by  curious  tours  de 
force  of  conjectural  emendat  ion  (Sephur  for  Sepher, 
Tabor  for  Debir),  but  with  the  recent  progress  of 
excavation  the  possibility  of  the  nana1  has  been  fully 
established  and  the  insight  of  Sayce  probably 
justified. 

That  the  situation   at    the  Conquest   continued 

also  during  the  period  of  the  .Judges  appears  from 

sundry   considerations:     (1)    The   fact, 

11.  Period  that  all  the  surrounding  nations,  Moab- 
of  the  ites,  Edomites,  Amorites,  Hittites, 
Judges  Mitannians,  etc,  were  literate  nations 

with  public-  archives.  (2)  The  high 
state  of  organization  under  David  requires  an  evo- 
lutionary background.  (3)  Even  the  extreme  (and 
(mite  untenable)  theory  that  the  Hebrews  were 
illiterate  wild  Arab  nomads  and  remained  so  for  a 
long  time  would  actually  demonstrate  the  matter, 
for,  as  has  been  pertinently  observed  (Sellin,  Einl, 
7),  many  at  least  of  the  Can.  cities  were  not  destroyed 
or  even  occupied  for  a  long  time,  but  were  surrounded 
by  the  Hebrews,  and  finally  occupied  and  assimi- 
lated. It  follows,  therefore,  that  the  archival 
system  continued,  and,  under  this  theory,  for  a  long 
time,  until  the  Hebrews  absorbed  the  culture  of 
their  neighbors — and,  by  inference,  libraries  with 
t he  rest.  (4)  Taking  the  evidence  of  the  documents 
as  they  stand,  the  matter  is  simple  enough;  various 
works  were  kept  in  or  near  the  ark.  Joshua  added 
to  these  at  least  the  report  of  a  boundary  commis- 
sion (Josh  18  9.10)  which  was  brought  to  the 
sanctuary,  and  Samuel  ''laid  up"  the  book  that  he 
wrote  "before  Jeh,"  i.e.  at  the  ark.  Moreover, 
the  Books  of  Jasher,  the  Wars  of  Jeh,  etc,  imply  a 
lit.  which  in  turn  implies  libraries.  Whenever  or 
however  composed,  there  is  no  good  reason  to  dis- 
trust their  historical  existence.  (5)  Even  on  the 
extreme  critical  hypothesis,  "Most  of  the  stories 
found  in  the  first  S  books  of  the  OT  originated 
before  or  during  the  age  of  song  and  story  (c  1250- 
1050)"  (Kent,  Beginnings,  17).  (6)  To  this  may 
also  be  added,  with  all  reservations,  the  mysterious 
metal  ephod  which  appears  only  in  this  period. 
The  ephod  seems  to  have  been  either  («)  a  case 
(BDB,  (Hi)  or  (b)  an  instrument  for  consulting  an 
oracle  (BDB,  65).  The  linen  ephod  had  a  pouch 
for  the  Urim  and  Thummim.  The  metal  ephod 
seems  to  be  distinguished  from  the  image  and  may 
have  contained  the  written  oracular  instructions 
(torah?)  as  well  as  the  oracular  instruments.  (7) 
The  Kenite  scribes  of  Jabez  (1  Ch  2  55);  the  simple 
fact  that  a  chance  captive  from  Succoth  could  write 
out  a  list  of  names  and  some  one  at  least  of  the 
rudest  300  survivals  of  Gideon's  32,000  primitive 


warriors  in  those  bloody  frontier  times  could  read 
it,  the  reference  to  the  staff  of  the  muster-master, 
marshal  or  scribe,  and  the  "governors"  (inscribers), 
in  Deborah's  Song,  poiid  in  the  same  direction. 

While,  therefore,  the  times  were  doubtless  wild, 
the  political  unity  very  slight,  and  the  unity  of 
worship  even  less,  there  is  evidence  that  there  were 
both  political  and  religious  libraries  throughout 
the  period. 

Beginning  with  the  monarchy,  the  library  sit- 
uation among  the  Israelites  appears  more  and  more 
clearly  to  correspond  with  that  of  the 
12.  Saul  to  surrounding  nations.  The  first  act 
the  Mac-  recorded  after  the  choice  and  proc- 
cabees  lamation    of    Saul    as    king    was    the 

writing  of  a  constitution  by  Samuel 
and  the  depositing  of  this  in  the  sacred  archives 
(1  S  10  25).  This  document  (LXX  biblion)  was 
perhaps  one  of  the  documents  ("words'")  of  Samuel 
whose  words  (1  Ch  29  29,  history,  chronicles, 
acts,  book,  etc)  seem  to  have  been  possibly  a  regis- 
ter kept  by  him,  perhaps  from  the  time  that  he  suc- 
ceeded Eli,  as  later  the  high-priestly  register  (clay- 
book)  of  Johannes  Maccabaeus  was  certainly  kept 
from  the  beginning  of  his  high-priesthood  (1  Mace 
16  24). 

Whether  these  "words"  of  Samuel  were  equiva- 
lent to  the  technical  register  or  "book  of  the  words 
of  days"  or  not,  such  registers  were  undoubtedly 
kept  from  the  time  of  David  on,  and  there  is  not  hing 
so  illuminating  as  to  the  actual  library  conditions 
of  the  times  as  the  so-called  chronicles,  histories 
or  acts — the  registers,  journals  or  archives  of  the 
time.  The  roll-register  seems  to  be  called  in  full 
"the  book  of  the  words  of  days,"  or  with  explanatory 
fulness  "book  of  the  records  of  the  words  of  days," 
but  this  appears  to  be  an  evolution  from  "words  of 
days"  or  even  "words,"  and  these  forms  as  well  as 
the  abbreviations  "book  of  days"  and  "book"  are 
used  of  the  same  technical  work,  which  is  the  en- 
grossing in  chronological  book-form  of  any  series 
of  individual  documents — all  the  documents  of  a 
record-office,  general  or  local.  The  name  is  used 
also  of  histories  written  up  on  the  basis  of  these 
register-books  (the  Books  of  Ch  are  in  Heb,  "words 
of  days")  but  not  themselves  records.  These 
charter-books,  of  course,  so  far  as  they  go,  mirror 
the  contents  of  the  archives  which  they  transcribe, 
and  the  key  to  the  public-library  history  of  the 
period,  both  sacred  and  royal,  as  regards  contents, 
at  least,  is  to  be;  found  in  them,  wdiile  in  turn  the 
key  to  the  understanding  of  this  technical  book- 
form  itself  lies  in  the  understanding  of  the  "word" 
as  a  technical  book-form. 

The  "word"  in  Heb  is  used  of  books,  speeches, 
sayings,  oracles,  edicts,  reports,  formal  opinions, 
agreements,  indictments,  judicial  decisions,  stories, 
records,  regulations,  sections  of  a  discourse,  line's 
of  poetry,  whole  poems,  etc,  as  well  as  acts,  deeds, 
"matters,"  "affairs,"  events  and  words  in  the  nar- 
rowest sense.  It  is  thus  very  exactly,  as  well  as 
lit.,  trd  in  the  LXX  by  logos,  which  as  a  technical 
book-term  (Birt,  Antikes  Biichwesen,  28,  29)  means 
any  distinct  composition,  long  or  short,  whether 
a  law,  an  epigram,  or  a  whole  complex  work.  The 
best  Eng.  equivalent  for  this  "work-complete-in- 
itself,"  in  the  case  of  public  records,  is  "document," 
aial  in  the  case  of  literary  matters,  it  is  "work  or 
writing."  The  "words"  of  Samuel  or  David  thus 
are  his  "acts"  or  "deeds"  in  the  sense,  not  of  doings, 
but  of  the  individual  documentary  records  of  those 
doings  quite  in  the  modern  sense  of  the  "acts  and 
proceedings"  of  a  convention,  or  the  "deeds"  to 
property. 

In  the  pi.,  dibhre  and  logoi  or  logia  alike  mean  a 
collection  of  documents,  works  or  writings,  i.e.  "a 
library."     Sometimes  this  is  used  in  the  sense  of 


1885 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Libraries 


archives  or  library,  at  other  times  as  a  book  con- 
taining these  collected  works. 

These  collected  documents  in  register-form  con- 
stituted apparently  a  continuous  series  until  the 
time  when  the  Book  of  Ch  was  written  and  were 
extant  at  that  time:  the  "words"  of  Samuel, 
"chronicles"  and  "last  words"  of  David  (1  Ch  23 
27;  27  24),  the  "book  of  the  words  [acts]  of  Solo- 
mon" (1  K  11  41),  the  book  of  the  words  of  days 
of  the  kings  of  Judah,  and  the  book  of  the  words  of 
days  of  the  kings  of  Israel — the  kingdoms  after 
division  each  having  naturally  its  own  records. 

The  general  situation  during  the  period  as  to 
archival  matters  is  pretty  well  summarized  by 
Moore  in  the  EB.  From  the  time  of  Solomon,  and 
more  doubtfully  from  the  time  of  David,  he  recog- 
nizes that  "records  were  doubtless  kept  in  the 
palace,"  and  that  "the  temples  also  doubtless  had 


Plan  of  Pergamon. 


(Showing  typical  relati 


,f  temple 


their  records,"  while  there  may  have  been  also  local 
records  of  cities  and  towns.  These  records  con- 
tained probably  chief  events,  treaties,  edicts,  etc — 
probably  brief  annals  "never  wrought  into  narrative 
memoirs."  The  temple  records  contained  annals 
of  succession,  repairs,  changes,  etc  (EB,  II,  2021- 
28).  The  records  were,  however,  probably  not 
brief,  but  contained  treaties,  etc,  verbatim  in  full. 
To  this  should  moreover  be  added  the  significant 
fact  that  these  archives  contained  not  only  busi- 
ness records  but  also  various  works  of  a  more  or 
less  literary  character.  Those  mentioned  include 
letters,  prophecies,  prayers,  and  even  poems  and 
Wisdom  literature.  The  "words"  of  the  kings  of 
Israel  contained  prayers,  visions  and  other  matter 
not  usually  counted  archival.  The  "acts"  (words) 
of  Solomon  also  contained  literary  or  quasi-literary 
material.  According  to  Jos  the  archives  of  Tyre  con- 
tained similar  material  and  this  was  also  true  of  the 
Amarna  archives  (c  1380  BC)  and  those  at  Boghaz- 
keui,  as  well  as  of  the  palace  archives  of  Nineveh 
and  the  great  temple  archives  of  Nippur  and  Abu 
Habeh  (Sippara).  So,  too,  in  Egypt  the  palace 
archives  of  King  Neferikere  contained  medical 
works  and  those  of  Rameses  III,  at  least,  magical 
works,  while  the  temple  archives  in  the  time  of 
Thutmose  III  (Breasted,  Ancient  Records)  con- 
tained military  annals,  and  those  of  Denderah  cer- 
tainly many  works  of  a  non-registerial  character. 
The  temples  of  early  Greece  also  contained  literary 
works  and  secular  laws  as  well  as  temple  archives 
proper. 


In  short,  the  palace  collections  of  Israel  were  no 
exception  to  the  general  rule  of  antiquity  in  con- 
taining, besides  palace  archives  proper,  more  or  less 
of  religious  archives  and  literary  works,  while  the 
temple  collections  contained  more  or  less  political 
records  and  literary  works. 

This  record  system  in  Israel  and  Judah,  as  appears 
from  the  OT  itself,  was  the  system  of  Persia  in  OT 
t  hues.  It  was  the  system  of  the  Jews  in  Maccabean 
times,  of  Egypt  during  this  whole  period  and  for 
centuries  before  and  after,  and  of  Northern  Syria 
likewise  at  about  this  time  (Zakar-Baal,  of  Gebal, 
c  1113  BC).  The  books  of  Ex,  Lev,  Nu  and  Dt, 
whenever  written,  reveal  the  same  system,  Ex  to 
Nu  being  in  the  form  of  a  register,  and  Dt  repre- 
sented as  an  abstract  prepared  for  engraving  on 
stone,  a  use  which  Joshua  is  said  to  have  made  of  it. 
We  have,  therefore,  the  same  system  existing  before 
and  after  and  on  all  sides  geographically. 

All  this  neighboring  practice  points  to  a  sys- 
tem of  (1)  archival  collections,  (2)  contemporary 
book  registers,  (3)  contemporary  publication  by 
inscription,  and,  in  the  light  of  these,  theOT  method, 
from  the  time  of  David  at  least,  becomes  clear, 
certainly  as  to  archival  collections  and  registers  and 
hardly  less  so  as  to  the  setting-up  of  inscriptions  in 
permanent  material.  Even  if  D  is  not  earlier  than 
621  BC,  it  assumes  public  inscription  long  before 
that  time,  quite  comparable  in  extent  to  the  inscrip- 
tions of  Thutmose  III  or  King  Mesha  of  Moab, 
and,  although  few  long  inscriptions  have  been  re- 
covered thus  far,  there  is  at  least  the  Siloam  in- 
scription (cf  also  Isa  30  8;  Job  19  23.24;  Isa  8  1; 
Jer  17  1;  also  the  Decalogue).  Each  one  of  these 
three  elements  (even  the  collection  of  inscriptions 
in  the  temple)  was,  it  must  be  remembered,  called 
in  antiquity  a  "library." 

The  reference  to  "the  books"  in  Dnl  (9  2)  may  pos- 
sibly point  to  or  foreshadow  the  synagogue  library. 

Little  weight  is  generally  and  properly  given  to 
the  statement  of  2  Mace  2  13,  that  Nehemiah 
founded  a  library  and  gathered  into  it  the  writings 
"about  the  kings,  the  prophets  and  David,  and  the 
letters  of  the  kings  concerning  votive  offerings," 
but  it  is,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  evident  that  he,  as  well 
as  Judas  Maccabaeus,  who  is  linked  with  him  in  the 
statement,  must  have;  done  just  this. 

From  the  time  of  the  LNN  tr,  the  idea  of  the 
library  (bibliolhike)  and  even  the  public  library 
("books  of  the  people,"  i.e.  public  records)  was 
familiar  enough,  the  LNN  itself  also,  according  to 
Jos,  linking  the  temple  library  of  Jerus  with  the 
Alexandrian  library  through  the  furnishing  of  books 
by  the  former  to  the  latter  for  copying. 

With  the  Rom  conquest  and  the  rise  of  the  Idu- 
maeans,  naturally  the  methods  developed  in  accord- 
ance with  Rom  practice.  It  appears 
13.  NT  from    the   frequent   references   of   Jos 

Times  that  the  public  records  were  extensive 

and  contained  genealogical  records 
as  well  as  official  letters,  decrees,  etc.  The  triple 
method  of  record  continues.  It  appears,  further 
(Blau,  90;  Krauss,  III,  179),  that  there  were  libraries 
and  even  lending  libraries  in  the  schools  and  syna- 
gogues, not  of  Pal  only,  but  wherever  Jews  were 
settled.  Jos  and  Chrysostom  with  the  Mish  con- 
firm the  already  very  clear  inference  from  St.  Luke's 
account  of  Our  Lord's  teaching  in  the  synagogue 
that  at  this  time,  and  probably  from  the  beginning  of 
the  synagogue,  the  books,  the  manner  of  their  keep- 
ing and  the  ritual  of  their  using  were  already  essen- 
tially as  in  t  he  modern  synagogue.  The  first  preach- 
ing-places of  the  Christians  were  the  synagogues, 
and  when  churches  succeeded  these,  the  church 
library  naturally  followed,  but  whether  in  Bible 
times  or  not  is  a  matter  of  conjecture;  they  appear 
at  least  in  very  early  churches. 


Libraries 
Lie,  Lying 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1886 


Old  Egyptian 
Bookcase. 


Whether  the  rich  secular  lit.  to  which  Jos  had 
access  was  in  public  or  private  libraries  does  not 
appear  directly.  It  is  well  known  that  it  was  as 
much  a  part  of  Rom  public  policy  in  Herod's  time 
to  found  public  libraries  in  the  provinces  as  it  was 
to  restore  temples.  Twenty-four  such  provincial 
libraries,  chiefly  temple  libraries,  are  known. 

The  Horn  practice  of  the  time  still  mixed  literary 
with  the  archival  material,  and  it  is  likely  therefore 
that  the  public  records  of  the  Jewish  temple  had 
in  them  both  Gr  and  Lat  secular  books  in  con- 
siderable quantity,  as  well  as  the  Or  Apoc  and  a 
large  amount  of  Aram,  or  late  II cb  lit.  of  Talmudic 
character. 

As  to  the  receptacles  and  places  in  which  the 
books  were  kept,  we  have  reference  even  in  the  Heb 
period  to  most  of  the  main  forms  used 
14.  Book-  among  the  nations:  the  wooden  box, 
cases  and  the  clay  box  or  pot,  the  pouch,  and  on 
Buildings  the  other  hand,  once,  the  "house  of 
books"  so  familiar  in  Egyp  use  and 
apparently  referring  to  an  individual  chamber  or 
semi-detached  building  of  temple 
or  palace.  Most  significant,  how- 
ever, is  the  statement  that  the 
books  were  kept  in  the  palace 
and  temple  treasuries  or  store- 
houses. 

The  sacred  ark  ('(Iron),  what- 
ever it  may  have  originally  con- 
tained, was  looked  on  when  I) 
was  written  as  a  sacred  wooden 
book-chest,  and  the  ark  in  which 
the  teaching  priests  carried  the  law 
about  for  public  reading  was  in 
fact  likewise  a  chest. 

Such  chests  were  common  among 
the  Jews  later,  some  with  lids  and 
sonic!  with  side-opening  (Jew  Erie, 
II,  107-8;  Blau,  178).  It  is  tempting  to  find  in 
D,  where  the  book  is  to  be  put  "by  [AV  "in"] 
the  side  of  the  ark"  (Dt  31  26),  a  chest  having  both 
lid  and  openings  in  the  side,  but  more  likely  per- 
haps D  means  a  separate  chest,  like  the  coffer  or 
pouch  with  the  golden  mice,  which  was  also  put  "by 
the  side"  (micgadh)  of  the  ark  (1  S  6  8). 

In  the  NT  the  "cloak"  which  Paul  left  behind  at 
Troas  (2  Tim  4  13)  was  probably  (Wattenb.,  614; 
see  also  Birt  and  Gardthausen),  if  not  a  wooden 
"capsa,"  at  least  some  sort  of  bookcase  or  cover. 

The  earthen  vessel  in  which  Jeremiah  (32  14) 
puts  the  two  "books"  (tr'1  "deeds"),  one  sealed  and 
one  unsealed,  was  one  of  the  commonest  bookcases 
of  the  ancient  world.  This  information  has  lately 
been  widely  reinforced  and  associated  with  Bib. 
history  by  the  discovery  of  the  Elephantine  papyri, 
which  were,  for  the  most  part,  kept  in  such  clay 
jars  (Meyer,  Papyrusfund,  15).  The  word  Penta- 
teuch perhaps  harks  back  to  a  five-roll  jar,  but  more 
likelv  to  a  basket  or  wooden  box  with  five  compart- 
ments (Blau,  65;  Birt,  Buchrolle,  21,  22).  It  was 
the  collective  label  of  a  five-roll  case,  whether  of 
earthenware,  wood  or  basket  work. 

The  pouch  or  bag  bookcase  has  perhaps  its  repre- 
sent at  ive  in  the  phylactery  (Mt  23  5),  which  was 
a  sort  of  miniature  armarium  in  that  each  of  the 
four  little  rolls  of  its  four  compartments  was  tech- 
nically a  "book"  (sepher).  This  name  is  commonly 
explained  as  an  amulet  guarding  against  evil  spirits, 
but  the  term  actually  occurs  in  the  papyri  (Biblio- 
phylax)  of  the  preservation  of  books. 

The  "house  of  books"  (Ezr  6  lm)  or  "place  of 
books"  is  a  very  close  parallel  to  bibliotheke,  by 
which  (in  the  pi.)  it  is  trd  in  the  LXX.  The  phrase 
was  a  common  term  in  Egypt  for  library,  perhaps 
also  somet imes  for  scriptorium  or  even  registry, 
and  it  points  to  a  chamber  or  semi-detached  room  or 


building  where  the  book-chests,  jars,  etc,  were  kept. 
That  at  Edfu  is  a  semi-detached  room  and  contained 
many  such  cases. 

While  there  is  little  record  of  libraries  in  Bib. 
times,  tin;  very  formation  of  the  Canon  itself, 
whether  by  the  higher  critical  process,  or  by  natural 
processes  of  gathering  whole  literary  works,  implies 
the  gathering  together  of  books,  and  the  temple 
libraries  common  to  both  Egypt  and  Assyria- 
Babylonia  are  almost  inevitably  implied  wherever 
there  was  a  temple  or  sanctuary,  whatever  may  be 
the  facts  as  to  the  temple  libraries.  According 
to  Hilprecht  there  were  certainly  such  libraries  and 
from  very  ancient  times.  The  palace  library  of 
Assurbani-pal,  though  itself  a  discovery  of  the  last 
times,  brings  the  story  down  to  the  times  of  the 
written  history.  For  the  rest  of  the  story  see  lit. 
below,  esp.  Dziatzko,  Bibliotheken,  and  the  art.  on 
"Libraries"  in  the  Enc  Brit.  See  also  Nineveh, 
Library  of. 

In  the  earlier  period  at  least  and  including  for  the 
Jews  the  NT  times,  the  particular  locality  in  palace 
or  temple  seems  to  have  been  the  treasury.  In  the 
Book  of  Ezr,  search  for  the  decree  of  Cyrus  was  to 
be  made  in  the  king's  treasure-house  (Ezr  5  17), 
and  was  made  in  the  "house  of  books  where  t  Ik1 
treasures  were  laid  up"  (Ezr  6  lm).  The  document 
was  finally  found  in  the  palace  at  Ecbatana — so 
too  in  1  Mace  14  49  the  archives  are  placed  in  the 
treasury. 

In  NT  times  there  had  already  been  a  good  deal 
of  development  in  the  matter  of  library  buildings. 
A  general  type  had  been  evolved  which  consisted  of 
(1)  a  colonnade,  (2)  a  lecture-room,  a  reading-room 
or  assembly  room,  (3)  small  rooms  for  book  storage. 
Such  accounts  as  we  have  of  the  Alexandrian  li- 
braries, with  the  excavations  at  Pergamus,  Athens 
and  Rome,  reveal  the  same  type — the  book-rooms, 
the  colonnade  where  masters  walked  or  sat  and 
talked  with  their  pupils,  the  rooms  for  assembly 
where  the  senate  or  other  bodies  sometimes  sat. 
In  short,  as  long  before  in  Egypt,  whether  in  palace 
or  temple,  the  place  of  teaching  was  the  place  of 
books. 

It  is  significant  thus  that  Our  Lord  taught  in  the 
Treasury,  which  in  Herod's  Temple  was  in  the 
court  of  the  temple  proper — probably  the  porticos 
under  the  women's  gallery,  some  of  the  adjoining 
rooms  being  used  for  books.  As  this  was  within 
the  barrier  which  no  Gentile  could  pass,  Herod 
must  have  had  also  a  library  of  public  records 
in  the  outer  colonnade.  See  further,  Nineveh, 
Library  of. 

Literature. — Llldwig  Blau,  Studien  zum  althe- 
braisehen  Buchwesen.  Strassburg  i,  E,  1902,  178-SiO; 
Sam.  Krauss,  Talmudische  ArchSologie,  Lieipzig,  1912,111," 
193-98;  J.  W.  Clark,  Care  of  Books,  Cambridge,  1901; 
E.  C.  Richardson,  Biblical  Libraries:  A  Sketch  of  Library 
History  from  3400  BC  to  ISO  AD.  London.  Oxford 
University  Press,  1914.     See  the  lit.  under  Whiting. 

E.  C.  Richardson 

LIBRARY  OF  NINEVEH.  See  Nineveh,  Li- 
brary OF. 

LIBYA,  lib'i-a,  LIBYANS,  lib'i-anz:  In  the  OT 
the  word  occurs  in  AV  in  2  Ch  12  3;  16  8;  Nah 
3  9  for  "Lubim"  (thus  RV).  RV,  however, 
retains  "Libyans"  in  Dnl  11  43.  In  Jer  46  9; 
Ezk  30  5;  38  5,  the  words  are  replaced  in  RV  by 
Put  (q.v.).  In  the  NT  the  word  "Libya"  (Ai/3tfij, 
Libue)  occurs,  in  close  connection  with  Cyrene 
(q.v.)  (Acts  2  10).  Gr  and  Rom  writers  apply 
the  term  to  the  African  continent,  generally  exclud- 
ing Egypt.     See  Lubim. 

LICE,  lis  (D">33,  Jcinnim  [Ex  8  17.18;  Ps  105 
31],  D23  ,  kinnim  [Ex  8  16],  C22  ,  kinnam  [Ex  8  17. 
18];      LXX    o-Kvi4>€S,    sknlphes    [Ex  8  16.18],    tov 


1SS7 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Libraries 
Lie,  Lying 


<rKv((j>a,  ton  sknipha,  once  in  Ex  8  18;  o-kviims, 
sknipes  [Ps  105  31];  Vulg  scniphes;  ace.  to  Lid- 
dell  and  Scott,  s.v.  <tkvI\\i,  Slav,  skni pa  =  culex) : 
The  references,  both  in  Ex  and  in  Pss,  are  all  to  the 
plague  of  "lice."  RVm  suggests  "fleas"  or  "sand- 
flies." The  LXX  rendering  would  favor  "sand- 
flies" or  "mosquitoes,"  between  which  two  insects 
the  OT  writers  would  hardly  be  expected  to  dis- 
criminate. Mosquitoes  belong  to  the  order  of 
Diptera,  family  Culicidae;  the  sandfly  (Plebotomus 
pn/xitaci)  to  the  family  of  Simuliidae  of  the  same 
order.  The  sandflies  are  much  smaller  than  mos- 
quitoes, and  are  nearly  noiseless,  but  give  a  sharp 
sting  which  may  leave  an  unpleasant  irritation. 
They  are  abundant  in  the  Levant.  In  South- 
ern Europe  they  cause  the  "three-day  fever"  or 
"papataci."  As  stated  under  Gnat  Cq.v.),  there  is 
little  ground  other  than  the  authority  of  the  LXX 
for  deciding  between  "lice,"  "fleas,"  "sand-flies," 
or  "mosquitoes"  as  tra  of  kinnim.  See  also  under 
Gnat  the  note  on  ken,  RVm  "gnat"  (Isa  51  6). 

Alfred  Ely  Day 
LICENCE,  ll'sens:  This  word  is  not  found  at  all 
in  RV  (except  in  Jth  11  14;  Ecclus  15  20;  1  Mace 
1  13),  and  twice  only  in  AV  (except  in  2  Mace  4 
9),  both  times  in  Acts.  In  Acts  21  40  (as  tr  of 
4-mTpt-rrw,  cpitrcpo)  ARV  has  "leave"  where  AV  has 
"licence."  In  25  10,  "opportunity  to  make  his  de- 
fence" (as  tr  of  rbirov  d-rroXoylas,  topon  apologias)  takes 
the  place  of  "have  licence  to  answer  for  himself." 

LIDEBIR,  lid'G-ber  (TO"??,  lidh'bhlr):  For  "of 
Debir"  in  EV;  RVm  suggests  the  name  "Lidebir" 
(Josh  13  20),  a  city  in  the  territory  of  Gad.  It  is 
probably  identical  with  Lo-debau  (q.v.). 

LIE,  II,  LYING  0]sti,shckcr  [usually,  e.g.  Isa  9 

15;  Zee  13  3],  or  SI? ,  kazabh  vb.  [Job  34  0;  Mic 

2     11];     \J/€v5os,     pseddos     [Jn   8  44; 

1.  Lying        Rev  21  27],    "to   speak   falsely,"    "to 
Defined         fabricate,"    "to   make   a    false    state- 
ment"; tJ/ev8o|icu,  pseildomai,  in  Acts  5 

3.4) :  In  its  very  essence,  a  lie  is  something  said 
with  intent  to  deceive.  It  is  not  always  a  spoken 
word  that  is  a  lie,  for  a  life  lived  under  false  pre- 
tenses, a  hypocritical  life,  may  be  a  lie  equally  with 
a  false  word  (Jer  23  14).  A  vain  thing,  like  an 
idol,  may  be  a  lie  (Isa  59  4),  as  also  a  false  system 
(Rom  3  7).  Error,  as  opposed  to  truth,  is  a  lie 
(1  Jn  2  21).  The  denial  of  the  deity  of  Jesus 
Christ  is  regarded  as  "the"  lie  (I  Jn  2  22). 

The  origin  of  lies  and  lying  is  traced  to  Satan  who 
is  called  "a  liar,  and  the  father  thereof"  (Jn  8  44; 
Acts  5  3).  Satan's  dealing  with  Eve  (Gen  3) 
furnishes  us  with  a  splendid  illustration  of  the  first 
lie,  so  far  as  we  have  any  record  of  it. 

The  whole  race  is  guilty  of  this  sin:  "The  wicked 

are  estranged  from  tin;  womb :  they  go  astray  as  soon 

as  they  are  born,  speaking  lies"  (Rs  58 

2.  A  Racial  3).  It  is  a  part  of  the  old  Adamic 
Sin  nature,    "the    old    man"    (Col  3  9), 

which  the  believer  in  Jesus  Christ  is 
called  upon  to  put  off.  So  prominent  a  factor  is 
it  in  the  experience  of  the  race  that  among  the 
condensed  catalogue  of  sins,  for  the  commission  of 
which  men  are  finally  condemned,  the  sin  of  lying 
finds  its  place:  "All  liars  shall  have  their  part  in 
the  lake  which  burnetii  with  fire  and  brimstone" 
(Rev  21  8AV). 

God's  attitude  toward  this  sin  is  strongly  marked 
throughout  both  the  OT  and  NT.     The  righteous 

are  called  upon  to  hate  lying   (Prov 

3.  God's  13  5),  to  avoid  it  (Zeph  3  13),  to 
Attitude  respect  not  those;  who  lie,  and  utterly 
to  It  reject    their   company    (Ps  40  4;     101 

7),  to  pray  to  be  delivered  from  it  (Ps 
119  29).     The  wicked  are  said  to  love  lying   (Ps 


52  3),  to  delight  in  it  (Ps  62  4),  to  seek  after  it 
(Ps  4  2),  and  to  give  heed  to  it  (Prov  17  4). 
Lying  leads  to  worse  crimes  (IIos  4  1.2). 

The  punishment  to  be  meted  out  to  liars  is  of  the 

severest  kind.     They  are  positively  and  absolutely 

excluded    from    heaven     (Rev  21  27; 

4.  The  22  1.")),  and  those  who  are  guilt  v  of  this 
Penalty  sin  are  cast  into  the  lake  of  fire  (Rev 

21  8).  We  are  reminded  of  the  awful 
fate  meted  out  to  Ananias  and  Sapphira  when  they 
lied  to  God  and  man  (Acts  5  1-11).  Clod  will 
"destroy  them  that  speak  lies"  (Ps  5  0),  and  "lie 
that  uttereth  lies  shall  not  escape"  (Prov  19  5), 
yea  "a  sword  is  upon  the  liars"  (Jer  50  30  AV). 
The  liar  is  t  hereby  debarred  from  rendering  any  true 
and  acceptable  worship  unto  the  Lord  (Ps  24  4). 

The  Scriptures  abound  with  illustrations  of  lying 
and  the  results  and  penalties  therefor.  A  careful 
study  of  these  illustrations  will  reveal  the  subtilty 
of  falsehood.  Sometimes  a  lie  is  a  half-truth,  as 
set  forth  in  the  story  of  Satan's  temptation  of  Eve 
(Gen  3).  Cain's  lie  (Gen  4  9)  was  of  the  nature 
of  an  evasive  answer  to  a  direct  question.  Jacob's 
deception  of  his  father,  in  order  that  he  might 
inherit  the  blessing  of  the  firstborn,  was  a  bare- 
faced and  deliberate  lie  (Gen  27  19).  The  answer 
which  Joseph's  brethren  gave  to  their  father  when 
he  asked  them  concerning  the  welfare  of  their 
brother  Joseph  is  an  illustration,  as  well  as  a  reve- 
lation, of  the  depth  of  the  wickedness  of  hearts  that 
deliberately  set  themselves  to  falsify  and  deceive 
(Gen  37  31.32).  Even  good  men  are  sometimes 
overtaken  in  a  lie,  which,  of  course,  is  no  more  ex- 
cusable in  them  than  in  the  wicked;  indeed,  it  is 
more  shameful  because  the  righteous  are  professed 
followers  of  the  truth  (David  in  1  S  21  2).  What 
more  striking  example  of  the  heinousness  of  lying 
in  the  sight  of  God  can  we  have  than  the  fate  which 
befell  Gehazi  who,  in  order  to  satisfy  a  covetous 
desire  for  possessions,  misrepresented  his  master 
Elisha  to  Naaman  the  Syrian  whom  the  prophet 
had  healed  of  his  leprosy :  "The  leprosy  therefore  of 
Naaman  shall  cleave  unto  thee,  and  unto  thy  seed 
for  ever.  And  he  went  out  from  his  presence  a 
leper  as  white  as  snow"  (2  K  5  22-27)?  The  story 
of  Peter's  denial  of  his  Lord,  and  his  persistent 
asseverat  ions  that  he  did  not  know  Him  and  was  not 
one  of  His  followers,  makes  us  shudder  to  think  that 
it  is  possible  for  a  follower  of  Christ  so  far  to  forget 
himself  as  not  only  to  lie,  but  buttress  lying  with 
swearing  (Alt  26  72). 

Throughout  the  Scriptures  we  find  pseudos  joined  to 

other     words,     e.g.     "false     apostles"      (i//.=uSa7r6crToAos, 

pseudapdstolos,     2  Cor  11   13),    so    called 

5.  Pseudos  probably  because  a  true  apostle  delivers 
United  tlle  message  of  another,  namely,  God, 
™,;+v.  nn,n»  while  these  "false  apostles"  cared  only 
wren  vjiner  for  scif  Such  are  from  Satan,  and,  like 
Words              him,     they     transform     themselves     into 

angels  of  light,  and  sail  under  false  colors. 
We  read  also  of  "false  prophets"  Ou'don-po^T)??, 
pseudoprophHes,  Mt  7  15;  cf  Jer  23  16f),  thereby  mean- 
ing those  who  falsely  claim  to  bring  messages  from  God 
and  to  speak  in  behalf  of  God.  Mention  is  made  also  of 
"false  brethren"  (i^euSaSeA^os,  pseudddelphos,  2  Cor  11 
20),  meaning  Judaizing  teachers,  as  in  Gal  2  4;  "false 
teachers"  OeuiSoSiaao-KizAos,  pseudodiddskalos,  2  Pet  2 
1),  men  whose  teaching  was  false  and  who  falsely  claimed 
the  teacher's  office.  We  read  further  of  "false  wit- 
nesses" (i>n)8o/i.apTU5,  pseudomartus,  Mk  26  00);  by 
such  aro  meant  those  who  swear  falsely,  and  testify  to 
what  they  know  is  not  true.  So,  too,  we  find  mention 
of  the  "false  Chris ts  "  (<|/ti;<>dxpio-Toi.,  pseuddchristoi,  Mt  24 
24;  Mk  13  22).  This  personage  does  not  so  much  deny 
the  existence  of  a  Christ,  but  rather,  on  the  contrary, 
builds  upon  the  world's  expectations  of  such  a  person,  and 
falsely,  arrogantly,  blasphemously  asserts  that  he  is  the 
Christ  promised  and  foretold.  It  is  the  Antichrist  who 
denies  that  there  is  a  Christ;  the  false  Christ  affirms  him- 
self to  be  the  Christ.  Of  course  thereis  a  sense  in  which 
the  man  of  sin  will  be  both  Antichrist  and  a  false  Christ. 
See  False  Christs;  False  Phophets;  False  S  we  a  hi  no, 
False  Witness. 

William  Evans 


Liers-in-Wait 
Life 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1888 


LIERS-IN-WAIT,  H-erz-in-wat'  (Jgs  9  25;  16  12; 
20  36  ff).     Sec  Ambush. 

LIEUTENANT,     lQ-ten'ant,     lef-ten'ant.       See 

Satraps. 


mi, 

pCos, 


II. 


III. 
IV. 


1.  Popular 
Use  of  the 
Term 


LIFE,   lif    (O^n,   hayylm,  VZ~.;,    nephesh 

ru"h,  PPfl  ,    hayah;    £wtj,   zoe,    tyvxh,  psucht 

bios,  trviv\i.a.,  pneiima): 

1.     The  Terms 

The  OT  Teaching 

1.  Popular  Use  of  the  Term 

2.  Complexity  of  the  Idea 
In  the  Apocrypha 
In  the  XT 

1.  In  the  Synoptic  Gospels 

2.  In  the  Fourth  Gospel 

3.  In  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles 

4.  In  the  Writings  of  Paul 

5.  In  the  Writings  of  John 

6.  In  the  Other  Books  of  the  NT 
Literature 

/  The  Terms. — Of  the  Heb  terms,  hayah  is  the  vb. 
which  means  "to  live."  "to  have  life."  or  the  vital  prin- 
ciple, "to  continue  to  live,"  or  "to  live  prosperously." 
In  the  Piel  it  signifies  "to  give  life,  or  preserve,  or  quicken 
and  restore  life."  The  Hiphil  is  much  like  the  Piel. 
The  noun  hayylm  generally  used  in  the  pi.  is  an  abstract 
noun  meaning  "life."  i.e.  the  possession  of  the  vital  prin- 
ciple with  its  energies  and  activities.  Nephesh  often 
means  "living  being"  or  "creature."  Sometimes  it 
has  the  force  of  the  reflexive  "self."  At  other  times  it 
refers  to  the  seat  of  the  soul,  the  personality,  the  emo- 
tions the  appetites — passions  and  even  mental  acts. 
Frequently  it  means  "life,"  the  "seat  of  life,"  and  in 
this  way  it  is  used  about  171  t  in  the  OT,  referring  to  the 
principle  of  vitality  in  both  men  and  animals.  Ru"h 
signifies  "wind,"  "breath,"  principle  or  source  of  vitality, 
but  is  never  used  to  signify  life  proper. 

//.  The  OT  Teaching.— The  term  "life"  is  used 
in  the  OT  in  the  popular  sense.  It  meant  life  in 
the  body,  the  existence  and  activity 
of  the  man  in  all  his  parts  and  energies. 
It  is  the  person  complete,  conscious 
and  active.  There  is  no  idea  of  the 
body  being  a  fetter  or  prison  to  the 
soul;  the  body  was  essential  to  life  and  the  writers 
had  no  desire  to  be  separated  from  it.  To  them  the 
physical  sphere  was  a  necessity,  and  a  man  was 
living  when  all  his  activities  were  performed  in  the 
light  of  God's  face  and  favor.  The  secret  and 
source  of  life  to  them  was  relationship  with  God. 
There  was  nothing  good  or  desirable  apart  from 
this  relation  of  fellowship.  To  overcome  or  be  rid 
of  sin  was  necessary  to  life.  The  real  center  of 
gravity  in  life  was  in  the  moral  and  religious  part 
of  man's  nature.  This  must  be  in  fellowship  with 
God,  the  source  of  all  life  and  activity. 

The  conception  of  life  is  very  complex.  Several 
meanings  are  clearly  indicated:  (1)  Very  frequently 
it  refers  to  the  vital  principle  itself, 
2.  Complex- apart  from  its  manifestations  (Gen  2 
ity  of  the  7).  Here  it  is  the  breath  of  life,  or 
Idea  the  breath  from  God  which  contained 

and  communicated  the  vital  principle 
to  man  and  made  him  a  nephesh  or  living  being 
(see  also  Gen  1  30;  6  17;  7  22;  45  5,  etc).  (2)  It 
is  used  to  denote  the  period  of  one's  actual  existence, 
i.e.  "lifetime"  (Gen  23  1 ;  25  7;  47  9;  Ex  6  16; 
18.20,  etc).  (3)  The  life  is  represented  as  a  direct 
gift  from  God,  and  dependent  absolutely  upon  Him 
for  its  continuance  (Gen  1  11-27;  2  7;  Nu  16  22). 
(4)  In  a  few  cases  it  refers  to  the  conception  of 
children,  denoting  the  time  when  conception  was 
possible(Gen  18  10.14m;  2  K  4  10.17m).  (5)  In 
many  eases  it  refers  to  the  totality  of  man's  relation- 
ships and  activities,  all  of  which  make  up  life  (Dt 
32  47;  1  S  25  29;  Job  10  1,  etc).  (0)  In  a  few 
instances  it  is  used  synonymously  with  the  means  of 
sustaining  life  (Dt  24  6;  Prov  27  27).  (7)  Many 
times  it  is  used  synonymously  with  happiness  or 
well-being  (Dt  30  15.19;  Ezr  6  10;  Ps  16  11; 
30  ,5;      Prov  2  19,     and    frequently).     (8)     It    is 


always  represented  as  a  very  precious  gift,  and 
offences  against  life  were  to  be  severely  punished 
(Gen  9  4.5;    Lev  17  14;   24  17). 

Capital  punishment  is  here  specifically  enjoined  be- 
cause of  the  value  of  the  life  that  has  been  taken.  The 
lex  talionis  required  life  for  life  (Ex  21  23;  Dt  19  21); 
and  this  even  applies  to  the  beast  (Lev  24  IX).  The  life 
was  represented  as  abiding  in  the  blood  and  therefore 
the  blood  must  not  be  eaten,  or  lightly  shed  upon  the 
ground  (Lev  17  15;  Dt  12  23).  The  Decalogue  for- 
bids murder  or  the  taking  of  human  life  wrongfully 
(Ex  20  13;  Dt  5  17).  Garments  taken  in  pledge 
must  not  be  kept  over  night,  for  thereby  the  owner's 
life  might  be  endangered  (Dt  24  <>).  That  life  was 
considered  precious  appears  in  2  K  10  24;  Est  7  7; 
.lob  2  4;  Prov  4  23;  6  26.  The  essence  of  sacrifice 
consisted  in  the  fact  that  the  life  (the  iwphesh)  resided 
in  the  blood;  thus  when  blood  was  shed,  life  was  lost 
(Dt  12  23;  Lev  17  11).  Oppression  on  the  part  of 
judges  and  rulers  was  severely  condemned  because 
oppression  was  detrimental  to  life. 

(9)  Long  life  was  much  desired  and  sought  by  the 
Israelites,  and  under  certain  conditions  this  was 
possible  (Ps  91  10).  The  longevity  of  the  ante- 
diluvian patriarchs  is  a  problem  by  itself  (see 
Antediluvians).  It  was  one  of  the  greatest  of 
calamities  to  be  cut  off  in  the  midst  of  life  (Isa  38 
10-12;  53  8);  that  a  good  old  age  was  longed  for 
is  shown  by  Ex  20  12;  Ps  21  4;  34  12;  61  6,  etc. 
This  long  life  was  possible  to  the  obedient  to 
parents  (Ex  20  12;  Dt  5  16),  and  to  those  obe- 
dient to  God  (Dt  4  4;  Prov  3  1.2;  10  27);  to 
the  wise  (Prov  3  10;  9  11);  to  the  pure  in  heart 
(Ps  34  12-14;  91  1-10;  Eeel  3  12.13);  to  those 
who  feared  God  (Prov  10  27;  Isa  65  18-21;  38 
2-5,  etc).  (10)  The  possibility  of  an  immortal  life 
is  dimly  hinted  at  in  the  earliest  writing,  and  much 
more  clearly  taught  in  the  later.  The  Tree  of  Life 
in  the  midst  of  the  garden  indicated  a  possible  im- 
mortality for  man  upon  earth  (Gen  2  9;  3  22.24) 
(see  Tree  of  Life)  . 

Failing  to  partake  of  this  and  falling  into  sin  by  par- 
taking of  the  "tree  of  the  knowledge  of  good  and  evil," 
they  were  driven  forth  from  the  garden  lest  they  should 
eat  of  the  tree  of  life  and  become  immortal  beings  in  their 
sinful  condition.  To  deprive  man  of  the  possibility  of 
making  himself  immortal  while  sinful  was  a  blessing 
to  the  race;  immortality  without  holiness  is  a  curse 
rather  than  a  blessing.  The  way  to  the  tree  of  life  was 
henceforth  guarded  by  the  cherubim  and  the  flame  of  a 
sword  so  that  men  could  not  partake  of  it  in  their  con- 
dition of  sin.  This,  however,  did  not  exclude  the  possi- 
bility of  a  spiritual  immortality  in  another  sphere. 
Enoch's  fellowship  with  God  led  to  a  bodily  translation; 
so  also  Elijah,  and  several  hundred  years  after  their 
deaths,  God  called  Himself  the  God  of  Abraham  and 
Isaac  and  Jacob,  implying  that  they  were  really  alive 
then.  In  Isa  26  19  there  is  a  clear  prophecy  of  a  resur- 
rection, and  an  end  of  death.  Did  12  2  asserts  a  resur- 
rection of  many  of  the  dead,  some  to  everlasting  life  and 
some  to  shame  and  everlasting  contempt.  Some  of  the 
nsalmists  firmly  believed  in  the  continuity  of  the  life 
in  fellowship  with  God  (Ps  16  10.11;  17  15;  23  6;  49 
15;  73  24.25).  The  exact  meaning  of  some  of  these 
statements  is  difficult  to  understand,  yet  this  much  is 
clear:  there  was  a  revolt  against  death  in  many  pious 
minds,  and  a  belief  that  the  life  of  fellowship  with  God 
could  not  end  or  be  broken  even  by  death  itself.  See 
Immortality. 

(11)  The  fundamental  fact  in  the  possession  of 
life  was  vital  relationship  with  God.  Men  first 
lived  because  God  breathed  into  them  the  breath 
of  life  (Gen  2  7).  Man's  vital  energies  are  the 
outflowing  of  the  spirit  or  vital  energies  of  God, 
and  all  activities  are  dependent  upon  the  vitalizing 
power  from  God.  When  God  sends  forth  His  spirit, 
things  are  created,  and  live;  when  He  withdraws  that 
spirit  they  die  (Ps  104  30).  "In  his  favor  is  life" 
(Ps  30  5  AV).  He  is  the  fountain  of  life  (Ps  36 
9;  63  3).  "All  my  fountains  are  in  thee"  (Ps  87 
7).  The  secret  of  Job's  success  and  happiness  was 
that  the  Almighty  was  with  him  (Job  29  2).  This 
fellowship  brought  him  health,  friends,  prosperity 
and  all  other  blessings.  The  consciousness  of  the 
fellowship  with  God  led  men  to  revolt  against  the 
idea  of  going  to  Sheol  where  this  fellowship  must 


1889 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Liers-in-Wait 
Life 


cease.     They   felt   that   such   a  relationship   could 
not  cease,  and  God  would  take  them  out  of  Sheol. 

///.  In  the  Apocrypha. — A  similar  conception  of  life 
appears  here  as  in  the  OT.  Zoe  and  psuche  are  used  and 
occur  most  frequently  in  the  books  of  Wisd  and  Ecclus. 
In  1  and  2  Esd  the  word  is  little  used;  2  Esd  3  5; 
16  61  are  but  a  quotation  from  Gen  2  7,  and  refer  to 
the  vital  principle;  2  Esd  14  30,  Toll,  Jth,  Ad  Est  use 
it  in  the  same  sense  also.  Wisd  and  Ecclus  use  it  in 
several  senses  closely  resembling  the  use  in  Prov  (cf 
Ecclus  4  12;  Prov  3  18;  10  16).  In  general  there  is 
no  additional  meaning  attached  to  the  word.  The  Ps 
Sol  refer  to  everlasting  life  in  3   1<>;    13   10;    14  2.6. 

IV.  In  the  NT. — Of  the  Gr  terms  bios  is  used  at  times 
as  the  equivalent  of  the  Heb  hay  aim.  It  refers  to  life 
extensively,  i.e.  the  period  of  one's  existence,  a  lifetime; 
also  to  the  means  of  sustaining  life,  such  as  wealth,  etc. 
Psuche  is  also  equivalent  to  hayylm  at  times,  but  very 
frequently  to  nephesh  and  sometimes  to  ruah.  Thus 
it  means  the  vital  principle,  a  living  being,  the  imma- 
terial part  of  man,  the  seat  of  the  affections,  desires  and 
appetites,  etc.  The  term  zoe  corresponds  very  closely 
to  hayylm,  and  means  the  vital  principle,  the  state  of 
one'  who  is  animate,  the  fulness  of  activities  and  rela- 
tionship both  in  the  physical  and  spiritual  realms. 

The  content  of  the  word  zoe  is  the  chief  theme  of 
the  NT.  The  life  is  mediated  by  Jesus  Christ.  In 
the  OT  this  life  was  through  fellowship  with  God, 
in  the  NT  it  is  through  Jesus  Christ  the  Mediator. 
The  OT  idea  is  carried  to  its  completion,  its  highest 
development  of  meaning,  being  enriched  by  the 
supreme  teaching  and  revelation  of  Jesus  Christ. 
In  the  NT  as  well  as  in  the  OT,  1  he  center  of  gravity 
in  human  life  is  in  the  moral  and  religious  nature  of 
man. 

The  teaching  here  regarding  life  naturally  links 
itself  with  OT  ideas  and  the  prevailing  conceptions 

of  Judaism.  The  word  is  used  in  the 
1.  In  the  sense  of  (1)  the  vital  principle,  that 
Synoptic  which  gives  actual  physical  existence 
Gospels  (Mt   2  20;      Mk  10  45;     Lk  12  22  f; 

14  26).  (2)  It  is  also  the  period  of 
one's  existence,  i.e.  lifetime  (Lk  1  75;  16  25). 
(3)  Once  it  may  mean  the  totality  of  man's  relation- 
ships and  activities  (Lk  12  15)  which  do  not  con- 
sist in  abundance  of  material  possessions.  (4) 
Generally  it  means  the  real  life,  the  vital  connection 
with  the  world  and  God,  the  sum  total  of  man's 
highest  interests.  It  is  called  ''eternal  life"  (Mt 
19  29;  25  46).  It  is  called  "life"  (Mt  18  8.9; 
19  17;  Mk  9  43.45.46).  In  these  passages  Jesus 
seems  to  imply  that  it  is  almost  equivalent  to 
"laying  up  treasures  in  heaven,"  or  to  "entering 
the  kingdom  of  God."  The;  entering  into  life  and 
entering  the  kingdom  are  practically  the  same,  for 
the  kingdom  is  that  spiritual  realm  where  God  con- 
trols, where  the  principles,  activities  and  relation- 
ships of  heaven  prevail,  and  hence  to  enter  into 
these  is  to  enter  into  "life."  (5)  The  lower  life  of 
earthly  relationship  and  activities  must  be  sub- 
ordinated to  the  higher  and  spiritual  (Mt  10  39; 
16  25;  Lk  9  24).  These  merely  earthly  interests 
may  be  very  desirable  and  enjoyable,  but  whoever 
would  cling  to  these  and  make  them  supreme  is  in 
danger  of  losing  the  higher.  The  spiritual  being 
infinitely  more  valuable  should  be  sought  even  if  the 
other  relationship  should  be  lost  entirely.  (6) 
Jesus  also  speaks  of  this  life  as  something  future, 
and  to  be  realized  at  the  consummation  of  the  age 
(Mt  19  29;    Lk  18  30),  or  the  world  to  come. 

This  in  no  wise  contradicts  the  statement  that  eternal 
life  can  be  entered  upon  in  this  life.  As  Jesus  Him- 
self was  in  vital  relationship  with  the  spiritual  world  and 
lived  the  eternal  life,  He  sought  to  bring  others  into  the 
same  blessed  state.  This  life  was  far  from  being  per- 
fect. The  perfection  could  come  only  at  the  consumma- 
tion when  all  was  perfection  and  then  they  would  enter 
into  the  perfect  fellowship  with  Clod  and  connection 
with  the  spirit-world  and  its  blessed  experiences.  There 
is  no  conflict  in  His  teaching  here,  no  real  difficulty,  only 
an  illustration  of  Browning's  statement,  "Man  never  is 
but  wholly  hopes  to  be."  Thus  in  the  synoptists  Jesus 
teaches  the  reality  of  the  eternal  life  as  a  present  pos- 
session as  well  as  future  fruition.     The  future  is  but  the 


flowering  out  and  perfection  of  the  present.     Without 
the  present  bud,  there  can  be  no  future  flower. 

(7)  The  conditions  which  Jesus  lays  down  for 
entering  into  this  life  are  faith  in  Himself  as  the  one 
Mediator  of  the  life,  and  the  following  of  Him  in  a 
life  of  obedience.  Hi;  alone  knows  the  Father  and 
can  reveal  Him  to  others  (Mt  11  27).  He  alone 
can  give  true  rest  and  can  teach  men  how  to  live 
(11  28  f).  The  sure  way  to  this  life  is:  "Follow 
me."  His  whole  ministry  was  virtually  a  prolonged 
effort  to  win  confidence  in  Himself  as  Son  and  Me- 
diator, to  win  obedience,  and  hence  bring  men  unto 
these  spiritual  relationships  and  activities  which 
constitute  the  true  lite. 

The  fullest  and  richest  teachings  regarding  life 
are  found  here.     The  greatest  word  of  this  Gospel 

is  "life."  The  author  says  he  wrote 
2.  In  the  the  Gospel  in  order  that  "ye  may  have 
Fourth  life"   (20  31).     Most  of  the  teachings 

Gospel  recorded,  circle  around  this  great  word 

"life."  This  teaching  is  in  no  way 
distinctive  and  different  from  that  of  the  synoptists, 
but  is  supplementary,  and  completes  the  teaching  of 
Jesus  on  the  subject.  The  use  of  the  word  is  not 
as  varied,  being  concentrated  on  the  one  supreme 
subject.  (1)  In  a  few  cases  it  refers  only  to  the 
vital  principle  which  gives  life  or  produces  a  life- 
time (10  11.15-18;  13  37;  15  13).  (2)  It  repre- 
sents Jesus  the  Logos  as  the  origin  and  means  of  all 
life  to  the  world.  As  the  preincarnate  Logos  He 
was  the  source  of  life  to  the  universe  (1  4).  As  the 
incarnate  Logos  He  said  His  life  had  been  derived 
originally  from  the  Father  (5  26;  6  57;  10  18). 
He  then  was  the  means  of  life  to  men  (3  15.16; 
4  14;  5  21.39.40);  and  this  was  the  purpose  for 
which  He  came  into  the  world  (6  33.34.51; 
10  10).  (3)  The  prevailing  reference,  however,  is 
to  those  activities  which  are  the  expression  of  fellow- 
ship with  God  and  Jesus  Christ.  These  relation- 
ships are  called  "eternal  life"  (3  15.16.36;  4  14, 
etc).  The  nearest  approach  to  a  definition  of 
eternal  life  is  found  in  17  3.  Though  not  a  scien- 
tific or  metaphysical  definition,  it  is  nevertheless 
Jesus'  own  description  of  eternal  life,  and  reveals 
His  conception  of  it.  It  is  thus  more  valuable  than 
a  formal  definition.  It  is  "to  know  God  and  Jesus 
Christ  whom  He  hath  sent." 

This  knowledge  is  vastly  more  than  mere  intellect- 
ual perception  or  understanding.  It  is  moral  knowledge, 
it  is  personal  acquaintance,  it  is  fellowship,  a  contact, 
if  we  may  so  speak,  of  personality  with  personality,  an 
inner  affinity  and  sympathy,  an  experience  of  similar 
thoughts,  emotions,  purposes,  motives,  desires,  an  inter- 
change of  the  heart's  deepest  feelings  and  experiences. 
It  is  a  bringing  of  the  whole  personality  of  man  into  right 
relationship  with  the  personality  of  God.  This  rela- 
tion is  ethical,  personal,  binding  the  two  together  with 
ties  which  nothing  can  separate.  It  is  into  this  expe- 
rience that  Jesus  came  to  bring  men.  Such  a  life  Jesus 
says  is  satisfving  to  all  who  hunger  and  thirst  for  it 
(4"  14;  6  35);  it  is  the  source  of  light  to  all  (1  4;  8  12); 
it  is  indestructible  (6  5s ;  11  20);  it  is  like  a  well  of 
water  in  the  soul  (4  14);  it  is  procured  by  personally 
partaking  of  those  qualities  which  belong  to  Jesus  (6  53). 

(4)  This  life  is  a  present  possession  and  has  also 
a  glorious  future  fruition,  (a)  To  those  who  exer- 
cise faith  in  Jesus  it  is  a  present  experience  and 
possession  (4  10;  5  24.40).  Faith  in  Him  as  the 
Son  of  God  is  the  psychological  means  by  which 
persons  are  brought  into  this  vital  relationship  with 
God.  Those  who  exercised  the  faith  immediately 
experienced  this  new  power  and  fellowship  and 
exercised  the  new  activities,  (b)  It  has  a  glorious 
fruition  in  the  future  also  (4  36;  5  29;  6  39.44.54). 
John  does  not  give  so  much  prominence  to  the 
eschatological  phase  of  Jesus'  teachings  as  to  the 
present  reality  and  actual  possession  of  this  blessed 
life. 

(5)  It  has  been  objected  that  in  speaking  of  the  Logos 
as  the  source  of  life  John  is  pursuing  a  metaphysical  line, 


Life 
Light 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1890 


whereas  tho  life  which  ho  so  much  emphasizes  has  an 
ethical  basis,  and  he  makes  no  attempt  to  reconcile  the 
two.  The  objection  may  have  force  to  one  who  has 
imbibed  the  Kitschlian  idea  of  performing  the  impos- 
sible task  of  eliminating  all  metaphysics  from  theology. 
It  will  not  appeal  very  strongly  to  the  average  Christian. 
It  is  a  purely  academic  objection.  The  ordinary  mind 
will  think  that  if  .lesns  Christ  is  the  source  of  ethical  and 
eternal  life  it  is  because  He  possesses  something  of  the 
essence  and  being  of  Cod,  which  mates  His  work  for 
men  possible.  The  metaphysical  and  the  ethical  may 
exist  together,  may  run  concurrently,  the  one  being  the 
source  and  seat  of  the  other.  There  is  no  contradic- 
tion. Both  metaphysics  and  ethics  are  a  legitimate  and 
necessary  exercise  of  the  human  mind. 

In  His  intercessory  prayer  (.In  17),  Jesus  said  His 

mission  was  to  give  eternal  life  to  as  many  as  the 

Father  had   given   Him    (17  2).     The 

3.  In  the        record  in  Acts  is  the  carrying  out  of 
Acts  of  the    that,  purpose.     The  word  "life"  is  used 
Apostles         in  several  senses:     (1)  the   vital    prin- 
ciple or  physical  life  (17  25;  20  10.24; 

27  10.22);  (2)  also  the  sum  total  of  man's  relation- 
ships and  activities  upon  earth  (5  20;  26  4);  (3) 
Jesus  Christ  is  regarded  as  the  source  and  principle 
of  life,  being  called  by  Peter,  "the  Prince  of  life" 
(3  15).  Also  the  life  eternal  or  everlasting  is 
spoken  of  with  the  same  significance  as  in  the 
Gospels  (11  IS;   13  4G.48). 

Here  also  the  words  for  "life"  are  used  in  various 

senses:    (1)  the  vital  principle  which  gives  physical 

vitality  and  existence   (Rom  8  11.38; 

4.  In  the  11  15;  1  Cor  3  22;  Phil  1  20;  2  30); 
Writings  (2)  the  sum  total  of  man's  relationships 
of  Paul  and  activities  (1  Cor  6  3.4;   1  Tim  2 

2;  4  8;  2  Tim  1  1;  3  10  AV);  (3) 
those  relationships  with  God  and  with  Christ  in  the 
spiritual  realm,  and  the  activities  arising  therefrom 
which  constitute  the  real  and  eternal  life.  This 
is  mediated  by  Christ  (Rom  5  10).  It  is  in  Christ 
(Rom  6  11).  It  is  the  free  gift  of  God  (6  23).  It 
is  also  mediated  or  imparted  to  us  through  the 
Spirit  (Rom  8  2.6.9.10;  2  Cor  2  1(5;  3  0;  Gal  6 
8).  It  comes  through  obedience  to  the  word  (Rom 
7  10;  Phil  2  16);  and  through  faith  (1  Tim  1  16). 
It  may  be  apprehended  in  this  life  (1  Tim  6  12. 
19).  It  is  brought  to  light  through  the  gospel  (2 
Tim  110).  It  is  a  reward  to  those  who  by  patience 
in  well-doing  seek  it  (Rom  2  7).  It  gives  conquer- 
ing power  over  sin  and  death  (Rom  5  17.18.21). 
It  is  the  end  or  reward  of  a  sanctified  life  (Rom  6 
22).  It  is  a  present  possession  and  a  hope  (Tit 
12;  3  7).  It  will  be  received  in  all  its  fulness 
hereafter  (Rom  2  7;  2  Cor  5  4).  Thus  Paul's 
use  of  the  word  substantially  agrees  with  the  teach- 
ing in  the  Gospels,  and  no  doubt  was  largely  based 
upon  it. 

In  the  Jonannine  Epp.  and  Rev,  the  contents  of 

the  term  "life"  are  the  same  as  those  in  the  Fourth 

Gospel.     Life   in   certain   passages    (1 

5.  In  the  Jn  3  16;  Rev  8  9;  11  11;  12  11) 
"Writings  is  mere  physical  vitality  and  existence 
of  John  upon    earth.     The    source    of    life    is 

Christ  Himself  (1  Jn  1  1  f ;  5  11  f.16). 
The  blessed  eternal  life  in  Christ  is  a  present  pos- 
session to  all  those  who  arc  in  fellowship  with  the 
Father  and  the  Son  (1  Jn  5  11.12).  Here  is  an 
echo  of  the  words  of  Jesus  (Jn  17  3)  where  John 
describes  the  life,  the  eternal  life  which  was  with  the 
Father  and  was  manifested  unto  us.  It  is  virtually 
fellowship  with  the  Father  and  with  the  Son  (1  Jn 
1  2.4).  Life  is  promised  to  those  who  are  faithful 
(Rev  2  7);  and  the  crown  of  life  is  promised  to 
those  who  are  faithful  unto  death  (Rev  2  10). 
The  crown  of  life  doubtless  refers  to  the  realizal  ion 
of  all  the  glorious  possibilities  that  come  through 
fellowship  with  God  and  the  Son.  The  thirsty  are 
invited  to  come  and  drink  of  the  water  of  life  freely 
(Rev  21  6;  22  17).  The  river  of  life  flows  through 
the  streets  of  the  New  Jerusalem  (22  1),  and  the 


tree   of  life   blooms  on   its   banks,  bearing  twelve 
manner  of  fruit  (22  2.14).     See  Tree  of  Life. 

The  Fp.  to  the   He   speaks   of   our   lifetime   or 
periods  of  existence  upon  earth  (2  15;   7  3),    like- 
wise of  the  power  of  an  indissoluble 
6.  In  the        life  (7  10);  James  promises  the  crown 
Other  of   life   to   the   faithful    (1  12).     This 

Books  of         reward   is   the   fulness  of   life's   possi- 
the  NT  bilities     hereafter.     Our     lifetime     is 

mentioned  in  4  14  and  represented  as 
brief  as  a  vapor.  Peter  in  1  Pet  3  7  speaks  of  man 
and  wife  as  joint-heirs  of  the  grace  of  life,  and  of 
loving  life  (3  10),  referring  to  the  totality  of  rela- 
tionships and  activities.  The  "all  things  that  per- 
tain unto  life  and  godliness"  (2  Pet  1  3)  constitute 
the  whole  Christian  life  involving  the  life  eternal. 

Literature. — Articles  on  "Life"  in  II DB,  DCG, 
Jew  Enc;  on  "Soul,"  "Spirit,"  etc,  ibid,  and  in  Erie 
Brit,  EB,  Kitto,  Smith,  Standard,  etc;  Laidlaw,  Bible 
Doctrine  of  Man;  Delitzsch,  A  System  of  Bib.  Psychology; 
comms.  on  the  various  passages;  Davidson,  OT  Theology; 
Oehler  and  Schultz,  OT  Theology;  Stevens,  Johannine 
Theology  and  Pauline  Theology;  Holtzmann,  NT  The- 
ology, I,  293  ft";  G.  Dalman,  Words  of  Jesus;  Phillips 
Brooks,  More  Abundant  Life;  B.  F.  WestCOtt,  Historic 
Faith;  F.  J.  A.  Hort,  The  Way,  the  Truth,  the  Life;  J.  (i. 
Hoare,  Life  in  St.  John's  Gospels;  E.  White,  Life  and 
Christ;  Salmond,  The  Christian  Doctrine  of  Immortality; 
R.  J.  Knowling,  Witness  of  the  Epistles  and  The  Testi- 
mony of  St.  Paul  to  Christ;  comms.  on  the  various  pas- 
sages; McPherson,  "The  NT  View  of  Life,"  Expos, 
I,  ser.  v,  72  If;  Massie,  "Two  NT  Words  Denoting  Life." 
Expos,  II,  ser.  iv,  380  If;  Schrenk,  Die  Johannistische 
Anschauung  vom  Leben. 

J.  J.  Reeve 
LIFE,  TREE  OF.     See  Tree  of  Life. 

LIFT:  To  make  lofty,  to  raise  up.  A  very  com- 
mon word  in  EV  representing  a  great  variety  of 
Heb  and  Gr  weirds,  although  in  the  OT  used  chiefly 
as  the  tr  of  KTEj ,  nam'.  Of  none  of  these  words, 
however,  is  "lift"  used  as  a  technical  tr,  and  "lift" 
is  interchanged  freely  with  its  synonyms,  esp. 
"exalt"  (cf  Ps  75  5;  89  24)  and  "raise"  (cf  Eccl 
4  10;  2  S  12  17).  "Lift"  is  still  perfectly  good 
English,  but  not  in  all  the  senses  in  which  it  is  used 
in  EV;  e.g.  such  phrases  as  "men  that  lifted  up 
axes  upon  a  thicket"  (Ps  74  5),  "lift  up  thy  feet 
unto  the  perpetual  ruins"  (Ps  74  3,  etc),  and  even 
the  common  "lift  up  the  eyes"  or  "hands"  are  dis- 
tinctly archaic.  However,  almost  all  the  uses  are 
perfectly  clear,  and  only  the  following  need  be  noted. 
"To  lift  up  the  head"  (Gen  40  13.19.20;  2  K  25 
27;  Ps  3  3;  Sir  11  13;  Lk  21  28)  means  to  raise 
from  a  low  condition  (but  on  Ps  24  7.9  see  Gate). 
To  "lift  up  the  horn"  (Ps  75  5)  is  to  assume  a 
confident  position,  the  figure  being  taken  from 
fighting  oxen  (see  Horn).  "Lift  tip  the  face"  may 
be  meant  lit.  (2  K  9  32),  or  it  may  denote  the 
bestowal  of  favor  (Ps  4  6) ;  it  may  mean  the  atti- 
tude of  a  righteous  man  toward  God  (Job  22  26), 
or  simply  the  attitude  of  a  suppliant  (Ezr  9  6). 

BXTRTON   SCOTT  EASTON 

LIGHT,  lit  ("liX,  'or,  "lisp ,  ma' or;  «j>«s,  phos; 
many  other  words) : 

1.  Origin  of  Light 

2.  A  Comprehensive  Term 

(1)  Natural 

(2)  Artificial 

(3)  Miraculous 

(4)  Mental,  Moral,  Spiritual 

3.  An  Attribute  of  Holiness 

(1)  God 

(2)  Christ 

(3)  Christians 

(4)  The  Church 

4.  Symbolism 

5.  Expressive  Terms 

The  creation  of  light  was  the  initial  step  in  the 
creation  of  life.  "Let  there  be  light"  (Gen  13) 
was  the  first  word  of  God  spoken  after  His  creative 
Spirit  "moved"  upon  the  primary  material  out  of 
which  He  created  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  and 


1891 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Life 
Light 


which   lay,   until  the  utterance  of   that   word,   in 

the  chaos  of  darkness  and  desolation.     Something 

akin,    possibly,    to    the    all-pervasive 

1.  Origin  electro-magnetic  activity  of  the  aurora 
of  Light  borealis  penetrated  the  chaotic  night 

of  the  world.  The  ultimate  focusing 
of  light  (on  the  4th  day  of  creation,  Gen  1  14)  in 
suns,  stars,  and  solar  systems  brought  the  initial 
creative  process  to  completion,  as  the  essential 
condition  of  all  organic  life.  The  origin  of  light 
thus  finds  its  explanation  in  the  purpose  and  very 
nature  of  God  whom  John  defines  as  not  only  the 
Author  of  light  but,  in  an  all-inclusive  sense,  as 
light  itself:    "God  is  light"  (1  Jn  1  5). 

The  word  "light"  is  Divinely  rich  in  its  compre- 
hensiveness  and   meaning.     Its   material  splendor 

is  used  throughout  the  Scriptures  as 

2.  A  Com-  the  symbol  and  synonym  of  all  that  is 
prehensive  luminous  and  radiant  in  the  mental, 
Term  moral  and  spiritual  life  of  men  and 

angels;  while  the  eternal  God,  because 
of  His  holiness  and  moral  perfection,  is  pictured  as 
"dwelling  in  light  unapproachable"  (1  Tim  6  16). 
Every  phase  of  the  word,  from  the  original  light 
in  the  natural  world  to  the  spiritual  glory  of  the 
celestial,  is  found  in  Holy  Writ. 

(1)  Natural  light— -The  light  of  day  (Gen  1  5); 
of  sun,  moon  and  stars;  "lights  in  the  firmament" 
(Gen  1  14-18;  Ps  74  16;  136  7;  148  3;  Eccl 
12  2;  Rev  22  5).  Its  characteristics  are  beauty, 
radiance,  utilitv.  It  "rejoiceth  the  heart"  (Prov  15 
30);  "Truly  the  light  is  sweet"  (Eccl  11  7);  with- 
out it  men  stumble  and  are  helpless  (Jn  11  9.10); 
it  is  something  for  which  they  wait  with  inexpressible 
longing  (Job  30  26;  cf  Ps  130  6).  Life,  joy, 
activity  and  all  blessings  are  dependent  upon  light. 

Light  and  life  are  almost  synonymous  to  the  inhabit- 
ants of  Pal,  and  in  the  same  way  darkness  and  death. 
Theirs  is  the  land  of  sunshine.  When  they  go  to  other 
lands  of  clouded  skies  their  only  thought  is  to  return  to  the 
brightness  and  sunshine  of  their  native  land.  In  Pal 
there  is  hardly  a  day  in  the  whole  year  when  the  sun 
does  not  shine  for  some  part  of  it,  while  for  five  months 
of  the  year  there  is  scarcely  an  interruption  of  the  sun- 
shine. Time  is  reckoned  from  sunset  to  sunset.  The 
day's  labor  closes  with  the  corning  of  darkness.  "Man 
goeth  forth  unto  his  work  and  to  his  labor  until  the 
evening"   (Ps  104  2:5). 

The  suddenness  of  the  change  from  darkness  to  light 
with  the  rising  sun  and  the  disappearance  of  the  sun  in 
the  evening  is  more  striking  than  in  more  northern  coun- 
tries, and  it  is  not  strange  that  in  the  ancient  days  there 
should  have  aris/n  a  worship  of  the  sun  as  the  giver  of 
light  and  happiness,  and  that  Job  should  mention  the 
enticement  of  sun-worship  when  he  "beheld  the  sun  when 
it  shined,  or  the  moon  walking  in  brightness"  (Job  31  26). 
The  severest  plague  in  Egypt  next  to  the  slaying  of  the 
firstborn  was  the  plague  of  darkness  which  fell  upon  the 
Egyptians  (Ex  10  23).  This  love  of  light  finds  expres- 
sion in  both  OT  and  XT  in  a  very  extensive  use  of  the 
word  to  express  those  things  which  are  most  to  be  desired 
and  most  helpful  to  man,  and  in  this  connection  we  find 
some  of  the  most  beautiful  figures  in  the  Bible. 

(2)  Artificial  light.—  When  natural  light  fails, 
man  by  discovery  or  invention  provides  himself 
with  some  temporary  substitute,  however  dim  and 
inadequate.  The  ancient  Hebrews  had  "oil  for 
the  light"  (Ex  25  6;  35  8;  Lev  24  2)  and  lamps 
(Ex  35  14;  Mt  5  15).  "There  were  many  lights 
[Xafnrds,  lampds]  in  the  upper  chamber"  at  Troas, 
where  Paul  preached  until  midnight  (Acts  20  8); 
so  Jcr  25  10  RV,  "light  of  the  lamp,"  AV  "candle." 

(3)  Miraculous  light ..—When  the  appalling  plague 
of  "thick  darkness,"  for  three  days,  enveloped  the 
Egyptians,  terrified  and  rendered  them  helpless, 
"all  the  children  of  Israel  had  light  in  their  dwell- 
ings" (Ex  10  23).  Whether  the  darkness  was  due 
to  a  Divinely  ordered  natural  cause  or  the  light 
was  the  natural  light  of  day,  the  process  that  pre- 
served the  interspersed  Israelites  from  the  encom- 
passing darkness  was  supernatural.  Miraculous, 
also,  even  though  through  natural  agency,  was  the 


"pillar  of  fire"  that  gave  light  to  the  Israelites 
escaping  from  Pharaoh  (Ex  13  21;  14  20;  Ps  78 
14),  "He  led  them  ....  all  the  night  with  a  light 
of  fire."  Supernatural  was  the  effulgence  at 
Christ's  transfiguration  that  made  "his  garments 
....  white  as  the  light"  (Mt  17  2).  Under  the 
same  category  Paul  classifies  'the  great  light'  that 
'suddenly  shone  round  about  him  from  heaven' 
on  the  way  to  Damascus  (Acts  22  6;  cf  9  3). 
In  these  rare  instances  the  supernatural  light  was 
not  only  symbolic  of  an  inner  spiritual  light,  but 
instrumental,  in  part  at  least,  in  revealing  or  pre- 
paring the  way  for  it. 

(4)  Mental,  moral,  spiritual  light. — The  phenom- 
ena of  natural  light  have  their  counterpart  in  the 
inner  life  of  man.  Few  words  lend  themselves  with 
such  beauty  and  appropriateness  to  the;  experiences, 
conditions,  and  radiance  of  the  spiritual  life.  For 
this  reason  the  Scriptures  use  "light"  largely  in  the 
figurative  sense.  Borrowed  from  the  natural  world, 
it  is,  nevertheless,  inherently  suited  to  portray 
spiritual  realities.  In  secular  life  a  distinct  line  of 
demarkation  is  drawn  between  intellectual  and 
spiritual  knowledge  and  illumination.  Education 
that  enlightens  the  mind  may  leave  the  moral  man 
untouched.  This  distinction  rarely  obtains  in  the 
Bible,  which  deals  with  man  as  a  spiritual  being  and 
looks  upon  his  faculties  as  interdependent  in  their 
action. 

(a)  A  few  passages,  however,  refer  to  the  light  that 
comes  chiefly  to  the  intellect  or  mind  through  Divine  in- 
struction, e.g.  Ps  119  130,  "The  opening  of  thy  words 
giveth  light";  so  Prov  6  23,  "The  law  is  light."  Even 
here  the  instruction  includes  moral  as  well  as  mental  en- 
lightenment. 

(6)  Moral:  Job  24  13.16  has  to  do  exclusively  with 
man's  moral  attitude  to  truth:  "rebel  against  the  light "  ; 
"know  not  the  light."  Isa  5  20  describes  a  moral  con- 
fusion and  blindness,  which  cannot  distinguish  light 
from  darkness. 

(c)  For  the  most  part,  however,  light  and  life  go 
together.  It  is  the  product  of  salvation:  "Jell  is  my 
light  and  my  salvation"  (Ps  27  1).  "  Light,"  figuratively 
used,  has  to  do  preeminently  with  spiritual  life,  including 
also  the  illumination  that  floods  all  the  faculties  of 
the  soul:  intellect,  conscience,  reason,  will.  In  the 
moral  realm  the  enlightenment  of  these  faculties  is 
dependent  wholly  on  the  renewal  of  the  spirit.  "In 
thy  light  ....  we  see  light"  (Ps  36  9);  "The  life  was 
the  light  of  men  "  (Jn  1  4). 

Light  is  an  attribute  of  holiness,  and  thus  a  per- 
sonal quality.     It  is  the  outshining  of  Deity. 

(1)   God. — "God  is  light,  and  in  him 
3.  An  is    no    darkness    at    all"    (1  Jn  1  5). 

Attribute  Darkness  is  the  universal  symbol  and 
of  Holiness  condition  of  sin  and  death;  light  the 
symbol  and  expression  of  holiness. 
"The  light  of  Israel  will  be  for  a  fire,  and  his  Holy 
One  for  a  flame"  (Isa  10  17).  God,  by  His  pres- 
ence and  grace,  is  to  us  a  "marvellous  light"  (1  Pet 
2  9).  The  glory  of  His  holiness  and  presence  is 
the  "everlasting  light"  of  the  redeemed  in  heaven 
(Isa  60  19.20;    Rev  21  23.24;    22  5). 

(2)  Christ,  the  eternal  Word  (X670S,  logos,  Jn 
1  1),  who  said  "Let  there  be  light"  (Gen  1  3),  is 
Himself  the  "effulgence  of  [God's]  glory"  (He  1  3), 
"the  light  which  lighteth  every  man,  coming  into 
the  world"  (Jn  1  9)  (cf  the  statements  concerning 
Wisdom  in  Wisd  7  25  f  and  concerning  Christ  in 
He  1  3;  and  see  Creeds;  Logos;  Johannine 
Theology;  Wisdom).  As  the  predicted  Messiah, 
He  was  to  be  "for  a  light  of  the  Gentiles"  (Isa  42  6; 
49  6).  His  birth  was  the  fulfilment  of  this  prophecy 
(Lk  2  32).  Jesus  called  Himself  "the  light  of  the 
world"  (Jn  8  12;  9  5;  12  46).  As  light  He  was 
"God  ....  manifest  in  the  flesh"  (1  Tim  3  16  AV). 
"The  Word  was  God"  (Jn  1  1).  Jesus  as  \6yos  is 
the  eternal  expression  of  God  as  a  word  is  the  ex- 
pression of  a  thought.  In  the  threefold  essence  of 
His  being  God  is  Life  (fwi),  zoi)  (Jn  5  26;  6  57); 
God  is  Love  (dydirtj,  agape)  (1  Jn  4  8);  God  is  Light 


Light,  Lightness 
Lime 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1S92 


(0ws,  phos)  (1  Jn  1  5).  Thus  Christ,  the  logos, 
manifesting  the  three  aspects  of  the  Divine  Nature, 
is  Lite,  Love  and  Light,  and  these  three  are  insep- 
arable and  constitute  the  glory  which  the  disciples 
beheld  in  Him,  "glory  as  of  the  only  begotten 
from  the  Father"  (Jn  1  14).  In  revealing  and 
giving  life,  Christ  becomes  "the  light  of  men" 
(Jn  1  4).  God  gives  "the  light  of  the  knowledge  of 
[his]  glory  in  the  face  of  Jesus  Christ"  (2  Cor  4  6), 
and  this  salvation  is  called  "the  light  of  the  gospel 
of  the  glory  of  Christ"  (44).  Christ  is  thus  the 
Teacher,  Enlightener  ("Christ  shall  give  thee  light," 
Eph  5  14  AY),  Guide,  Saviour  of  men. 

(3)  All  who  catch  and  reflect  the  light  of  Co,]  ami  of 
Christ  arc  called  "light,"  "lights."  (a)  John  the  Baptist  : 
"a  burning  and  a  shining  light"  (Jn  5  85  AY).  It  is 
significant  that  this  pre-Christian  prophet  was  termed  a 
Aux>'°s.  luchnos,  while  the  disciples  of  the  new  dispensa- 
tion are  called  </>(i;,  phos  (Mt  5  ID:  "  Ye  are  the  light  of 
the  world."  (b)  Henceforth  Christians  and  saints  were; 
called  "children  of  light"  (Lk  16  N;  Jn  12  36;  Eph 
5  8),  and  were  expected  to  be  "seen  as  lights  in  the 
world"  (Phil  2  15).  (c)  The  Jew  who  possessed  the 
law  mistakenly  supposed  he  was  "a  light  of  them  that 
are  in  darkness"  (Koni  2  19). 

(4)  The  church. — Zion  was  to  "shine"  because  her 
'light  had  come'  (Isa  60  1).  The  Gentiles  were 
to  come  to  her  light  (60  3).  Wcv  mission  as  the 
enlightener  of  the  world  was  symbolized  in  the 
ornamentations  of  her  priesthood.  The  Urim  of 
the  high  priest's  breastplate  signified  light,  and 
the  name  itself  is  but  the  pi.  form  of  the  Heb  'dr. 
It  stood  for  revelation,  and  Thummim  for  truth. 
The  church  of  the  Christian  dispensation  was  to 
be  even  more  radiant  with  the  light  of  God  and  of 
Christ.  The  seven  churches  of  Asia  were  revealed 
to  John,  by  the  Spirit,  as  seven  golden  candlesticks, 
and  her  ministers  as  seven  stars,  both  luminous 
with  the  light  of  the  Gospel  revelation.  In  Eph, 
Christ,  who  is  the  Light  of  the  world,  is  the  Head  of 
the  church,  the  latter  being  His  body  through  which 
His  glory  is  to  be  manifested  to  the  world,  "to  make 
all  men  "see,"  etc  (Eph  3  9.10).  "Unto  him  be  the 
glory  in  the  church"  (ver  21),  the  church  bringing 
glory  to  Cod,  by  revealing  His  glory  to  men  through 
its  reproduction  of  the  life  and  light  of  Christ. 

Light  symbolizes:    (1)  the  cue,  "The  light  of  the 

body  is  the  eye"  (Mt  6  22  AV;    Lk  11  34);    (2) 

watchfulness,    "Let    your    lights    [RV 

4.  Sym-         "lamps"]  be  burning,"  the  figure  being 
holism  taken   from   the*  parable   of   the   Vir- 
gins;   (3)  protection,  "armor  of  light" 

(Rom  13  12),  the  garment  of  a  holy  and  Christ- 
like life;  (4)  the  sphere  of  the  Christian's  daily  walk, 
"inheritance  of  the  saints  in  light"  (Col  1  12); 
(5)  heaven,  for  the  inheritance  just  referred  to  in- 
cludes the  world  above  in  which  "the  Lamb  is  the 
light  thereof";  (6)  prosperity,  relief  (Est  8  16;  Job 
30  20),  in  contrast  with  the  calamities  of  the  wicked 
whose  "light  ....  shall  be  put  out"  (Job  18  5); 

(7)  joy  and  gladness  (Job  3  20;    Ps  97  11;  112  4); 

(8)  God's  favor,  "thelightof  thy  countenance"  (Ps  4 
6;    44  3;    89  15),  and  a  king's  favor  (Prov  16  15); 

(9)  life  (Ps  13  3;   49  19;   Jn  1  4). 

Expressive  terms  are:    (1)  "  fruit  of  the  light"  (Eph  5 

9),  i.e.  goodness,  righteousness,  truth;  (2)  "light  in  the 

Lord"  (Eph  5  8),  indicating  the  source  of 

5.  Express-  light  (cf  Isa  2  5);  (3)  "inheritance  of  the 
ive  Terms      saints    in    light"     (Col  1   12),    a    present 

experience  issuing  in  heaven;  (4)  "Father 
of  lights"  (Jas  1  17),  signifying  the  Creator  of  the  heaven- 
ly bodies;  (5)  " marvellous  light "  (I  Pet  2  9),  the  light 
of  Cod's  presence  and  fellowship;  (6)  "  Walk  in  the  light" 
(1  Jn  1  7).  in  the  light  of  (iod's  teaching  and  compan- 
ionship; (7)  "abideth  in  the  light"  (1  Jn  2  10),  in 
love.  Divine  and  fraternal;  (8)  "Light  of  the  glorious 
gospel  of  Christ  ";  "light  of  the  knowledge  of  the  glory 
of  Cod"   (2  Cor  4  4.6  AV). 

Dwight  M.  Pratt 

LIGHT,  LIGHTNESS,  lit'nes:  "Light"  is  used 
in  Scripture,  as  in  ordinary  speech,  in  the  sense  of 


what:  is  small,  slight,  trivial,  easy;  "lightness"  with 
the  connotation  of  vacillation  or  lasciviousness. 
Thus  in  the  OT,  "a  light  thing,"  a  small,  easy, 
slight  thing  (bbj3 ,  kalal,  2  K  3  18;  Isa  49  6; 
Ezk  8  17;  22  7,  in  the  last  case  "to  treat  slight- 
ingly"). "Lightness"  (v"lp,  kol)  occurs  in  Jer  3  9 
("the  lightness  of  her  whoredom");  in  23  32,  RV 
changes  "lightness"  (a  different  word)  to  "vain 
boasting."  In  the  NT  the  phrase  occurs  in  Mt  22 
5,  "made  light  of  it"  (d^eX^w,  ameleo),  i.e.  "treated 
it  with  neglect";  and  St.  Paul  asks  (2  Cor  1  17), 
"Did  I  show  lightness?"  (RV  "fickleness").  These 
examples  sufficiently  illustrate  the  meaning. 

James  Our 

LIGHTNING,  lit'ning  (p*^  ,  barak,  Vjn  ,  haziz; 
do-Tpa/rrri,  astro pe):  Lightning  is  caused  by  the  dis- 
charge of  electricity  between  clouds  or  between 
clouds  and  the  earth.  In  a  thunder-storm  there  is 
a  rapid  gathering  of  pari  icles  of  moisture  into  clouds 
and  forming  of  large  drops  of  rain.  This  gathers 
with  it  electric  potential  until  the  surface  of  the 
cloud  (or  the  enlarged  water  particles)  is  insufficient 
to  carry  the  charge,  and  a  discharge  takes  place, 
producing  a  brilliant  flash  of  light  and  the  resulting 
thunder-clap.  Thunder-storms  are  common  in 
Syria  and  Pal  during  the  periods  of  heavy  rain  in 
the  spring  and  fall  and  are  often  severe. _  Light- 
ning is  usually  accompanied  by  heavy  rainfall  or 
by  hail,  as  at  the  time  of  the  plague  of  hail  (Ex  9 
24).     See  Hail. 

In  the  Scriptures  it  is  used:  (a)  indicating  the 
power  of  God:  The  power  of  God  is  shown  in  His 
command  of  the  forces  of  Nature,  and  He  is  the 
only  one  who  knows  the  secrets  of  Nature:  "He 
made  ....  a  way  for  the  lightning"  (Job  28  26); 
"Hedirecteth  ....  his  lightning"  (Job  37  3AV); 
"Canst  thou  send  forth  lightnings,  that  they  may 
go?"  (Job  38  35);  "Ask  ye  of  Jeh  ....  that 
maketh  lightnings"  (Zee  10  1).  See  also  Ps  18 
14;  97  4;  135  7;  Job  36  32;  Jer  10  13;  (6) 
figuratively  and  poetically:  David  sings  of  Jeh, 
"He  sent  ....  lightnings  manifold,  and  discom- 
fited them"  (Ps  18  14);  used  for  speed:  "The 
chariots  ....  run  like  the  lightnings"  (Nah  2  4): 
"His  arrow  shall  go  forth  as  the  lightning"  (Zee  9 
14);  "The  living  creatures  ran  and  returned  as  the 
appearance  of  a  flash  of  lightning"  (Ezk  1  14).  The 
coming  of  the  kingdom  is  described  by  Jesus  as  the 
shining  of  the  lightning  from  one  part  of  heaven  to 
another,  even  "from  the  east  unto  the  west"  (Mt  24 
27;  Lk  17  24);  (c)  meaning  bright  or  shining: 
Daniel  in  his  vision  saw  a  man  and  "his  face  [was] 
as  the  appearance  of  lightning"  (Dnl  10  6).  See 
also  Rev  4  5;  8  5;   16  18.  Alfred  H.  Joy 

LIGN-ALOES,  lin-al'oz,  lig-nal'oz.     See  Aloes. 

LIGURE,  lig'ur  (Ex  28  19;  39  12  A V,  RV  "ja- 
cinth").    See  Stones,  Precious. 

LIKE,  Ilk,  LIKEN,  lik"n,  LIKENESS,  lik'nes, 
LIKING,  llk'ing:  (1)  As  a  noun,  "like"  in  modern 
Eng.  is  virtually  obsolete,  except  in  the  phrase  "and 

the  like,"  which  is  not  found  in  EV.  "The  like," 
however,  occurs  in  1  K  10  20  ||  2  Ch  9  19;  2  Ch 
1  12;  Ezk  5  9;  18  10  (RV  "any  one  of  these 
things" — the  text  is  uncertain);  45  25;  Joel  2  2; 
Wisd  16  1  (RV  "creatures  like  those");  Sir  7  12. 
"His  like"  is  found  in  Job  41  33;  Sir  13  15;  "their 
like"  in  Sir  27  9.  "And  such  like"  (Gal  5  21)  is 
only  slightly  archaic,  but  "doeth  not  such  like" 
(Ezk  18  14)  is  quite  obsolete. 

(2)  As  an  adj.  "like"  is  common  in  AV  in  such 
combinations  as  "like  manner"  (frequently),  "like 
weight"  (Ex  30  34),  "like  occupation"  (Acts  19 
25),  etc.     Modern  Eng.  would  in  most  cases  replace 


1893 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA   Light,  Lightness 


"like"  by  "the  same,"  as  has  been  done  in  1  Thess 
2  14  RV  (cf  Rom  15  5;  Phil  2  2).  So  RV  has 
modernized  the  archaic  "like  precious  faith"  of 
2  Pet  1  1  by  inserting  "a"  before  "like."  AV's 
rendering  of  1  Pet  3  21,  "the  like  figure  where- 
unto,"  could  not  have  been  very  clear  at  any  time, 
and  RV  has  revised  completely  into  "after  a  true 
likeness"  (m  "in  the  antitype"). 

(3)  As  an  advb.  "like"  is  used  in  Jer  38  9,  "He  is 
like  to  die";  Jon  1  4,  "like  to  be  broken."  RV 
could  have  used  "likely"  in  these  verses.  Most  com- 
mon of  all  the  uses  of  "like"  is  the  quasi-prepo- 
sitional construction  in  "He  is  like  a  man,"  etc. 
This  is  of  course  good  modern  Eng.,  but  not  so  when 
"like"  is  enlarged  (as  it  usually  is  in  EV)  into  the 
forms  "like  to"  (Dnl  7  5),  "like  unto"  (very  com- 
mon), "like  as"  (Isa  26  17,  etc).  These  forms  and 
the  simple  "like"  are  interchanged  without  much 
distinction,  and  the  RV  has  attempted  little  system- 
atizing beyond  reducing  the  occurrences  of  "like  as" 
(cf  Mt  12  13,  and  ARV  Isa  13  4;    Jer  23  20). 

(4)  The  vb.  "like"  has  two  distinct  meanings,  "be 
pleased  with"  and  "give  pleasure  to."  The  latter 
sense  occurs  in  Dt  23  16  (AV,  ERV),  "in  one  of  thy 
gates,  where  it  liketh  him  best,"  and  in  Est  8  8; 
Am  4  5  AV;  Sir  33  13  (ARV  has  "pleaseth"  in 
the  three  OT  passages).  The  other  use  of  "like'' 
belongs  also  to  modern  Eng.,  although  in  a  much 
weakened  sense.  On  account  of  this  weakening, 
1  Ch  28  4  AV,  "liked  me  to  make  me  king"  and 
Rom  1  28  AV,  "did  not  like  to  retain  God,"  have 
become  in  RV  "took  pleasure  in"  and  "refused  to" 
(m  "did  not  approve").  It  would  have  been  better 
if  Dt  25  7.8,  "like  not  to  take,"  had  been  modified 
also  into  "hath  no  wish  to  take."  From  this  use  of 
"like"  is  derived  liking  in  the  modern  sense  in  Wisd 
16  21,  "tempered  itself  to  every  man's  liking"  (RV 
"choice").  In  1  Esd  4  39,  "All  men  do  well  like  of 
her  works"  is  a  further  obsolete  use. 

(5)  Liken  and  "make  like"  are  common.  To  be 
noted  only  is  that,  in  He  7  3.  "made  like  unto  the 
Son  of  God,"  the  sense  really  is  "likened  to,"  "pre- 
sen  t  ed  by  the  writer  with  the  qualit  iesof ."  Likeness 
normally  means  "a  copy  of,"  but  in  Ps  17  15it  means 
the  actual  form  itself  ("form"  in  ARV,  ERVm);  cf 
Rom  6  5;  8  3;  Phil  2  7,  and  perhaps  Acts  14  11. 
Closely  allied  with  "likeness"  is  an  obsolete  use  of 
"liking"  (quite  distinct  from  that  above)  in  Job  39  4 
AV,  ERV,  "Their young  ones  are  in  good  liking"; 
Did  1  10,  "see  your  faces  worse  liking."  The  mean- 
ing is  "appearance,"  "appearing,"  and  ARV  renders 
"their  young  ones  become  strong,"  "see  your  faces 
worse  looking."  Likewise  varies  in  meaning  from 
the  simple  conjunction  "and"  to  a  strong  advb.,  "in 
exactly  the  same  way."  RV  has  made  some  at- 
tempt to  distinguish  the  various  forces  (e.g.  cf  AV 
with  RV  in  Lk  22  36;  15  7;  22  20).  But  com- 
plete consistency  was  not  attainable,  and  in  certain 
instances  was  neglected  deliberately,  in  order  to 
preserve  the  familiar  wording,  as  in  Lk  10  37,  Go, 
and  do  thou  likewise."      Burton  Scott  Easton 

LIKHI,  lik'hi  pnpb ,  likhl):  A  descendant  of 
Manasseh  (1  Ch  7  19). 

LILITH,  lil'ith,  li'lith.     See  Night-Monster. 

LILY,  lil'i  CH?W,  shushan  [1  K  7  19],  HSTSittJ , 
shoshannah  [2  Ch  4  5;  Cant  2  1  f;  Hos  14  5]; 
pi.  [Cant  2  16;  4  5;  5  13;  6  2  f;  7  2;  Ecclus 
39  14;  50  8];  kP(vov,  krinon  [Mt  6  28;  Lk  12 
27]):  The  Heb  is  probably  a  loan  word  from  the 
Egyp,  the  original  s-sh-n  denoting  the  lotus-flower, 
Nyynphaca  lotus.  This  was  probably  the;  model  of 
the  architectural  ornament,  trd  "lily-work,"  which 
appeared  upon  the  capitals  of  the  columns  in  the 
temple  porch    (1  K  7  19),   upon  the   top  of  the 


pillars  (ver  22)  and  upon  the  turned-back  rim  of  the 
"molten  sea"  (ver  26). 

Botanically  the  word  shoshannah,  like  the  similar 
modern  Arab.  Susan,  included  in  all  probability  a 
great  many  flowers,  and  was  used  in  a  way  at  least 
as  wide  as  the  popular  use  of  the  Eng.  word  "lily." 
The  expression  "lily  of  the  valleys"  (Cant  2  1) 
has  nothing  to  do  with  the  plant  of  that  name; 
the  flowers  referred  to  appear  to  have  been  asso- 
ciated with  the  rank  herbage  of  the  valley  bottoms 
(Cant  4  5);  the  expression  "His  lips  are  as  lilies" 
(5  13)  might  imply  a  scarlet  flower,  but  more  prob- 
ably in  oriental  imagery  signifies  a  sweet-scented 
flower;  the  sweet  scent  of  the  lily  is  referred  to  in 
Ecclus  39  14,  and  in  50  8  we  read  of  "lilies  by  the 
rivers  of  water."  The  beauty  of  the  blossom  is 
implied  in  Hos  14  5,  where  Jeh  promises  that 
repentant  Israel  shall  "blossom  as  the  lily."  A 
"heap  of  wheat  set  about  with  lilies"  (Cant  7  2) 
probably  refers  to  the  smoothed-out  piles  of  newly 
threshed  wheat  on  the  threshing-floors  decorated  by 
a  circlet  of  flowers. 

The  reference  of  Our  Lord  to  the  "lilies  of  the 
field"  is  probably,  like  the  OT  references,  quite  a 
general  one. 

The  Heb  and  the  Gr  very  likely  include  not  only 
any  members  of  the  great  order  Liliaceae,  growing 
in  Pal,  e.g.  asphodel,  squill,  hyacinth,  ornithogalum 
("Star  of  Bethlehem"),  fritillaria,  tulip  and  colo- 
cvnth,  but  also  the  more  showy  irises  ("Tabor 
lilies,"  "purple  irises,"  etc)  and  the  beautiful 
gladioli  of  the  N.O.  Irideae  and  the  familiar  nar- 
cissi of  the  N.O.  Amaryllideae. 

In  later  Jewish  lit.  the  lily  is  very  frequently 
referred  to  symbolically,  and  a  lotus  or  lily  was 
commonly  pictured  on  several  Jewish  coins. 

E.  \V.  G.  Masterman 

LILY-WORK:  The  ornament  of  the  capitals  on 
the  bronze  pillars,  Jachin  and  Boaz,  in  front  of 
Solomon's  temple  (1  K  7  19.22).  See  Lily; 
Temple;  Jachin  and  Boaz. 

LIME,  lim  ([1]  TIP ,  sidh;  cf  Arab.  t>Uci ,  shdd, 

"to  plaster";  [2]  T3,  glr;  cf  Arab.  .*.=>,  jlr,  "gyp- 
sum" or  "quick-lime";  [3]  "l?"1^^ ,  'abh'ne-ghir): 
Sidh  is  trd  "lime"  in  Isa  33  12,  "And  the  peoples 
shall  be  as  the  burnings  of  lime,  as  thorns  cut  down, 
that  are  burned  in  the  fire,"  and  in  Am  2  1,  "He 
burned  the  bones  of  the  king  of  Edom  into  lime." 
It  is  trd  "plaster"  in  Dt  27  2,  "Thou  shalt  set  thee 
up  great  stones,  and  plaster  them  with  plaster,"  also 
in  Dt  27  4.  Glr  is  trd  "plaster"  in  Dnl  5  5, 
"wrote  ....  upon  the  plaster  of  the  wall."  In 
Isa  27  9  we  have,  "He  maketh  all  the  stones  of  the 
altar  as  chalkstones"  (' abhene-ghir) . 

Everywhere  in  Pal  limestone  is  at  hand  which 
can  be  converted  into  lime.  _  The  lime-kiln  is  a 
thick-walled,  cylindrical  or  conical,  roofless  structure 
built  of  rough  stones  without  mortar,  the  spaces 
between  the  stones  being  plastered  with  clay.  It 
is  usually  built  on  the  side  of  a  hill  which  is  slightly 
excavated  for  it,  so  that  the  sloping,  external  wall 
of  the  kiln  rises  much  higher  from  the  ground  on  the 
lower  side  than  on  the  upper.  The  builders  leave 
a  passage  or  tunnel  through  the  base  of  the  thick 
wall  on  the  lower  side.  The  whole  interior  is  filled 
with  carefully  packed  fragments  of  limestone,  and 
large  piles  of  thorny-burnet  and  other  shrubs  to  serve 
as  fuel  are  gathered  about  t  he  kiln.  The  fuel  is  intro- 
duced through  the  tunnel  to  the  base  of  the  lime- 
stone in  the  kiln,  and  as  the  fire  rises  through  the 
mass  of  broken  limestone  a  strong  draft  is  created. 
Relays  of  men  are  kept  busy  supplying  fuel  day 
and  night.  By  day  a  column  of  black  smoke  rises 
from  the  kiln,  and  at  night  the  flames  may  be  seen 


Limit 
Lion 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  MI  RLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1894 


bursting  from  the  top.  Several  days  are  required 
to  reduce  the  stone  to  lime,  the  amount,  of  time 
depending  upon  the  size  of  the  kiln  and  upon  the 
nature  of  the  fuel.  At  the  present  day,  mineral 
coal  imported  from  Europe  is  sometimes  employed, 
and  requires  much  less  lime  than  the  shrubs  which 
are  ordinarily  used.     See  Chalkstone;  Clay. 

Alfred  Ely  Day 
LIMIT,  lim'it  (3213,  gebhul,  "bound"):  Occurs 
once  in  Ezk  43  12  ("limit"  of  holy  mountain). 
"Limited"  (Ps  78  41)  and  "limiteth"  (opifa,  horizo, 
He  4  7)  are  changed  in  RV  to  "provoked"  (m  re- 
tains "limited")  and  "defineth"  respectively. 

LINE,  lin  pp.,  kmr,  bin,  hebhel):  Usually  of  a 
measuring  line,  as  Jer  31  39;  Ezk  47  3;  Zee  1 
16  (kaiv);  Ps  78  55;  Am  7  17;  Zee  2  1  (hebhel). 
Other  Heb  words  mean  simply  a  cord  or  thread 
(Josh  2  18.21;  1  K  7  15;  Ezk  40  3).  In  Ps 
19  4  (haw,  "Their  line  is  gone  out  through  all  the 
earth"),  the  reference  is  probably  still  to  measure- 
ment (the  heaven  as  spanning  and  bounding  the 
earth),  though  the  LXX,  followed  by  Rom  10  18, 
takes  it  as  meaning  a  musical  cord  (cpdSyyos, 
phthoggos).  The  "line,"  as  measure,  suggests  a 
rule  of  conduct  (Isa  28  10).  For  "line"  in  Isa 
44  13,  RV  reads  "pencil,"  m  "red  ochre"  (seredh), 
and  in  2  Cor  10  16,  "province,"  m  "limit"  (kandn). 
See  also  Measuring  Line;  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures. James  Orr 

LINEAGE,  lin'e-aj  (iraTpid,  patrid):  Found  only 
once  in  Lk  2  4  (AV,  RV  "family"),  and  signifying 
the  line  of  paternal  family  descent.  A  word  preg- 
nant in  meaning  among  the  Jews,  who  kept  all 
family  records  with  religious  care,  as  may  be  seen 
from  the  long  genealogical  records  found  everywhere 
in  the  OT. 

LINEN,  lin'en  ("2 ,  badh,  "white  linen,"  used 
chiefly  for  priestly  robes,  "pi  3  ,  bug,  "byssus,"  a  fine 
white-  Egyp  linen,  called  in  the  earlier  writings  12?12? , 
shesh;  ril2?D ,  pesheth,  "flax,"  "p™0  >  §adMn;  Bvcnros, 
btissos,  606vlov,  othdnion,  XCvov,  linon,  o-iv8tov, 
sindon) :  Thread  or  cloth  made  of  flax. 

Ancient  Egypt  was  noted  for  its  fine  linen  (Gen 

41  42;    Isa  19  9).     From  it  a  large  export  trade 

was  carried  on  with  surrounding  na- 

1.  History     tions,    including    the    Hebrews,    who 

early  learned  the  art  of  spinning  from 
the  Egyptians  (Ex  35  25)  and  continued  to  rely 
on  them  for  the  finest  linen  (Prov  7  16;  Ezk  27  7). 
The  culture  of  flax  in  Pal  probably  antedated  the 
conquest,  for  in  Josh  2  6  we  read  of  the  stalks  of 
flax  which  Rahab  had  laid  in  order  upon  the  roof. 
Among  the  Hebrews,  as  apparently  among  the 
Canaanites,  the  spinning  and  weaving  of  linen  were 
carried  on  by  the  women  (Prov  31  13.19),  among 
whom  skill  in  this  work  was  considered  highly 
praiseworthy  (Ex  35  25).  One  family,  the  house 
of  Ashbea,  attained  eminence  as  workers  in  linen 
(1  Ch  4  21;  2  Ch  2  14). 

Linen  was  used,  not  only  in  the  making  of  gar- 
ments of  the  finer  kinds  and  for  priests,  but  also 

for  shrouds,  hangings,  and  possibly  for 

2.  General  other  purposes  in  which  the  most 
Uses  highly  prized  cloth  of  antiquity  would 

naturally  be  desired. 
The  robes  of  the  Heb  priests  consisted  of  4  linen 
garments,  in  addition  to  which  the  high  priest  wore 
garments   of   other  stuffs  (Ex  28,  39; 

3.  Priestly  Lev  6  10;  16  4;  1  S  22  18;  Ezk 
Garments      44  17.18).     Egyp  priests  are  said   to 

have  worn  linen  robes  (Herod,  ii.37). 
In  religious  services  by  others  than  priests,  white 
linen   was   also    preferred,   as   in    the   case   of   the 


infant  Samuel  (1  S  2  18),  the  Levite  singers  in 
the  temple  (2  Ch  5  12),  and  even  royal  person- 
ages (2  S  6  14;  1  Ch  15  27).  Accordingly,  it 
was  ascribed  to  angels  (Ezk  9  2.3.11;  10  2.6.7; 
Dnl  10  5;  12  6.7).  Fine  linen,  white  and  pure, 
is  the  raiment  assigned  to  the  armies  which  are  in 
liea ven  following  Him  who  is  called  Faithful  and 
True  (Rev  19  11).  It  is  deemed  a  fitting  symbol 
of  the  righteousness  and  purity  of  the  saints  (Rev 
19  8). 

Garments  of  distinction  were  generally  made  of 

the  same  material:    v.£.  those  which  Pharaoh  gave 

Joseph  ((Jen  41  42),  and  those  which 

4.  Other  Mordecai  wore  (Est  8  15;  cf  also 
Garments      Lk  16  1(.)).     Even    a    girdle    of    fine 

linen  could  be  used  by  a  prophet  as  a 
means  of  attracting  attention  to  his  message  (Jer 
13  1).  It  is  probable  that  linen  wrappers  of  a 
coarser  quality  were  used  by  men  (Jgs  14  12.13) 
and  women  (Prov  31  22).  The  use;  of  linen,  how- 
ever, for  ordinary  purposes  probably  suggested 
unbecoming  luxury  (Isa  3  23;  Ezk  16  10.13;  cf 
also  Rev  18  12.16).  The  poorer  classes  probably 
wore  wrappers  made  either  of  unbleached  flax  or 
hemp  (Ecclus  40  4;  Mk  14  51).  The  use  of  a 
mixture  called  shefatnez,  which  is  defined  (Dt  22 
11)  as  linen  and  wool  together,  was  forbidden  in 
garments. 

The  Egyptians  used  linen  exclusively  in  wrapping 
their  mummies    (Herod,   ii.86).     As  many  as  one 

hundred  yards  were  used  in  one  band- 

5.  Shrouds    age.     Likewise,  the  Hebrews  seem  to 

have  preferred  this  material  for  wind- 
ing-sheets for  the  dead,  at  least  in  the  days  of  the 
NT  (Mt  27  59;  Mk  15  46;  Lk  23  53;  Jn  19 
40;  20  5  ff)  and  the  Talm  (Jerus  Killayim  9  326). 

The  use  of  twisted  linen  (shesh  moshzar)  for  fine 
hangings  dates  back  to  an  early  period.     It  was 

used  in  the  tabernacle   (Ex  26  1;    27 

6.  Hang-  9;  35;  36;  38;  Jos,  Ant,  III,  vi,  2), 
ings  in   the   temple    (2  Ch  3  14),    and    no 

doubt  in  other  places  (Misli,  Yorna', 
iii.4).  Linen  cords  for  hangings  are  mentioned  in 
the  description  of  the  palace  of  Ahasuerus  at  Shu- 
shan  (Est  1  6). 

Other  uses  are  suggested,  such  as  for  sails,  in 
the  imaginary  ship  to  which  Tyre  is  compared  (Ezk 

27  7),  but  judging  from  the  extrava- 

7.  Other  gance  of  the  other  materials  in  the 
Uses  ship,  it  is  doubtful  whether  we  may 

infer  that  such  valuable  material  as 
linen  was  ever  actually  used  for  this  purpose.  It 
is  more  likely,  however,  that  it  was  used  for  cover- 
ings or  tapestry  (Prov  7  16),  and  possibly  in  other 
instances  where  an  even,  durable  material  was 
needed,  as  in  making  measuring  lines  (Ezk  40  3). 
Ella  Davis  Isaacs 
LINTEL,  lin'tel.     See  House,  II,  1,(4). 

LINUS,  Ii'nua  (A£voS,  Linos  [2  Tim  4  21]): 
One  of  Paul's  friends  in  Rome  during  his  second  and 
last  imprisonment  in  that  city.  He  was  one  of  the 
few  who  remained  faithful  to  the  apost  le,  even  when 
most  of  the  Christians  had  forsaken  him.  And 
writing  to  Timothy  when  he  realized  that  his  exe- 
cution could  not  be  very  far  distant — for  he  was 
now  ready  to  be  offered,  and  the  time  of  his  depart- 
ure was  at  hand  (2  Tim  4  6) — he  sends  greeting 
to  Timothy  from  four  friends  whom  he  names,  and 
Linus  is  one  of  them.  There  is  a  tradition  that 
Linus  was  bishop  of  the  church  at  Rome.  "It  is 
perhaps  fair  to  assume,  though  of  course  there  is  no 
certainty  of  this,  that  the  consecration  of  Linus  to 
the  government  of  the  Rom  church  as  its  first  bishop 
was  one  of  the  dying  acts  of  the  apostle  Paul" 
(H.D.M.Spence,inEllicott's  NT  Comm. on  2  Tim). 

Irenaeus — bishop   of   Lyons   about    178   AD — in 


1895 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Limit 
Lion 


his  defence  of  orthodox  doctrine  against,  the  Gnos- 
tics ''appeals  csp.  to  the  bishops  of  Rome,  as  de- 
positaries of  the  apostolic  tradition."  The  list  of 
Irenaeus  commences  with  Linus,  whom  Ik;  identifies 
with  the  person  of  this  name  mentioned  by  St.  Paul, 
and  whom  he  states  to  have  been  "entrusted  with 

the  office  of  the   bishopric  by   the  apostles 

With  the  many  possibilities  of  error,  no  more  can 
safely  be  assumed  of  Linus  ....  than  that  he 
held  some  prominent  position  in  the  Rom  church" 
(Lightfoot's  ''Dissertation  on  the  Christian  Min- 
istry," in  Comm.  on  Phil,  220  f). 

"Considering  the  great  rarity  of  this  Gr  mytho- 
logical name  as  a  proper  name  for  persons,  we  can 
hardly  doubt  that  here,  as  Irenaeus  has  directly 
asserted,  the  same  Rom  Christian  is  meant  who, 
according  to  ancient  tradition,  became  after  Peter 
and  Paul  the  first  bishop  of  Rome.  Among  the 
mythical  characters  in  Apos  Const,  vii,  46  occurs 
Linos  ho  Klaudias,  who  is  declared  to  have  been 
ordained  by  Paul  as  the  first  bishop  of  Rome.  He 
is  thus  represented  as  the  son  or  husband  of  the 
Claudia  whose  name  comes  after  his  in  2  Tim  4  21. 

"Those  meager  statements  have  been  enlarged  upon  by 
Eng.  investigator's.  The  Claudia  mentioned  here  is, 
they  hold,  identical  with  the  one  who,  according  to  Mar- 
tial, married  a  certain  Pudens  (85-90  AD),  and  she,  in 
turn,  with  the  Claudia  Ruflna  from  Britain,  who  is  then 
made  out  to  be  a  daughter  of  the  British  king,  Cogidum- 
nus,  or  Titus  Claudius  Cogidubnus.  For  a  refutation  of 
these  assumptions,  which,  even  chronologically  con- 
sidered, are  impossible,  see  Lightfoot,  St.' Clement,  1, 
70-79"  (Zahn,  Intro  to  the  NT,  20). 

John  Rutherfurd 

LION,  li'un:  (1)  Occurring  oftenest  in  tin-  OT 
is  rr""lX,  'aryeh,  pi.  nTHX,  'drdyoth.  Another 
■i     tvt  form,  "HS$,  'dri,  pi.  D"1")1S?  ,'drdyim,  is 

1.  Names      found  iCSs  often. 

Cf  5X"ntf ,  'Ariel,  "Ariel"  (Ezr  8  10;  Isa  29  1.2.7): 
bX")n,  har'el,  " upper  altar, "  and  b^XIX  .  'dri'el,  "altar 
hearth"  (Ezk  43  15  f);  rV"";S: ,  'aryeh~'"  Arieh"  (2  K 
15  25);  ibsnX.  'ar'ell,  "  Areli"  and  " Arelites "  (Gen  46 
16;  Xu  23  17).  (2)  "lips,  kephlr,  "young lion,"  often 
trd  "lion"  (Ps  35  17;  Prov  19  12;  23  1,  etc).  (3) 
""!"£,  shahal,  tr1  "fierce!  lion"  or  "lion"  (Job  4  10; 
10  1«;  28  S;  Hos  5  14).  (4)  ft-l b .  lavish,  tr<i  "old 
lion"    or    "lion"    (Job  4   11;     Prov  30  30;    Isa  30  0). 

Cf  Arab.  C>»aJ  ,  laith,  "lion";  •fil'*} ,  layish,  "Laish," 
or  "Leshem"  (Josh  19  17;  Jgs  18  7. 14.27. 29);  flpb , 
layish,  "Laish"  (1  S  25  44;  2  S  3  15).  (5)  13  b, 
tebhi,  pi.  a^Xab.  I'bhaim,  "lioness";  also  X"Ob  -  labhi', 
and  SOab,  hbhiya'  (Gen  49  9;  Xu  23  24;  24  9);  cf 
town  in   S.   of  Judah,    Lebaoth    (Josh  15  ;$2)  or  Beth- 

lebaoth(Josh  19  0);  also  Arab.  5».xJ,  labwat,  "lioness"; 

3«-aJ  ,    Lebweh,   a   town   in   Coele-Syria.     (0)  "Vl3>  our, 

"H3 .  oor,  "whelp,"  with  'aryeh  or  a  pronoun,  e.g.  "Ju- 
dah is  a  lion's  whelp,"  yur  'aryeh  (Gen  49  '.») ;  "young 
ones"  of  the  jackal  (Lam  4  3).  Also  fcOab  i;3 . 
bme  labhi',  "whelps  [sons]  of  the  lioness"  (Job  4  11); 
and  PiT^-lX  "PES  .  tephir  'drdyoth,  "young  lion,"  lit. 
"the  young  of  lions"  (Jgs  14  5).  In  Job  28  8,  AV  has 
"lion's  whelps"  for  "lTTHJ  ^-II .  bene  shahac.,  RV  "proud 
beasts."  RVm"sonsof  pride";  cf  Job  41  34  (Hob  20). 
(7)  A.ea>.-,  Uon,  " lion "  (2  Tim  4  17;  He  11  33;  1  Pet  5 
8;  Rev  4  7;  5  5;  Wisd  11  17;  Ecclus  4  30;  13  19; 
Bel  31.32.34).  (8)  ukvuvos,  skumnos,  "whelp"  (1  Mace 
3  4). 

The  lion   is   not   found   in    Pal   at    the    present 

day,  though  in  ancient  times  it  is  known  to  have 

inhabited  not  only  Syria  and  Pal  but 

2.  Natural  also  Asia  Minor  and  the  Balkan  pen- 
History  insula,  and  its  fossil  remains  show  that 

it  was  contemporary  with  prehistoric 
man  in  Northwestern  Europe  and  Great  Britain. 


Its  present  range  extends  throughout  Africa,  and 
it  is  also  found  in  Mesopotamia,  Southern  Persia, 
and  the  border  of  India.  There  is  some  reason  to 
think  that  it  may  be  found  in  Arabia,  but  its  occur- 
rence there  remains  to  be  proved.  The  Asiatic 
male  lion  does  not  usually  have  as  large  a  mane  as 
the  African,  but  both  belong  to  one  species,  Felis  leo. 


Lion  (Fclis  leo). 

Lions  are  mentioned  in  the  Bible  for  their  strength 

(Jgs  14  IS),    boldness    (2  S  17  10),    ferocity    (Ps 

7  2),   and   stealth    (Ps  10  9;    Lam  3 

3.  Figur-        10).     Therefore   in   prophetical   refer- 
ative  ences  to  the  millennium,  the  lion,  with 

the  bear,  wolf,  and  leopard,  is  men- 
tioned as  living  in  peace  with  the  ox,  calf,  kid,  lamb 
and  the  child  (Ps  91  13;  Isa  11  6-8;  65  25). 
The  roaring  of  the  lion  is  often  mentioned  (Job  4 
10;  Ps  104  21;  Isa  31  4  [RV  "growling"];  Jer 
51  38;  Ezk  22  2.",;  Eos  11  10).  Judah  is  a 
"lion's  whelp"  (Gen  49  9),  likewise  Dan  (Dt  33 
22).  It  is  said  of  certain  of  David's  warriors  (1  Ch 
12  8)  that  their  "faces  were  like  the  faces  of  lions." 
David's  enemy  (Ps  17  12)  "is  like  a  lion  that  is 
greedy  of  his  prey."  "The  king's  wrath  is  as  the 
roaring  of  a  lion"  (Prov  19  12).  God  in  His  wrath 
is  "unto  Ephraim  as  a  lion,  and  as  a  young  lion  to 
the  house  of  Judah"  (Hos  5  14).  "The  devil,  as 
a  roaring  lion,  walketh  about,  seeking  whom  he 
may  devour"  (1  Pet  5  8).  "Lion"  occurs  in  the 
figurative  language  of  Ezk,  Dnl,  and  Rev.  The 
figures  of  lions  were  used  in  the  decorations  of 
Solomon's  temple  and  throne  (1  K  7  29.30;  10 
10  f). 

Nearly  all  references  to  the  lion  are  figurative. 

The  only  notices  of  the  lion  in  narrative  are  of  the 

lion  slain  by  Samson   (Jgs  14  5);    by 

4.  Narra-      David  (1  S  17  34  f);  by  Benaiah  (2  S 
tive  23  20;      1  Ch  11  22);     the    prophet 

slain  by  a  lion  (1  K  13  24;  also  1  K 
20  3G);  the  lions  sent  by  the  Lord  among  the  set- 
tlers in  Samaria  (2  K  17  25);  Daniel  in  the  lions' 
den  (Dnl  6  10).  In  all  these  cases  the  word  used 
is  'aryeh  or  'dri. 

The  Arab,  language  boasts  hundreds  of  names  for 
the   lion.     Many  of    these    are,    however,    merely 

adjs.    used   substantively.     The   com- 

5.  Vocabu-    nionest  Arab,   names   are  sab\   'asad, 
lary  laith,    and    labwat,    the    last    two    of 

which  are  identified  above  with  the 
Heb  layish  and  labhi' .  As  in  Arab.,  so  in  Heb,  the 
richness  of  the  language  in  this  particular  gives 
opportunity  for  variety  of  expression,  as  in  Job  4 
10.11: 

"The  roaring  of  the  lion   ['aryeh],  and  the  voice  of 
the  tierce  lion  [shahal]. 


Lip 

Lit.,  Sub-apostol. 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


189G 


/villi    the    teeth   of    the   young    lions    [k'phirim],   are 

broken. 
'I'lie  old  lion  [lai/ixh]  pcrishcth  for  lack  of  prey. 

And    the    whelps    of    the    lioness    \l»ne    labhi']    are 
scattered  abroad. " 

In  Jgs  14  5  IS,  not  less  than  three  different 
terms,  A" phlr  'tirayoth,  'arych,  and  'art,  are  used  of 
Samson's  lion.  Alfred  Ely  Day 

LIP  (HSUJ ,  saphcih,  riEl!) ,  sepheth,  "lip,"  "lan- 
guage," "speech,"  "talk"  [also  "rim,"  "border," 
"shore,"  "hank,"  etc],  EE1B ,  sap/nun,  "[upper] 
lip,"  "moustache,"  "heard";  \tiXos,  cheilos,  "lip" 
[also  once,  "shore"  in  the  quotation  He  11  12  = 
Gen  22  17]):  (1)  Lips  stand  in  oriental  idiom  for 
speech  or  language,  like  "mouth,"  "tongue";  there- 
fore they  stand  in  parallelism.  "The  lip  of  truth 
shall  he  established  for  ever;  but  a  lying  tongue 
is  but  for  a  moment"  (Prov  12  19).  "To  shoot  out 
the  lip"  (Ps  22  7)  means  to  make  a  mocking, 
contemptuous,  scornful  face.  As  the  lips  are  the 
chief  instrument  of  speech,  we  find  numerous 
idiomatic  phrases  for  "speaking,"  such  as:  "the 
utterance  of  the  lips"  (Xu  30  6.8),  "to  proceed  out 
of  the  lips"  (Xu  30  12),  "to  open  the  lips"  (Job  32 
20),  "to  go  out  of  the  lips"  (Ps  17  1).  These  ex- 
pressions do  not  convey,  as  a  rule,  the  idea  that  the 
utterance  proceeds  merely  out  of  the  lips,  and  that 
it  lacks  sincerity  and  the  consent  of  the  heart,  but 
occasionally  this  is  intended,  e.g.  "This  people 
draw  nigh  unto  me,  and  with  their  mouth  and  with 
their  lips  do  honor  me,  but  have  removed  their 
heart  far  from  me"  (Isa  29  13;  cf  Alt  15  8). 
The  "fruit  of  the  lips"  (Isa  57  19  =  He  13  15) 
and  "calves  of  the  lips"  (Eos  14  2  AV)  designate 
the  praise  and  thanksgiving  due  to  God.  "Fervent 
[AV  "burning"]  lips"  (Prov  26  23)  are  synonymous 
with  eloquence.  "To  refrain  the  lips"  (Ps  40  9; 
Prov  10  19)  means  to  keep  silence,  where  the  godless 
or  unwise  would  wish  to  assert  his  rights. 

Numerous  other  expressions  need  no  further  explana- 
tion, such  as  "perverse  lips"  (Prov  4  24),  "uncircum- 
cised  lips"  (Ex  6  12.30).  "feigned  lips"  (Ps  17  1), 
"lying  lips"  (Ps  31  IS;  Prov  10  IS;  12  22),  "wicked 
[or  false]  lips"  (Prov  17  4),  "unclean  lips"  (Isa  6  5), 
"strange  [AY  "stammering"]  lips"  (Isa  28  11),  "flatter- 
ing lips"  (Ps  12  2.3;  Prov  7  21),  "righteous  lips" 
(Prov  16   13). 

(2)  The  Heb  word  sapham  is  found  only  in  the 
phrase  "to  cover  the  lip  or  lips,"  which  is  an  ex- 
pression of  mourning,  submission  and  shame.  The 
Oriental  covers  his  lips  with  his  hand  or  a  portion 
of  his  garment,  when  he  has  been  sunk  into  deep 
grief  and  sorrow.  He  expresses,  thereby,  that  he 
cannot  open  his  mouth  at  the  visitation  of  God. 
Differently,  however,  from  common  mourners, 
Ezekiel  was  forbidden  of  God  "to  cover  his  lips" 
(Ezk  24  17;  see  also  ver  22),  i.e.  to  mourn  in  the 
usual  way  over  Israel's  downfall,  as  Israel  had 
brought  these  judgments  upon  himself.  The  leper, 
victim  of  an  incurable  disease,  walks  about  with 
rent  clothes  and  hair  disheveled,  covering  his  lips, 
crying:  "Unclean,  unclean!"  (Lev  13  45).  The 
thought  here  is  that  even  the  breath  of  such  a  one 
may  defile.  The  prophet  calls  upon  all  seers  and 
diviners,  to  whom  God  has  refused  the  knowledge 
of  the  future,  to  cover  their  lips  in  shame  and  con- 
fusion  (Mic  3  7).  II.  L.  E.  Lueeinq 

LIQUOR,  lik'er:  Every  sort  of  intoxicating 
liquor  except  the  beverage  prepared  from  the  juice 
of  the  grape  (yayin),  according  to  the  usage  of  the 
OT,  is  comprehended  under  the  generic  term  "Ot?, 
shekhar  (cf  shakhar,  to  "be  drunk"),  rendered 
"strong  drink"  (cf  Gr  x'ikera  in  Lk  1  15).  The  two 
terms,  yayin  and  shekhar ,  "wine"  and  "strong  drink," 
are  often  found  together  and  are  used  by  OT  writers 
as  an  exhaustive  classification  of  the  beverages  in 


use  among  the  ancient  Hebrews  (Lev  10  9;     1  S  1 
15;    Prov  20   1,  etc).     Set;  Wine;    Drink,  Strong. 

LIST:  A  variant  of  "lust"  (see  Lust),  meaning 
"to  wish,"  found  in  AV  of  Mt  17  12  Mk  9  13; 
Jn  3  S,  as  tr  of  6t\w,  thelo,  and  in  Jas  3  4  as  tr  of 
ljov\ofj.out  boulomai.  The  last  case  ERV  has  ren- 
dered "will,"  and  ARV  has  made  the  same  change 
throughout.  The  word  is  obsolete  in  modern  Eng., 
but  Jn  3  8  is  still  used  proverbially,  "The  wind 
bloweth  where  it  listeth." 

LITERATURE,  lit'er-a-tur,  SUB-APOSTOLIC, 
sub-ap-os-tol'ik  (Christian) : 

I.     Epistle  of  Clement  to  the  Corinthians 

1.  Authorship  and  Date 

2.  Occasion  and  Contents 

3.  Apologetic  Testimony 

4.  Doctrinal  Testimony 

5.  Office- Bearers  and  Organization 

6.  Ritual 
II.     The  Didache 

1.  Disappearance  and  Recovery 

2.  Date 

3.  Standpoint,  Authorship  and  Object 

4.  Testimony  to  NT  Writings 

5.  Contents  and  Xotabilia 

III.  Kpistles  of  Ignatius 

1.  Author  and  Date 

2.  Genuineness 

3.  Leading  Ideas 

4.  Other  Xotabilia 

IV.  Epistles  of  Polycabp 

1.  Date  and  Genuineness 

2.  Occasion  and  Contents 

3.  Notabilia 

V.     Papias  Fragments 

1.  Author  and  Date 

2.  Testimony  to  St.  Matthew  and  St.  Mark 

3.  Other  Notabilia 
VI.     Kpistle  of  Barnabas 

1.  Authorship 

2.  Date 

3.  Object  and  Contents 

4.  Notabilia 

VII.     Pastor  of  Hermas 

1.  Authorship  and  Date 

2.  Object  and  Contents 

3.  Notabilia 

VIII.     Second  Epistle  of  Clement 

1.  Nature  and  Document 

2.  Date  and  Authorship 

3.  Contents 

4.  Notabilia 

IX.     Apology  of  Aristides 

1.  Recovery  and  Date 

2.  Contents 

3.  Notabilia 

X.     Justin  Martyr 

1.  Incidents  of  Life 

2.  First  Apology 

3.  Second  Apology 

4.  Dialogue  with  Trypho  the  Jew 

5.  Notabilia 

XI.     Epistle   to   Diognetus 

1.  Date  and  Authorship 

2.  Contents 
Literature 

The  Sub-apostolic  Age  is  usually  held  to  extend 
from  the  death  of  St.  John,  the  last  surviving 
apostle,  about  100  AD,  to  the  death  of  Polycarp, 
St.  John's  aged  disciple  (155-56  AD).  The  Chris- 
tian literature  of  this  period,  although  as  a  whole 
of  only  moderate  intrinsic  value,  is  of  historical 
interest  and  importance.  This  is  owing  to  the  light 
which  it  throws  back  on  apostolic  times,  and  the 
testimony  borne  to  Christian  life,  thought,  worship, 
work  and  organization  during  an  age  when  the 
church  was  under  the  guidance,  mainly,  of  men  who 
had  been  associated  with  the  apostles  and  who 
might  bo  supposed,  therefore,  to  know  their  mind. 
Some  writings  are  omitted  from  this  review,  having 
been  dealt  with  in  previous  articles.  Eor  the 
Protevangelium  of  James  and  the  Gospel  and 
Apocalypse  of  Peter  see  Apocryphal  Gospels; 
Apocryphal  Acts.  For  an  account  of  extant 
fragments  of  Basilides  and  Valentinus,  see  Gnosti- 
cism. For  pseudo-Clementine  writings  see  Peter, 
Epistles  of;  Simon  Magus. 


1S97 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Lip 
Lit., 


Sub-apostol. 


/.   Epistle  of  Clement  to  the  Corinthians. — Only 

the  larger  part  had  previously  been  extant,  when 

the    complete    ep.    was    recovered    in 

1.  Author-  1S75  by  Bryennios,  bishop  of  Nicome- 
ship  and  dia.  The  high  honor  in  which  it  was 
Date  held  by  early  Christendom  is  attested 

(1)  by  its  position  in  Codex  A,  at  the 
end  of  the  NT,  and  in  an  ancient  Syr  MS,  between 
the  Catholic  and  Pauline  Epp.;  (2)  by  its  being 
publicly  read  in  many  churches  down  to  the  4th 
cent.  (HE,  III,  16).  The  work  is  anonymous,  but 
sent  in  the  name  of  the  Rom  church.  Dionysius 
of  Corinth  (170  AD)  refers  to  it  as  written  by  the 
agency  of  (did)  Clement  (HE,  IV,  23) ;  Clement  of 
Alexandria  states  distinctly  the  Clementine  author- 
ship (Strom.,  iv.17).  The  writer  is  evidently  a 
leading  office-bearer  of  his  church,  and  is  identi- 
fied with  the  Clement  whom  Eusebius  designates 
as  third  "bishop"  (or  chief  presbyter)  of  Rome  after 
St.  Peter,  and  as  holding  office  between  92  and  101 
AD  (HE,  III,  34).  Clement  is  further  identified 
by  Origen  (Comm.  on  St.  John)  and  in  HE,  111,  15 
with  the  Clement  of  Phil  4  3;  but  the  name  is 
too  common  and  the  interval  too  long  to  render 
this  identity  more  than  possible.  Some  conjecture 
the  writer  to  be  the  consul,  Elavius  Clemens,  whom 
Domitian  (his  cousin)  put  to  death  in  95  AD  for 
alleged  "atheism,"  i.e.  probably,  profession  of  Chris- 
tianity  (see  Harnack,  Gesch.  Lit.,  I,  253,  note  1). 
But  Clement  the  "bishop"  is  never  otherwise  re- 
ferred to  as  a  martyr,  and  a  member  of  the  imperial 
family  would  hardly  have  been  head  of  the  Rom 
church  without  so  signal  a  fact  being  noted  by  some 
contemporary  or  later  writer.  Light  foot,  with 
sonic  probability,  supposes  (Apostolic  Fathers,  I, 
01)  that  Clement  was  a  "freedman  or  the  son  of  a 
freedman,  belonging  to  the  household  of  Flavins 
Clemens."  From  St.  Paul's  time  (Phil  4  22)  the 
imperial  household  included  Christians;  and  many 
slaves  were  men  of  culture.  To  such  a  Christian 
freedman's  influence  the  consul's  conversion  may 
have  been  due.  Internal  evidence  points  to  Clem- 
ent having  been  a  Hellenist  Jew  or  proselyte  of 
Judaism;  for  he  writes  with  some  classical  culture 
and  with  knowledge  of  OT  history  and  of  t lie  LXX; 
his  style,  moreover,  has  a  "strong  Hebraistic  tinge" 
(Lightfoot,  p.  59).  The  date  of  the  ep.  is  fixed 
approximately  by  a  reference  to  a  persecution  at 
Rome  in  progress  or  very  recent;  this  persecution 
(during  Clement's  "episcopate")  was  doubtless  that 
by  Domitian  in  95  AD.  Clement's  Ep.  is  thus  not 
strictly  within  the  Sub-apostolic  Age,  but  it  is  uni- 
formly included  in  sub-apostolic  literature. 

The  occasion  was  a  church  feud  at  Corinth,  and  the 
expulsion  of  some  faithful  presbyters.     The  writer 

seeks  to  procure  their  restoration  and 

2.  Occasion  to  heal  the  dissension.  He  quotes  OT 
and  examples  of  the  evil  issue  of  envy  and 
Contents        strife,  and  of  the  blessednessof  humility, 

submission  and  concord.  He  adduces 
as  a  pattern  the  peace  and  harmony  of  Nature.  In 
this  connection  occurs  an  anticipation  of  geographi- 
cal discovery,  when  the  author  writes  (ch  xx)  of  "the 
impassable  ocean  and  the  worlds  beyond  it"  (cf 
Seneca,  Medea  ii.  375;  Strabo  i.4;  Pint.  Mor.ix.41). 
St.  Paul's  warnings  in  1  Cor  about  party  spirit  are 
recalled;  a  not  unworthy  echo  of  1  Cor  13  is  em- 
bodied; and  the  erring  community  is  solemnly  ad- 
monished. 

In  the  course  of  the  letter,  with  obvious  reference  to 
1  Cor  15,  Clement  introduces  the  resurrection,  for  which 
he  argues  from  the  OT  and  from  natural  analogies.  He 
refers  to  the  phoenix  which  lives  500  years,  and,  when 
dissolution  approaches,  builds  a  nest  of  spices  into  which 
it  enters  to  die.  As  the  flesh  decays,  however,  a  "worm 
is  generated,  which  is  nurtured  from  the  dead  bird's 
moisture  and  putteth  forth  wings."  The  fable  is  men- 
tioned by  Herodotus  and  Pliny. 


A  lengthy  prayer  of  intercession  for  "all  sorts 
and  conditions  of  men"  is  abruptly  introduced  near 
the  end,  in  order,  presumably,  to  imbue  Corinthian 
Christians  with  that  charity  which  they  needed  and 
which  is  the  chief  incentive  to  intercession.  The 
ep.  closes  with  a  hopeful  anticipation  of  restored 
concord  and  peace. 

Apologetic  testimony  is  found  to  (1)  books  of  the 

NT,  viz.  to  the  Pauline  authorship  of  1  Cor;    to 

St.    Mark's    Gospel,    through    which 

3.  Apolo-       (ch  xv)   he  quotes  Isa  29  13,   repro- 
getic  Testi-   ducing  St.  Mark's  variations  from  the 
mony  LXX;  to  Acts,  through  which  he  simi- 
larly quotes  (ch  xviii)  1  S  13  14;    to 

Rom,  Eph,  1  Tim,  Tit,  .las,  1  Pet  (chs  xxxv,  xlvi, 
xxi,  ii,  xlvi,  xlix,  respectively).  The  |js  between 
Clement  and  He  are  so  numerous  that,  the  latter 
work  has  from  early  times  been  ascribed  to  him  by 
some  (HE,  VI,  25).  But  tin;  general  type  both  of 
thought  and  of  diction  is  dissimilar;  (2)  against  the 
Tubingen  theory  of  essential  divergence  between 
the  doctrine  of  St.  Peter  and  of  St .  Paul.  The  chief 
presbyter  of  Rome  could  not  have  been  ignorant  of 
such  divergence;  yet  he  refers  the  partisanship  of 
which  the  two  apostles  wen;  victims  entirely  to  the 
Corinthians,  not  at  all  to  the  apostles  (ch  xlix). 

Doctrinal  testimony  is  found:    (1)  to  the  Trinity, 

"As  Cod  liveth  and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  liveth, 

and  the  Holy  Spirit"  (ch  lvih);    (2)  to 

4.  Doctrinal  the  personality  of  Christ,  "The  Lord 
Testimony     Jesus  Christ,    to   whom  be  the  glory 

and  the  majesty  forever."  In  union 
and  communion  with  Christ  we  have  life,  are  sanc- 
tified, possess  love,  manifest  godliness  (ch  i,  xxxvi); 
(3)  to  the  atonement :  Clement  ascribes  to  Christ's 
death  not  merely  subjective  moral  influence,  but 
objective  vicarious  efficacy  in  securing  our  salvation, 
without  any  attempt,  however,  to  explain  the  mys- 
tery. Christ  hath  "given  his  flesh  for  our  flesh,  his 
life  for  our  lives"  (ch  xlix) ;  (4)  to  just  ification  which 
is  distinctly  enunciated  as  before  God  through  faith 
(ch  xxxii).  But  this  faith  (as  in  St.  Paul's  writings) 
is  a  "faith  which  worketh"  (ch  xxxv),  and  such 
just  ification  is  consistent  with  our  being  justified  by 
works  before  men;  (5)  to  the  inspiration  of  Scrip- 
ture, which  is  real  ("the  Holy  Spirit  sail  h"),  but  not 
verbal;  for  quotations  are  often  inexact.  Apocry- 
phal books  are  quoted,  but  not  with  a  formula 
indicating  Divine  authority. 

(1)  The  basis  of  authority  is  not  sacerdotal,  but 
a  combination  of   official   succession   and   popular 

call;  office-bearers  are  appointed  "by 

5.  Office-  the  apostles  or  afterward  by  men  of 
Bearers  and  repute  with  consent  of  the  whole 
Organiza-  ecclesia."  (2)  Clement  indicates  no 
tion  distinction     between     presbyter     and 

bishop.  Office-bearers  designated  as 
presbyters  (chs  xlvii,  liv)  are  referred  to  (chs  xlii, 
xliv)  as  filling  the  office  of  bishop.  Addressing  a 
church  on  congregat  ional  st  rife  and  insubordinat  ion, 
he  refers  to  no  single  bishop  in  authority  over  the 
church.  Had  the  episcopate,  in  the  post-NT  sense 
of  mono-episcopate,  been  apostolically  enjoined, 
surely  the  injunction  would  have  been  obeyed  or 
enforced  in  Corinth.  (3)  None  the  less  we  discern 
in  Clement's  own  position  and  action  the  anticipa- 
tion of  the  later  episcopate.  Clement  is  an  example 
of  how,  through  the  personal  qualities  and  ecclesi- 
astical services  of  the  man,  the  status  of  presiding 
presbyter  developed  out  of  seniority  into  superiority, 
out  of  representativeness  into  official  authority. 
(4)  The  early  germ  of  the  papacy  is  disclosed  in  the 
passage:  "If  certain  persons  should  be  disobedient 
unto  the  words  spoken  by  God  through  us,  let  them 
understand  that  they  will  entangle  themselves  in  no 
slight  transgression  and  peril"  (ch  lix). 


Lit.,  Sub-apostol.      THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1898 


Such  assumption  by  a  revered  man  like  Clement  might 
give  no  oir.'iiee.  and  the  Corinthians  plainly  needed  cor- 
rect ion.  Still  we  have  here  the  hrst  stage  in  the  process 
which  ultimately  issued  in  the  Horn  claim  to  universal 
spiritual  supremacy.  The  assumption,  however,  is  not- 
grounded  on  Clement's  own  ollicial  position  (he  speaks 
always  in  the  1st  person  pi.),  but  on  the  superior  dignity 
of  the  Horn  church.  The  later  theory  of  supremacy 
builds  Rom  authority  on  the  primacy  of  St.  Peter  and 
his  successors;  but  here  the  authority  of  the  leading 
presbyter,  in  dealing  with  a  provincial  church,  rests  on 
the,  suggested  primacy  of  the  ecclesia  in  which  lie  presides. 

(1)  The  long  prayer  (chs  lix-lxi)  bears  internal 
evidence  of  liturgical  character,  t  hrough  its  balanced 

and  rhythmical  style,  its  somewhat  re- 
6.  Ritual        mote  relevance  to  the  special  object  of 

the  ep.,  and  greater  suitability  for  con- 
gregational worship,  than  as  part  of  a  counsel  to  a 
sister  church.  This  internal  testimony  is  confirmed 
by  the  correspondence  of  the  prayer  in  certain 
verbal  details  with  the  earliest  extant  liturgies, 
particularly  those  of  St.  Mark  and  St.  James,  point- 
ing to  the  early  use  in  the  Rom  church  of  forms  of 
prayer  afterward  incorporated  into  these  liturgies. 
While  there  is  evidence  that  down  at  least  to  the  t  ime 
(MS  AD)  of  Justin's  1st  Apology  (chlxvii)  a  minister 
offered  up  prayers  of  his  own  composition,  this 
prayer  of  Clement's  Ep.  indicates  that  before  the 
close  of  the  Apostolic  Age,  forms  of  supplication 
had  begun  to  be  introduced,  not  to  the  exclusion  of 
"free  prayer,"  but  simply  as  a  mode  of  congre- 
gational devotion  countenanced  by  a  venerated 
leader  of  the  church  at  Rome.  (2)  In  ch  lvi  Clem- 
ent writes  about  "compassionate  remembrance  of 
them  [i.e.  the  erring  brethren]  before  God  and  the 
saints."  By  the  saints,  however,  are  most  probably 
meant,  not  the  beatified  dead,  but  the  living  Christian 
brotherhood,  as  in  1  Cor  1  2;   2  Cor  8  4. 

This  ep.  leaves  on  readers'  minds  two  different  yet 
mutually  compatible  impressions — impressions  both 
apparently  mad.:  on  the  early  church,  by  which  the  letter 
was  widely  read  at  public  worship  and  yet  excluded  from 
the  Canon  of  Scriptures.  We  realize,  on  the  one  hand, 
tin  inferiority  of  this  writing  to  epp.  of  apostles.  Clem- 
ent's mind  is  receptive,  not  creative;  and  the  freshness 
of  thought  characteristic  of  NT  writers  is  absent.  What 
NT  book,  moreover,  contains  such  a  foolish  legend  as 
that  of  the  phoenix  ?  On  the  other  hand,  this  ep. 
breathes  much  of  the  spirit,  as  it  adopts  in  considerable 
measure  the  phraseology  and  style  of  apostolic  writings. 
It  is  as  if.  although  the  sun  of  special  inspiration  had  sunk 
below  the  horizon,  there  remained  to  the  church  for  a 
while  a  spiritual  afterglow. 

//.    The   "Didache"  or    Teaching   (longer  title, 

"The  Teaching  of  the  Lord,  by  [did]  the  XII  Apostles, 

to  the  Gentiles"). — This  work  is  quoted 

1.  Disap-  as  "Scripture,"  without  being  named, 
pearance  by  Clement  of  Alexandria  (c  170  AD,  in 
and  Re-  Strom.,  i.20).  It  is  mentioned  in  HE, 
covery  III,   25   as  the   "Teachings   so-called 

of  the  Apostles,"  "recognized  by  most 
ecclesiastical  writers,"  although  "not  a  genuine" 
composition  of  apostles.  Athanasius  (Fest.  Ep.,  39) 
denies  its  canonicity,  but  acknowledges  its  utility. 
The  latest  ancient  reference  to  the  work  from  per- 
sonal knowledge  is  by  Nicephoros  (9th  cent.)  who 
includes  it  among  apocryphal  writings.  Thence- 
forth it  disappears  until  its  recent  recovery  in  1875 
by  Bryennios. 

There  is  no  reliable  external  testimony  to  date.  Re- 
semblances too  considerable  to  be  accidental  exist  be- 
tween the  Didache  and  the  Ep.  of  Barna- 

2.  Date         bas;  but  opinion  is  divided  as  to  priority 

of  composition.  Lightfoot  and  others 
favor  a  common  lost  source.  As  to  internal  evidence 
the  simplicity  of  the  Eucharist  and  of  baptism  as 
here  described,  with  no  formal  admission  to  the 
catechumenate  (ch  vii);  the  use  of  "bishop"  to  de- 
note the  same  office-bearer  as  presbyter;  and  the 
expectation  of  an  impending  Second  Advent — 
point  to  an  early  date.  On  the  other  hand  it  is 
unlikely  that  a  writing  which  professes  to  give  the 


Teaching  of  the  Twelve  would  be  issued  until  all 
or  most  apostles  had  passed  away;  and  the  writer 
seems  to  he  acquainted  with  writings  of  St.  John 
(Did.,  ix.2;  x.2;  x.5;  set;  Schaff,  Oldest  Church 
Manual,  90).  Probably  the  document  went  through 
a  series  of  recensions  (Harnack  in  Sch-Herz;  Bart  let 
in  l)li,  V),  and  the  date  or  dates  of  composition 
may  be  put  between  80  and  120  AD. 

The   work   does  not   profess   to   be   written   by 
apostles;  but  the  author  seems  to  be  a  Jewish  Chris- 
tian,  for   he    calls    Friday    "Prepara- 

3.  Stand-  tion  Day,"  and  the  style  and  diction 
point,  are  Hebraic.  The  work  is  neither 
Authorship  Judaistic  nor  Ebionite:  circumcision, 
and  Object  the  Sabbath,  and  special  Mosaic  ob- 
servances, art;  ignored.     Prom  t  he  book 

in  whole  or  in  part  being  addressed  specially,  al- 
though not  exclusively,  to  Gentiles,  we  infer  that 
the  community  among  whom  it  was  composed,  while 
mainly  Jewish  Christian,  made  special  provision 
for  conversion  and  instruction  of  Gentiles.  The 
doctrinal  standpoint  is  neither  Pauline  nor  anti- 
Pauline,  but  resembles  that  of  Jas.  Canon  Spence 
(Teaching)  conjectures  plausibly  that  the  author 
may  be  Simeon,  cousin  of  James  the  Lord's  brother, 
who  became  chief  presbyter  of  the  Jewish  Christian 
community,  first  at  Jems,  afterward  at  Pella,  until 
his  martyrdom  in  107  AD. 

Mt  was  certainly  in  the  writer's  hands;    for  the 
Didache  contains   22   quotations  from,  or  reminis- 
cences of,  that  Gospel,  extending  over 

4.  Testi-  ten  chs  of  it.  Particularly  notable  is 
mony  to  Did.,  viii.2,  "Neither  pray  ye  as  the 
NT  hypocrites,  but  as  the  Lord  corn- 
Writings        manded    in    His    Gospel;     after    this 

manner  pray  ye,  Our  Father,"  etc 
(see  also  vii.  1;  ix.5;  xvi.O).  There  are  also  refer- 
ences to  the  Gospel  of  Lk  (Did.,  hi. 5,  10) ;  St.  John's 
writings  (see  above);  Acts  (Did.,  iv.8),  Rom  (Did., 
iv.5),  2  Thess  (Did.,  xiv.l),  1  Pet  (Did.,  i.4).  No 
extra-canonical  saying  of  Our  Lord  is  recorded. 

The  contents  and  notabilia  may  be  examined  as 
follows:   (1)  Didactic  (chs  i-vi),  intended  for  cate- 
chumens  in   preparation  for  baptism. 

5.  Contents  This  catechetical  manual  (the  earliest 
and  of  its  kind)  opens  with  the  words: 
Notabilia       "There  are  two  ways:   one  of  life  and 

one  of  death"  (suggested  probably  by 
Jer  21  8).  From  this  text  the  writer  gives  a  sum- 
mary of  Christian  duty  esp.  toward  our  neighbor, 
based  on  the  Decalogue,  the  Golden  Rule,  and  the 
Sermon  on  the  Mount,  which  is  frequently  quoted. 

Among  notable  precepts  is  a  command  to  fast  as  well 
as  pray  for  enemies;  a  warning  against  infanticide 
which,  in  the  case  of  sickly  infants,  heathenism  approved, 
and  against  augury  and  astrology  as  generating  idolatry; 
an  admonition  not  to  "stretch  out  one's  hands  for  receiv- 
ing and  to  draw  them  in  for  giving";  an  injunction  to 
"share  all  things  with  thy  brethren,  and  not  to  say  that 
they  are  thine  own";  a  command  to  "love  some  above 
thine  own  life";  and  a  quaint  corrective  against  indis- 
criminate and  ill-informed  beneficence:  "Let  thine 
alms  sweat  into  thy  hands  until  thou  know  to  whom 
thou  shouldest  give."  A  precept  to  "give  with  thy 
hands  a  ransom  for  sin"  may  not  mean  more  than  that 
sinful  habits  are  subdued  by  good  works,  but  it  suggests 
and  paves  the  way  for  the  error  of  the  atoning  elHcacy 
of  almsgiving.  The  summary  of  duty  relates  chiefly  to 
the  second  Table  of  the  J  jaw;  duty  toward  God  is  after- 
ward (so  far)  dealt  with  under  "worship."  This  may 
account  for  obedience  to  parents  being  strangely  omitted; 
for  among  the  Jews  the  Fifth  Commandment  was  in- 
cluded in  the  First  Table. 

(2)  Devotional:  worship  and  rites  (chs  vii-x,  xiv) . — - 
The  Lord's  Prayer  is  to  be  used  thrice  a  (lay. 
"Heaven"  and  "debt"  are  found  instead  of  "heav- 
ens" and  "debts."  The  Doxology  is  added  (with 
"kingdom"  omitted) — its  earliest  recorded  use  in 
this  connection.  Christians  are  to  fast  on  Wed- 
nesday and  Friday,  the  days  of  the  betrayal  and 
crucifixion.     Fasting  is  enjoined  for  a  day  or  two 


1S99 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA     Lit.,  Sub-apostol. 


before  baptism,  both  on  baptizer  and  on  baptized; 
it  is  recommended  to  "others  who  can."     There  is 

no  mention  of  oil,  salt,  or  exorcism.  The  baptismal 
formula,  "In  the  name  of  the  Father,  the  Son,  and 
the  Holy  Ghost,"  is  commanded,  confirming  the 
historical  trustworthiness  of  Mt  28  19.  Triple  im- 
mersion in  "living  water"  is  assumed  to  be  normal; 
but  where  this  is  impracticable,  other  water  and 
affusion  are  permitted  (see  Trine  Immersion). 
The  Lord's  Supper  is  dealt  with  only  on  its  euchar- 
istic  side,  the  writer's  object  being  not  to  expound 
the  nature  of  the  rite,  but  to  give  models  of  thanks- 
giving. 

The  phrase,  "after  being  filled  give  thanks,"  suggests 
that  the  Agape  was  still  associated  with  the  sacrament: 
the  dissociation  had  begun  when  Pliny  wrote  to  Trajan 
in  1  12  VI).  A  liturgical  element  in  sacramental  worship 
is  indicated  by  the  prescription  of  forms  of  thanksgiving 
for  the  cup,  the  broken  bread,  and  spiritual  mercies. 
"  Give  thanks  thus."  The  thanksgiving  for  the  cup  is  as 
follows:  "We  give  thanks  to  thee  our  Father,  for  the 
holy  vine  of  David,  thy  servant,  which  thou  hast  made 
known  to  us  through  Jesus  Christ."  But  nothing  sug- 
gests that  the  entire  service  is  liturgical,  and  the  forms 
supplied  are  not  rigidly  imposed;  for  prophets  are  to 
oiler  thanks  in  such  terms  as  they  choose.  On  the  Lord's 
Day  congregational  worship  and  eucharistic  bread- 
breaking,  after  confession  to  (Joel  and  reconciliation  with 
men,  are  distinctly  enjoined. 

(3)  Ecclesiastical  (chs  xi-xiii,  xv). — Of  church 
office-bearers,  two  classes  are  mentioned,  ordinary 
and  extraordinary.  Of  the  former  (essential  to  con- 
gregational organization)  only  bishops  and  deacons 
are  mentioned,  i.e.  those  intrusted  with  rule  and  over- 
sight, with  their  assistants.  Presbyter  and  bishop 
appear  to  be  still  identical,  as  the  former  is  not 
specified  (cf  Phil  1  1).  Popular  election  of  these 
functionaries  is  indicated:  "Elect  for  yourselves"; 
without  denial,  however,  of  those  already  in  office 
having  a  share  in  the  settlement.  In  the  second 
class,  apostles,  prophets  and  teachers  are  included. 
"Apostle"  is  used,  not  in  the  narrower  sense  of  men 
called  to  the  office  personally  by  Christ,  but  in  the 
wider  sense  which  embraces  all  whose  call  to  be  His 
ambassadors  has  been  signalized  by  Divine  gifts — 
specially  accredited  evangelists  unconnected  with 
any  particular  community.  (Among  Jewish  Chris- 
tians  the  designation  survived  to  the  4th  cent.,  for 
the  Theodosian  Code  of  that  period  refers  to  Jew- 
ish presbyters  and  to  those  "quos  ipsi  apostolos 
vocant.")  These  apostles  were  to  be  received  "as 
the  Lord,"  and  hospitably  entertained;  but,  unlike 
apostles  in  the  special  sense,  they  were  not  to 
remain  anywhere  longer  than  "one  or  two  days." 
Their  function  was  to  scatter  the  seed  widely,  and 
any  expression  of  desire  to  remain  longer  was  to  be 
discouraged,  while  a  demand  for  salary  from  a  par- 
ticular community  would  be  evidence  of  false 
apostleship.  The  special  function  of  prophets  and 
teachers,  on  the  other  hand,  was  the  instruction 
and  comfort  of  church  members.  They  accordingly 
might  be  encouraged  to  settle  in  a  community  and 
receive  "first-fruits"  for  their  support.  These 
prophets  and  teachers,  however,  were  not  to  super- 
sede the  "bishops"  or  presbyters  in  ruling,  but  were 
to  undertake  only  those  functions  for  which  they 
were  specially  qualified.  On  the  other  hand, 
bishops  and  deacons  were  not  to  be  excluded  from 
preaching  and  teaching  by  the  sot  tlement  of  prophel  s 
and  official  teachers  in  pari  icular  communities;  and 
in  the  Did.  may  be  traced  the  transition,  then  being 
gradually  accomplished,  of  the  preaching  and 
teaching  functions  from  extraordinary  to  ordinary 
office-bearers.  "They  also  [the  bishops  and  dea- 
cons] minister  to  you  the  ministry  of  prophets 
and  teachers:  therefore  despise  them  not."  Even 
before  the  close  of  St.  Paul's  ministry,  the  episkopos, 
whose  essential  function  was  rule  and  oversight, 
was  expected,  if  not  required,  also  to  be  didaktikds, 
"qualified  to  teach,"  i.e.  along  with  teachers  specially 


set  apart  for  the  purpose  (1  Tim  3  2;  5  17).  By 
the  middle  of  the  2d  cent.,  the  prophets  had  dis- 
appeared, and  their  preaching  function  had  been 
vested  in  the  office  of  bishop  or  presbyter,  assisted 
by  the  diaconate. 

(4)  Eschatological  (ch  xvi). — This  concluding  sec- 
tion consists  chiefly  of  exhortations  to  watchfulness 
in  view  of  the  Second  Advent.  The  premonitory 
signs  of  that  Coming  are  given,  with  reminiscences 
from  Christ's  eschatological  discourses,  viz.  rise  of 
false  prophets,  decline  of  love,  persecution,  lawless- 
ness, and  the  appearance  of  Antichrist,  who  is 
designated  the  World-deceiver.  Without  definitely 
stating  chiliastic  doctrine,  the  writer  suggests  it; 
for  in  referring  to  the  immediate  signals  of  Christ's 
advent  (opening  in  heaven,  voice  of  trumpet,  resur- 
rection of  dead)  he  is  careful  to  add  "Not  of  all  the 
dead;  but  the  Lord  shall  come,  and  all  the  saints 
with  Him" — implying  that  the  general  resurrection 
would  take  place  at  an  after-stage,  presumably,  as 
Millennialists  held,  after  the  1,000  years  had  expired. 
Without  dogmatic  authority,  and  with  oidy  moder- 
ate spiritual  value,  the  Did.  is  important  historically 
as  a  witness  to  the  church's  beliefs,  usages  and  con- 
dition during  the  transition  between  the  Apostolic 
and  the  Post-apostolic  Age.  During  that  transi- 
tion period,  we  see  much  of  the  freedom  of  primi- 
tive Christianity  mingled  with  rudiments  of  ecclesi- 
astical regulations  and  formularies:  and  while  we 
cannot  assume  that  every  belief  and  usage  recorded 
in  the  Did.  were  sanctioned  by  apostles,  we  may 
reasonably  ascribe  them  to  apostolic  times,  and 
regard  them  as  not  opposed  by  those  apostles  within 
whose  view  they  must  have  come. 

///.  Epistles  of  Ignatius. — Ignatius  was  bishop 

of  Antioch  early  in  the  2d  cent.     Origen  (Horn,  vi 

on  Lk)  refers  to  him  as  "second  after 

1.  Author  St.  Peter";  Euodius  came  between 
and  Date       (HE,   III,   22).      As  he  calls  himself 

ektrbma,  "untimely  born"  (cf  1  Cor 
15  8),  he  was  probably  converted  in  mature  life: 
the  legend  of  his  being  the  "child"  of  Mt  18  3  rests 
on  misinterpretation  of  his  designation  "Theo- 
phoros."  Traditions  current  in  the  4th  cent,  repre- 
sent him  as  a  disciple  of  St.  John  (Eus.,  Chron.) 
and  ordained  by  St.  Paul  (Apos  Const,  vii.46). 

The  Martyrium  of  Ignatius  (0th  cent.)  dates  his  trial 
at  Antioch  in  the  9th  year  of  Trajan's  reign  (107-8  AD) 
and  represents  it  as  conducted  before  t  Ik;  emperor.  Only 
one  visit,  however,  of  Trajan  to  Antioch  is  known,  in 
114-15;  neither  any  Ignatian  letter  nor  Eusebius,  nor 
any  other  early  writer  refers  to  so  memorable  a  circum- 
stance as  the  presidency  of  an  emperor  over  a  Christian's 
trial,  and  Ignatius  speaks  of  a  proposed  attempt  by  Rom 
friends  to  secure  a  reversal  of  the  sentence,  which  would 
have  been  impossible  had  Trajan  personally  pronounced 
it.  His  alleged  presence,  therefore,  must  be  rejected  as 
a  later  embellishment. 

The  epp.,  so  far  as  genuine,  were  written  after 
Ignatius'  condemnation,  on  his  way  to  martyrdom 
at  Rome. 

The  epp.  are  extant  in  3  edd:    (1)  the  longer  Gr, 

of  15  letters  now  admitted  to  be  largely  spurious; 

(2)  a  Syr  recension  of  three  letters,  now 

2.  Gen-  generally  held  to  be  a  mere  epitome; 
uineness        (3)   the  shorter  Gr  ed,   containing  7 

letters  of  intermediate  length,  to  the 
Ephesians,  Magnesians,  Trallians,  Philadelphians, 
Smyrnaoans,  Romans,  and  Polycarp.  Light  foot, 
Zahn,  and  most  recent  critics  accept  the  substantial 
genuineness  of  these  seven.  The  chief  external 
evidence  is  that  of  Polycarp  (Phil.,  xiii),  who,  soon 
after  Ignatius'  death,  writes  of  a  letter  addressed 
to  himself,  of  another  to  the  Smyrnaoans,  and  of  "all 
the  rest  which  we  have  by  us."  Now  2  Ignatian 
epp.  are  addressed  to  Polycarp  and  the  Christians 
of  Smyrna,  while  4  profess  to  be  written  by  Ignatius 
at  Smyrna,  harmonizing  well  with  copies  of  these 
being  in  Polycarp's  possession. 


Lit.,  Sub-apostol.      THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1900 


Further  external  evidence  is  supplied  by  Irenaeus 
(v. 29)  who  quotes  a  saying  from  [gnat.,  Rom.,  iv,  as  that 
of  a  martyr,  and  who  uses  S  notable  phrases  borrowed 
apparently  from  Ignatius.  This  external  testimony  (only 
got-  rid  of  by  an  arbitrary  assumption  of  Polycarp's  Kp. 
being  wholly  or  partly  spurious)  is  supported  by  strong 
internal  and"  cumulative  evidence: 

(1)  Frequent  grammatical  dislocation,  natural  in  letters 
written  on  a  journey  but  unaccountable  on  the  suppo- 
sition of  a  later  forgery  {Rom.,  i;    May.,  ii;   Eph.,  i). 

(2)  Geographical  particular*:  e.g.  Ignatius  goes  by  land 
from  Antioch  to  Smyrna — an  unusual  route  which  a  forger 
would  hardly  invent. 

(3)  Historical  illustrations:  e.g.  conveyance  of  prisoners 
from  distant  provinces  to  Home  harmonizes  with  the 
account  by  Dion  Cassius  (lxviii.15)  of  the  magnitude 
of  amphitheatrical  exhibitions  under  Trajan  causing 
extensive  orders  for  human  victims  from  all  parts. 

(4)  Theological  evidence:  e.g.  these  epp.  refer  to  Juda- 
istic  error  combined  with  a  type'  of  doctrine  denying  any 
real  incarnation — a  combination  which  ceased  after  Ig- 
natius' time. 

(5)  Ecclesiastical  usage:  thus,  the  Agape  still  includes 
the  Eucharist  (Smyr.,  viii),  whereas  soon  after  Ignatius' 
death  these  were  separated  (Pliny,  Ep.  96;  Just.,  1  Ap., 
65,07). 

(6)  Personal  references. — Tile  writer  shows  an  excess 
and  affectation  of  self-depreciation — "last  of  Antiochene 
Christians"  (Trail.,  xiii)  "not  worthy  to  be  counted 
one  of  the  brotherhood"  (Rom.,  ix) — such  as  a  later 
forger  would  hardly  have  introduced. 

(1)  Joy  and  glory  of  martyrdom. — Heroic  courage 
and   loyalty   to   Christ   arc   united   with   fanatical 

craving  after  a  martyr's  death:  "I 
3.  Leading  would  rather  die  for  Christ  than  reign 
Ideas  over    the    whole    earth"    (Rom.,    vi); 

"lie  who  is  near  the  sword  is  near  to 
God"  [Smyr.,  iv).  This  is  noble;  but  when  he  writes, 
"Entice  wild  beasts  to  become  my  sepulchre" 
(Rom.,  iv);  "May  I  have  joy  of  the  wild  beasts  and 
find  them  prompt";  "Though  they  be  unwilling  I 
will  force  them"  (Rom.,  iv.5),  we  realize  how  Aure- 
lius  (recalling  perhaps  some  such  case)  was  moved 
to  write  that  "death  was  to  be  encountered,  not 
as  by  the  Christians  like  a  military  display,  but 
solemnly,  and  not  as  if  one  acted  in  a  tragedy" 
(Med.  xi.3). 

(2)  Evil  and  peril  of  heresy  and  schism. — "Ab- 
stain from  heresy";  "These  heretics  mix  up  Jesus 
Christ  with  their  own  poison"  (Trail.,  vi);  "Flee 
those  evil  outshoots,  which  produce  death-bearing 
fruit"  (Trail.,  xi);  "Avoid  all  divisions  as  the  be- 
ginning of  evils";  "Nothing  is  better  than  unity" 
(To  Polyc.,i;   Phil,  in). 

(3)  Submission  to  office-bearers,  esp.  to  the  bishop. 
— "Do  nothing  without  your  bishop,  and  be  subject 
to  the  presbyters"  (Mag.,  vii);  "Be  on  your  guard 
against  heresy:  and  this  will  be,  if  ye  continue  in 
intimate  union  with  Christ  and  with  the  bishop"; 
"He  who  does  anything  without  the  bishop's  knowl- 
edge serveth  the  devil"  (Smyr.,  ix).  The  bishop 
here  is  higher  than  "primus  inter  pares";  he  is  a 
new  and  separate  office-bearer.  Yet,  without 
going  beyond  these  epp.,  we  discern  that  such  an 
episcopate  was  not  an  express  apostolic  institution. 
For  had  Ignatius  been  able  to  magnify  the  office 
as  apostolically  enjoined,  so  zealous  a  champion  of 
episcopal  authority  would  have  adduced  such  in- 
junction as  the  most  cogent  reason  for  submission. 
His  zeal  for  the  episcopate  apparently  sprang  only 
from  its  high  ecclesiastical  expediency  as  the  most 
effective  agency  for  maintaining  the  church's  unity 
against  heresy  and  schism. 

(1)  The  Gospel  of  Jn  is  never  quoted,  but  numerous 
phrases  suggest  that  it  was  in  the  writer's  hands.     He 

speaks  of  Christ  "proceeding  from  the 
4  Other  Father,"  "doing  nothing  without  the 
Wntnhilin  Father,"  "in  all  things  pleasing  Him 
iNOiaDma        wno  sent  Him."     Christ  is  the  "Door  of 

the  Father"  and  "Living  water."  Satan 
is  the  "Prince  of  this  world."  "  The;  Holy  Spirit  knoweth 
whence  He  cometh  and  whither  He  goeth." 

(2)  Doctrine. — Ignatius  asserts  emphatically  Christ's 
true  Divinity:  "OurGod"  (Eph.,  xviii;  Trail,  vii).  The 
Trinity  is  frequently  suggested,  although  not  expressly 
affirmed.  Christians  are  "established  in  the  Son,  the 
Father,   and    the   Spirit";     "subject  to  Christ  and  the 


Father,  and  the  Spirit."  With  strong  support  of  episco- 
pal authority  no  sacerdotalism  is  united.  "Priest" 
occurs  only  once,  "The;  priests  are  good:  but  Christ, 
the  High  Priest,  is  better."  Here,  as  the  context  shows, 
the  imperfect  Levitical  priesthood  is  contrasted  with  the 
perfect  high-priesthood  of  Christ. 

('.i)  Ecclesiastical  usage. — Ignatius  contains  one  of  the 
latest  references  to  the  Agape  as  still  conjoined  with  the 
Eucharist.  The  letter  to  Polycarp  (ch  iv)  contains  the 
earliest  allusion  to  the  practice  of  redeeming  Christian 
slaves  at  the  cost  of  the  congregation.  Slaves  are  not 
to  "long  to  be  set  free."  thus  implying  that  such  eman- 
cipation, while  not  required  as  a  duty,  was  often  con- 
ferred as  a  privilege. 

(4)  General  characteristics. — Ignatius  presents  a 
striking  contrast,  as  a  writer,  to  Clement.  Clement  is 
calm,  cultured,  chaste  in  diction,  but  somewhat  common- 
place and  deficient  in  originality;  his  best  passages  are 
echoes  of  Scripture.  The  diction  and  style  of  Ignatius 
are  impassioned,  rugged,  turgid,  but  pithy,  fresh  and 
individualistic. 

IV.  Epistle   of  Polycarp. — Polycarp    was    born 

not  later,  perhaps  considerably  earlier,  than  70  AD; 

for   at   his   martyrdom,   of  which   the 

1.  Date  and  now  accepted  date  is  155  or  156 
Genuine-  (Lightfoot,  Apostolic  Fathers,  II,  i, 
ness  029),    he    declared,    when    invited    to 

abjure  his  faith,  that  he  had  "served 
Christ  for  86  years"  (Mart.  Pol.,  ix).  He  was  a 
disciple  of  St.  John,  who  ordained  him  as  bishop 
or  leading  presbyter  of  Smyrna  before  100  AD 
(Iren.,  iii.3,  4).  Of  several  letters  by  Polycarp, 
only  this  ep.  remains:  it  professes  (ch  xiii)  to  have 
been  written  soon  after  the  martyrdom  of  Ignatius. 
The  genuineness  of  the  letter  is  attested  by  Irenaeus, 
Polycarp's  own  disciple  (I.e.),  whose  evidence  cannot 
be  set  aside  on  the  ground  of  its  testimony  to  the 
Ignatian  letters  without,  an  obvious  begging  of  the 
question.  The  supposition  that  the  Ignatian  letters 
and  Polycarp's  Ep.  are  parts  of  one  great  forgery 
is  otherwise  negatived  by  the  very  marked  differ- 
ence of  style  and  standpoint  between  those  writings 
(Lightfoot,  I.e.,  577). 

The  ep.  replies  to  a  letter  from  the  Philippian 
church  inviting  his  counsel,  and  asking  for  epp.  of 

the  recently  martyred  Ignatius.     He 

2.  Occasion  acknowledges  their  kind  ministry  to 
and  Con-  that  martyr  and  to  others,  "entwined 
tents  with  saintly   fetters,"   who   had   "set 

a  pattern  of  all  patience."  He  sends 
what  he  has  of  the  letters  of  Ignatius  and  asks  in 
return  for  any  information  which  they  might  pos- 
sess. He  commends  to  their  careful  study  St. 
Paul's  ep.  to  themselves,  acknowledging  his  in- 
ability to  attain  to  the  apostle's  wisdom.  With 
much  Scripture  language,  interwoven  with  his  own 
matter,  and  giving  to  his  letter  the  semblance  of  an 
apostolic  echo,  he  exhorts  his  readers  to  righteous- 
ness and  godliness,  charity  and  mercy,  and  warns 
them  against  covetousness,  evil-speaking  and 
revenge.  He  dwells  on  the  mutual  relations  and 
obligations  of  presbyters  and  deacons,  on  the  one 
hand,  and  of  the  congregation  on  the  other.  He 
repeats  St.  John's  admonition  against  teachers  who 
denied  the  reality  of  the  incarnation:  "Every 
spirit  that  confesseth  not,"  etc  (1  Jn  4  3).  He 
grieves  over  the  lapse  of  a  Philippian  presbyter, 
Valens,  who,  along  with  his  wife  had  flagrantly 
sinned;  but  he  bids  his  readers  not  count  such  as 
enemies,  but  seek  to  recall  them  from  their  wander- 
ings. 

(1)  Polycarp  mentions  only  one  book  of  the  NT,  viz. 
Phil,  but  within  the  brief  compass  of  200  lines  he  quotes 

verses  or  reproduces  phrases  from  12  XT 
3  Notflhilia  writings,  Mt,  1  Pet,  1  Jn.  and  9  Pauline 
o.  iiuwuiim  Epp.,    including    three    whose    early  date 

has  been  disputed  in  modern  times  (1  and 
2  Tim  and  Eph).  The  absence  of  any  quotation  from 
the  Gospel  of  .Jn  is  notable,  considering  his  relation  to 
the  apostle;  but  the  shortness  of  the  letter  prevents  any 
conclusion  being  drawn  against  the  authenticity  of  that 
Gospel;  and  he  quotes  (as  we  have  seen)  from  1  Jn, 
which  is  a  kind  of  appendix  to  the  Cospel  (Lightfoot). 

(2)  At  a  time  when  Ignatius  had   been  emphasizing 


1901 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA     Lit.,  Sub-apostol. 


the  paramount  duty  of  submission  to  the  bishop,  Poly- 
carp,  even  when  enjoining  subjection  to  presbyters,  does 
not  mention  a  bishop.  These  two  inferences  are  irre- 
sistible: (a)  there  was  then  no  episkopos,  in  the  post-NT, 
sense,  at  Philippi;  (b)  Polycarp  did  not  consider  the 
defect  (  ?)  sufficiently  important  to  ask  the  Philippians  to 
supply  it.  Had  St.  John  instituted  the  mono-episcopate 
as  the  one  proper  form  of  church  government,  surely  his 
disciple  Polycarp  would  have  embraced  the  opportunity, 
when  the  Philippians  invited  his  counsel,  to  inform  them 
of  the  apostolic  ordinance,  and  to  enjoin  its  adoption. 

V.  Papias  Fragments. — Papias  is  called  by  his 
younger  contemporary  Irenaeus  (v.33)  a  "disciple 

of  John  and  friend  of  Polycarp " 
1.  Author  Eusebius  writes  (HE,  III,  36)  that  he 
and  Date       was  episkopos  of  Hierapolis  in  Phrygia. 

The  Chronicon  Paschale  (7th  cent.,  but 
embodying  materials  from  older  documents)  states 
that  he  was  martyred  about  the  same  time  as  Poly- 
carp (155-56).  His  work,  Exposition  of  Our  Lord's 
Sayings,  was  extant  in  the  13th  cent.,  but  only  frag- 
ments quoted  by  Irenaeus,  Eusebius,  etc,  remain. 
These  bear  out  the  twofold  description  of  Papias  by 
Eusebius,  as  a  "man  of  lit  tit*  judgment"  yet  "most 
learned  and  well  acquainted  with  the  Scriptures" 
(HE,  III,  39,  30).  (But  the  words  of  praise  in  ver  36 
may  be  a  gloss.)  Papias  states  that  lie  subjoins  to 
his  expositions  "whatsoever  I  learned  carefully  from 
the  elders  and  treasured  up  in  my  memory  .... 

1  was  wont  to  put  questions  regarding  the  words  of 
the  elders  [i.e.  presumably  men  of  an  earlier  gen- 
eration], what  Andrew  or  Peter  said,  or  what  Philip 
or  Thomas,  or  James,  or  what  John  or  Matthew,  or 
any  other  of  the  Lord's  disciples  said,  as  well  as 
regarding  what  Aristion,  and  the  presbyter  John, 
the  disciple  of  the  Lord,  have  to  say." 

It  is  disputed  whether  Papias  here  refers  to  two  Johns, 
the  apostle  and  another  disciple  of  the  same  name;  or 
to  John  the  apostle  in  two  different  relations,  i.e.  first 
as  one  about  whose;  testimony  Papias  heard  from  others, 
and  second,  as  one  with  whom,  also,  he  held  personal 
communication.  In  favor  of  the  first  view  is,  (1)  Euse- 
bius' own  opinion  (I.e.);  (2)  the  alleged  unlikelihood  of 
the  same  John  being  twice  mentioned  in  one  sentence; 
(3)  a  statement  by  Eusebius  (HE,  III,  -V.))  that  in  his 
day  two  monuments  (mnimata)  of  "John"  existed  at 
Ephesus.  For  the  latter  view  is,  (1)  no  other  writer 
until  Eusebius  hints  the  existence  of  a  presbyter  John 
distinct  from  the  apostle;  (2)  the  change  in  the  quota- 
tion from  "said"  to  "say"  seems  to  give  a  reason  for 
John  being  twice  mentioned;  some  things  stated  by 
John  haying  been  heard  by  Papias  through  "elders." 
others  having  been  told  him  by  the  apostle  himself.  The 
fact  that  John  is  called  presbyter,  instead  of  apostle,  is 
no  insuperable  objection,  since  John  so  designates  him- 
self in  2  and  3  Jn;  and  Jerome  denies  that  the  two 
mnemata  were  both  tombs.  See  Lifditfoot.  Essay  on 
Papias,  and  Nicol,  Four  Gospels,  187  if,  who  come  to 
divergent  conclusions. 

2  Testi-  ®n  tne  t&stimony  to  St.  Matthew 
nionv  to"  ant*  ^t-  Mark  see  Matthew,  Gospel 
St.  Matthew  OF>  Mark>  Gospel  of- 

(1)  According  to  Eusebius,  Papias  relates 
the  story  of  "a  woman  accused  before 
Our  Lord" — the  story,  presumably,  which 
eventually  crept  into  Jn  8;  so  that  to 
him,  in  part,  is  due  the  preservation  of  a  narrative, 
which,  whether  historical  or  not,  finely  illustrates  the 
union   in    Our   Lord    of    holy   purity  and 

3  Other  merciful  charity. 

ivr  +  u-i-  (2)    Papias  is  quoted  by  the  Chronicler 

iNOiaDina  Georgius  Hamartolos  (in  a  MS  of  the  9th 
cent.)  as  declaring  in  his  Expositon  that 
St.  John  "was  put  to  death  by  the  Jews,"  and  a  similar 
quotation  is  made  by  Philip  of  Side  {Epitome  MS  of  the 
7th-8th  cent).  On  the  bearing  of  this  upon  the  question  of 
the  apostle's  residence  at  Ephesus  see  John,  the  Apostle. 
(3)  Irenaeus  (v. 32)  quotes  Papias  as  writing  about  a 
Post-resurrection  millennium,  and  as  reporting,  on  St. 
John's  authority,  how  the  Lord  said,  "The  days  will  come 
when  vines  shall  grow  having  each  10,000  branches,  and 
on  each  branch  10,000  twigs,  and  on  each  twig  10,000 
shoots,"  etc.  This  may  be  an  exaggerated  record  (mis- 
understood by  Papias)  of  some  parabolic  utterance  of 
Christ,  indicating  prophetically  the  wonderful  extension 
of  the  church. 

VI.  Epistle  of  Barnabas. — This  book  is  first  ex- 
pressly quoted  by  Clement  of  Alexandria  (c  190  AD) 
as  the  composition  of  Barnabas,  companion  of  St. 


and  St 
Mark 


Paul  (Strom.,  ii.6).  Origen  concurs,  and  calls  it  a 
"Catholic  ep."  (Con.  Celsum,  i.63),  thus  suggest- 
ing canonical  position;  Eusebius  (HE, 
1.  Author-  111,  25)  testifies  to  the  widespread 
ship  ascription    of    it    to    this    Barnabas, 

although  he  himself  regards  it  as 
spurious."  Cod.  Sin  places  it  immediately  after 
the  NT,  as  being  read  in  churches,  and  thus  sug- 
gests its  composition  by  a  companion  at  least  of 
apostles.  Against  this  external  testimony,  how- 
ever, to  authorship  by  the  Barnabas  of  Acts,  is 
strong  internal  evidence:  (1)  apostolic  sinfulness 
prior  to  discipleship  is  spoken  of  in  exaggerated 
terms  hardly  credible  in  a  writer  who  knew  the 
Twelve — "exceedingly  lawless  beyond  all  [ordi- 
nary] sin"  (ch  v) —  an  echo  apparently  of  St. 
Paul's  "sinners  of  whom  I  am  chief";  (2)  ignorance 
of  Jewish  rites  incomprehensible  in  a  Levite  who 
had  lived  in  Jerus,  e.g.  the  priests  are  said  to  eat 
goat's  flesh  on  the  great  Day  of  Atonement;  (3) 
extreme  anti-Judaism  (sec  below),  inconsistent  with 
the  representation  of  Barnabas  in  Acts  and  Gal. 
The  writer  may  have  been  some  other  Barnabas,  a 
converted  Alexandrine  Jew,  or,  more  probably,  a 
converted  gentile  proselyte,  trained  in  Philo's 
school,  but  ignorant  of  Jewish  rites  as  practised 
at  Jerus,  and  possessing  little  real  sympathy  with 
Judaism. 

The  ep.  must  be  dated  after  70  AD,  as  the  de- 
struction of  Jerus  is  referred  to  (ch  xvi);  also  after 
the  publication  of  the  Gospel  of  Jn, 

2.  Date  of   which    there;   are   several   reminis- 

cences. But  the  absence  of  any  refer- 
ence to  the  rebuilding  of  Jerus  under  Hadrian,  in 
120  AD,  in  a  passage  (ch  xvi)  where  such  allusion 
might  have  been  expected,  suggests  a  date  prior  to 
that  year.  We  may  place  the  writing  between 
90  and  120  AD. 

The  object  is  to  deter  both  Jewish  and  gentile 

Christians  from  Judaistic  lapse  by  a  bold  application 

of  the  allegorizing  method  to  the  OT, 

3.  Object  far  beyond  what  Philo  would  have 
and  sanctioned.  Jewish  sacrifices,  festi- 
Contents  vals,  Sabbath  enactments,  temple- 
worship,  distinction  of  clean  and  un- 
clean food,  are  not  only  not  of  perpetual  obligation, 
but  never  were  binding  at  all,  even  on  Jews.  Be- 
lief in  their  obligatoriness  rests  on  a  slavishly  liberal 
exegesis  of  the  OT,  which,  properly  interpreted,  is 
not  a  preparation  for  Christ  but  Christianity  itself 
in  allegorical  disguise. 

Ceremonies  aro  simply  allegorical  enforcements  of 
spiritual  worship;  distinctions  of  clean  and  unclean  are 
merely  pictorial  representations  of  the  necessity  of  sepa- 
ration from  vice  and  vicious  men;  interdict  of  swine's 
flesh  means  no  more  than  "associate  not  with  swinish 
men."  The  only  circumcision  really  commanded  by 
(iod  is  circumcision  of  the  heart.  Barnabas  ignores  what 
St.  Paul  realized,  that  Jewish  laws  and  rites,  even  lit. 
interpreted,  an;  a  Divine  discipline  of  wholesome  self- 
restraint,  neighborly  consideration  and  obedience  to  (iod. 
Barnabas  not  only  explains  away  OT  enactments,  but 
finds  in  trivial  OT  statements  Christian  fact  and  truth. 
Thus,  in  Abraham's  circumcision  of  the  318  men  of  his 
house,  the  10  and  <S  are  significantly  denoted  by  the  Gr 
letters  I  and  II,  the  initial  letters  of  Icsous  (Jesus) ;  while 
the  300  represented  by  the  Gr  T,  points  to  the  cross. 
The  writer  self-complacent ly  intimates  that  "no  one 
has  been  admitted  by  me  to  a  more  genuine  piece  of 
knowledge  than  this!"  (ch  ix). 

When  Barnabas,  however,  leaves  obscure  allegory 
for  plain  exhortation,  he  writes  effectively  of  the 
"two  ways"  of  light  and  darkness.  Among  edify- 
ing admonitions  the  following  are  outstanding: 
"Thou  shalt  not  go  to  prayer  with  an  evil  con- 
science"; "Thou  shalt  not  let  the  word  of  God 
issue  from  lips  stained  with  impurity";  "Be  not 
ready  to  stretch  forth  thine  hands  to  take,  while 
thou  contractest  them  to  give";  "Thou  shalt  not 
issue  orders  with    bitterness  to  thy  servant,  lest 


Lit.,  Sub-apostol.     THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1902 


all 


thou  fail  in  reverence  to  Cod  who  is  above  you 
both";  "Thou  shalt  not  make  a  schism,  but  shalt. 
bring  together  them  who  contend";  "The  way  of 
darkness  is  crooked";  "In  (his  way  are  [among 
others  mentioned]  those  who  labor  not  to  aid  him 
who  is  overdone  with  toil"  (chs  xix,  xx). 

(1)  The  Divinity  of  Christ  is  emphasized:  "Lord  of 
the   world";    "Joint   Creator,   with   the   Father,   of 

mankind"  (ell  v).  (2)  The  writer,  while 
a  tvt  i.  u-r  following  the  Alexandrian  method  of  alle- 
4.  JNotabllia    goric.ai    interpretation,    is    free    from    the 

Alexandrian  doctrine  of  the  essential  evil 
of  matter;  the  necessity  of  a  real  incarnation  is  af- 
firmed (ch  v).  (3)  In  eh  xi,  he  writes,  "We  go  down 
into  the  water  full  of  sins  and  filth,  and  come  up  bear- 
ing fruit  iti  our  heart,  having  the  fear  of  God  and 
trust  in  Jesus  in  our  spirit."  This  has  been  interpreted 
as  involving  the  doctrine  of  baptismal  regeneration;  but 
the  reference  may  lie  rather  to  the  regeneration  which 
baptism  symbolizes.  (-1)  In  ch  xv,  the  words,  "We 
keep  the  8th  day  with  joy,  the  day  on  which  Jesus  rose 
again,"  are  the  earliest  express  testimony  that  the  ob- 
servance of  the  Lord's  Day  was  a  memorial  of  Our  Lord's 
resurrection.  This  observance  is  distinguished  from 
.Jewish  Sabbath-keeping  which  is  called  an  error;  the 
Sabbath  really  intended  to  be  kept  being  a  period  of 
1  000  years  after  the  6,000  years  in  which  all  things  will 
be  finished  (ch  xv).  (5)  Testimony  to  XT  Books,  (a) 
the  existence  and  canonical  authority  of  the  Gospel  of 
Mt  are  attested  (ch  iv)  by  the  ((notation  of  Mt  22  14, 
"Many  are  called,  but  few  chosen,"  introduced  by  the 
formula,  "It  is  written";  ()>)  various  passages  taken 
together  testify  to  the  writer  having  the  Gospel  of  .In 
in  his  hands:  "Whoso  eatethof  these  shall  live  for  ever" 
(ch  xi  and  Jn  6  58);  "Abraham  looking  before  in  Spirit 
to  Jesus"  (ch  ix  and  Jn  8  58);  "the  new  law  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ"  (ch  ii  and  Jn  13  34);  a  reference  to 
the  brazen  serpent  as  a  type  of  Christ's  suffering,  glory 
and  healing  power  (ch  xii  and  Jn  3  14);  (c)  "Thou 
shalt  not  say  that  anything  is  thine  own"  (ch  xix) 
appears  to  be  a  reminiscence  of  Acts  4  32;  (d)  the  pas- 
sage in  xv,  "The  day  of  the  Lord  shall  lie  as  a  thousand 
years."  seems  to  be  an  echo  of  2  Pet  3  8,  and,  if  so,  is 
the  earliest  testimony  to  the  existence  of  that  writing, 
and  thus  proves  its  great  antiquity,  although  not  its 
canonicity. 

VII.  Pastor  (Shepherd)  of  Hermas. — This  work 
is  the  earliest  example,  on  a  largo  scale,  of  Christian 
allegory,  and  was  hardly  less  popular 
1.  Author-  in  the  early  church  than  the  Pilgrim's 
ship  and  Progress  in  later  times.  It  was  reek- 
Date  oned  by  many  almost,  by  some  al- 
together, as  "Scripture."  Irenaeus 
quotes  it  as  "Scripture"  (iv.20);  Clement  of  Alex- 
andria refers  to  it  as  "containing  revelations  Di- 
vinely imparted"  (Strom.,i. 29);  Ori gen  regards  it  as 
"Divinely  inspired"  (Comm.  on  Rom  16  14).  It 
is  placed  with  the  Ep.  of  Barnabas  in  the  Cod.  Sin 
at  the  close  of  the  NT,  and  was  read  in  many 
churches  down  to  Jerome's  time  (Works,  II,  84G). 
The  writer  represents  himself  as  a  slave  sold  to  a 
Rom  Christian  lady.  He  afterward  obtained  free- 
dom, lived  with  his  family  in  Rome,  became  earnest- 
ly religious,  and  saw  visions  which  he  imparted  to 
the  community  in  this  book  with  a  view  to  repent- 
ance and  spiritual  well-being. 

Origen  (followed  by  Eusebius,  Jerome,  etc) 
ascribes  the  work  to  the  Hermes  of  Rom  16  14;  but 
his  opinion  is  pure  conjecture  (pulo).  The  Canon 
Muratori  (170  AD)  of  Italian  authorship  describes 
the  work  as  "recently  composed  at  Rome  by  the 
brother  of  Pius  during  the  hitter's  episcopate"  (137- 
54).  This  distinct  local  testimony  has  been  widely 
accepted  (Hefele,  Lightfoot,  Charteris,  Cruttwell, 
etc).  Yet  the  writer  represents  himself  (Vision, 
ii.4)  as  enjoined  to  send  his  book  to  Clement  as  a 
man  in  authority  in  the  church,  whom  it  is  natural 
to  identify  with  the  chief  presbyter  of  Rome  be- 
tween 92  and  101.  This  reference,  along  with  the 
absence  of  tiny  allusion  to  Gnosticism  or  to  the 
mono-episcopate,  has  led  Schaff,  Zahn,  and  others 
to  fix  the  date  of  the  work  at  about  100  AD.  The 
external  and  internal  evidence,  thus  apparently 
divergent,  may  be  reconciled  by  supposing  (with 
Kriiger  and  Harnack)  that  the  book  _  was  not 
"written  in   a  single  draft";    that  portions  were 


issued  successively  (hiring  Clement's  episcopate; 
and  that  under  Pius  (c  140)  the  separate  issues  were 
gathered  into  a  volume  under  the  title  of  The  Pas- 
tor. In  Rome,  where  the  author  was  known,  the 
Canon  Muratori  attested  at  once  its  religious  use- 
fulness as  a  "book  to  be  read"  and  the  absence  of 
any  claim  to  canonical  authority. 

The  purpose  of  the  book  is  not  doctrinal  but 
ethical;    it  is  an  allegorical  manual  of  Christian 
duty  with  earnest  calls  to  individual 
2.  Object       repentance  and  church  revival  in  view 
and  of  the  near  Advent. 

Contents  The     book     consists     of     (1)     Five 

Visions,  (2)  Twelve  Mandates,  (3) 
Ten  Similitudes  or  Parables.  In  (1)  the  church 
appears  to  the  writer  as  a  venerable  matron,  then 
as  a  tower  near  completion,  thereafter  as  a  Holy 
Virgin.  In  the  last  vision,  the  Angel  of  Repent- 
ance, in  pastoral  garb,  delivers  to  him  the  Man- 
dates and  Similitudes.  The  Mandates  deal  with 
chastity,  truth,  patience,  meekness,  reverence, 
prayer,  penitence,  and  warn  against  grieving 
the  Spirit.  In  the  Similitudes  the  church  is  again 
a  tower  whose  stones  are  examined  for  appro- 
bation or  reprobation.  Similitudes  are  also 
drawn  from  trees.  The  vine  clinging  to  the  elm 
signifies  union  of  rich  and  poor  in  the  church;  a 
large  willow  from  which  a  multitude  receive 
branches  or  twigs,  some  of  these  blossoming  or 
fruit-bearing,  others  dry  or  rotten,  symbolizes  the 
diverse  effect  of  law  and  gospel  on  different  souls. 
The  author,  although  a  Gentile,  writes  from  the 
standpoint  of  James  rather  than  of  Paid.  The 
closing  words  summarize  his  combined  ethical  and 
eschatological  purpose:  "Ye  who  have  received 
good  from  the  Lord,  do  good  works,  lest  while  ye 
delay,  the  tower  be  completed,  and  you  be  rejected." 

(1)  Montanistic  affinity. — Hermas,  indeed,  differs 
from  Montanists  in  permitting,  though  not  encouraging, 

second  marriage,  and  recognizing  one 
q  Wni-u-iio  possible  repentance  after  post-baptismal 
J.  iNOtaDina  nagrant  sin;  but  he  is  also  their  fore- 
runner, through  his  disallowance  of  read- 
mission  after  second  lapse,  through  emphatic  expecta- 
tion of  an  impending  Advent,  and  through  his  rigorous 
view  of  fasting:  "On  the  fast  day  taste  nothing  but 
bread  and  water." 

(2)  Fasting,  however,  is  regarded  not  as  an  end  but 
as  a  means — a  discipline  toward  humility,  purity, 
charity.  Fasting  for  charity  is  illustrated  by  the  in- 
junction (.Sim.,  v.3)  to  "reckon  up  the  price  of  what  you 
meant  to  eat,  and  give  that  to  one  in  want." 

(3)  Absence  of  names  "Jesus"  and  "Christ." — The 
names  "Jesus"  and  "Christ"  never  occur.  He  is  "Son 
of  God"  and  "  Lord  of  His  people."  whom  "God  made  to 
dwell  in  flesh,"  by  whom  "the  whole  world  is  sustained," 
who  "endured  great  sufferings  that  He  might  do  away 
with  the  sins  of  His  people"  (Sim.,  v. 6;  ix.14). 

(4)  Church  organization. — Hennas  is  charged  (Vis., 
ii.4)  to  "read  his  writings  to  [or  along  with]  the  pres- 
byters who  preside  over  the  church"  in  Rome.  It  is 
reasonable  to  conclude  that  no  one  in  that  community 
could  then  be  called  "bishop"  in  the  later  sense  of  the 
holder  of  an  office  distinct  from  and  superior  to  the  pres- 
byterate.  Episkopoi  ("bishops")  are  mentioned  (Sim., 
ix  27)  as  "given  to  hospitality,"  the  description  of  the 
episkopos  in  1  Tim  3  2,  where  admittedly  bishop  = 
presbyter. 

VIII.  Second  Epistle  of  Clement. — This  writing 
is  doubly  miscalled:  it  is  neither  an  ep.  nor  a  com- 
position of  Clement.  Style,  thought, 
1.  Nature  and  standpoint  differ  from  those  of 
of  Docu-  the  accepted  Ep.,  and  HE,  III,  38, 
ment  suggests  that  the  Clementine  author- 

ship was  not  generally  recognized.  The 
recent  recovery  by  Bryennios  of  the  previously 
lost  conclusion  proves  that  the  writing  is  a  sermon 
(ch  xix). 

Antiquity  is  indicated  by  (1)  the  use,  as  an 
authority,  of  the  lost  heretical  Gospel  of  the  Egyp- 
tians, which  by  the  time  of  the  Canon  Muratori 
(175  AD)  had  ceased  to  be  regarded  as  Scripture 
by  Catholics;  (2)  the  adoption,  without  gnostic 
intention,  of  phrases  which  became  notably  asso- 


1903 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA      Lit.,  Sub-apostol. 


ciated,  after  150  AD  with  Gnosticism:   "God  made 

male  and  female:  the  male  is  Christ,  the  female,  the 

church"   (ch  xiv).      The  date  usually 

2.  Date  and  assigned  is  120-50  AD  (Lightfoot,  Part 
Authorship    I,  vol  II,  201).     The  author  is  a  gen- 
tile presbyter;    he    had    "worshipped 

stocks  and  stones."  The  sermon  was  probably 
preached  at  Corinth,  for  the  preacher  describes 
many  arriving  by  sea  for  the  race-course,  without 
mentioning  a  port,  which  would  be  appropriate  in 
a  sermon  preached  to  Corinthians. 

No  text  is  given,  but   the  sermon  starts   from 
Isa  54   1,   without  express  quotation;    this   chap- 
ter had   probably   been  read   at  the 

3.  Contents  service.     The  discourse,  without  great 

literary  merit,  is  earnest  and  prac- 
tical. There  are  exhortations  to  repentance  and 
good  works,  to  purity,  charity,  prayer  and  fast- 
ing, with  special  reference  to  coming  judgment. 
The  standpoint  is  that  of  St.  James.  "Be  not 
troubled  [so  the  sermon  concludes]  because  we 
see  the  unrighteous  with  abundance,  and  God's 
servants  in  straits.  Let  us  have  faith,  brethren 
and  sisters.  Had  God  recompensed  the  righteous 
speedily,  we  should  have  had  training  not  in  piety 
but  in  bargaining;  and  our  uprightness  would  be 
a  mere  semblance,  since  our  pursuit  would  be  not 
of  godliness  but  of  gain." 

(1)  The  sermon  is  the  oldest  extant  in  post-NT  times, 
and  appears  to  have  been  read  (ch  xix)  to  a  congregation. 
(2)  Sayings  of  Christ  not  in  our  Gospels 
4  Nntahilia  arc  Quoted:  (")  "The  Lord,  being  asked 
**  -i-'Uuiuiiid.  wnon  jjis  kingdom  would  come,  answered: 
When  the  two  shall  be  one  [i.e.  when  har- 
mony shall  prevail?],  and  when  the  outside  shall  be  as 
the  inside  [i.e.  when  men  shall  be  as  they  seem?];  and 
the  male  with  the  female,  neither  male  nor  female"  (in- 
terpreted by  this  preacher  ascetically  as  discountenancing 
marriage,  presumably  because,  "the  time  is  short,"  but 
explained  mystically  by  Clement  of  Alexandria  in  Strom., 
lii.  13,  as  indicating  the  abolition  of  all  distinctions  in 
God's  kingdom).  Clement  assigns  the  passage  to  the 
lost  Gospel  of  the  Egyptians.  (6)  "The  Lord  saith,  ye 
shall  be  as  lambs  among  wolves.  Peter  answered :  What 
if  the  wolves  tear  the  lambs?  Jesus  said:  Let  not  the 
lambs  fear  the  wolves:  and  ye,  also,  fear  not  them  which 
kill  you,  and  can  do  nothing  more  to  you."  (3)  No 
episcopate,  apparently,  in  the  post-NT  sense,  existed  in 
the  church  where  this  sermon  was  delivered.  Unfaithful 
men  are  represented  as  confessing,  "We  obeyed  not  the 
presbyters  when  they  told  us  of  salvation."  Had  a  bishop 
in  the  later  sense  been  head  of  the  community,  obedience 
to  his  admonitions  would  surely  have  been  inculcated. 
(4)  TheChristologyishigh;  "We  ought  to  think  of  Christ 
as  of  God";  "When  we  think  mean  things  of  Christ,  we 
expect  to  receive  mean  things"  (ch  i). 

IX.  Apology   of   Aristides. — Aristides    was    an 

Athenian  philosopher,  who  (according  to  HE,  IV,  3) 

presented  an  Apology  to  Hadrian,  pre- 

1.  Recovery  sumably    when   the  emperor    was    at 
and  Date       Athens   (125   AD).     After  disappear- 
ance in  the  17th  cent.,  a  fragment  in 

an  Armenian  version  was  discovered  in  1878,  and 
the  entire  Apology  in  Syr  was  found  in  1889.  It 
was  then  found  that  almost  the  whole  treatise  was 
imbedded  anonymously  in  a  Gr  mediaeval  romance, 
Barlaam  and  Josaphat.  The  Apology  in  the  Syr  is 
inscribed  to  Antoninus;  it  may  have  been  addressed 
to  both  emperors  successively,  or  the  real  date  may 
be  137,  when  they  were  colleagues  in  the  empire. 

The  treatise  refers  to  oppression,  imprisonment, 

and  other  maltreatment  endured  by  Christians,  and 

pleads    for    their    protection    against 

2.  Contents  persecution,  because  of  their  true  and 

noble  creed,  and  their  pure  and  benevo- 
lent lives.  The  writer  compares  the  Christian 
doctrine  of  Godhead  with  that  of  barbarians, 
Greeks,  Egyptians,  Jews,  and  dwells  on  the  ele- 
vating influence  of  Christian  belief  in  Jesus  Christ 
and  in  a  future  life.  He  refers  to  the  abstention 
of  Christians  from  unchastity,  dishonesty  and  other 
vices;  to  their  abounding  charity  and  brotherliness 
which  are  shown  particularly  to  the  widow,  the 


orphan,  the  poor,  the  stranger,  the  oppressed,  and 
even  their  oppressors.  All  who  become  Christians, 
of  however  low  a  station,  are  brethren.  This 
bright  picture  has,  however,  its  shadows:  "If  Chris- 
tians see  that  one  of  their  number  has  died  in  his 
sins,  over  him  they  weep  bitterly  as  over  one  about 
to  go  into  punishment."  This  frank  acknowledg- 
ment of  some  black  sheep  gives  point  to  his  general 
testimony,  "Blessed  is  the  race  of  Christians  above 
all  men." 

(1)  A  distinct  reference  to  a  collection  of  Christian 

writings,  and  esp.  of  Gospels,  designated  the  Gospel,  and 

indicating  the  existence  of  a  kind  of  rudi- 

3     Nntfihilia  molltary  NT  Canon.      (2)    Similar  indica- 

0.  nouiuiiid.  tion   0j   a   rudimentary   Apostles'    Creed. 

Christians  are  said  to  believe  in  God,  "the 
Maker  of  Heaven  and  earth,  and  in  Jesus  Christ  who 
was  born  of  a  Heb  virgin,  who  was  transfixed  by  the 
Jews;  he  died  and  was  buried;  and  Christians  state  that 
after  three  days  he  rose  again  and  ascended  into  heaven." 
In  this  early  time  the  virgin  birth  was  apparently  a  settled 
matter — part  of  the  Creed.  (3)  Aristides  describes  a 
familiar  custom  among  poor  Christians  of  fasting  two 
or  three  days,  so  as  to  supply  with  needful  food  Chris- 
tians poorer  still  (Com p.  Herman).  (4)  The  Apology 
is  interesting  as  the  earliest  known  literary  tribute  of  a 
philosopher  to  Christianity,  and  probably  the  earliest 
extant  defence  of  the  faith,  if  the  Ep.  to  Diognetus  be  not 
ancient.  It  is  notable  also  as  a  treatise  on  Christian  evi- 
dence drawn  not  from  miraculous  credentials,  but  from 
the  self-evidencing  excellence  and  effect  of  Christianity. 
Finally,  it  is  interesting  as  the  earliest  detailed  record  of 
harvest  reaped  at  Athens  from  seed  sown  by  St.  Paul 
80  or  90  years  before.  Athens  appeared  at  first  a  barren 
soil;  but  by  and  by  this  church  in  a  university  city  took 
the  lead,  as  this  treatise  and  another  lost  apology  by 
Quadratus  show,  in  the  literary  defence  of  the  Christian 
faith.  Quadratus  is  stated  in  HE,  IV,  3,  to  have  pre- 
sented his  Apology  to  Hadrian,  and  is  described  by  Jerome 
as  "  a  disciple  of  the  apostles."  In  a  fragment  preserved 
in  HE,  he  attests  the  survival  ("to  our  own  day")  of 
some  whom  Christ  had  healed. 

X.  Justin   Martyr. — Born  of  pagan  parents  at 

Flavia  Neapolis  (Nablous),  in  Samaria  about  100 

AD — a   seeker   for  truth,   who,   after 

1.  Incidents  trying  Stoic,  Peripatetic,  Pythagorean 
of  Life  and    Platonic   philosophies,    found   in 

Christ  and  Christianity  the  satisfaction 
of  philosophic  cravings  and  spiritual  needs.  He 
became  a  Christian  apostle  and  apologist,  wearing 
still  the  philosopher's  mantle  in  token  of  continued 
quest  after  wisdom,  but  making  it  now  his  life- 
work,  not  as  presbyter,  but  as  itinerating  Christian 
teacher,  to  impart  to  pagan,  to  Jew  and  also  to 
heretic  the  truth  which  he  himself  had  found  and 
prized.  After  long  Christian  service,  he  suffered 
martyrdom  under  Aurelius  in  166  AD. 

It  is  addressed  to  Antoninus  and  dated  138-48. 
He  approaches  the  emperor  without  flattery,  and 

asks  judgment  after  searching  inquiry. 

2.  First  He  answers  three  charges  against 
Apology  Christians:    (1)  atheism:  Justin  replies 

that  Christians  were  atheists  only  as 
Socrates  was;  they  disbelieved  in  so-called  gods  who 
were  wicked  demons  or  humanly  fashioned  images; 
but  they  worshipped  the  Father  of  Righteousness; 

(2)  immorality:  Justin  admits  the  existence  of  pre- 
tended Christians  who  are  evil-doers;  btit  Chris- 
tianity makes  the  evil  good,  the  licentious  chaste, 
the   covetous  generous,   the  revengeful   forgiving; 

(3)  disloyalty:  this  is  calumny  based  on  the  preach- 
ing of  Christ's  kingdom  which  is  spiritual,  not 
temporal.  Christians  are  taught  and  are  wont  to 
pay  tribute  promptly  and  to  pray  for  rulers  regu- 
larly. Justin  then  sets  forth  the  credibility  and 
excellence  of  Christianity,  adducing,  (1)  its  pure 
morality  as  contrasted  with  vices  condoned  by 
heathens,  (2)  its  noble  doctrines — immortality, 
resurrection,  future  judgment,  incarnation,  (3)  OT 
prophecy  regarding  the  Divinity  and  sufferings  of 
the  Christ.  His  reference  to  the  prediction  of  a 
virgin  bringing  forth  Emmanuel  (ch  xxxiii)  shows 
that  in  his  day  the  virgin  birth  was  accepted,  al- 
though Jews  understood  by  virgin  (in  Isa)  merely  a 


Lit.,  Sub-apostol. 
Liver 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1904 


young  woman,  (4)  forcshadowinga  of  Christian 
truth  by  philosophy,  referring  esp.  to  Plato's  teach- 
ing about  the  Divine  Logos  and  judgment  to  come. 
To  refute  prevalent  calumny  Justin  describes  Sunday 
service  and  administration  of  sacraments  in  his  time. 
On  the  Lord's  Day  Christians  assembled  for  worship ; 
prophetic  Scriptures  and  ''memoirs"  by  apostles  and 
their  followers  were  read ;  prayers  and  t  hanksgivings 
were  offered  and  an  address  delivered  by  the  "presi- 
dent"; bread  and  wine  were  distributed  and  sent  by 
deacons  to  those  absent;  and  an  offering  for  chari- 
table purposeswas  made.  "As  many  as  believe  what 
is  taught,  and  undertake  to  live  accordingly,  are, 
after  prayer  and  fast,  baptized"  (chs  lxv,  Ixvii). 

Idas  is  probably  a  postscript  to  the  first ;   Euse- 

bius  quotes  from  both  as  from  one  work.     After 

a  protest  against  a  recent  summary 

3.  "Second   execution  of  three  Christians  without 
Apology"        proper  trial,  Justin  deals  with  two  popu- 
lar taunts:    (1)  "If  at  death  they  went 

to  heaven,  why  did  they  not  commit  suicide?": 
"We  do  not  shrink  from  death  but  from  opposing 
God's  will."  (2)  "If  God  is  really  on  the  Christians' 
side,  why  does  He  allow  them  to  be  persecuted?": 
"The  world  by  Divine  decree  is  meanwhile  under 
the  dominion  of  angels  who  have  become  demons." 
Justin  here  contrasts  Christ  with  Socrates,  whom 
yet  lie  describes  as  a  preacher  of  the  "true  but  then 
unknown  God"  (ch  x) :  "No  one  put  such  faith  in 
Socrates  as  to  die  for  his  convictions."  Christ  hath 
won  the  faith,  "not  only  of  philosophers,  but  of 
simple  folk  who  through  faith  can  despise  death." 
Justin,  however,  testifies  clearly  and  warmly  to  the 
Christian  element  by  anticipation,  in  the  higher 
teachings  and  aspirations  of  heathen  philosophy 
through  an  implanted  seed  of  the  Divine  Logos; 
and  he  recognizes  thus  a  pre-advent  ministry  of  the 
Son  of  God,  not  only  in  the  sheltered  fold  of  Juda- 
ism, but  in  the  broad  open  of  heathendom. 

This   Dialogue   indicates   the   attitude   of  some 

cultured  Jews  of  that  day  to  Christianity,  and  the 

mode  in  which  their  objections  to  it 

4.  Dialogue  were  met.  Trypho  argued  that  Jesus 
with  Trypho  did  not  fulfil  OT  prophecy  which  repre- 
the  Jew         sented    the    Messiah    as    establishing 

a  glorious  and  everlasting  kingdom; 
whereas  Jesus  was  a  humble  peasant  who  died  an 
ignominious  death;  Justin  pleads  Isa  53.  Trypho 
charges  Christianity  with  treason  to  the  theocracy 
through  exalting  Jesus  to  Godhead,  thus  trenching 
on  the  Divine  unity,  and  also  through  repudiating 
the  perpetual  obligation  of  the  Law.  Justin,  in 
reply,  quotes  Genesis,  "Let  us  make  man,"  and  also 
Pss  45,  72,  110,  with  Isa  7  about  Emmanuel.  The 
Mosaic  Law  was  intended  to  be  temporary,  and 
was  now  superseded  by  the  Law  of  Christ;  more- 
over, the  destruction  of  Jerus  rendered  complete 
fulfilment  of  the  Jewish  Law  impracticable.  The 
disputants  part  on  friendly  terms,  "I  have  been 
particularly  pleased  with  this  conference,"  says 
Trypho.  "If  we  could  confer  oftener  we  should  be 
much  helped  in  reading  the  Scriptures."  "For  my 
part,"  replies  Justin,  "I  would  have  wished  to  repeat 
our  conference  daily;  but  since  I  am  about  to  set 
sail,  I  bid  you  give  all  diligence  in  this  struggle  after 
salvation."  Of  other  works  ascribed  to  Justin,  two 
(On  the  Resurrection  and  Appeal  to  the  Greeks)  may 
or  may  not  be  genuine;  the  others  are  spurious. 

(1)  Bearing  of  Justin's  quotations  from  "memoirs" 
on  the  Aye  of  Our  Gospi  Is  (see  Gospels). 

(2)  Testimony  to  harmony  of  apostolic 
R  Notariilia  doctrine.  Justin  is  a  disciple  of  St.  Paul, 
u.  nuid.uniA  arul  a  strong  anti-.Tudaist;  yet  he  recog- 
nizes thoroughly  the  Twelve  as  the  true 
source  of  Christian  teaching;  "sent  by  Christ  to  teach 
to  all  the  Word  of  God"  (1  Ap.,  39,49;    Dial.,  42,  109). 

(3)  From  personal  knowledge  as  a  traveler,  Justin 
testifies  to  the  wide  diffusion  of  Christianity:  "No  race 
of  men  exists  among  whom  prayers  are  not  offered  up  to 


the   Father  through    the  name   of   the  crucified   Jesus 
{Dial.,  117). 

(4)  Authorship  of  Revelation:  "John,  one  of  the  apos- 
tles, prophesied,  by  a  revelation  made  to  him,  that  be- 
lievers would  dwell  1,000  years  in  Jerus"  (Dial..  SI) — the 
earliest  direct  witness  to  Johannine  authorship,  by  one 
who  had  resided  at  Ephesus. 

(5)  Belief  of  the  primitive  church  in  Our  Lord's  true 
Divinity:  Writing  in  the  name  of  Christians  as  a  body, 
he  declares,  "Both  Him  [the  Father]  and  the  Son  who 
came  forth  from  Him  we  adore"  (1  Ap.,  5).  He  speaks 
also  of  some  "who  held  that  Jesus  was  a  mere  man  "  as 
a  small  and  heretical  minority  (Dial.,  48).  He  writes 
elsewhere  (1  Ap.,  13)  of  the  Son  as  the  object  of  worship 
"in  the  second  place";  but  this  statement,  made  long 
before  the  Arian  Controversy  necessitated  precision  of 
language,  does  not  invalidate  his  other  testimonies. 

(0)  As  to  the  Holy  Spirit,  Justin  refers  to  baptism  as 
administered  in  "the  name  of  Father,  Son,  and  Spirit" 
(1  Ap.,  (il),  implying  the  Divinity  of  the  Third  Person; 
although  elsewhere  he  appears  to  subordinate  Him  to  the 
Son,  as  the  Son  to  the  Father.  He  is  to  be  "worshipped 
in  the  third  order"  (1  Ap.,  13). 

(7)  Millenarianism:  "I  and  others  are  assured  that 
there  will  be  a  resurrection  of  the  dead  and  1.000  years 
in  Jerus  which  will  be  built,  adorned  and  enlarged" 
(Dial.,  80).  He  admits,  however,  that  many  pure  and 
pious  Christians  think  otherwise. 

(8)  Future  punishment:  On  this  subject  Justin  speaks 
with  two  voices.  In  1  Ap.,  8,  he  writes  of  "condemned 
souls  suffering  eternal  punishment,  not  for  a  millennial 
period  only."  But  in  Dial.,  5,  he  introduces  an  old  man 
who  was  the  immediate  means  of  his  conversion  as  say- 
ing that  "the  wicked  shall  be  punished  as  long  as  God 
shall  will  them  to  exist." 

(9)  Anoel-worship:  In  1  Ap.,  6,  Justin,  when  refuting 
the  charge  of  atheism,  writes:  "  We  reverence  and  wor- 
ship the  Father,  and  the  Son,  and  the  host  of  other  good 
messengers  (or  angels),  and  the  Prophetic  Spirit."  The 
context,  however,  shows  that  this  cultus  does  not  neces- 
sarily amount  to  what  is  usually  meant  by  worship,  but 
simply  to  veneration  and  homage.  The  (ir  words  here, 
sebemai  and  proskuneo,  are  often  used  in  this  lower  sense; 
and  the  train  of  thought  seems  to  be  this:  "You  call 
us  atheists;  the  charge  is  not  true,  for  wo  not  only  be- 
lieve in  one  God  and  Father  of  all,  but  in  one  who  is 
preeminently  the  Son  of  God,  who  was  sent  by  God. 
We  believe 'further  in  other  heavenly  messengers  from 
God,  a  host  of  angelic  spirits;  yea  we  believe  in  one  who 
is  preeminently  (iod's  Spirit,  by  whom  prophets  were 
inspired.  All  these  are  the  object  in  different  degrees 
of  our  veneration  and  homage."  Undoubtedly,  however, 
the  statement  is  at  best  unguarded  and  misleading. 

(10)  Doctrine  of  the  sacraments:  Justin  uses  "  regener- 
ate" as  the  synonym  of  "baptized"  (1  Ap.,  61),  but  he 
identifies  the  two,  not  as  essentially  inseparable,  but  as 
uniformly  associated.  As  regards  the  Lord's  Supper, 
while  emphasizing  the  ideas  of  commemoration,  com- 
munion, and  thanksgiving,  he  in  one  place  speaks  of  the 
bread  and  wine  being  the  flesh  and  blood  of  the  Incarnate 
Jesus,  "from  which,  by  a  transmutation,  our  flesh  and 
blood  are  nourished"  (1  Ap.,  60).  These  words  tend 
to  transubstantiation;  but,  in  the  absence  of  any  con- 
troversy at  the  time,  may  be  no  more  than  a  strongly 
figurative  representation  of  a  spiritual  participation. 

XL  Epistle  to  Diognetus. — This  short  apologetic 
work  is  mentioned  by  no  ancient  writer,  and  was 

unknown  until  its  discovery  in  1592 
1.  Date  and  by  Henry  Stephens  in  a  MS  which 
Authorship    perished  in  the  Strassburg  fire  of  1870. 

The  MS  appears  to  ascribe  it  to  the 
author  of  another  work  (To  the  Greeks);  and  this, 
again,  is  attributed  with  some  probability  on  the 
authority  of  a  Syr  document  (600-700  AD)  to  one 
Ambrosius,  "chief  among  the  Greeks,"  otherwise 
unknown  (see  Birks  in  DCB,  "Ep.  to  D.").  If 
genuinely  ancient,  the  ep.  probably  belongs  to  the 
Sub-apostolic  Age,  for  it  refers  to  Christianity  as 
"having  only  now  entered  the  world,  not  long  ago" ; 
and  in  ch  xi  (written,  however,  by  a  different  hand 
or  at  a  different  time)  the  author  calls  himself  a 
"disciple  of  the  apostles."  Diognetus  was  a  very 
common  Gr  name,  so  that  his  identification  with  the 
tutor  of  Marcus  Aurelius  (130-40  AD)  is  a  mere 
coniecture.  Donaldson  (Chr.  Lit.,  II,  142)  in- 
clines to  the  belief  that  the  work  was  composed  by 
one  of  t  he  many  Greeks  who  came  westward  in  the 
14th  cent,  and  that  the  author  intended  merely  to 
write  a  "good  declamation  in  the  old  style."  The 
smart  but  superficial  way  in  which  heathenism  and 
Judaism  are  dealt  with  is  more  befitting  a  mediaeval 
rhetorical  exercise  than  the  serious  treatment,  by 
a  cultured  writer,  of  prevalent  religions. 


1905 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Lit.,  Sub-apostol. 
Liver 


The  author,  after  welcoming  the  inquiry  of  Diog- 
netus  about  Christianity,  pours  contempt  on  the 

pagan  worship  of  gods  of  wood,  stone 
2.  Con-  and  metal,  without  any  apparent  real- 

tents  ization  that  for  cultured  heathens  of 

that  time  such  images  were  not  ob- 
jects, but  only  symbolic  media  of  worship;  and  he 
ridicules  Mosaic  observances  without  any  recog- 
nition of  their  significance  as  a  Divine  educative 
discipline.  But  when  he  proceeds  (chs  vii-xii)  to 
describe  Christianity,  the  work  merits  Hefele's  des- 
ignation, praestantissima  Epiatola.  Into  a  world, 
yea,  into  human  hearts,  which  had  become  degen- 
erate1 and  wicked,  "Cod  sent  no  mere  servant  or 
angel,  but  His  own  Son,"  and  Him,  not  as  a  con- 
demning Judge,  or  fear-inspiring  Tyrant,  but  as  a 
gracious  Saviour.  To  the  inquiry,  "If  Christianity 
is  so  precious,  why  was  Christ  sent,  so  late?"  the 
author  replies:  "In  order  first  to  bring  home  to 
mankind  their  unworthiness  to  attain  eternal  life 
through  their  own  works"  and  their  incapacity  for 
salvation  apart  from  Him  "who  is  able  to  save  even 
what  it  was  impossible  (formerly)  to  save."  But. 
faith  in  the  Son  of  God  now  revealed,  would  lead 
to  ''knowledge'  of  the  Father";  knowledge'  of  God 
to  "love  of  Him  who  hath  first  so  loved  us";  and 
love  of  Cod  to  "imitation  of  Him  and  of  His  loving- 
kindness."  And  wherein  consists  such  imitation? 
Not  in  "seeking  lordship  over  those  weaker,"  or 
in  "showing  violence  toward  those  below  us";  but 
in  "taking  on  oneself  the  burden  of  one's  neighbor," 
even  as  "God  took  on  Himself  the  burden  of  our 
iniquities,  and  gave  His  own  Son  as  a  ransom  for 
us."  "He  who  in  whatsoever  he  may  be  superior 
is  ready  to  benefit  another  who  is  deficient;  lie  who, 
by  distributing  to  the  needy  what  he  has  received 
from  God,  becomes  a  god  to  those  who  receive  his 
benefits:   he  is  an  imitator  of  God." 

Literature. — Lightfoot,  Apostolic  Fathers,  larger  and 
smaller  edd;  in  Clark's  "  Ante-Nicene  Libary,"  Apostolic 
Fathers,  Justin  Martyr,  and  Recently  Discovered  Addi- 
tions to  Early  Christian  Literature,  (American  ed.  The 
.1  ut  :-Nic(  iic  Fatht  rs) ;  Eusebius,  HE,  particularly  McGif- 
fort's  tr  with  excellent  notes;  James  Donaldson,  Critical 
History  of  Christian  Literature;  Cruttwell,  Literary  His- 
tnry  of  Early  Christianity;  Kruger,  History  of  Early 
Christian  Literature,  tr  by  Gillett;  Harnack,  Geschichte. 
iter  altchr.  Litt.;  Zahn,  Geschichte  des  NT  Kanons;  For- 
schungen  zur  Gesch.  des  XT  Kanons  and  der  altchr.  Litt.; 
Robinson,  Texts  and  Studies,  Aristides;  Schaff,  Oldest 
Christian  Manual;  H.  D.  M.  Spence,  Teaching  of  the 
Tin  Ire  Apostles;  Bartlet,  art.  on  "Didache"  in  HDB; 
Cunningham,  Epistle  of  St.  Barnabas;  arts,  in  DCB 
(Smith  and  Wace). 

Henky  Cowan 

LITTER,  lifer  (3$,  gabh):  (1)  Used  upon  backs 
of  camels  for  easy  riding,  made  of  a  wooden  frame 


t 

10  ifi 

* 

*Ttt 

t 

rLUM; 

W 

~jWB»- 

'i&f^yU 

/ 

- 

'\J 

r 

'  ''SHl 

^.'"!P'"JJP^^  - 

ja,.  ;>*£££§£ 

",sS*»> 

;     S 

"V- 

Litter. 


with  light  mattress  and  pillows,  also  a  covering 
above,  supported  by  upright  pieces,  sometimes  hav- 
ing also  side  awnings  for  protection  from  the  sun's 


rays.  Mule  litters  were  made  with  pairs  of  shafts 
projecting  before  and  behind,  between  which  the 
animals  were  yoked  (Isa  66  20).  Litter-wagons 
PS  J"'"1",  xeghlolh  gabh)  are  mentioned  in  Nu  7 
3;  the  horse  litter  (fiopiov,  phorion)  is  mentioned  in 
2  Mace  9  8;  cf  3  27.  (2)  JT^?  ,  mittah,  "palan- 
quin" or  "litter  of  Solomon"  (Cant  3  7;  cf  ver  9). 
See  Palanquin. 

LITTLE  GENESIS.     See  Book  of  Jubilees. 

LIVELY,  llv'li,  LIVING,  liv'ing  pri ,  hay;  td<o, 
zao):  "Living,"  sometimes  "lively,"  is  the  tr  of 
hay  (often  also  trd  "life");  it  denotes  all  beings 
possessed  of  life  (Gen  1  21.24;  2  7.19;  Ex  21  35, 
"live");  we  have  frequently  the  phrase,  "the  land 
of  the  living"  (as  contrasted  with  she'5l,  the  abode 
of  the  dead),  e.g.  Job  28  13;  Ps  27  13;  52  5;  Isa 
38  11;  the  characteristically  Bib.  expression,  "the 
living  God,"  also  frequently  occurs  (Josh  3  10; 
1  S  17  20.36;  2  K  19  4;  *Ps  84  2);  also  fre- 
quently in  the  NT  as  the  tr  of  zao  (Mt  16  16;  26 
63;  Jn  6  57,  "the  living  Father";  Acts  14  15); 
"lively"  in  Ex  119  (hayeh)  and  Ps  38  19  denotes 
fulness  of  life,  vigor;  hayydh,  "a  living  being,"  is 
mostly  confined  to  Ezk,  tr'1  "living  creatures" 
(1  5.13.14,  etc),  also  Gen  1  28;  8  17,  "living 
thing";  "living"  is  sometimes  applied  fig.  to  that 
which  is  not  actually  alive;  thus  we  have  the  phrase 
"living  waters"  (Jer  2  13;  17  13;  Zee  14  S,  "Liv- 
ing waters  shall  go  out  from  Jerus")  in  contrast  with 
stagnant  waters — waters  that  can  give  life;  so  Jn  4 
10.11  (bubbling  up  from  the  spring  at  bottom  of  the 
well);  7  38;  Rev  7  17  AV;  "living  bread"  (Jn  6 
51);  "anew  and  living  way"  (He  10  20),  perhaps 
equivalent  to  "ever-living"  in  Christ;  "living 
stones"  (1  Pet  2  4.5)  are  those  made  alive  in 
Christ;    a    "living    hope"     (a    hope    full    of    life), 

1  Pet  1  3;  "living"  (zao)  is  sometimes  also  "man- 
ner of  life"  (Lk  15  13;  Col  2  20);  didgo,  "to  lead 
or  go  through,"  is  also  so  ti"1  (Tit  3  3);  bios  is 
"means  of  life,"  trd  "living"  (Mk  12  44;  Lk  8  43); 
"living,"  in  this  sense,  occurs  in  Apoc  as  the  tr  of  zoe, 
"Defraud  not  the  poor  of  his  living"  (Ecclus  4  1). 

RV  has  "living"  for  "alive"  (Lev  14  4),  for  "the 
lively"  (Acts  7  38) ,  for " quick "  (Tic  4  12),  for  "lively" 
(1   Pet  1  3;     2  5),     for     "conversation"     (1   Pet  1    15; 

2  Pet  3  11);  "living  creatures"  for  "beasts"  (Rev  4  6; 
5  6,  etc);  "every  living  thing"  for  " all  the  substance " 
(Dt  11  0);  "living  things"  for  "beasts"  (Lev  11  2.47 
bis);  for  "living"  (Ps  58  9),  "the  green"  (thorns  under 
the  pots),  m  "  Wrath  shall  take  them  away  while  living  as 
with  a  whirlwind";  for  "the  book  of  the1  living"  (Ps  69 
28),  "the  book  of  life";  for  "(I  am)  he  that  liveth" 
(Rev  1  18),  "the  Living  one";  for  " living  fountains  of 
waters"  (Rev  7  17),  "fountains  of  waters  of  life";  for 
"trade"  (Rev  18  17),  "gain  their  living,"  m  "work  the 
sea";  for  "  Son  of  the  living  God"  (Jn  6  <j9),  " the  Holy 
One  of  God"  (emended  text). 

W.  L.  Walker 
LIVER,  liv'er  ("5-2 ,  kabhedh,  derived  from  a 
root  meaning  "to  be  heavy,"  being  the  heaviest 
of  the  viscera;  LNN  rj-n-ap,  hepar):  The  word  is 
usually  joined  with  the  Hob  yothcrcth  (see  Caul) 
(Ex  29  13.22;  Lev  9  10.19)  as  a  special  portion 
set  aside  for  the  burnt  offering. 

This  represents  the  large  lobe  or  flap  of  the  liver, 

Ao£b;   toO   r)7ra.Tos,   lobos   tou    liepatos    (thus    LXX    and   Jos, 

Ant,  III,  ix,  2,  [228]).  Others,  however,  interpret  it  as 
the  membrane  which  covers  the  upper  part  of  the  liver, 
sometimes  called  the  "lesser  omentum."  Thus  the 
Vulg:  reticulum  iecoris.  It  extends  from  the  fissures 
of  the  liver  to  the  curve  of  the  stomach.  Still  others 
consider  it  to  be  the  "fatty  mass  at  the  opening  of  the 
liver,  which  reaches  to  the  kidneys  and  becomes  visible 
upon  the  removal  of  the  lesser  omentum  or  membrane" 
(Driver  and  White,  Leviticus,  65). 

As  in  the  scholastic  psychology  of  the  Middle 
Ages,  the  liver  played  an  important  part  in  the 
science  of  Sem  peoples.  It  was  the  seat  of  feeling, 
and  thus  became  synonymous  with  temper,   dis- 


Living  Creature 
Locust 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1906 


position,  character  (cf  Assyr  kabittu,  "liver," 
"temper,"  "character,"  and  Aral).  i\*S ,  kabid, 
vulgar  kibdi).  Thus  Jeremiah  expresses  his  pro- 
found grief  with  the  words:  "My  liver  is  poured 
upon  the  earth,  because  of  the  destruction  of  the 
daughter  of  my  people"  (ham  2  11).  The  liver 
is  also  considered  one  of  the  most  important  and 
vital  parts  of  the  body  (cf  Virgil,  cerebrum,  iecur 
domicilia  vitae).  A  hurt  in  it  is  equivalent  to  death. 
So  we  find  the  fate  of  a  man  enticed  by  the  flattering 
of  a  loose  woman  compared  to  that  of  the  ox  that 
"goeth  to  the  slaughter  ....  till  an  arrow  strike 
through  his  liver;  as  a  bird  hast  el  h  to  the  snare, 
and  knowelh  not  that  it  is  for  his  life"  (Prov  7  22. 
2'-];  the  rest  of  the  verse  is  obscure  as  to  its  mean- 
ing'). 

In  a  few  passages  of  the  OT,  kubhedh  ("liver  ) 
and  kabhodh  ("glory")  have  been  confounded,  and 
we  are  in  uncertainty  as  to  the  right  tr.  Several 
authors,  to  give  but  one  example,  would  read  ka- 
bhedh'm  Ps  16  0,  forreasonsof  Heb  poetical  paral- 
lelism: "Therefore  my  heart  is  glad  and  my  liver 
[EV  "glory"]  rcjoiccth."  While  this  is  quite 
possible,  it  is  not,  easy  to  decide,  as  according  to 
Jewish  interpretation  "my  glory"  is  synonymous 
with  "my  soul,"  which  would  present  as  proper  a 
parallelism. 

The  liver  has  always  played  an  important  role 
in  heathen  divination,  of  which  we  have  many  ex- 
amples in  old  and  modern  times  among  the  Greeks, 
Etrurians,  Romans  and  now  among  African  tribes. 
The  prophet  Ezekiel  gives  us  a  Rib.  instance.  The 
king  of  Babylon,  who  had  been  seeking  to  find  out 
whether  he  should  attack  Jerus,  inquired  by  shaking 
"arrows  to  and  fro,  he  consulted  the  teraphim,  he 
looked  in  the  liver"  (Ezk  21  21  [Heb  ver  26];  cf 
Tob  6  4  ff ;  8  2).  See  Astrology,  3;  Divina- 
tion. H.  L.  E.  Luering 

LIVING  CREATURE,  liv'ing  kre'tur:  (1)  (t)B2 
!"Pn ,  nephesh  hayyah,  or  !"Pnn  H5S2 ,  nephesh  ha- 
hayyah    [nephesh,    ''breath"     or    "living    things"; 

hayyah,  "living";  cf  Arab.  iy*A^  ,  nefs,  "breath," 
c ~k  ,  haiy,  "living"]):  In  the  account  of  the  crea- 
tion this  term  is  used  of  aquatic  animals  (Gen  121), 
of  mammals  (Gen  1  24)  and  of  an}'  animals  what- 
soever (Gen  2  19). 

(2)  (Hl^n  i  hayyoth,  pi.  of  fPH  .  hayyah):  The  name 
of  the  "living  creatures"  of  Ezk  1  5-25,  which  had  wings 
and  the  fact  s  of  a  man,  a  lion,  an  ox,  and  an  eagle;  cf 
Ezk  10  1-22.  (3)  (£yoi\  zdon,  "living  thing,"  "animal"): 
The  four  "living  creatures"  (AV  "beasts")  of  Rev  4  6, 
etc,  the  first  like  a  lion,  the  second  like  a  calf,  the  third 
having  a  face  as  of  a  man,  and  the  fourth  like  an  eagle, 
having  each  six  wings.     See  Creature,  Living. 

Alfred  Ely  Day 

LIZARD,  liz'ard:  The  list  of  unclean  "creeping 
things"  in  Lev  11  29.30  contains  eight  names,  as 
follows: 

(1)   "ibh.    holedh,    EV    "weasel"    (q.v.);      (2)  1333? , 
'akhbar,   EV    "mouse"   (q.v.);     (3)  ^2,    cabh,   AV   "tor- 
toise,"    RV    "great    lizard"     (q.v.);      (4) 
1.  Names       <~lp2X,  'dnakdh,  AV  "ferret,"  RV  "gecko" 
(q.v.);    (5)  n2 .    ko"h,    AV    "chameleon." 
RV   "land-crocodile"    (q.v.);      (6)   p>Xt2b ,    Hd'dh,    EV 

"lizard";  cf  Aral),  r  U2J  ,  lata',  "to  cling  to  the  ground"; 

(7)  TiTSn.  hornet,  AV  "snail,"   RV  "sand-lizard"  (q.v.); 

(8)  rVQTlhn.  tinshemeth,  AV  "mole,"  RV  " chameleon " 
(q.v.).'  lii  Prov  30  28,  we  find  (9)  P"l^'32t? .  semdmith, 
AV  "spider,"  RV  "lizard." 

Since  (1),  (3),  (4),  (5),  (6)  and  (7)  occur  as  names 
of  animals  only  in  this  passage,  and  as  the  philo- 
logical evidence  available  is  in  most  cases  not  very 


convincing,  their  determination  is  difficult  and 
uncertain.  RVm  to  "gecko"  (Lev  11  30)  has 
"Words  of  uncertain  meaning,  but  probably  de- 
noting four  kinds  of  lizards." 

Among    the    many   lizards   of    Pal,    the    monitor    and 
thorny-tailed   lizard   are   remarkable   for   their  size,    and 
the  chameleon  for  its  striking  appearance 
and     habits.      On     etymological     grounds, 
2.   Lizards      kd'h,  AV   "chameleon."   RV  " land-croco- 
of  Palestine  clllo,"    LXX    chamaileon,    has    been    taken 
to  be  the  monitor;    cabh,  AV  "tortoise." 
RV     "great     lizard,"      LXX      krokodeilos 
chersalos,    to    be    the    thorny-tailed    lizard;     and    tinshe- 
meth, AV  "mole."  RV  "chameleon,"  LXX  aspdlax,  to 
be    the    chameleon.      On    the    same    grounds,     holedh, 
EV  "weasel,"    LXX  gait,   might    be  the  mole-rat.     See 
Chameleon;    Tortoise;     Weasel. 

The  commonest  lizard  of  Pal  is  the  rough-tailed  agama, 
Agama  stellio,  Arab,  hirdhaun  or  hirdaun,  which  is  every- 
where in  evidence,  running  about  on  the  ground,  rocks 
or  walls,  frequently  lying  still  basking  in  the  sun,  or 
bobbing  its  head  up  and  down  in  the  peculiar  manner 
that  it  has. 


Gecko  (Ptyodactylus  lobatus). 

The  gecko,  Ptyodactylus  lobatus,  is  common  in  houses. 
By  means  of  adhesive  disks  on  the  under  sides  of  its  toes, 
it  clings  with  ease  to  smooth  walls  which  other  lizards 
cannot  scale.  Although  perfectly  harmless,  it  is  be- 
lieved to  be  poisonous,  and  is  much  feared.  It  is  called 
abu-brais,  "father  of  leprosy,"  either  on  account  of  its 
supposed  poisonous  qualities  or  because  it  has  a  semi- 
transparent  and  sickly  appearance,  being  of  a  whitish- 
yellow  color  with  darker  spots.  It  utters  a  little  cry, 
which  may  be  the  reason  why  RV  has  "gecko"  for 
'dnakah,  AV  "ferret." 

Various  species  of  the  genus  Larcrta  and  its  allies,  the 
true  lizards,  may  always  be  found  searching  for  insects 
on  trees  and  walls.  They  are  scaly,  like  all  lizards,  but 
are  relatively  smooth  and  are  prettily  colored,  and  are 
the  most  attractive  members  of  the  group  which  are 
found  in  the  country.  They  are  called  by  the  Arabs 
sakkaiyeh  or  shammuseh. 

The  skinks  include  Scincus  officinalis,  and  allied  species. 
Arab,  sakankur  =  Or  cr/ay/cos,  skigkos  (skinkos).  They  are 
smooth,  light-colored  lizards,  and  are  found  in  sandy 
places.  They  cannot  climb,  but  they  run  and  burrow  in 
the  sand  with  remarkable  rapidity.  The  dried  body  of 
Scincus  officinalis  is  an  important  feature  of  the  primitive 
oriental  materia  medica,  and  may  be  found  in  the  shops 
(officinae)  of  the  old-style  apothecaries. 

S'mamllh  (Prov  30  28,  AV  "spider,"  RV  "liz- 
ard") is  one  of  the  "four  things  which  are  little 
.   .   .   .  but  ....  exceeding   wise."     RV    reads: 

**  The  lizard  taketh  hold  with  her  hands. 
Yet  is  she  in  kings'  palaces.  " 

LXX  has  Ka\afJd>T7]s,  kalabotes,  which  according  to 
Liddell   and    Scott  =  dff/caXayStirijs,    askalabdtes,     "a 

spotted  lizard."  There  is  no  other 
3.  Identifi-  lizard  which  fits  this  passage  as  does 
cations  the  gecko.     If  Gesenius  is  correct  in 

deriving  s'mamlth  from  the  \/  sdmam 
(cf  Arab,  samma,  "to  poison"),  we  have  another 
reason  for  making  this  identification,  in  which  case 
we  must  rule  out  the  rendering  of  RVm,  "Thou 
canst  seize  with  thy  hands." 


1907 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  HI  RLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Living  Creature 
Locust 


For  none  of  the  names  in  Lev  11  29.30  have  wo  as 
many  data  for  identification  as  for  semdmlth.  For 
hid' ah,  EV  "lizard,"  LXX  has  \a\afitoTr)t,  chalabotes, 
which  is  another  variant  of  askalabotes.  If  we  follow 
the  LXX,  therefore,  we  should  render  Ma' ah  "gecko." 
Tristram  quotes  Boehart  as  drawing  an  argument  that 
Iff  a  ah  is  "gecko"  from  the  Arab.  V  lata',  "to  cling 
to  the  ground."  This  view  is  at  least  in  accordance  with 
LXX.  It  is  of  course  untenable  if  'dndkdh  is  "gecko," 
but  (see  Ferret)  the  writer  thinks  it  quite  possible  that 
'dndkdh  may  mean  the  shrew  or  field-mouse,  which  is 
also  in  agreement  with  LXX.  Jt  will  not  do  to  follow 
LXX  in  all  cases,  but  it  is  certainly  safe  to  do  so  in  the 
absence  of  a  clear  indication  to  the  contrary. 

There  seems  to  be  little  evidence  available  for  deciding 
the  identity  of  hornet,  AV  "snail."  KV  "sand-lizard." 
LXX  has  a-aupa,  'sa  lira,  and  Yulg  lacerla,  both  words  for 
lizard.  Gesenius  refers  the  word  to  an  obsolete  ^/ 
hdmaf,  "to  bow  down,"  "to  lie  upon  the  ground."  Tris- 
tram,' Nil B,  cites  Boehart  as  referring  to  a  word  mean- 
ing "sand."  Hence  perhaps  the  KV  "sand-lizard." 
If  by  this  is  meant  the  skink,  there  is  no  inherent  im- 
probability in  the  identification. 

We  have  thus  more  or  less  tentatively  assigned 
various  words  of  the  list  to  the  monitor,  the  thorny- 
tailed  lizard,  the  chameleon,  the  gecko  and  the 
skink,  but  we  have  done  nothing  with  the  rough- 
tailed  agama  and  the  Lacertae,  or  true  lizards, 
which  are  the  commonest  lizards  of  Pal,  and  this 
fact  must  be  reckoned  against  the  correctness  of 
the  assignment.  The  tr  of  RV  has  this  to  commend 
it,  that  it  gives  two  small  mammals  followed  by 
six  lizards,  and  is  therefore  to  that  extent  system- 
atic. It.  is,  however,  neither  guided  in  all  cases  by 
etymological  considerations,  nor  does  it  follow  LNN. 

As  none  of  the  etymological  arguments  is  very  cogent, 
the  writer  can  see  no  harm  in  consistently  following 
LXX,  understanding  for  (1),  gale,  weasel  or  pole-cat;  for 
(2),  mils,  mouse;  for  (3),  krokodeilos  chersaios,  some  large 
lizard,  either  the  monitor  or  the  thorns -tailed  lizard; 
for  (4),  mugaU,  shrew  or  field-mouse;  for  (5),  chamailedn, 
chameleon;  for  (6),  chalabotes,  gecko;  for  (7),  saura,  a 
Lacerta  or  true  lizard;  for  (S),  aspalax,  mole-rat.  On 
the  other  hand,  if  etymological  considerations  are  to  be 
taken  into  account  and  LXX  abandoned  when  it  con- 
flicts with  them  we  might  have  (1)  holedh,  mole-rat; 
(2)  'akhbdr,  mouse;  (3)  cdbh,  thorny-tailed  lizard;  (4) 
'dndkdh,  field-mouse;  (5)  ko'h,  monitor;  (f>)  ltd' ah, 
gecko;    (7)  hornet,  skink;    (8)  ti'nshemeth,  chameleon. 

Neither  of  these  lists  has  the  systematic  arrange- 
ment of  that  of  RV,  but  we  must  remember  that 
the  Bib.  writers  were  not  zoologists,  as  is  seen  in 
the  inclusion  of  the  bat  among  birds  (Lev  11  19; 
l)t  14  18),  and  of  the  hare  and  coney  among 
ruminants  (Lev  11  5.6;    Dt    14  7). 

Alfred  Ely  Day 

LOAF,  lof.     See  Bread. 

LO-AMMI,  lo-am'l  (T£"~Nb ,  Zo'-Wmi,  "not 
my  people"):  The  2d  son  and  3d  child  of  Corner 
bath-Diblaim,  wife  of  the  prophet,  Hosea  (Hos  1 
9).  An  earlier  child,  a  daughter,  had  been  named 
Lo-ruhamah  (rTOrn~S55,  lo'-ruhamah,  "uncompas- 
sionated").  The  names,  like  those  given  by  Isaiah 
to  his  children,  are  symbolic,  and  set  forth  Hosea's 
conviction  that  Israel  has,  through  sin,  forfeited 
Jeh's  compassion,  and  can  no  longer  claim  His  pro- 
tect ion.  Of  the  bearers  of  these  names  nothing 
further  is  known;  but  their  symbolism  is  alluded 
to  in  Hos  2  1.23.  This  latter  passage  is  quoted 
by  Paul  (Rom  9  25  f).     See  Hosea;  Jezreel. 

John  A.  Lees 

LOCKS,  loks  ([1]  r$"X ,  glgith,  [2]  3nE  ,  pera\ 
[3]  nsbni?,  mahlaphah,  [4]  ^Slp,  k'wugcah):  See 
in  general  the  article  on  Hair,  (i)  The  first  word, 
cj<;llh,  means  really  a  tassel,  such  as  is  worn  by  the 
Jews  on  the  four  corners  of  the  prayer-shawl  or 
lallith  and  on  the  'arba*  kan'photh  (Dt  22  12),  tr' 
in  the  NT  by  Kp&cnreSov,  krdspedon  (Mt  9  20;  14 
36;  23  5;  Mk  6  56;  Lk  8  44).  Once  it  is  applied 
to  a  forelock  of  hair.  The  prophet  Ezekiel,  de- 
scribing his  sensations  which  accompanied  his 
vision  of  Jerus,  says:   ''He  put  forth  the  form  of  a 


hand,  and  took  me  by  a  lock  of  my  head;  and  the 
Spirit  lifted  me  up  between  earth  and  heaven,  and 
brought  me  in  the  visions  of  God  to  Jerus"  (Ezk  8 
3).  (2)  The  word  pera'  signifies  the  unshorn  and 
disheveled  locks  of  the  Nazirite  (Nu  6  5)  or  of  the 
priests,  the  sons  of  Zadok  (Ezk  44  20).  (3)  The 
Book  of  Jgs  employs  the  word  mahlaphah  when 
speaking  of  the  "seven  locks"  of  Samson  (Jgs  16 
13.19),  which  really  represent  the  plaited  (ety- 
mologically,  "interwoven")  strands  of  hair  still 
worn  in  our  days  by  youthful  Bedouin  warriors. 
(4)  Kewuccah  (Cant  5  2.11)  means  the  luxuriant 
hair  of  the  Heb  youth,  who  was  careful  of  his  ex- 
terior. It  is  called  bushy  (RVm  "curling")  and 
black  as  a  raven.  AV  tra  also  the  word  cammah 
with  "locks"  (Cant  4  1;  6  7;  Isa  47  2),  but  RV 
has  corrected  this  into  "veil,"  leaving  the  word 
"locks"  in  Cant  4  1  in.  H.  L.  E.  Luering 

LOCUST,  lo'kust:    The  tr  of  a  large  number  of 
I  leb  and  Gr  words : 

(1)  mB™^  ,  'arbch,  from  j/  7"Q"1  >  rdbhdh,  "to  increase" 
(cf  Arab.  Ov  ,  raba' ,  "  to  increase").     (2)  23^0.  sdl'dm. 


1.  Names 


from  obsolete  y  22?bD  .  sal' am,  "  to  swallow 
down,"    "to    consume."      (3)   bit^H  ,    har- 

gol  (cf  Arab.  A^>->i>.  ,  harjal,   "to  run  to  the  right  or 

left,"    X-^Lsfcwik  ,    harjalat,    "a  company   of   horses"   or 

"a  swarm  of  locusts,"  , .  \  I  y2>  *_2*  ,  harjawdn,  a  kind  of 

locust).  (4)  3,3)1  •  haghabh  (cf  Arab,  v^ a^  ,  hajab,  "to 
hide,"  "to  cover").  (5)  2T3 .  gazdm  (cf  Arab.  *y>  , 
jazam,    "to  cut  off").      (6)    pb-1 ,    yelek,   from   -j/    ppb , 

lakak,  "to  lick"  (cf  Arab.  oLAJZJ  ,  laklak,  "to  dart 
out  the  tongue"  [used  of  a  serpent]).      (7)  b^CJl .  hdsil, 

from  -[  '  bc)l .  hasal,  "to  devour"  (cf  Arab.  {j^Om^s>.  , 
hauml,  "crop"  [of  a  bird]).  (S)  313.  gobh,  from  obso- 
lete |/  n33>   gabhah  (cf  Arab.     ^L^s.  ,  jdbt,   "locust," 

from  j/  r-Lv^>  ,  jaba',  "to  come  out  of  a  hole").  (9) 
33.  gebh,  from  same  -j/.  (10)  ^S^ ,  e ideal,  from  y 
b*l£.  Qalal  (onomatopoetic) ,  "to  tinkle,"  "to  ring"  (cf 

Arab.  ij-^O  ,  sail,  "to  give  a  ringing  sound"   [used  of  a 

horse's  bit];  cf  also  Arab,  i^y-^  >  faun,  used  of  the  sound 

of  a  drum  or  piece  of  metal,  also  of  the  humming  of  flies). 
(11)  aKpU,  akris  (gen.  axpubo?,  akrldos;  dim.  a.Kpi&i.oi>,  ak- 
ridion,  whence  Acridium,  a  genus  of  locusts). 

(1),  (2),  (3)  and  (4)  constitute  the  list  of  clean 
insects  in  Lev  11  21  f,  characterized  as  "winged 
creeping  things  that  go  upon  all  fours, 
2.  Identi-  which  have  legs  above  their  feet, 
fixations  wherewith  to  leap  upon  the  earth." 
This  manifestly  refers  to  jumping 
insects  of  the  order  Orlhoplera,  such  as  locusts,  grass- 
hoppers and  crickets,  and  is  in  contrast  to  the  un- 
clean "winged  creeping  things  that  go  upon  all 
fours,"  which  may  be  taken  to  denote  running 
Orlhoplera,  such  as  cockroaches,  mole-crickets  and 
ear-wigs,  as  well  as  insects  of  other  orders. 

'Arbch  (1)  is  uniformly  trd  "locust"  in  RV.  AV 
has  usually  "locust,"  but  "grasshopper"  in  Jgs 
6  5;  7  12;  Job  39  20;  Jer  46  23.  LNN  has 
usually  axpLs,  akris,  "locust";  but  has  Rpodxos, 
brouchos,  "wingless  locust,"  in  Lev  11  22;  1X8 
37  {akris  in  the  ||  passage,  2  Ch  6  28);  Nah  3  15; 
and  dTT^XefSos,  attelcbos,  "wingless  locust,"  in  Nah 


Locust 
Lo-debar 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1908 


3  17.  'Arbeh  occurs  (Ex  10  4-19)  in  the  account 
of  the  plague  of  locusts;  in  the  phrase  "as  locusts 
for  multitude"  (Jgs  6  5;  7  12);  "more  than  the 
locusts  ....  innumerable"     (Jer  46  23); 


Yet 


oeusts  have  no  king, 

o  they  forth  all  of  them  by  bands"  (Prov  30  27). 


'Arbeh  is  referred  to  as  a  plague  in  Dt  28  38;  1  K 
8  37;  2  Ch  6  28;  Ps  78  40;  in  Joel  and  in  Nah. 
These  references,  together  with  the  fact  that  it  is 


Locust:    (1)    Tryxalis;    (2)    Acridium  peregrinum; 
(3)   Oedipoda  migratoria. 

the  most  used  word,  occurring  24  t,  warrant  us  in 
assuming  it  to  be  one  of  the  swarming  species,  i.e. 
Pachtylus  migratorius  or  Schistocerca  peregrina, 
which  from  time  to  time  devastate  large  regions  in 
the  countries  bordering  on  the  Mediterranean. 

Sdl'tim  (2),  EV  "bald  locust,"  occurs  only  in  Lev 
11  22.  According  to  Tristram,  NBH,  the  name 
''bald  locust"  was  given  because  it,  is  said  in  the 
Talm  to  have  a  smooth  head.  It  has  been  thought 
to  be  one  of  the  genus  Tryxalis  (T.  unguiculata  or 
T.  nasxta),  in  which  the  head  is  greatly  elongated. 

Hargol  (3),  AV  "beetle,"  RV  "cricket,"  being 
one  of  the  leaping  insects,  cannot  be  a  beetle.  It 
might  be  a  cricket,  but  comparison  with  the  Arab, 
(see  supra)  favors  a  locust  of  some  sort.  The  word 
occurs  only  in  Lev  11  22.     See  Beetle. 

Haghdbh  (4)  is  one  of  the  clean  leaping  insects 
of  Ley  11  22  (EV  "grasshopper").  The  word 
occurs  in  four  other  places,  nowhere  coupled  with 
the  name  of  another  insect.  In  the  report  of  the 
spies  (Xu  13  33),  we  have  the  expression,  "We  were 
in  our  own  sight  as  grasshoppers";  in  Eecl  12  5, 
"The  grasshopper  shall  be  a  burden";  in  Isa  40  22, 
"It  is  he  that  sitteth  above  the  circle  of  the  earth, 
and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  as  grasshoppers." 
These  three  passages  distinctly  favor  the  rendering 
"grasshopper"  of  EV.  In  the  remaining  passage 
(2  Ch  7  13),  ".  .  .  .  if  I  command  the  locust 
[EV]  to  devour  the  land,"  the  migratory  locust 
seems  to  be  referred  to.  Doubtless  this  as  well  as 
other  words  was  loosely  used.  In  Eng.  there  is  no 
sharp  distinction  between  the  words  "grasshopper" 
and  "locust ." 

The  migratory  locusts  belong  to  the  family  Acridiidae, 
distinguished  by  short,  thick  antennae,  and  by  having 
the  organs  of  hearing  at  the  base  of  the  abdomen.  The 
insects   of   the   family    Locustidae   are   commonly  called 

grasshoppers,"  but  the  same  name  is  applied  to  those 
Acridiidae  which  are  not  found  in  swarms.  The  Lo- 
custidae have  long,  thin  antennae,  organs  of  hearing  on 


the  tibiae  of  the  front  legs,  and  the  females  have  long 
ovipositors.  It  may  be  noted  that  the  insect  known  in 
America  as  the  seventeen-year  locust,  which  occasion- 
ally does  extensive  damage  to  trees  bv  laying  its  eggs 
in  the  twigs,  is  a  totally  different  insect,  being  a  Cicada 
of  the  order  Rhynrhota.  Species  of  Cicada  are  found  in 
Pal,  but  are  not  considered  harmful. 

The  Book  of  Joel  is  largely  occupied  with  the 
description  of  a  plague  of  locusts.  Commentators 
differ  as  to  whether  it  should  be  interpreted  liter- 
ally or  allegorically  (see  Joel).  Four  names  'arbeh 
(1),  gazam  (5),  yelek  (6)  and  hasll  (7),  are  found 
in  Joel  1  4  and  again  in  2  25. 

For  the  etymology  of  these  names,  see  1  above. 
Gazam  (Am  4  9;  Joel  1  4;  2  25)  is  in  RV  uniformly 
tivl  "palmer-worm"  (LXX  Ka,x-n,  kdmpc,  "caterpillar"). 
Paxil  in  KV  (1  K  8  37;  2  Ch  6  28;  Ps  78  46;  Isa 
33  4;  Joel  1  4;  2  25)  is  uniformly  tr'i  "caterpillar." 
LXX  has  indifferently  brouchos,  "wingless  locust,"  and 
ipvaifrr),  erusibe,  "rust"  (of  wheat).  Yelek  (Ps  105  34; 
.Jer  51  14.27;  Joel  1  4b;  2  25;  Nah  3  156.16)  is  every- 
where "canker-worm"  in  RV,  except  in  Ps  105  34, 
where  ARV  has  "grasshopper."  AV  has  "caterpillar" 
in  Ps  and  Jer  and  "canker-worm"  in  Joel  and  Nah. 
LXX  has  indifferently  akris  and  brouchos.  "Palmer- 
worm"  and  "canker-worm"  are  both  Old  Lng.  terms  for 
caterpillars,  which  are  strictly  the  larvae  of  lepidop- 
terous  insects,  i.e.  butterflies  and  moths. 

While  these  four  words  occur  in  Joel  1  4  and 
2  25,  a  consideration  of  the  book  as  a  whole  does 
not,  show  that  the  ravages  of  four  different  insect 
pests  are  referred  to,  but  rather  a  single  one,  and 
that  the  locust.  These  words  may  therefore  be 
regarded  as  different  names  of  the  locust,  referring 
to  different,  stages  of  development  of  the  insect. 
It  is  true  that  the  words  do  not  occur  in  quite  the 
same  order  in  1  4  and  in  2  25,  but  while  the  former 
verse  indicates  a  definite  succession,  the  hitter  does 
not.  If,  therefore,  all  four  words  refer  to  the  locust, 
"palmer-worm,"  "canker-worm,"  "caterpillar"  and 
the  LXX  erusibe,  "rust,"  are  obviously  inappro- 
priate. 

Gobh  (8)  is  found  in  the  difficult  passage  (Am  7 
1),  ".  .  .  .  He  formed  locusts  [AV  "grasshoppers," 
AVm  "green  worms,"  LXX  akris]  in  the  beginning 
of  the  shooting  up  of  the  latter 
growth";  and  (Xah  3  17)  in  ".  .  .  . 
thy  marshals  [are]  as  the  swarms  of 
grasshoppers  [Heb  gobh  gobhay;  AV 
"great  grasshoppers"],  which  encamp 
in  the  hedges  in  the  cold  day,  but 
when  the  sun  ariseth  they  flee  away, 
and  their  place  is  not  known  where 
they  are."  The  related  gebh  (9) 
occurs  but  once,  in  Isa  33  4,  also  a 
disputed  passage,  "And  your  spoil 
shall  be  gathered  as  the  caterpillar 
\ljdsll]  gathereth:  as  locusts  [gebhim] 
leap  shall  men  leap  upon  it."  It  is 
impossible  to  determine  what  species 
is  meant,  but  some  kind  of  locust  or 
grasshopper  fits  any  of  these  passages. 
In  Dt  28  42,  "All  thy  trees  and 
the  fruit  of  thy  ground  shall  the 
locust  [EV]  possess,"  we  have  (10) 
e'l<l<;al  (LXX  erusibe).  The  same 
word  is  trd  in  2  S  6  5  and  Ps  150 
5  bis  "cymbals,"  in  Job  41  7  "fish- 
spears,"  and  in  Isa  18  1  "rustling." 
As  stated  in  1,  above,  it  is  an  ono- 
matopoetie  word,  and  in  Dt  28  42 
may  well  refer  to  the  noise  of  the 
wings  of  a  flight  of  locusts. 

In  the  XT  we  have  (11)  akris, 
"locust,"  the  food  of  John  the  Bap- 
tist (Mt  3  4;  Mk  1  G);  the  same  word  is  used 
fig.  in  Rev  9  3.7;  and  also  in  Apoc  (Jth  2  20; 
Wisd  16  9;   and  see  2  Esd  4  24). 

The  swarms  of  locusts  are  composed  of  countless 
individuals.  The  statements  sometimes  made  that 
they  darken  the  sky  must  not  be  taken  too  literally. 


Sticksof  Dried 
Loc ust  s  on 
t  he  Sculp- 
tures from 
Ko  uyunjik 

(Brit.  Mus.). 


1909 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  MULE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Locust 
Lo-debar 


They  do  not  produce  darkness,  but  their  effect  may 

be  like  that  of  a  thick  cloud.     Their   movements 

are   largely  determined   by  the   wind, 

3.  Habits      and  while  fields  that  are  in  their  path 

may  be  laid  waste,  others  at  one  side 
may  not  be  affected.  It  is  possible  by  vigorous 
waving  to  keep  a  given  tract  clear  of  them,  but 
usually  enough  men  cannot  be  found  to  protect  the 
fields  from  their  ravages. 

Large  birds  have  been  known  to  pass  through  a  flight 
of  locusts  with  open  mouths,  tilling  their  crops  with  the 
insects.  Tristram,  NUB,  relates  bow  he  saw  the  fishes 
in  the  Jordan  enjoying  a  similar  feast,  as  the  locusts  fell 
into  the  stream.  The  female  locust,  by  means  of  the 
ovipositor  at  the  end  of  her  abdomen,  digs  a  hole  in  the 
ground,  and  deposits  in  it  a  mass  of  eggs,  which  are 
cemented  together  with  a  glandular  secretion.  An 
effective  way  of  dealing  with  the  locusts  is  to  gather  and 
destroy  these  egg-masses,  and  it  is  customary  for  the 
local  governments  to  offer  a  substantial  reward  for  a 
measure  of  eggs.  The  young  before  they  can  fly  are 
frequently  swept  into  pits  or  ditches  dug  for  the  purpose 
and  are  burned. 

The  young  are  of  the  same  general  shape  as  the  adult 
insects,"  differing  in  being  small,  black  and  wingless. 
The  three  distinct  stages  in  the  metamorphosis  of  butter- 
flies and  others  of  the  higher  insects  are  not  to  be  dis- 
tinguished in  locusts.  They  molt  about  six  times, 
emerging  from  each  molt  larger  than  before.  At  first 
there  are  no  wings.  After  several  molts,  small  and  use- 
less wings  are,  found,  but  it  is  only  after  the  last  molt 
that  the  insects  are  able  to  fly.  In  the  early  molts  the; 
titiy  black  nymphs  are  found  in  patches  on  the  ground, 
hopping  out'  of  the  way  when  disturbed.  Later  they 
run,  until  they  are  able  to  fly. 

In  all  stages  they  are  destructive  to  vegetation. 
Some  remarkable  pictures  of  their  ravages  are  found 
in  Joel  1  6.7,  ''For  a  nation  is  come  up  upon  my 
land,  strong,  and  without  number;  his  teeth  are  the 
teeth  of  a  lion,  and  he  hath  the  jaw-teeth  of  a  lioness. 
He  hath  laid  my  vine  waste,  and  barked  my  fig- 
tree:  he  hath  made  it  clean  bare,  and  cast  it  away; 
the  branches  thereof  are  made  white"  (see  also 
2  2-9.20). 

Locusts  are  instruments  of   the  wrath  of   God 

(Ex  10  4-19;     Dt  28  3S.42;     2  Ch  7  13;     J's  78 

40;      105  34;      Nah  3  15-17;      Wisd 

4.  Figura-      16  9;      Rev  9  3);      they     typify     an 
tive  invading   army   (Jer  51  14.27);    they 

are  compared  with  horses  (Joel  2  4; 
Rev  9  7);  in  Job  39  20,  Jeh  says  of  the  horse: 
"Hast  thou  made  him  to  leap  as  a  locust?"  AV 
"Canst  thou  make  him  afraid  as  a  grasshopper?" 
Locusts  are  among  the  "four  things  which  are  little 
upon  the  earth,  but  ....  are  exceeding  wise" 
(Pro v  30  27).  Like  the  stars  and  sands  of  the  sea, 
locusts  are  a  type  of  that  which  cannot  be  numbered 
(Jgs  6  5;  7 '12;  Jer  46  23;  Jth  2  20).  Grass- 
hoppers are  a  symbol  of  insignificance  (Nu  13  33; 
Eccl  12  5;    Isa  40  22;   2  Esd  4  24). 

The  Arabs  prepare  for  food  the  thorax  of  the  locust, 
which  contains  the  great  wing  muscles.  They  pull  off 
the  head,  which  as  it  comes  away  brings 
K  Tnrnctc  with  it  a  mass  of  the  viscera,  and  they 
u.  ^ucut.^  remove  the  abdomen  (or  "tail"),  the  legs 
as*OOQ  anci  the  wings.      The  thoraxes,  if   not  at 

once  eaten,  are  dried  and  put  away  as  a 
store  of  food  for  a  lean  season.  The  idea  of  feeding  upon 
locusts  when  prepared  in  this  way  should  not  be  so 
repellent  as  the  thought  of  eating  the  whole  insect.  In 
the  light  of  this  it  is  not  incredible  that  the  food  of  John 
the  Baptist  should  have  been  "locusts  and  wild  honey" 
(Mt  3  4).     See  Insects. 

Alfred  Ely  Day 

LOD,  LYDDA  ("Ti',  lodh;  AvSSa,  Ludda):  Ono 

and  Lot!  and  the  towns  thereof  are  said  to  have 

been  built  by  Shemed,   a  Benjamite 

1.  Scriptural  (1  Ch  8  12).     The   children   of   Lod, 

Notices  Hadid  and  Ono,  to  the  number  of  725, 

ret  timed  from   Babylon  with  Zerub- 

babel    (Ezr  2  33;     Neh  7  37    [721]).     The    town 

lay  in  the  Shephelah,  perhaps  in  ge  ha-h&rashlm, 

"the  valley  of  craftsmen"    (Neh  11  35).     In   the 

NT  it  appears  as  Lydda.     Here  the  apostle  Peter 

visited  the  saints  and  healed  the  palsied  Aeneas 


(Acts  9  32).      Hence  he  was  summoned   by   mes- 
sengers from  Joppa  on  the  death  of  Dorcas. 

The  three  governments  of  Aphaerema,  Lydda 
and  Ramathaim  were  added  to  Judaea  from  the 

country  of  Samaria  by  King  Deme- 
2.  History  trius  II  (1  Mace  11  34).  Lydda  pre- 
from  Mac-  sided  over  one  of  the  toparchies  under 
cabean  Jerus,  into  which  Judaea  was  divided 

Times  (BJ,  HI,  iii,  5).     After  the  death  of 

Julius  Caesar  the  inhabitants  of  Lydda 
and  certain  other  towns,  having  failed  to  pay  the 
contributions  Cassius  demanded,  were  by  him  sold 
into  slavery.  They  were  freed  by  Antony  {Ant, 
XIV,  xi,  2;  xii,  2).  Lydda  suffered  severely  under 
Cestius  Gallus  (BJ,  II,  xix,  1).  Along  with  Jam- 
nia  it  surrendered  to  Vespasian  {B.J ,  IV,  viii,  1). 
After  the  fall  of  Jerus  it.  was  not  eel  as  a  scat  of  rab- 
binical learning.  The  classical  name  of  the  city 
was  Diospolis.  In  the  4th  cent,  it  was  connected 
with  the  trade  in  purple.  It  became  tin1  seat  of  a 
bishopric,  and  the  bishop  of  Lydda  was  present 
at  the  Council  of  Nicaea.  At  Lydda,  in  415  AD, 
took  place  the  trial  of  Pelagius  for  heresy. 

Under  the  Moslems  it  became  capital  of  the  province 
of  Filastin,  but  later  it  was  superseded  by  er-Ra?nleh, 
founded  by  Khalif  Suleiman,  whither  its  inhabitants 
were  removed  ( Ya'kubl,  c  891  AU).  Mukaddasi  (c  985) 
says  that  in  Lydda  "there  is  a  great  mosque  in  which 
are  wont  to  assemble  large  numbers  of  people  from  the 
capital  [er-Ramleh\  and  from  the  villages  around.  In 
Lydda,  too,  is  that  wonderful  church  [of  St.  George]  at 
the  gate  of  which  Christ  will  slay  the  antichrist"  (quoted 
by  Guy  le  Strange,  Pal  under  tin-  Moslems,  49:5).  It  was 
rebuilt  by  the  Crusaders;  but  was  destroyed  by  Saladin 
after  the  battle  of  Hattin,  1191  AD.  It  was  again  restored; 
but  in  1271  it  was'sacked  by  the  Mongols,  and  from  this 
blow  it  has  never  recovered. 

The  ancient  Lod  or  Lydda  is  represented  by  the  modern 
village  of  Ludd,  on  the  road  to  Jerus.  about  11  miles 
S.E.  of  Yafd.  It  is  a  station  on  the  Jall'a- 
3  Identifi-  Jerus  Railway.  It  occupies  a  picturesque 
'   .  .      hollow  in  the  plain  of  Sharon,  and  is  sur- 

Cation  ana  rounded  by  gardens  and  orchards,  the 
Description  beauty  of  "which  intensifies  by  contrast 
the  squalor  of  the  village.  It  was  the  re- 
puted birthplace  of  St .  George,  and  here-  he  is  said  to  have 
been  buried.  The  one  ruin  of  importance  in  the  place  is 
that  of  the  church  which  perpetuates  his  name. 

The  town  stood  on  the  great  caravan  road  be- 
tween Babylon  and  Egypt,  near  its  intersection 
with  that  from  Joppa  to  Jerus  and  the  East.  Its 
position  on  these  great,  arteries  of  commerce  meant 
trade  for  the  inhabitants.  "The  manufacture 
and  repair  of  such  requisites  for  the  journey  as 
sacks,  saddles  and  strappings  would  create  the 
skilled  labor  in  cloth,  leather,  wood  and  metal  that 
made  the  neighborhood  once  the  valley  of  crafts- 
men" (Mackie,  IIDB,  s.v.).  Like  many  other 
once  prosperous  cities  on  these  and  similar  caravan 
routes,  Lydda  suffered  from  diversion  of  traffic  to 
the  sea;  and  it  may  be  that  for  none  of  them  is  any 
great  revival  now  possible.  W.  Ewing 

LODDEUS,  lod-e'us  (Ao88evs,  Loddeus;  Swete 
reads  Laada'ios  with  Doldaios  as  variant  in  A;  AV 
Daddeus,  Saddeus):  The  captain,  who  was  in  the 
place  of  the  treasury.  Ezra  stmt  to  him  for  men 
who  "might  execute  the  priests'  office"  (1  Esd  8 
46);  called  "Iddo"  in  Ezr  8  17. 

LO-DEBAR,  ld'de-bar,  16-de'bar  ("inn  V3, 
lo  dhebhar):  A  place  in  Gilead  where  dwelt  Machir, 
son  of  Ammiel,  who  sheltered  Mephibosheth,  son  of 
Saul,  after  that  monarch's  death  (2  S  9  4),  until 
he  was  sent  for  by  David.  This  same  Machir 
met  David  with  supplies  when  he  fled  to  Gilead 
from  Absalom  (17  27  f).  Possibly  it  is  the  same 
place  as  Lidebir  in  Josh  13  26  (RVm).  No  cer- 
tain identification  is  possible;  but  Schumacher 
{Northern  'Ajlun,  101)  found  a  site  with  the  name 
Ibdar  about  *6J  miles  E.  of  Umm  Keis,  N.  of  the 
great  aqueduct,  which  may  possibly  represent  the 


Lodge 
Logos 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1910 


ancient  city.  Lidebir,  at  least,  seems  to  be  placed 
on  the  northern  boundary  of  Gilead.  The  modern 
village  stands  on  the  southern  shoulder  of  Wady 
Samar.  There  is  a  good  spring  to  the  E.,  a  little 
lower  down,  while  ancient  remains  are  found  in  the 
neighborhood.  W.  EwiNG 

LODGE,  loj  ("P? ,  fcn>  Karao-K^you,  kalaskendo, 
etc) :  To  stay  or  dwell,  temporarily,  as  for  the  night 
(Gen  32  13.21;  Nu  22  8;  Josh  2  1  AY;  4  3; 
Lk  13  19;  Mt  21  17,  aullzomai),  or  permanently 
(Ruth  1  16).  In  Isa  1  8,  "a  lodge  [m'lundh]  in  a 
garden  of  cucumbers,"  the  meaning  is  "hut,"  ''cot- 
time."  "Evil  thoughts"  are  said  to  "lodge"  in  the 
wicked  (Jer  4   14). 

LOFT:      In     1  K  17  2:3,     changed    in    RV    to 


LOFTILY,  lof'ti-li,  LOFTINESS,  lof'ti-nes, 
LOFTY:  The  first  form  is  only  in  Ps  73  S,  where 
it.  means  "haughtily,"  as  if  from  on  high.  The 
second  is  found  only  in  Jer  48  29,  where  the 
loftiness  of  Moab  also  means  his  haughtiness,  his 
groundless  self-conceit. 

Lofty  likewise  means  "haughty,"  "lifted  up"  (cf 
Ps  131  1;  Isa  2  11;  Prov  30  13).  In  Isa  26  5  it 
refers  to  a  self-secure  and  boastful  city.  In  57  15 
it  is  used  in  a  good  sense  of  God  who  really  is  high 
and  supreme.  Isaiah  uses  the  word  more  than  all 
the  other  sacred  writers  put  together. 

LOG,  log,  log  (!fa,  logh,  "deepened,"  "hollowed 
out"  [Lev  14  10-24]):  The  smallest  liquid  or  dry 
measure  of  the  Hebrews,  equal  to  about  1  pint. 
See  Weights  and  Measures. 

LOGIA,    log'i-a,    THE     (Advia,    Logia):     The 
word  logion,  which  is  a  dimin.  of  logos,  was  regu- 
larly used  of  Divine  utterances.    There 

1.  The  are  examples  in  the  classics,  the  LXX, 
Word  the  writings  of  Josephus  and  Philo  and 
"Logia"  and  in  four  passages  in  the  NT  (Acts  7  38; 
Its  History     Rom  3  2;       He  5  12;       1  Pet  4  11) 

where  it  is  uniformly  rendered  both 
in  AV  and  RV  "oracles."  It  is  not,  therefore,  sur- 
prising that  early  Christian  writers,  who  thought  of 
Christ  as  Divine,  applied  this  term  to  His  sayings 
also.  We  find  this  use,  according  to  the  usual  inter- 
pretation, in  the  title  of  the  lost  work  of  Papias  as 
preserved  by  Eusebius,  Logion  kuriakon  extgcsis, 
"Exposition  of  the  Lord's  Logia"  (HE,  III,  39),  in 
that  writer's  obscure  reference  to  a  Heb  or  Aram, 
writing  by  the  apostle  Matthew  (ib),  and  in  Poly- 
carp's  Ep.  (§7),  "  the  #  logia  of  the  Lord."  The 
modern  use  of  the  word  is  twofold:  (a)  as  the  name 
of  the  document  referred  to  by  Papias  which  may 
or  may  not  be  the  Q  of  recent  inquirers;  (b)  as  the 
name  of  recently  discovered  sayings  ascribed  to 
Jesus.  For  the  former  cf  Gospels.  The  latter  is 
the  theme  of  this  article. 

About  9 i  miles  from  the  railway  station  of 
Beni  Mazar,   121  miles  from  Cairo,  a  place  now 

called   Behncsa  marks  the  site  of  an 

2.  The  Dis-  ancient  city  named  by  the  Greeks 
covery  of  Oxyrhynchus,  from  the  name  of  a 
the  Logia       sacred  fish,  the  modern  binni,  which 

had  long  been  known  as  a  great  Chris- 
tian center  in  early  times  and  was  therefore  selected 
by  Messrs.  Grenfell  and  Hunt  for  exploration  in 
behalf  of  the  Egyp  Exploration  Fund.  They 
began  work  on  the  ruins  of  the  town,  January  11, 
1897,  and  on  the  following  day  discovered  a  papyrus 
leaf  inscribed  with  a  number  of  sayings  introduced 
by  the  formula  legei  Iesous,  "saith  Jesus,"  some  of. 
which  were  at  once  seen  to  be  quite  new.  When 
excavation    was    resumed    in    February,    1903,    a 


second  fragment  was  discovered,  which  must  have 
belonged  to  the  same  or  a  similar  collection,  as  the 
formula  "saith  Jesus"  is  employed  in  exactly  the 
sana;  way,  and  the  sayings  exhibit  the  same  mixed 
character.  The  first  of  these  two  fragments  was 
named  by  the  discoverers  logia,  but  the  short  preface 
to  the  second  fragment  suggests  that  the  word  used 
in  the  original  title  may  have  been  logoi,  which  is 
found  in  Acts  20  35  as  the  title  perhaps  of  a  col- 
lect ion  of  sayings  of  Jesus  used  by  the  apostle  Paul. 
It  is  convenient,  however,  to  retain  logia,  at  any 
rate  for  the  present.  Other  remains  of  early  Chris- 
tian texts  have  been  found  on  the  same  site  (cf 
Agrapha)  but  none  of  precisely  the  same  character. 

The  first  fragment,  found  and  published  in  1897,  after- 
ward referred  to  as  A,  is  a  leaf  from  a  papyrus  book 
measuring    in    its    present    state    5f  X3} 

3.  Descrip-  inches  and  having  42  linos  on  the  two 
tinn  of  thp  pages.  As  it  is  broken  at  the  bottom  it 
uon  vi  uie  js  impossible,  jn  the  absence  of  another 
Texts  leaf,  to  ascertain  or  even  conjecture  how 

much  has  been  lost.  At  the  top  right- 
hand  corner  of  one  page  are  the  letters  iota,  dlpha,  used 
as  numerals,  that  is  11,  and  it  has  been  suggested  that 
this,  with  other  characteristics,  marks  the  page  as  the 
first  of  the  two.  The  uncial  writing  is  assigned  to  the 
.'5d  cent.,  perhaps  to  the  early  part  of  if.  The  text  is 
fairly  complete  except  at  the  end  of  the;  third  logion,  for 
the  five  following  lines,  and  at  the  bottom.  The  second 
fragment,  henceforth  referred  to  as  B,  found  in  1903  and 
published  in  1904,  has  also  42  lines,  or  rather  parts  of 
lines,  but  on  only  one  page  or  column,  the  Christian  text 
being  written  on  the  back  of  a  roll  the  recto  of  which 
contained  a  survey  list.  The  characters  of  this,  too,  are 
uncial,  atid  the  date,  like  that  of  A,  seems  to  be  also  the 
3d  cent.,  but  perhaps  a  little  later.  B  is  unfortunately 
very  defective,  the  bit  of  papyrus  being  broken  vertically 
throughout,  so  that  several  letters  are  lost  at  the  end  of 
each  line,  and  also  horizontally  for  parts  of  several  lines 
at  the  bottom. 

Seven  of  these  sayings,  or  logia,  inclusive  of  the 
preface  of  B,  have  or  contain  canonical  parallels, 
namely : 

(1)  Al,  which  coincides  with  the  usual  text  of  Lk  6  42; 

(2)  A5u  (according  to  the  editio  princeps,  t'»i),  which  comes 

very  close  to  Lk  4  24;     (:?)   AG   (or   7),   a 

4.  Logia  variant  of  Mt  5  14;  (4)  the  saying  con- 
itm+v.  ra„„„;  tained  in  the  preface  of  B  which  resembles 
witncanom-  Jn  g  f)2.    (5)  B2  n  ~  f   ,.Th(,  killgdom  of 

cal  Parallels  heaven  is  within  you,"  which  reminds 
us  of  Lk  17  21;  (G)  B3.  11.  4  f ,  "Many 
that  are  first  shall  be  last;  and  the  last  first,"  which 
corresponds  to  Mk  10  31;  cf  Mt  19  30;  Lk  13  30; 
(7)  B4,  11.  2-5,  "That  which  is  hidden  from  thee  shall  be 
revealed  to  thee:  for  there  is  nothing  hidden  that  shall 
not  be  made  manifest."  which  is  like  Mk  4  22  (cf  Mt 
10  2G;  Lk  12  2).  These  parallels  or  partial  parallels — 
for  some  of  them  exhibit  interesting  variations — are, 
with  one  exception,  of  synoptic  character. 

The  other  seven  or  eight  logia,  although  not 
without  possible  echoes  of  the  canonical  Gospels 
in  thought  and  diction,  are  all  non-canonical  and 
with  one  exception  new. 

Three  of  them,  namely  B2  and  3  (apart  from  the 
canonical  sayings  given  above)  and  5,  may  be  set  aside 

as  too  uncertain  to  be  of  any  value.  What 
5    New  's  preserved  of  the  first  ("Who  are  they 

c*     .  that  draw  you  [MS,  us]  to  the  kingdom?" 

bayings  etc)    is    indeed    very    tempting,    but    the 

restoration  of  the  lost  matter  is  too  pre- 
carious for  any  suggestion  to  be  more  than  an  ingenious 
conjecture.  This  is  seen  by  comparing  the  restoration 
of  this  logion  by  the  discoverers,  Dr.  Swete  and  Dr.  C. 
Tavlor,  with  that  proposed  by  Deissmann  (Licht  vom 
Oxteni,  329).  While  the  Eng.  scholars  take  hclko  in  the 
sense  of  "draw,"  the  German  takes  it  in  the  sense  which 
it  has  in  the  NT,  "drag,"  with  the  result  of  utter  diver- 
gence as  to  the  meaning  and  even  the  subject  of  the 
logion.  The  logia  which  remain  are  undeniably  of  great 
interest,  although  the  significance  of  at  least  one  is  ex- 
ceedingly obscure.  The  number  of  the  sayings  is  not 
certain.  Dr.  Taylor  has  shown  that  in  A2/  "and"  may 
couple  two  distinct  utterances  brought  together  by  the 
compiler.  If  this  suggestion  is  adopted,  and  if  the  words 
after  A3  in  the  editio  princeps  are  regarded  as  belonging 
to  it  and  not  as  the  remains  of  a  separate  logion,  we  get 
the  following  eight  sayings: 

(1)  "Except  ye  fast  to  the  world  [or  "from  the 
world"],  ye  shall  in  no  wise  find  the  kingdom  of 
God"    (A2o);     (2)    "Except  ye  keep  the  sabbath 


1911 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Lodge 
Logos 


[Taylor  "sabbatizc  the  sabbath"],  ye  shall  not  see 
the  Father"  (A26);  (3)  "1  stood  in  the  midst  of  the 
world,  and  in  flesh  was  I  seen  of  them,  and  I  found 
all  men  drunken,  and  none  found  I  athirst  anions 
them"  (A3a);  (4)  "My  soul  grieveth  over  the  sons 
of  men,  because  they  are  blind  in  their  heart  and 
see  not  their  wretchedness  and  their  poverty"  (the 
last  clause  restored  by  conjecture)  (A36);  (5) 
"Wherever  there  are  two  they  are  not  without  God, 
and  where  there  is  one  alone  I  say  I  am  with  him 
[after  Blass].  Raise  the  stone  and  [there]  thou  shalt 
find  me:  cleave  the  wood  [Taylor,  "the  tree"]  and 
there  am  I"  (A4);  (6)  "A  physician  does  not  work 
cures  on  them  that  know  him"  (AW);  (7)  "Thou 
hearest  with  one  ear  but  the  other  thou  hast  closed" 
(largely  conjectural  but  almost  certain)  (AG); 
(8)  "[There  is  nothing]  buried  which  shall  not  be 
raised"  (or  "known")  (B4,  1.  5). 

Attempts  have  been  made  to  trace  the  collec- 
tion represented  by  these  fragments  (assuming 
that  they  belong  to  the  same  work)  to 
6.  Origin  some  lost  gospel — the  Gospel  accord- 
and  Char-  ing  to  the  Egyptians  (Harnack,  Van 
acter  of  the  Manen),  the  Gospel  of  the  Ebionites 
Logia  or  the  Gospel  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

(Zahn),  or  the  Gospel  according  to 
the  Hebrews  (Batiffol),  but  without  decisive  re- 
sult. That  there  is  a  connection  of  some  kind 
with  the  last -mentioned  apocryphal  work  is  evi- 
dent from  the  fact  that  Bl  ("Jesus  saith,  Let 
not  him  who  seeks  ....  cease  until  he  find  Him; 
and  having  found  Him,  let  him  be  amazed;  and 
being  amazed  he  shall  reign,  and  reigning  shall 
rest")  is  ascribed  by  Clement  of  Alexandria  to 
this  writing,  but  that  cannot  have  been  the  only 
source.  It  was  probably  one  of  a  number  drawn 
on  by  the  compiler.  The  latter,  so  far  as  B  is 
concerned,  represents  the  sayings  as  spoken  by 
Jesus  to  ".  .  .  .  and  Thomas."  In  whatever  way 
the  gap  is  supplied — whether  by  "Philip,"  or 
"Judas"  or  "the  other  disciples" — one  of  the  Twelve 
known  as  Thomas  is  clearly  referred  to  as  the  me- 
dium or  one  of  the  media  of  transmission.  It  is 
possible  that  the  short  preface  in  which  this  state- 
ment is  made  belongs  not  to  the  whole  collection 
but  to  a  part  of  it.  The  whole  work  may,  as  Swete 
suggests  [Expos  T,  XV,  494),  have  been  entitled 
"Words  of  Jesus  to  the  Twelve,"  and  this  may  have 
been  the  portion  addressed  to  Thomas.  The  other 
fragment,  A,  might  belong  to  a  section  associated 
with  the  name  of  another  apostle.  In  any  case 
the  Logia  must  have  formed  part  of  a  collection  of 
considerable  extent,  as  we  know  of  material  for  24 
pages  or  columns  of  about  21  or  22  lines  each. 
So  far  as  can  be  judged  the  writ  ing  was  not  a  gospel 
in  the  ordinary  sense  of  that  term,  but  a  collection 
of  sayings  perhaps  bearing  considerable  resemblance 
as  to  the  form  to  the  Logia  of  Matthew  mentioned 
by  Papias. 

The  remains  of  B5,  however,  show  that  a  saying  might 
be  prefaced  with  introductory  matter.  Perhaps  a  short 
narrative  was  sometimes  appended.  The  relation  to 
the  canonical  Gospels  cannot  be  determined  with  present 
evidence.  The  sayings  preserved  generally  exhibit  the 
synoptic  type,  perhaps  more  specifically  the  Lukan  type, 
but  Johannine  echoes,  that  is,  possible  traces  of  the 
thought  and  diction  represented  in  the  Fourth  Gospel, 
are  not  absent  (cf  A,  logia  2f,  and  preface  to  B).  It 
seems  not  improbable  that  the  compiler  had  our  four 
Gospels  before  him,  but  nothing  can  be  proved.  There 
is  no  distinct  sign  of  heretical  influence.  The  much- 
debated  saving  about  the  wood  and  the  stone  (A46) 
undoubtedly  lends  itself  to  pantheistic  teaching,  but  can 
be  otherwise  understood. 

Under  these  circumstances  the  date  of  the  com- 
pilat  ion  cannot  at  present  be  fixed  except  in  a  very 
general  way.  If  our  papyri  which  represent  two 
copies  were  written,  as  the  discoverers  think,  in  the 
3d  cent.,  that  fact  and  the  indubitably  archaic 
character  of  the  sayings  make  it  all  but  certain  that 


the  text  as  arranged  is  not  later  than  the  2d  cent. 
To  what  part  of  the  cent,  it  is  to  be  assigned  is  at 
present  undiscoverable.  Sanday  inclines  to  about 
120  AD,  the  finders  suggest  about  140  AD  as  the 
terminus  ad  qucm,  Zahn  dates  1(10-70  AD,  and  Dr. 
Taylor  150-200  AD.  Further  research  may  solve 
these  problems,  but,  with  the  resources  now  avail- 
able, all  that  can  be  said  is  that  we  have  in  the 
Logia  of  Oxyrhynchus  a  few  glimpses  of  an  early 
collection  of  sayings  ascribed  to  Jesus  which  cir- 
culated in  Egypt  in  the  3d  cent,  of  great  interest 
and  possibly  of  considerable  value,  but  of  com- 
pletely unknown  origin. 

Literature. — Of  the  extensive  literature  which  has 
gathered  round  the  Logia — as  many  as  fifty  publications 
relating  to  A  only  in  the  first  few  months — only  a  few 
can  be  mentioned  here.  A  was  first  published  in  1897 
as  a  pamphlet  and  afterward  as  No.  1  of  Oxyrhynchus 
Papyri.  Valuable  articles  by  Cross  and  Harnack  ap- 
peared in  Expos,  ser.  V,  vol  VI,  257  IT,  321  If,  401  if,  an 
important  lecture  by  Swete  in  Expos  T,  VIII,  544  ff, 
508,  and  a  very  useful  pamphlet  by  Sanday  and  Lock  in 
the  same  year.  B  appeared  in  1904  in  pamphlet  form 
and  as  No.  054  of  the  Oxyrhynchus  Papyri,  with  a 
fuller  coram.  Dr.  C.  Taylor's  pamphlets  on  A  and 
B  issued  respectively  in  1899  and  1905,  and  Swete's 
lecture  on  B,  Expos  T,  XV,  48Sff,  are  of  exceptional 
significance  forthe  study  of  the  subject.  Cf  also  ( iriffln- 
hoofe,  The  Unwritten  Sayings  of  Christ  (A  only),  55-07; 
Klostermann,  Kleine  Texte,  Nos.  8,  pp.  11  f  and  11,  pp. 
17  if;  Resch,  AyraphvCK  08-73,  353  f;  HDD,  art. 
"Agrapha,"  extra  vol;  also  arts,  on  "Unwritten  Say- 
ings" iu  HDD,  1909,  and  DCC. 

William  Taylor  Smith 
LOGOS,  log'os  (\6yoS,  logos) : 

I.     Greek  Speculation 

1.  Heraclitus 

2.  Anaxagoras 

3.  Plato 

4.  Aristotle 

5.  Stoics 

II.     Hebrew  Anticipation  op  Doctrine 

1.  Word  as  Revelation  of  God 

2.  Suggestions  of  Personal  Distinctions  in  Deity 

3.  Theophanies 

4.  Wisdom 

5.  Targums 

III.  Alexandrian  Synthesis 
Philo 

IV.  Christian  Realization 

1 .  Pauline  Doctrine 

2.  Doctrine  in  Hebrews 

3.  Doctrine  in  Fourth  Gospel 

(1)  Content  of  Doctrine 

(a)  Relation  of  Logos  to  God 

(b)  Relation  of  Logos  to  World 

(2)  Origin  of  Terminology 
(a)    Hebrew  Source 
(/;)   Hellenic  Source 

(,)    Contrast  between  Philo  and  John 

V.     Patristic  Development 
Literature 

The  doctrine  of  the  Logos  has  exerted  a  decisive 
and  far-reaching  influence  upon  speculative  and 
Christian  thought.  The  word  has  a  long  history, 
and  the  evolution  of  the  idea  it  embodies  is  really 
the  unfolding  of  man's  conception  of  Cod.  To 
comprehend  the  relation  of  the  Deity  to  the  world 
has  been  the  aim  of  all  religious  philosophy.  While 
widely  divergent  views  as  to  the  Divine  manifesta- 
tion have  been  conceived,  from  the  dawn  of  West- 
ern speculation,  the  Gr  word  logos  has  been  em- 
ployed with  a  certain  degree  of  uniformity  by  a 
series  of  thinkers  to  express  and  define  the  nature 
and  mode  of  God's  revelation. 

Logos  signifies  in  classical  Gr  both  "reason"  and 
"word."  Though  in  Bib.  Gr  the  term  is  mostly 
employed  in  the  sense  of  "word,"  we  cannot  proper- 
ly dissociate  the  two  significations.  Every  word 
implies  a  thought.  It  is  impossible  to  imagine  a 
time  wdien  God  was  without  thought.  Hence 
thought  must  be  eternal  as  the  Deity.  The  tr 
"thought"  is  probably  the  best  equivalent  for  the 
Gr  term,  since  it  denotes,  on  the  one  hand,  the 
faculty  of  reason,  or  the  thought  inwardly  con- 
ceived in  the  mind;  and,  on  the  other  hand,  the 
thought  outwardly  expressed  through  the;  vehicle 
of  language.     The  two  ideas,  thought  and  speech, 


Logos 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  MRLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1912 


are  indubitably  blended  in  the  term  logos;  and  in 
every  employment  of  the  word,  in  philosophy  and 
Scripture,  both  notions  of  though!  and  its  outward 
expression  are  intimately  connected. 

In  this  art.  it  will  be  our  aim  to  trace  the  evo- 
lution of  the  doctrine  from  its  earliest  appearance 
in  Gr  philosophy  through  its  Ileb  and  Alexandrian 
phases  till  it  attained  its  richest  expression  in  the 
writings  of  the  NT,  and  esp.  in  the  Fourth  Gospel. 

The  doctrine  may  be  said  to  have  two  stages: 
a  Hellenistic  and  a  lleb;  or,  more  correctly,  a  pre- 
Christian  and  a  Christian.  The  theory  of  Philo 
and  of  the  Alexandrian  thinkers  generally  may  be 
regarded  as  the  connecting  link  between  the  ( !r  and 
the  Christian  forms  of  the  doctrine.  The  Gr  or 
pre-Christian  speculation  on  the  subject  is  marked 
by  the  names  of  Ileraclitus,  Plato  and  the  Stoics. 
Philo  paves  the  way  for  the  Christian  doctrine  of 
Paul,  Hebrews  and  the  Johannine  Gospel. 

/.  Greek  Speculation. — The  earliest  speculations 
of  the  Greeks  were  occupied  with  the  world  of 
Nature,  and  the  first  attempts  at  philosophy  take 
the  shape  of  a  search  for  some  unitary  principle  to 
explain  the  diversity  of  the  universe. 

Ileraclitus  was  practically  the  first  wtio  sought  to 
account  for  the  order  w  iiich  existed  in  a  world  of  change 
by  a  law  or  ruling  principle.  This  pro- 
l.Heraclitus  roundest  of  Gr  philosophers  saw  every- 
thing in  a  condition  of  flux.  Everything 
is  forever  passing  into  something  else  and  lias  an  existence 
only  in  relation  to  this  process.  We  cannot  say  tilings 
are:  they  come  into  being  and  pass  away.  To  account 
for  this  state  of  perpetual  be co m i ng,  Heraclitus  was  led 
to  seek  out  a  new  and  primary  element  from  which  all 
tilings  take  their  rise.  This  substance  he  conceived  to 
be,  not  water  or  air  as  previous  thinkers  had  conjectured, 
but  something  more  subtle,  mysterious  and  potent — 
fire.  This  restless,  all-consuming  and  yet  all-transform- 
ing activity — now  darting  upward  as  a  flame,  now  sink- 
ing to  an  ember  and  now  vanishing  as  smoke — is  for 
him  at  once  the  symbol  and  essence  of  life.  But  it  is  no 
arbitrary  or  lawless  element.  If  there  is  flux  everywhere, 
all  change  must  take  place  according  to  "measure." 
Reality  is  an  "attunement"  of  opposites,  a  tension  or 
harmony  of  conflicting  elements.  Heraclitus  saw  all 
the  mutations  of  being  governed  by  a  rational  and  un- 
alterable, law.  This  law  he  calls  sometimes  "Justice," 
sometimes  "Harmony";  more  frequently  "Logos"  or 
"Reason,"  and  in  two  passages  at  least,  "God."  _  Fire, 
Logos,  God  are  fundamentally  the  same.  It  is  the 
eternal  energy  of  the  universe  pervading  all  its  substance 
and  preserving  in  unity  and  harmony  the  perpetual 
drift  and  evolution  of  phenomenal  existence.  Though 
Heraclitus  sometimes  calls  this  rational  principle  God, 
it  is  not  probable  that  ho  attached  to  it  any  definite  idea 
of  consciousness.  The  Logos  is  not  above  the  world  or 
even  prior  to  it.  It  is  in  it,  its  inner  pervasive  energy 
sustaining,  relating  and  harmonizing  its  endless  variety. 

Little  was  done  by  tin;  immediate  successors  of  Her- 
aclitus to  develop  the  doctrine  of  the  Logos,  and  as  the 
distinction     between     mind     and     matter 

2  Anax-  became     more     defined,     the     term     nous 

superseded  that  of  Logos  as  the  rational 
agoras  force  of  the  world.     Anaxagoras  was  the 

first  thinker  who  introduced  the  idea  of  a 
supreme  intellectual  principle  which,  while  independent 
of  the  world,  governed  it.  His  conception  of  the  nous 
or  "mind  "  is,  however,  vague  and  confused,  hardly  dis- 
tinguishable from  corporeal  matter.  By  the  artificial 
introduction  of  a  power  acting  externally  upon  the 
world,  a  dualism,  which  continued  throughout  Gr  phi- 
losophy, was  created.  At  the  same  time  it  is  to  the 
merit  of  Anaxagoras  that  he  was  the  first  to  perceive 
some  kind  of  distinction  between  mind  and  matter  and 
to  suggest  a  teleological  explanation  of  the  universe. 

In  Plato  the  idea  of  a  regulative  principle  reappears. 
But  though  the  word  is  frequently  used,  it  is  units  and 

not    Logos  which  determines  his  concep- 

3  Plato  tion  of  the  relation  of  God  and  the  world. 

The  special  doctrine  of  the  Logos  does  not 
find  definite  expression,  except  perhaps 
in  the  Timneus.  where  the  word  is  employed  as  descrip- 
tive of  the  Divine  force  from  which  the  world  has  arisen. 
But  if  the  word  does  not  frequently  occur  in  thedialogues, 
there  is  not  wanting  a  basis  upon  which  a  Logos-doctrine 
might  be  framed;  and  the  conception  of  archetypal 
ideas  affords  a  philosophical  expression  of  the  relation  of 
God  and  the  world.  The  idea  of  a  dominating  principle 
of  reason  was  lifted  to  a  higher  plane  by  the  distinction 
which  Plato  made  between  the  world  of  sense  and  the 
world  of  thought,  to  the  latter  of  which  Ciod  belonged. 
According  to  Plato,  true  reality  or  absolute  being  con- 
sisted of  the  "Ideas"  which  he  conceived  as  thoughts 
residing  in  the  Divine  mind  before  the  creation  of  the 


world.  To  these  abstract  concepts  was  ascribed  the 
character  of  supersensible  realities  of  which  in  someway 
the  concrete  visible  things  of  the  world  were  copies  or 
images.  Compared  with  the  "Ideas,"  the  world  of 
things  was  a  world  of  shadows.  This  was  the  aspect  of 
the  Platonic  doctrine  of  ideas  which,  as  we  shall  see, 
Philo  afterward  seized  upon,  because  it  best  fitted  in 
with  his  general  conception  of  the  transcendence  of  God 
and  His  relation  to  the  visible  world.  Three  features 
of  Plato's  view  ought  to  be  remembered  as  having  a 
special  significance  for  our  subject:  (i)  While  God  is 
regarded  by  Plato  as  the  intelligent  power  by  which  the 
world  is  formed,  matter  itself  is  conceived  by  him  as  in 
some  sense  eternal  and  partly  intractable.  (2)  While 
in  the  Philebus  Plato  employs  the  expression,  "the  regal 
principle  of  intelligence  in  the  nature  of  (tod"  (vovi  /3a- 
CTiAi/cos  e>'  t»;  toO  Aibs  <t>v<Tei,  nolis  basilikds  en  tf  tou 
Dids  phusei),  it  is  doubtful  if  reason  was  endowed  with 
personality  or  was  anything  more  than  an  attribute  of 
the  Divine  mind.  (3)  The  ideas  are  merely  models  or 
archetypes  after  which  creation  is  fashioned. 

The  doctrine,  of  the  Logos  cannot  be  said  to  occupy 

a  distinctive  place  in  the  teaching  of  Aristotle,  though 

the    word    does    occur    in    a    variety    of 

A.     Aric+r>f1»      senses       (e.g.       opObs      Ao-yo?,       ortlios       logos, 

*'  Arlbloue  •right  insight,"  the  faculty  by  which  the 
will  is  trained  to  proper  action).  Aristotle 
sought  to  solve  the  fundamental  problem  of  Gr  phi- 
losophy as  to  how  behind  the  changing  multiplicity  of 
appearances  an  abiding  Being  is  to  be  thought  by  means 
of  the  concept  of  development.  Plato  had  regarded  the 
"ideas"  as  the  causes  of  phenomena — causes  different 
from  the  objects  themselves.  Aristotle  endeavored  to 
overcome  the  duality  of  Plato  by  representing  reality 
as  the  essence;  which  contains  within  itself  potentially 
the  phenomena,  and  unfolds  into  the  particular  mani- 
festations of  the  sensible  world.  This  conception  has 
exerted  a  powerful  influence  upon  subsequent  thought, 
and  particularly  upon  the  monotheistic  view  of  the;  world. 
At  the  same  time  in  working  it  out,  the  ultimate  "prime- 
mover"  of  Aristotle  was  not  materially  different  from 
the  idea  of  "the;  Good"  of  Plato.  And  inasmuch  as 
Cod  was  conceived  as  pure  thought  existing  apart  from 
the;  world  in  eternal  blessedness,  Aristotle  did  not  suc- 
ceed in  resolving  the  duality  of  God  and  the  universe 
which  exercised  the  Gr  mind. 

It  is  to  the  Stoics  we  must  look  for  the  first  system- 
atic exposition  of  the  doctrine  of  the  Logos.  It  is 
the  key  to  their  interpretation  of  life, 
5.  Stoics  both  in  the  realms  of  Nature  and  of 
duty.  Interested  more  in  ethical  than 
physical  problems,  they  were  compelled  to  seek  a 
general  metaphysical  basis  for  a  rational  moral  life. 
Some  unitary  idea  must  be  found  which  will  over- 
come the  duality  between  God  and  the  world  and 
remove  the  opposition  between  the  sensuous  and 
supersensuous  which  Plato  and  Aristotle  had  failed 
to  reconcile.  For  this  end  the  Logos-doctrine  of 
Heraclitus  seemed  to  present  itself  as  the  most 
satisfactory  solution  of  the  problem.  The  funda- 
mental thought  of  the  Stoics  consequently  is  that 
the  entire  universe  forms  a  single  living  connected 
whole  and  that  all  particulars  are  the  determinate 
forms  assumed  by  the  primitive  power  which  they 
conceived  as  never-resting,  all-pervading  fire. 
This  eternal  activity  or  Divine  world-power  which 
contains  within  itself  the  conditions  and  processes 
of  all  things,  they  call  Logos  or  God.  More  par- 
ticularly as  the  product  ive  power,  the  Deity  is 
named  the  \6yos  (T7rep^art/c6s,  logos  spermatikds, 
the  Seminal  Logos  or  generative  principle  of  the 
world.  This  vital  energy  not  only  pervades  the 
universe,  but  unfolds  itself  into  innumerable  logoi 
spermatikoi  or  formative  forces  which  energize  the 
manifold  phenomena  of  Nature  and  life.  This 
subordination  of  all  particulars  to  the  Logos  not 
only  constitutes  the  rational  order  of  the  universe 
but  supplies  a  norm  of  duty  for  the  regulation  of  the 
activities  of  life.  Hence  in  the  moral  sphere  "to 
live  according  to  Nature"  is  the  all-determining 
law  of  conduct. 

//.  Hebrew  Anticipation  of  Doctrine. — So  far  we 
have  traced  the  development  of  the  Logos-doctrine 
in  Gr  philosophy.  We  have  now  to  note  a  parallel 
movement  in  Heb  thought.  Though  strictly 
speaking  it  is  incorrect  to  separate  the  inner  Reason 
from  the  outer  expression  in  the  term  Logos,  still 
in    the    Hellenistic   usage   the   doctrine   was   sub- 


1913 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Logos 


stantially  a  doctrine  of  Reason,  while  in  Jewish  lit. 
it  was  more  esp.  the  outward  expression  or  word 
that  was  emphasized. 

The  sources  of  this  conception  are  to  be  found  in 

the  OT  and  in  the  post-canonical  literature.     The 

God  who  is  made  known  in  Scripture 

1.  Word  as  is  regarded  as  one  who  actively  reveals 
Revelation  Himself.  He  is  exhibited  therefore 
of  God  as  making  His  will  known    in  and  by 

His  spoken  utterances.  The  ''Word 
of  God"  is  presented  as  the  creative  principle  (Gen 
1  3;  Ps  33  6);  as  instrument  of  judgment  (Hos 
6  5);  as  agent  of  healing  (Ps  107' 20);  and  gen- 
erally as  possessor  of  personal  qualities  (Isa  55  2; 
Ps  147  15).  Revelation  is  frequently  called  the 
"Word  of  the  Lord,"  signifying  the  spoken  as  dis- 
tinct from  the  written  word. 

In    particular,  we    may  note    certain    adumbra- 
tions of  distinction  of    persons  within    the    Being 

of    God.     It    is    contended    that    the 

2.  Sugges-  phrase  "Let  us  make"  in  Gen  points 
tions  of  to  a  plurality  of  persons  in  the  God- 
Personal  head.  This  indefinite  language  of 
Distinctions  (Jen  is  more  full}-  explained  by  the 
in  Deity         priestly   ritual   in    Nu   (6  23-26)    and 

in  the  Psalter.  In  Jer,  Ezr  and  the 
vision  of  Isa  (6  2-8)  the  same  idea  of  Divine 
plurality  is  implied,  showing  that  the  OT  presents 
a  doctrine  of  God  far  removed  from  the  sterile 
monotheism  of  the  Koran  (cf  Liddon,  Divinity  of 
Our  Lord,  and  Konig). 

Passing  from  these  indefinite  intimations  of  personal 

distinction  in  the  inner  life  of  God,  we  may  mention  first 

that     series     of     remarkable     apparitions 

3.  Theopha-  commonly   known   as   the   theophanies   of 
nies  the    OT.     These   representations    are    de- 
scribed as  the  "Angel  of  Jeh"  or  of  "the 

Covenant";  or  as  the  "Angel  of  his  presence."  This 
angelic  appearance  is  sometimes  identified  with  Jeh  (Gen 
16  11.13;  32  29-31;  Ex  3  2;  13  21),  sometimes  dis- 
tinguished from  Him  (Gen  22  15;  24  7;  28  12);  some- 
times presented  in  both  aspects  (Ex  3  0;  Zee  1  11). 
We  find  God  revealing  Himself  in  this  way  to  Abraham, 
Sarah,  Lot,  Hagar,  Jacob,  Moses,. Joshua, ( lideon,  Manoah. 
Who  was  this  angel?  The  earliest  Fathers  reply  with 
general  unanimity  that  He  was  the  "Word"  or  "Son  of 
Cod."  But  while  the  earlier  church  teachers  distin- 
guished between  the  "Angel  of  the  Lord"  and  the 
Father,  the  Arians  sought  to  widen  the  distinction  into 
a  difference  of  natures,  since  an  invisible  Being  must  be 
higher  than  one  cognizable  by  the  senses.  Augustine 
insists  upon  the  Scriptural  truth  of  the  invisibility  of 
God  as  God,  the  Son  not  less  than  the  Father.  He  will 
not  presume,  however,  to  say  which  of  the  Divine  persons 
manifested  Himself  in  this  or  that  instance;  and  his 
general  doctrine,  in  which  he  has  been  followed  by  most 
of  t  he  later  teachers  of  the  church,  is  that  the  theophanies 
were  not  direct  appearances  of  a  Person  of  the  Godhead, 
but  self-manifestations  of  God  through  a  created  being. 
A  further  development  of  the  conception  of  a  personal 
medium  of  revelation  is  discernible  in  the  description  of 
Wisdom   as   given    in   some   of   the    later 

4.  Wisdom      books  of  the  OT.     The  wisdom  of  Jewish 

Scripture  is  more  than  a  human  endow- 
ment or  even  an  attribute  of  God,  and  may  be  said  to 
attain  almost  to  a  personal  reflex  of  the  Deity,  remind- 
ing us  of  the  archetypal  ideas  of  Plato.  In  Job,  wisdom 
is  represented  as  existent  in  God  and  as  communicated 
in  its  highest  form  to  man.  It  is  the  eternal  thought  in 
which  the  Divine  Architect  ever  beholds  His  future 
creation  (Job  28  23-27).  If  in  Job  wisdom  is  revealed 
only  as  underlying  the  laws  of  the  universe  and  not 
as  wholly  personal,  in  the  Book  of  Prov  it  is  coeternal 
with  Jeh  and  assists  Him  in  creation  (Prov  8  22  31). 
It  may  be  doubtful  whether  this  is  the  language  of  a  real 
person  or  only  of  a  poetic  personification.  But  some- 
thing more  than  a  personified  idea  may  be  inferred  from 
the  contents  of  the  sapiential  books  outside  the  Canon. 
Sir  represents  Wisdom  as  existing  from  all  eternity  with 
Cod.  In  Bar  and  still  more  in  Wisd  the  Sophia  is  dis- 
tinctly personal — "the  very  image  of  the;  goodness  of 
God."  In  this  pseudo-Solomonic  book,  supposed  to  be; 
the  work  of  an  Alexandrian  writer  before;  Philo,  the  influ- 
ence of  Gr  thought  is  traceable.  The  writer  speaks  of  Cod's 
Word  {me'mera')  as  His  agent  in  creation  and  judgment. 
Finally  in  the  Tgs,  which  were  popular  interpretations 
or  paraphrases  of  the  OT  Scripture,  there  was  a  tendency 
to  avoid  anthropomorphic  terms  or  such 

5.  Targums    expressions  as  involved  a  too  internal  con- 

ception of  God's  nature  and  manifestation. 
Here  the  three  doctrines  of  the  Word,  the  Angel,  and 


Wisdom  are  introduced  as  mediating  factors  between 
God  and  the  world.  In  particular  the  chasm  between 
the  Divine  and  human  is  bridged  over  by  the  use  of  such 
terms  as  me'm'rd'  ("word")  and  sh<-khinah  ("glory"). 
The  me'mera'  proceeds  from  God,  and  is  His  messenger 
in  Nature  and  history.  But  it  is  significant  that  though 
the  use  of  this  expression  implied  the  felt  need  of  a  Me- 
diator, the  Word  does  not  seem  to  have  been  actually 
identified  with  the  Messiah. 

///.  Alexandrian  Synthesis. — We  have  seen  that 
according  to  Gr  thought  the  Logos  was  conceived 
as  a  rational  principle  or  impersonal  energy  by 
meansof  which  the  world  was  fashioned  and  ordered, 
while  according  to  Hob  thought  the  Logos  was 
regarded  rather  as  a  mediating  agent  or  personal 
organ  of  the  Divine  Being.  The  Hellenistic  doc- 
trine, in  other  words,  was  chiefly  a  doctrine  of  the 
Logos  as  Reason;  the  Jewish,'  a  doctrine  of  the 
Logos  as  Word. 

In  the  philosophy  of  Alexandria,  of  which  Philo 
was  an  illustrious  exponent,  the  two  phases  were 
combined,  and  Hellenistic  speculation 
Philo  was    united    with    lleb    tradition    for 

the  purpose  of  showing  thai  the  OT 
taught  the  true  philosophy  and  embodied  all  that 
was  highest  in  Or  reflection.  In  Philo  the  two 
st  reams  meet  and  flow  henceforth  in  a  common  bed. 
The  all-pervading  Energy  of  Heraclitus,  the  arche- 
typal Ideas  of  Plato,  the  purposive  Reason  of 
Aristotle,  the  immanent  Order  of  the  Stoics  are 
taken  up  and  fused  with  the  Jewish  conception  of 
Jeh  who,  while  transcending  all  finite  existences, 
is  revealed  through  His  intermediatory  Word.  As 
the  result  of  this  Philonic  synthesis,  an  entirely 
new  idea  of  Cod  is  formulated.  While  Philo  ad- 
mits the  ete.'nity  of  matter,  he  rejects  the  Gr  view 
that  the  world  is  eternal,  since  it  denies  the  creative 
activity  and  providence  of  God.  At  the  same  time 
he  separates  Divine  energy  from  ils  manifestations 
in  the  world,  and  is  therefore  compelled  to  connect 
the  one  with  the  other  by  the  interposition  of  sub- 
ordinate Powers.  These  Divine  forces  are  the 
embodiment  of  the  Ideai,  ideai,  of  Plato  and  the 
&yye\oi,  dggeloi,  of  the  OT.  The  double  meaning 
of  Logos — thought  and  speech  is  made  use  of  by 
Philo  to  explain  the  relation  subsisting  between  the 
ideal  world  existing  only  in  the  mind  of  God  and 
the  sensible  universe  which  is  its  visible  embodi- 
ment. He  distinguishes,  therefore,  between  the 
Logos  inherent  in  God  (\6yos  ivdidderos,  logos 
endidthetos),  corresponding  to  reason  in  man,  and 
the  Logos  which  emanates  from  God  (\6yos  vpo- 
(popiKos,  logos  prophorikos) ,  corresponding  to  the 
spoken  Word  as  the  revelation  of  thought.  Though 
in  His  inner  essence  God  is  incomprehensible  by 
any  but  Himself,  He  has  created  the  intelligible 
cosmos  by  His  self-activity.  The  Word  is  therefore 
in  Philo  the  rational  order  manifested  in  the  visible 
world. 

Some  special  features  of  the  Philonic  Logos  may 
be  noted:  (1)  It  is  distinguished  from  God  as  the 
instrument  from  the  Cause.  (2)  As  instrument  by 
which  God  makes  the  world,  it  is  in  its  nature  inter- 
mediate between  God  and  man.  (3)  As  the  ex- 
pressed thought  of  God  and  1  he  rational  principle 
of  the  visible  world,  the  Logos  is  "1  he  Eldest  or  First- 
born Son  of  Cod."  It  is  the  "bond"  (5eo-/x6s,  des- 
mos)  holding  together  all  things  (I)e  Mundi,  i.592), 
the  law  which  determines  the  order  of  the  universe 
and  guides  the  destinies  of  men  and  nations  (ib). 
Sometimes  Philo  calls  it  the  "Man  of  God":  or 
the  "Heavenly  man,"  the  immortal  father  of  all 
noble  men;  sometimes  he  calls  it  "the  Second  God," 
"the  Image  of  God."  (4)  From  this  if  follows  that 
the  Logos  must  be  the  Mediator  between  God  and 
man,  the  "Intercessor"  (I/c^tt/s,  hiketes)  or  "High 
Priest,"  who  is  the  ambassador  from  heaven  and 
interprets  God  to  man.  Philo  almost  exhausts  the 
vocabulary   of    Hob    metaphor    in    describing    the 


Logos 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1014 


Logos.  It.  is  "manna,"  "bread  from  heaven," 
"l  lie  living  stream,"  the  "sword"  of  Paradise, 
the  guiding  "cloud,"  the  "rock"  in  the  wilderness. 

These  various  expressions,  closely  resembling 
the  NT  descriptions  of  Christ,  lead  us  to  ask:  Is 
Philo's  L:>gos  a  personal  being  or  a  pure  abstrac- 
tion? Philo  himself  seems  to  waver  in  his  answer, 
and  the  Creek  and  the  Jew  in  him  are  hopelessly  at. 
issue.  That  he  personifies  the  Logos  is  implied 
in  the  figures  he  uses;  hut  to  maintain  its  person- 
ality would  have  been  inconsistent,  with  Philo's 
whole  view  of  God  and  the  world.  His  Jewish 
faith  inclines  him  to  speak  of  the  Logos  as  personal, 
while  his  Gr  culture  disposes  him  to  an  impersonal 
interpretation.  Confronted  with  this  alternative, 
the  Alexandrian  wavers  in  indecision.  After  all 
has  been  said,  his  Logos  really  resolves  itself  into 
a  group  of  Divine  ideas,  and  is  conceived,  not  as  a 
distinct  person,  but  as  the  thought  of  Cod  which  is 
expressed  in  the  rational  order  of  the  visible  uni- 
verse. 

In  the  speculations  of  Philo,  whose  thought  is  so 
frequently  couched  in  Bib.  language,  we  have  the 
gropings  of  a  sincere  mind  after  a  truth  which  was 
disclosed  in  its  fulness  only  by  the  revelation  of 
Pentecost.  In  Philo,  Gr  philosophy,  as  has  been 
sail,  "stood  almost  at  the  door  of  the  Christian 
church."  But  if  the  Alexandrian  thinker  could  not 
create  the  Christian  doctrine,  he  unconsciously 
prepared  the  soil  for  its  acceptance.  In  this  sense 
his  Logos-doctrine  has  a  real  value  in  the  evolution 
of  Christian  thought.  Philo  was  not,  indeed,  the 
master  of  the  apostles,  but  even  if  he  did  nothing 
more  than  call  forth  their  antagonism,  he  helped 
indirectly  to  determine  the  doctrine  of  Christendom. 

IV.  Christian  Realization. — We  pass  now  to 
consider  the  import  of  the  term  in  the  NT.  Here 
it  signifies  usually  "utterance,"  "speech"  or  "nar- 
rative." In  reference  to  God  it  is  used  sometimes 
for  a  special  utterance,  or  for  revelation  in  general, 
and  even  for  the  medium  of  revelation — Holy 
Scripture.  In  the  prologue  of  the  Fourth  Gospel 
it  is  identified  with  the  personal  Christ;  and  it  is 
this  employment  of  the  term  in  the  light  of  its  past 
history  which  creates  the  interest  of  the  problem 
of  the  NT  doctrine. 

The  author  of  the  Fourth  Gospel  is  not,  however, 
the  first  NT  writer  who  represents  Jesus  as  the 
Logos.  Though  Paul  does  not  actu- 
1.  Pauline  ally  use  the  word  in  this  connection, 
Doctrine  he  has  anticipated  the  Johannine  con- 
ception. Christ  is  represented  by  St. 
Paul  as  before  His  advent  living  a  life  with  God  in 
heaven  (Gal  4  4;  Rom  10  6).  He  is  conceived 
as  one  in  whose  image  earthly  beings,  and  esp.  men, 
were  made  (1  Cor  11  7;  15  45-49);  and  even 
as  participating  in  the  creation  (1  Cor  8  6).  In 
virtue  of  His  distinct  being  He  is  called  God's  "own 
Son"  (Rom  8  32). 

Whether  Paul  was  actually  conversant  with  the 
writings  of  Philo  is  disputed  (cf  Pfleiderer,  Urchris- 
tentum),  but  already  when  he  wrrote  to  the  Colos- 
sians  and  Ephesians  the  influence  of  Alexandrian 
speculal  ion  was  being  felt  in  the  church.  Incipient 
Gnosticism,  which  was  an  attempt  to  correlate 
Christianity  with  the  order  of  the  universe  as  a 
while,  was  current.  Most  noticeable  are  the 
pointed  allusions  to  gnostic  watchwords  in  Eph  3 
1<)  ("fulness  of  God")  and  in  Col  2  3  ("Christ, 
in  whom  are  all  the  treasures  of  wisdom  and  knowl- 
edge hidden"),  where  Paul  shows  that  everything 
sought  for  in  the  doctrine  of  the  Pleroma  is  really 
given  in  Christ.  The  chief  object  of  these  epp.  is 
to  assert  the  unique  dignity  and  absolute  power  of 
the  Person  of  Christ.  He  is  not  merely  one  of  the 
Aeons  which  make  up  the  Pleroma,  as  gnostic 
teachers  affirm,  but  a  real  and  personal  Being  in 


whom  all  the  fulness  of  the  Godhead  dwells.  He 
is  not.  merely  an  inferior  workman  creating  glory 
for  a  higher  Master.  He  creates  for  Himself. 
lie  is  the  end  as  well  as  the  source  of  all  created 
things  (Col  1  15-20).  Though  throughout  this 
ep.  1  Ik;  word  "Logos"  is  never  introduced,  it  is  plain 
that  the  etVcwp,  elkon,  of  Paul  is  equivalent  in 
rank  and  function  to  the  Logos  of  John.  Each 
exists  prior  to  creation,  each  is  equal  to  God,  shares 
His  life  and  cooperates  in  His  work. 

In  the  Ep.  to  the;   He;   we   have  an  equally  ex- 
plicit, if  not  fuller,  declaration  of  the  eternal  Deity 
of  Christ.     Whatever  may  be  said  of 

2.  Doctrine  Paul  there  can  be  little  doubt  that  the 
in  He-  author  of  He  was  familiar  with  the 
brews             Philonic    writings.     Who    this    writer 

was  we  do  not  know;  but  his  Philon- 
ism  suggests  that  he  may  have  been  an  Alexandrian 
Jew,  possibly  even  a  disciple  of  Philo.  In  language 
seemingly  adapted  from  that  source  ("Son  of  God," 
"Firstborn,"  "above  angels,"  "Image  of  God," 
"Agent  in  Creation,"  "Mediator,"  "Great  High 
Priest,"  "Melchizedek")  the  author  of  He  speaks 
of  Christ  as  a  reflection  of  the  majesty  and  imprint 
of  the  nature  of  God,  just  as  in  a  seal  the  impression 
resembles  the  stamp.  The  dignity  of  His  title 
indicates  His  essential  rank.  He  is  expressly  ad- 
dressed as  God;  and  the  expression  "the  effulgence 
of  his  glory"  (RV  diravyaa^a,  apaugasma)  implies 
that  He  is  one  with  God  (He  1  3).  By  Him  the 
worlds  have  been  made,  and  all  things  are  upheld 
by  the  fiat  of  His  word  (ver  3).  In  the  name 
He  bears,  in  the  honors  ascribed  to  Him,  in  His 
superiority  to  angels,  in  His  relationship  as  Creator 
both  to  heaven  and  earth  (ver  10),_  we  recognize 
(in  language  which  in  the  letter  of  it  strongly  re- 
minds us  of  Philo,  yet  in  its  spirit  is  so  different) 
the  description  of  one  who  though  clothed  with 
human  nature  is  no  mere  subordinate  being,  but 
the  possessor  of  all  Divine  prerogatives  and  the 
sharer  of  the  very  nature  of  God  Himself. 

In  the  Fourth  Gospel  the  teaching  of  Paid  and 

the  author  of  He  finds  its  completest  expression. 

"The  letter  to  the  He  stands  in  a  sense 

3.  Doctrine  half-way  between  Pauline  and  Jo- 
in the  hannine  teaching"  (Weizsacker,  Apos- 
Fourth  tolic  Age,  V,  11).  It  is,  however,  too 
Gospel  much  to  say  that  these  three  writers 

represent  the  successive  stages  of  a 
single  line  of  development.  While  all  agree  in  em- 
phasizing the  fact  of  Christ's  Divine  personality 
and  eternal  being,  Paul  represents  rather  the  reli- 
gious interest,  the  Ep.  to  the  He  the  philosophi- 
cal. In  the  Johannine  Christology  the  two  ele- 
ments are  united. 

In  discussing  the  Johannine  doctrine  of  the  Logos 
we  shall  speak  first  of  its  content  and  secondly  of  its 
terminology. 

(1)  Content  of  doctrine. — The  evangelist  uses 
"Logos"  6  t  as  a  designation  of  the  Divine  preexist- 
ent  person  of  Christ  (Jn  1  1.14;  1  Jn  1  1;  Rev 
19  13),  but  he  never  puts  it  into  the  mouth  of 
Christ.  The  idea  which  John  sought  to  convey 
by  this  term  was  not  essentially  different  from  the 
conception  of  Christ  as  presented  by  Paul.  But 
the  use  of  the  word  gave  a  precision  and  emphasis 
to  the  being  of  Christ  which  the  writer  must  have 
felt  was  esp.  needed  by  the  class  of  readers  for 
whom  his  Gospel  was  intended.  The  Logos  with 
whom  the  Fourt h  Gospel  st  art  s  is  a  Person.  Read- 
ers of  the  Synoptics  had  long  been  familiar  with  the 
term  "Word  of  God"  as  equivalent  to  the  Gospel; 
but  the  essential  purport  of  John's  Word  is  Jesus 
Himself,  His  Person.  We  have  here  an  essential 
change  of  meaning.  The  two  applications  are 
indeed  connected;  but  the  conception  of  the  per- 
fect revelation  of  God  in  the  Gospel  passes  into 


1915 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Logos 


that  of  the  perfect  revelation  of  the  Divine  nature 
in  general  (of  Weizsacker,  Apostolic  Age,  V,  ii, 
320). 

In  the  prologue  (which,  however,  must  not  be 
regarded  as  independent  of,  or  having  no  integral 
connection  with,  the  rest  of  the  book)  there  is  stated : 
(a)  the  relation  of  the  Logos  to  God;  and  (b)  the 
relation  of  the  Logos  to  the  world. 

(a)  Relation  of  Logos  to  God :  Here  the  author 
makes  three  distinct  affirmations:  (i)  "In  the  be- 
ginning was  the  Word."  The  evangelist  carries 
back  his  history  of  Our  Lord  to  a  point  prior  to  all 
temporal  things.^  Nothing  is  said  of  the  origin  of 
the  world.  As  in  Gen  1  1,  so  here  there  is  only 
implied  that  the  Logos  was  existent  when  the  world 
began  to  be.  When  as  yet  nothing  was,  the  Logos 
was.  Though  the  eternal  preexistence  of  the  Word 
is  not  actually  stated,  it  is  implied,  (ii)  "The  Word 
was  with  God."  Here  His  personal  existence  is 
more  specifically  defined.  He  stands  distinct  from, 
yet  in  eternal  fellowship  with,  God.  The  preposi- 
tion pros  (bci,  Luther)  expresses  beyond  the  fact 
of  coexistence  that  of  perpetual  intercommunion. 
John  would  guard  against  the  idea  of  mere  self- 
contemplation  on  the  one  hand,  and  entire  inde- 
pendence on  the  other.  It  is  union,  not  fusion. 
(iii)  "The  Word  was  God."  He  is  not  merely  re- 
lated eternally,  but  actually  identical  in  essence 
with  God.  The  notion  of  inferiority  is  emphatically 
excluded  and  the  true  Deity  of  the  Word  affirmed. 
In  these  three  propositions  we  ascend  from  His 
eternal  existence  to  His  distinct  personality  and 
thence  to  His  substantial  Godhead.  All  that  God 
is  the  Logos  is.  Identity,  difference,  communion 
are  the  three  phases  of  the  Divine  relationship. 

(b)  Relation  of  Logos  to  the  world :  The  Logos  is 
word  as  well  as  thought,  and  therefore  there  is  sug- 
gested the  further  idea  of  communicativeness.  Of 
this  self-communication  the  evangelist  mentions 
two  phases — creation  and  revelation.  The  Word 
unveils  Himself  through  the  mediation  of  objects 
of  sense  and  also  manifests  Himself  directly.  Hence 
in  this  section  of  the  prologue  (vs  3-5)  a  threefold 
division  also  occurs,  (i)  He  is  the  Creator  of  the 
visible  universe.  "All  things  were  made  through 
him" — a  phrase  which  describes  the  Logos  as  the 
organ  of  the  entire  creative  activity  of  God  and  ex- 
cludes the  idea  favored  by  Plato  and  Philo  that  God 
was  only  the  architect  who  molded  into  cosmos 
previously  existing  matter.  The  term  iytvero, 
egeneto  ("becomes,  werden),  implies  the  successive 
evolution  of  the  world,  a  statement  not  inconsistent 
with  the  modern  theory  of  development,  (ii)  The 
Logos  is  also  the  source  of  the  intellectual,  moral 
and  spiritual  life  of  man.  "In  him  was  life;  and 
the  life  was  the  light  of  men."  He  is  the  light 
as  well  as  the  life — the  fountain  of  all  the  manifold 
forms  of  being  and  thought  in  and  by  whom  all 
created  things  subsist,  and  from  whom  all  derive 
illumination  (cf  1  Jn  1  1-3;  also  Col  1  17).  But 
inasmuch  as  the  higher  phases  of  intelligent  life 
involve  freedom,  the  Divine  Light,  though  perfect 
and  undiminished  in  itself,  was  not  comprehended 
by  a  world  which  chose  darkness  rather  than^  light 
(vs  5.11).  (iii)  The  climax  of  Divine  revelation  is 
expressed  in  the  statement,  "The  Word  became 
flesh,"  which  implies  on  the  one  hand  the  reality 
of  Christ's  humanity,  and,  on  the  other,  the  volun- 
tariness of  His  incarnation,  but  excludes  the  notion 
that  in  becoming  man  the  Logos  ceased  to  be  God. 
Though  clothed  in  flesh,  the  Logos  continues  to  be 
the  self -manifesting  God,  and  retains,  even  in  human 
form,  the  character  of  the  Eternal  One^  In  this 
third  phase  is  embodied  the  highest  manifestation 
of  the  Godhead.  In  physical  creation  the  power 
of  God  is  revealed.  In  the  bestowal  of  light  to 
mankind  His  wisdom  is  chiefly  manifested.     But 


in  the  third  esp.  is  His  love  unveiled.  All  the  per- 
fections of  the  Deity  are  focused  and  made  visible 
in  Christ — the  "glory  as  of  the  only  begotten  from 
the  Father,  full  of  grace  and  truth"  (Jn  1  14). 

Thus  the  Word  reveals  the  Divine  essence.  The 
incarnation  makes  the  life,  the  light  and  the  love 
which  are  eternally  present  in  God  manifest  to 
men.  _  As  they  meet  in  God,  so  they  meet  in  Christ. 
This  is  the  glory  which  the  disciples  beheld;  the 
truth  to  which  the  Baptist  bore  witness  (ver  7); 
the  fulness  whereof  His  apostles  received  (ver  16); 
the  entire  body  of  grace  and  truth  by  which  the 
Word  gives  to  men  the  power  to  become  the  sons  of 
God. 

There  is  implied  throughout  that  the  Word  is  the  Son. 
Each  of  these  expressions  taken  separately  have  led 
and  may  lead  to  error.  But  combined  they  correct 
possible  misuse.  On  the  one  hand,  their  union  protects 
us  from  considering  the  Logos  as  a  mere  abstract  imper- 
sonal quality;  and,  on  the  other,  saves  us  from  imparting 
to  the  Son  a  lower  state  or  more  recent  origin  than  the 
Father.  Each  term  supplements  and  protects  the 
other.  Taken  together  they  present  Christ  before  His 
incarnation  as  at  once  personally  distinct  from,  yet 
equal  with,  the  Father — as  the  eternal  life  which  was 
with  God  and  was  manifested  to  us. 

(2)  Origin  of  terminology. — We  have  now  to  ask 
whence  the  author  of  the  Fourth  Gospel  derived  the 
phraseology  employed  to  set  forth  his  Christology.  It 
will  be  well,  however,  to  distinguish  between  the  source 
of  the  doctrine  itself  and  the  source  of  the  language.  For 
it  is  possible  that  Alexandrian  philosophy  might  have 
suggested  the  linguistic  medium,  while  the  doctrine 
itself  had  another  origin.  Writers  like  Reuss,  Keim, 
Holtzmann,  Weizsacker,  Schmiedel,  etc,  who  contend 
for  the  Alexandrian  derivation  of  the  prologue,  are  apt 
to  overlook  two  considerations  regarding  the  Johannine 
doctrine:  (1)  There  is  no  essential  difference  between 
the  teaching  of  John  and  that  of  the  other  apostolic 
writers;  and  even  when  the  word  "Logos"  is  not  used, 
as  in  Paul's  case,  the  view  of  Christ's  person  is  virtually 
that  which  we  find  in  the  Fourth  Gospel.  (2)  The 
writer  himself  affirms  that  his  knowledge  of  Christ  was 
not  borrowed  from  others,  but  was  derived  from  personal 
fellowship  with  Jesus  Himself.  "We  beheld  his  glory, 
glory  as  of  the  only  begotten."  This  is  John's  summary 
and  witness  upon  which  he  proceeds  to  base  the  vivid 
memories  of  Jesus  which  follow.  The  Johannine  doc- 
trine is  not  to  be  regarded  merely  as  a  philosophical 
account  of  the  nature  of  God  and  His  creation  of  the 
world,  but  rather  as  the  statement  of  a  belief  which 
already  existed  in  the  Christian  church  and  which  re- 
ceived fresh  testimony  and  assurance  from  the  evangel- 
ist's own  personal  experience. 

But  the  question  may  still  be  asked:  Even  if  it  was 
no  novel  doctrine  which  John  declared,  what  led  him  to 
adopt  the  language  of  the  Logos,  a  word  which  had  not 
been  employed  in  this  connection  by  previous  Christian 
writers,  but  which  was  prevalent  in  the  philosophical 
vocabulary  of  the  age  ?  It  would  be  inconceivable  that 
the  apostle  lighted  upon  this  word  by  chance  or  that  he 
selected  it  without  any  previous  knowledge  of  its  his- 
tory and  value.  It  may  be  assumed  that  when  he  speaks 
of  the  "Word"  in  relation  to  God  and  the  world,  he  em- 
ploys a  mode  of  speech  which  was  already  familiar  to 
those  for  whom  he  wrote  and  of  whose  general  import 
he  himself  was  well  aware. 

The  truth  that  Jesus  of  Nazareth  was  the  Christ  was 
borne  in  upon  St.  John.  The  problem  which  confronted 
him  was  how  he  could  make  that  truth  real  to  his  con- 
temporaries. This  he  sought  to  do  by  using  the  language 
of  the  highest  religious  thought  of  his  day. 

We  have  seen  that  the  term  "Logos"  had  under- 
gone a  twofold  and  to  some  extent  parallel  evolution. 
On  the  one  hand,  it  had  a  Heb  and,  on  the  other,  a 
Hellenic  history.  In  which  direction  are  we  to 
look  for  the  immediate  source  of  the  Johannine 
terminology? 

(a)  Hebrew  source:  As  a  Palestinian  Jew  familiar 
with  current  Jewish  ideas  and  forms  of  devout 
expression,  it  would  be  natural  for  him  to  adopt 
a  word,  or  its  Gr  equivalent,  which  played  so 
important  a  part  in  shaping  and  expressing  the 
religious  beliefs  of  the  OT  people.  Many  scholars 
consider  that  we  have  here  the  probable  source  of 
Johannine  language.  In  the  OT,  and  particularly 
in  the  Targums  or  Jewish  paraphrases,  the  "Word" 
is  constantly  spoken  of  as  the  efficient  instrument 
of  Divine  action;  and  the  "Word  of  God"  had  come 
to  be  used  in  a  personal  way  as  almost  identical 


Logos 
Longevity 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1916 


with  God  Himself.  In  Rev  19  13,  we  have  ob- 
viously an  adoption  of  this  Hob  use  of  the  phrase. 
Throughout  the  Gospel  there  is  evinced  a  decided 
familiarity  and  sympathy  with  the  OT  teaching, 
and  some  expressions  would  seem  to  indicate1  the 
evangelist's  desire  to  show  that  Jesus  is  the  fulfil- 
ment of  Jewish  expectation  (e.g.  1  14.29.31;  2  19; 
3  H-  6  32.48-50),  and  the  living  embodiment  of 
Israelii ish  truth  (1  16;  8  12;  11  25;  14  6).  But 
as  against  this  it  lias  been  pointed  out  by  Weiz- 
siicker  {Apostolisches  Zeitalter)  that  the  Word  of 
Cod  is  not  conceived  in  the  OT  as  an  independent 
Being,  still  less  as  equivalent  for  the  Messiah,  and 
that  the  rabbinical  doctrine  which  identifies  the 
memra  with  God  is  of  much  later  date. 

At  the  same  time  the  Heb  cast  of  thought  of  the 
Johannine  Gospel  and  its  affinities  wit  h  Jewish  rather 
than  Hellenic  modes  of  expression  can  hardly  be 
gainsaid.  Though  John's  knowledge  of  and  sympathy 
with  Palestinian  religion  may  not  actually  account 
for  his  use  of  the  term  "Logos,"  it  may  have  largely 
colored  and  directed  his  special  application  of  it. 
For,  as  Neander  observes,  that  name  may  have 
been  put  forward  at  Ephesus  in  order  to  lead  those 
Jews,  who  were  busying  themselves  with  specula- 
tions on  the  Logos  as  the  center  of  all  theophanies, 
to  recognize  in  Christ  the  Supreme  Revelation  of 
God  and  the  fulfilment  of  their  Messianic  hopes. 

(6)  Hellenic  source:  Other  writers  trace  the 
Johannine  ideas  and  terms  to  Hellenic  philosophy  and 
particularly  to  Alexandrian  influence  as  represented 
in  Philo.  No  one  can  compare  the  Fourth  Gospel 
with  the  writings  of  Philo  without  noting  a  remark- 
able similarity  in  diction,  esp.  in  the  use  of  the  word 
"Logos."  It  would  be  hazardous,  however,  on  this 
ground  alone  to  impute  conscious  borrowing  to  the 
evangelist.  It  is  more  probable  that  both  the 
Alexandrian  thinker  and  the  NT  writer  were  sub- 
ject to  common  influences  of  thought  and  expression. 
Hellenism  largely  colors  the  views  and  diction  of  the 
early  church.  St.  Paul  takes  over  many  words 
from  Gr  philosophy.  "There  is  not  a  single  NT 
writing,"  says  Harnack  (Dogmen-Geschichte,  I,  47, 
n.),  "which  does  not  betray  the  influenceof  the  mode 
of  thought  and  general  culture  which  resulted  from 
the  Hellenizing  of  the  East,"  But,  while  that  is 
true,  it  must  not  be  forgotten,  as  Harnack  himself 
points  out,  "that  while  the  writers  of  the  NT  breathe 
an  atmosphere  created  by  Gr  culture,  the  religious 
ideas  in  which  they  live  and  move  come  to  them 
from  the  OT." 

It  is  hardly  probable  that  St.  John  was  directly 
acquainted  with  the  writings  of  Philo.  But  it  is 
more  than  likely  that  he  was  cognizant  of  the  general 
tenor  of  his  teaching  and  may  have  discovered  in 
the  language  which  had  floated  over  from  Alexan- 
dria to  Ephesus  a  suitable  vehicle  for  the  utterance 
of  his  own  beliefs,  esp.  welcome  and  intelligible  to 
those  who  were  familiar  with  Alexandrian  modes  of 
thought, 

But  whatever  superficial  resemblances  there  may 
be  between  Philo  and  St.  John  (and  they  are  not 
few  or  vague),  it  must  be  at  once  evident  that  the 
whole  spirit  and  view  of  life  is  fundamentally 
different.  So  far  from  the  apostle  being  a  disciple 
of  the  Alexandrian  or  a  borrower  of  his  ideas,  it 
would  be  more  correct  to  say  that  there  is  clearly 
a  conscious  rejection  of  the  Philonic  conception,  and 
that  the  Logos  of  John  is  a  deliberate  protest 
against  what  he  must  have  regarded  as  the  inade- 
quate and  misleading  philosophy  of  Greece. 

(c)  Contrast  between  Philo  and  John:  The  con- 
trast between  the  two  writers  is  much  more  striking 
than  the  resemblance.  The  distinction  is  not  due 
merely  to  the  acceptance  by  the  Christian  writer 
of  Jesus  as  the  Word,  but  extends  to  the  whole  con- 
ception of  God  and  His  relation  to  the  world  which 


has  made  Christianity  a  new  power  among  men. 
The  Logos  of  Philo  is  metaphysical,  that  of  John, 
religious.  Philo  moves  entirely  in  the  region  of 
abstract  thought,  his  idea  of  God  is  pure  being; 
John's  thought  is  concrete  and  active,  moving  in  a 
region  of  life  and  history.  Philo's  Logos  is  inter- 
mediate, the  instrument  which  God  employs  in 
fashioning  the  world;  John's  Logos  is  not  subsidiary 
but  is  Himself  God,  and  as  such  is  not  a  mere  instru- 
ment, but  the  prime  Agent  in  creation.  According 
to  Philo  the  Deity  is  conceived  as  an  architect  who 
forms  the  world  out  of  already  existent  matter. 
According  to  John  the  Logos  is  absolute  Creator  of 
all  that  is,  the  Source  of  all  being,  life  and  intelli- 
gence. In  Philo  the  Logos  hovers  between  person- 
ality and  impersonality,  and  if  it  is  sometimes  per- 
sonified it  can  hardly  be  said  to  have  the  value  of 
an  actual  person;  in  John  the  personality  of  the 
Logos  is  affirmed  from  the  first  and  it  is  of  the  very 
essence  of  his  doctrine,  the  ground  of  His  entire 
creative  energy.  The  idea  of  an  incarnation  is 
alien  to  the  thought  of  Philo  and  impossible  in  his 
scheme  of  the  universe;  the  "Word  that  has  be- 
come flesh"  is  the  pivot  and  crown  of  Johannine 
teaching.  Philo  affirms  the  absolute  incompre- 
hensibility of  God;  but  it  is  the  prime  object  of 
the  evangelist  to  declare  that  God  is  revealed  in 
Christ  and  that  the  Logos  is  the  unveiling  through 
the  flesh  of  man  of  the  self-manifesting  Deity.  Not- 
withstanding the  personal  epithets  employed  by 
Philo,  his  Logos  remains  a  pure  abstraction  or 
attribute  of  God,  and  it  is  never  brought  into  rela- 
tion with  human  history.  John's  Logos,  on  the 
other  hand,  is  instinct  with  life  and  energy  from  the 
beginning,  and  it  is  the  very  heart  of  his  Gospel  to 
declare  as  the  very  center  of  life  and.  history  the 
great  historical  event  of  the  incarnation  which  is 
to  recreate  the  world  and  reunite  God  and  man. 

From  whatever  point  of  view  we  compare  them, 
we  find  that  Philo  and  St.  John,  while  using  the  same 
language1,  give  an  entirely  different  value  to  it.  The 
essential  purport  of  the  Johannine  Logos  is  Jesus 
Christ,  The  adoption  of  the  term  involves  its 
complete  transformation.  It  is  baptized  with  a 
new  spirit  and  henceforth  stands  for  a  new  concep- 
tion. From  whatsoever  source  it  was  originally 
derived— from  Heb  tradition  or  Hellenic  specula- 
tion— on  Christian  soil  it  is  a  new  product.  It  is 
neither  Gr  nor  Jewish,  it  is  Christian.  The  philo- 
sophical abstraction  has  become  a  religious  con- 
ception. Hellenism  and  Hebrewism  have  been 
taken  up  and  fused  into  a  higher  unity,  and  Christ 
as  the  embodiment  of  the  Logos  has  become  the 
creative  power  and  the  world-wide  possession  of 
mankind. 

The  most  probable  view  is  that  Philo  and  John 
found  the  same  term  current  in  Jewish  and  gentile 
circles  and  used  it  to  set  forth  their  respective  ideas; 
Philo,  following  his  predilections  for  Gr  philosophy, 
to  give  a  Hellenic  complexion  to  his  theory  of  the 
relation  of  Divine  Reason  to  the  universe;  John, 
true  to  his  Heb  instincts,  seeing  in  the  Logos  the 
climax  of  that  revelation  of  God  to  man  of  which  the 
earlier  Jewish  theophanies  were  but  partial  ex- 
pressions. 

There  is  nothing  improbable  in  the  surmise  that  the 
teaching  of  Philo  gave  a  fresh  impulse  to  the  study  of  the 
Logos  as  Divine  Reason  which  was  already  shadowed 
forth  in  the  Bib.  doctrine  of  Wisdom  (Westcott).  Nor 
need  we  take  offence  that  such  an  important  idea  should 
have  come  to  the  Bib.  author  from  an  extra-Bib.  writer 
(cf  Schmiedel,  Johannine  Writings),  remembering  only 
that  the  author  of  the  Johannine  Gospel  was  no  mechani- 
cal borrower,  but  an  entirely  independent  and  original 
thinker  who  gave  to  the  Logos  and  the  ideas  associated 
with  it  a  wholly  new  worth  and  interpretation.  Thus, 
as  has  been  said,  the  treasures  of  Greece  were  made  con- 
tributory to  the  full  unfolding  of  the  (iospel. 

V  Patristic  Development. — The  Johannine  BogOS 
became  the  fruitful  source  of  much  speculation  in  gnostic 


1917 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


circles  and  among  the  early  Fathers  regarding  the 
nature  of  Christ.  The  positive  truth  presented  by  the 
Fourth  Gospel  was  once  more  broken  up,  and  the  various 
elements  of  which  it  was  the  synthesis  became  the  seeds 
of  a  number  of  partial  and  one-sided  theories  respecting 
the  relation  of  the  Father  and  the  Son.  The  influence  of 
Or  ideas,  which  had  already  begun  in  the  Apostolic  Age, 
became  more  pronounced  and  largely  shaped  the  current 
of  ante-Nicene  theology  (see  Hatch,  Hibbert  Lectures). 

Gnosticism  in  particular  was  an  attempt  to  reconcile 
Christianity  with  philosophy;  but  in  gnostic  systems  the 
term  "Logos"  is  only  sparingly  employed.  According 
to  Basilides  the  "Logos"  was  an  emanation  from  the  nous 
as  personified  Wisdom,  which  again  was  directly  derived 
from  the  Father.  Valentinus,  in  whose  teaching  Gnos- 
ticism culminated,  taught  that  Wisdom  was  the  last  of  a 
series  of  Aeons  which  emanated  from  the  Primal  Being, 
and  the  Logos  was  an  emanation  of  the  first  two  princi- 
ples which  issued  from  God — Reason,  Faith.  Justin 
Martyr,  the  first  of  the  sub-apostolic  Fathers,  sought  to 
unite  the  Scriptural  idea  of  the  Logos  as  Word  with  the 
Hellenic  idea  of  Reason.  According  to  him  God  pro- 
duced in  His  own  nature  a  rational  power  which  was  His 
agent  in  creation  and  took  the  form  in  history  of  the 
Divine  Man.     Christ  is  the  organ  of  all  revelations,  and 

as    the    Adyos    o-rc-tpnaTtKos,     logos    spermatikds,     He     SOWS 

the  seeds  of  virtue  and  truth  among  the  heathen.  All 
that  is  true  and  beautiful  in  the  pagan  world  is  to  be 
traced  to  the  activity  of  the  Logos  before  His  incarna- 
tion. Tatian  and  Theophilus  taught  essentially  the  same 
doctrine;  though  in  Tatian  there  is  a  marked  leaning 
toward  Gnosticism,  and  consequently  a  tendency  to 
separate  the  ideal  from  the  historical  Christ.  Athenag- 
oras,  who  ascribes  to  the  Logos  the  creation  of  all  things 
regarding  it  in  the  double  sense  of  the  Reason  of  God  and 
the  creative  energy  of  the  world,  has  a  firm  grasp  of  the 
Bib.  doctrine,  which  was  still  more  clearly  expressed  by 
Irenaeus,  who  held  that  the  Son  was  the  essential  Word, 
eternally  begotten  of  the  Father  and  at  once  the  inter- 
preter of  God  and  the  Creator  of  the  world. 

The  Alexandrian  school  was  shaped  by  the  threefold 
influence  of  Plato.  Philo  and  the  Johannine  Gospel. 
(  lenient  of  Alexandria  views  the  Son  as  the  Logos  of 
the  Father,  the  Fountain  of  all  intelligence,  the  Revealer 
of  the  Divine  Being  and  the  Creator  and  Illuminator  of 
mankind.  He  repudiates  the  idea  of  the  inferiority  of 
the  Son,  and  rewards  the  Logos  not  as  the  spoken  but 
as  the  creative  word.  Crimen  seeks  to  reconcile  the  two 
ideas  of  the  eternity  and  the  subordination  of  the  Logos 
and  is  in  this  sense  a  mediator  between  the  Arian  and 
more  orthodox  parties  and  was  appealed  to  by  both 
According  to  him  the  Son  is  equal  in  substance  with  the 
Father,  but  there  is  a  difference  in  essence.  While  the 
Father  is  "the  God"  (6  fleris,  ho  theds)  and  "God  Him- 
solf "^  (ai>To0tos,  autdtheos),  the  Logos  is  "a  second 
God"  (6eurepo?  0so<;,  dnitcros  theos).  In  the  Nicene 
Age,  under  the  shaping  influence  of  the  powerful  mind  of 
Athanasius,  and,  to  a  lesser  degree,  of  Basil  and  the  two 
Gregories,  the  Logos-doctrine  attained  its  final  form  in 
the  triumphant  statement  of  the  Nicene  ('reed  which 
declared  the  essential  unity,  but,  at  the  same  time,  the 
personal  distinction  of  the  Father  and  Son.  The 
Council  of  Nicaea  practically  gathered  up  the  divergent 
views  of  the  past  and  established  the  teaching  of  the 
Fourth  Gospel  as  the  doctrine  of  the  church. 

Literature. —  (1)  On  Gr  Logos:  Schleiermacher, 
Herakleitos  der  Dunkle;  Histories  of  Philosophy,  Zeller, 
Ueberweg,  Ritter;  Heinze,  Die  Lehre  vom  Logos  in  der 
Gr  Phil.  (1872);  Aall,  Ueseh.  d.  Loyosidee  in  d.  Gr  Phil 
(1896).  (2)  On  Jewish  doctrine:  Oehler,  OT  Theol 
(1873);  Schiirer,  Lehrbuch  d.  NT  Zeitgesch;  Schultz, 
OT  Theol.  (3)  On  Alexandrian  doctrine:  Gfrdrer,  Philo 
u.  die  alex.  Theosophie  (1831);  Dahne,  Gesch.  Darnell, 
der  jud.-alex.  Religions-Philosophic.  (1843);  Keferstein, 
Philos  Lehre  ton  den  gottlichen  Mittelwesen  (1846);  Dor- 
ner,  Entwicklungsgesch.  der  Lehre  v.  d.  Person  Christi- 
Siegfried,  Philo  v.  Alex.  (187.5);  Drummond,  Philo  Ju- 
daeus  (1888);  Reville,  La  doctrine  du  Logon;  Huber, 
Die  Philosophic  der  Kirchenvdter;  Grossmann,  Questiones 
Philoneae  (1841);  Watson,  Philos.  Basis  of  Religion 
(1907).  (4)  On  Johannine  Gospel:  Relative  comms.  of 
Meyer,  Godet,  Westcott,  Luthardt,  E.  Scott  (1907);  Lid- 
don,  Divinity  of  Our  Lord  ("Bampton  Lectures,"  I860); 
Watkins,  Modern  Criticism  on  the  Fourth  Gospel  ("Bamp- 
ton Lectures,"  1890);  Gloag,  Intro  to  Johannine  Writing! 
(1891);  Stevens,  Johannine  Theol.  (1894);  Drummond 
Gospel  of  St.  John;  Bertling.  Der  Johan.  Logos  (1907) : 
Schmiedel,  The  Johannine  Writings  (1908) ;  Weizsacker,' 
Apostolic  Age,  V,  ii;  Beyschlag  and  Weiss,  Bib.  Theol 
of  NT;  Drummond,  Via,  Veritas,  Vita  (1894);  Hatch, 
Gr  Ideas  and  Usages,  Their  Influence  upon  the  Christian 
Church  (Hibbert  Lectures,  1888).  (5)  Patristic  period: 
Harnack,  Dogmen-Gesch.;  Baur,  Kirchen-Gesch.;  Dorner, 
Si/stem  d.  chr.  Gluubenslehre;  Loofs,  Leitfaden  fur 
»eine  Vorlesungen  iiber  Dogmengeschichte;  Atzbergen, 
Die  Logoslehre  d.  heiligen    Athaiiasius   (1880). 

Arch.  B.  D.  Alexander 
LOINS,  loinz  (fbn,  halac,  Aram,  pn,  Mrag, 
■rTG,  mothen,  ^C3,  kesel,  "ip?,  yarekh;  oo-<f>vs,  osphtis) : 
This  variety  of  Heb  synonyms  seems  to  be  used 


Logos 
Longevity 


rather  promiscuously  for  the  loins,  though  there  is 
no  little  difference  in  the  secondary  meanings  of 
those  words.  They  represent  various  modes  of 
expressing  the  loins  as  the  seat  of  strength  and  vigor 
(Job  40  16,  Heb  mothen,  here  used  of  Behemoth), 
the  center  of  procreative  power,  the  portion  of  the 
body  which  is  girded  about,  and  is  considered  as 
specially  needful  of  covering,  even  under  primitive 
conditions  of  life  (Job  31  20),  and  where  painful 
disease  most  effectually  unfits  a  man  for  work  and 
warfare. 

Jacob  receives  the  Divine  promise  that  "kings 
shall  come  out  of  [his]  loins"  (halac,  Gen  35  11), 
and  we  read  of  66  souls  "that  came  out  of  his  loins" 
(yarekh)  which  went  into  Egypt  (46  26).  The  Ep. 
to  the  He  speaks  of  the  Levites  as  having  come  out 
of  the  loins  of  Abraham  (He  7  5). 

As  the  seat  of  strength   (cf  Leg;    Thigh),  the 
loins  are  girded   with   belts  of  leather   (2  K  1  8; 
Ml   3  4),  or  cloth,  often  beautifully  embroidered 
(Ex  28  39),orof  costly  material  (39  29;  Jer  13  If). 
Girded  loins  are  a  sign  of  readiness  for  service  or 
endeavor      (Ex  12  11;       1  K  18  46;      2  1(4  29- 
Job  38  3;    Prov  31  17;    Lk  12  35;    1  Pet  1  13)! 
Of  God  it  is  said  that  "he  looseth  the  bond  of  kings, 
and  bindeth  their  loins  with  a  girdle,"  i.e.  strength- 
ens them  (Job  12  IS).     On  the  loins  the  sword  is 
worn  (2  S  20  8).     It  is  a  sign  of  mourning  to  gird 
the  loins  with  sackcloth  (1  K  20  32;    Isa  32  11; 
Jer  48  37;    Am  8  10;    see  also  the  First,  Papyrus 
of  Elephantine,  1.  20).     A  man  whose  strength  is  in 
his  attachment  to  truth,  in  other  words  is  faithful, 
is  spoken  of  as  having  his  loins  girt  about  with 
truth  (Eph  6  14).     Thus  the  Messiah  is  described: 
"Righteousness  shall  be  the  girdle  of  his  waist,  and 
faithfulness   the   girdle   of   his   loins"    (Isa  11  5). 
One  of  the  most  primitive  modes  of  clothing  con- 
sisted of  a  fleece  tied  around  the  loins  (Job  31  20). 
The  condition  of  unfitness  for  service  is  described 
in  that  the  loins  (kesel)  are  filled  with  a  burning 
(Ps  38  7,    AV    "loathsome   disease"),   or   that   "a 
sore  burden"  is  laid  upon  the  "loins"  {mothen,  66 
11).    Thus  the  loins  are  made  "continually  to  shake" 
(69  23),    "the    joints   of    [the]   loins"    (hurac)    are 
loosed  (Dnl  5  6),  the  "loins  are  filled  with  anguish" 
(Isa  21  3).     It  is  very  likely  that  originally  a  disa- 
bling lumbago  or  the  painful  affections  of  the  gall  or 
the  bladder  (calculus,  etc)  are  meant,  but  very  soon 
the   expression    becomes   merely    metaphorical    to 
express  personal  helplessness,  esp.  that  which  can 
but  rely  upon  assistance  and  help  from  God. 

,  *m    ,    ,-      ,  .  H.    L.   E.    LUERING 

LOIS,  lo'is  (Awts,  Lois  [2  Tim  15]):  The  grand- 
mot  her  of  Timothy,  and  evidently  the  mother  of 
Eunice,  Timothy's  mother.  The  family  lived  at 
Lystra  (Acts  16  1).  It  was  on  the  occasion  of 
Paul's  first  missionary  journey  (Acts  14)  that 
Eunice  and  Timothy  were  converted  to  Christ,  and 
it  was,  in  all  likelihood,  on  the  same  occasion  that 
Lois  also  became  a  Christian.  Paul  speaks  of  the 
unfeigned  faith  that  there  was  in  Timothy,  and  he 
adds  that  this  faith  dwelt  at  the  first  in  "thy  grand- 
mother Lois,  and  thy  mother  Eunice."  This  is  the 
only  passage  where  Lois  is  mentioned;  but  by  com- 
paring 2  Tim  1  5  with  2  Tim  3  15  (AV),  where 
Paul  refers  to  Timothy's  having  "from  a  child 
known  the  holy  scriptures,"  it  would  appear  that 
Lois  was  associated  with  Eunice,  both  in  a  reverent 
faith  in  God  and  in  the  careful  instruction  in  the 
OT  which  was  given  to  Timothy.  See  Eunice; 
Timothy.  John  Rtjtherfurd 

LONGEVITY,  lon-jev'i-ti:  In  the  part  of  Gen 
ascribed  to  P,  the  names  and  genealogies  of  the 
patriarchs  are  given  (Gen  5,  11).  In  the  three  VSS 
which  are  our  chief  sources,  MT,  LXX  and  Sam, 
the  age-numbers  given  for  these  patriarchs  are  hope- 


Longsuffering 
Lord's  Day 


THE  INTERNATIONA!,  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1918 


lessly  at  variance.  It  is  in  accord  with  what  wo 
find  in  the  earliest  legend  of  most  races  that  in  these; 
chapters  a  great  length  of  life  is  ascribed  to  these; 
thvis  Berosus  attributes  to  the  first,  10  kings  of 
Babylonia  a  span  of  430,000  years,  and  tlesiod 
(Works  and  Days,  129)  says  that  in  the  Silver  Age 
childhood  lasted  100  years,  during  which  a  boy 
was  reared  and  grew  up  beside  his  mother.  On  the 
other  hand  the  evidence  of  prehistoric  archaeology 
shows  that  the  rate  of  development  of  the  individual 
in  the  early  Stone  Age  differed  very  little  from  that 
of  humanity  at  the  present  day.  It  is  possible  that, 
in  the  case  of  the  Heb  record,  the  names  of  certain 
pre-Abrahamic  patriarchs  were  derived  from  an 
ancient  tradition,  and  that  in  the  desire  to  fill  up 
the  chronology  of  the  period  before  the  call  of 
Abraham,  these  names  were  insert ed  and  the  time 
which  was  supposed  to  have  elapsed  was  divided 
among  them,  on  the  basis  of  some  such  hypothesis 
as  that  which  is  said  to  have  existed  among  the 
Jews,  that  the  Messiah  should  come  4,000  years 
after  Adam.  .  . 

We  know  from  the  archaeological  evidence  that 
the  antiquity  of  primitive  man  extends  to  a  date 
very  much  farther  back  than  4.000  years.  Indeed, 
we  can  prove  that  before  4000  BC  there  were  settled 
nationalities  both  in  the  valley  of  the  Nile  and  that 
of  the  Euphrat  es,  and  that  among  these  the  durat  ion 
of  individual  life  was  much  t  he  same  as  at  the  present 
day.  The  first  three  dynasties  in  Egypt,  starting 
at  or  about  4400  BC,  consisted  of  25  consecutive 
kings,  the  average  length  of  whose  several  reigns 
was"  about  30  years.  The  biographic  sketches  of 
Bib.  persons  other  than  those  in  Gen  showed  that 
their  longevity  did  not  exceed  that  of  our  con- 
temporaries. Eli  was  at  98  blind  and  feeble. 
David  at  70  was  bedridden  and  frail.  Manasseh, 
the  king  of  Judah  whose  reign  was  longest, 
died  at  67;  Uzziah  at  OS.  The  statement  in 
Ps  90  10  attributed  to  Moses  is  a  correct  esti- 
mate of  what  has  been  the  expectation  of  life  at 
all  time.  .   .  . 

At  the  present  day  among  Palestinian  fellahin 
very  old  men  are  uncommon.  I  have  never  seen 
anyone  among  them  who  could  prove  that  he  was 
80  years  of  age;  the  rate  of  infant  mortality  is 
appallingly  high.  Maturity  is  earlier,  and  signs  of 
senility  appear  among  them  sooner  than  among 
the  same  class  in  Great  Britain. 

Alex.  Macalister 

LONGSUFFERING,  long-suf'er-ing  (D^SK  -fltf, 
'erekh  'appayim;  (laKpoOvH-ia,  makrothumia) :  The 
words  'erekh  'appayim,  trd  longsuffering,  mean  lit. 
"long  of  nose"  (or  "breathing"),  and,  as  anger  was 
indicated  by  rapid,  violent  breathing  through  the 
nostrils,  "long  of  anger,"  or  "slow  to  wrath."  The 
adj.  is  applied  to  God  (Ex  34  6  AV,  in  the  name  of 
Jeh  as  proclaimed  to  Moses;  Nu  14  18  AV;  Ps 
86  15  AV;  RV  "slow  to  anger,"  which  is  also  the 
tr  in  other  places;  AV  and  RV  Neh  9  17;  Ps 
103  8;  145  8;  Prov  15  18;  16  32;  Joel  2  13; 
Jon  4  2;  Nah  1  3);  it  is  associated  with  "great 
kindness"  and  "plenteous  in  mercy."  The  subst. 
occurs  in  Jer  15  15:  "Take  me  not  away  in  thy 
longsuffering."  In  Eccl  7  8,  we  have  'erekh  ruah, 
AV  and  RV  "patient  in  spirit ." 

The  word  in  the  NT  rendered  "longsuffering, 
makrothumia  (once  makrothumeo,  "to  be  long- 
suffering"),  which  is  the  rendering  of  'erekh  'appayim 
in  the  LXX,  is  lit.  "long  of  mind  or  soul"  (regarded 
as  the  seat  of  the  emotions),  opposed  to  shortness  of 
mind  or  soul,  irascibility,  impatience,  intolerance. 
It  is  attributed  to  God  (Rom  2  4;  9  22;  2  Pet 
3  9),  of  His  bearing  long  with  sinners  and  slowness 
to  execute  judgment  on  them.  It  is,  therefore, 
one  of  "the  fruits  of  the  Spirit"  in  man  (Gal  5  22) 
which  Christians  are  frequently  exhorted  to  cherish 


and  show  one  toward  the  other  (Eph  4  2;  Col  1 
11;  3  12,  etc);  it  belongs,  Paul  says,  to  the  love, 
without  which  all  else  is  nothing:  "Love^  suffereth 
long  [makrothumei],  and  is  kind"  (1  Cor  3.3  4). 
The  vb.  makrothumeo  is  sometimes  trd  by  "patience" 
(Mt  18  26.29,  "Have  patience  with  me").  Lk  18 
7  lias  been  variously  rendered;  AV  has  "And  shall 

not  God  avenge  his  own  elect though  he  bear 

long  with  them";  RV  "and  yet  he  is  longsuffering 
over  them,"  ARVm  "and  is  he  slow  to  punish  on 
their  behalf?"  Weymouth  (NT  in  Modern  Speech) 
has  "although  he  seems  slow  in  taking  action  on 
their  behalf,"  which  most  probably  gives  the  sense 
of  the  passage;  in  Jas  5  7.8  the  vb.  occurs  thrice, 
AV  "be  patient,"  "hath  long  patience";  RV  also  tr3 
by  "patient";  this,  however,  as  in  Mt  18  26.29, 
seems  to  lose  the  full  force  of  the  Gr  word.  Ac- 
cording to  Trench  (Synonyms  of  the  NT,  189), 
the  difference  between  hupomone  ("patience")  and 
makrothumia  is  that  the  latter  word  expresses  pa- 
tience in  respect  to  persons,  and  the  former  in  re- 
spect to  things;  hence  hupomone  is  never  ascribed 
to  God;  where  He  is  called  "the  God  of  patience," 
it  is  as  He  gives  it  to  His  servants  and  saints.  But 
in  Jas  5  7  it  is  used  with  reference  to  things,  and 
in  Col  1  11  it  is  associated  with  patience_  (cf  He 
6  12.15),  suggesting  patient  endurance  of  trials  and 
sufferings.  In  Col  1  11  it  is  also  associated  with 
"joy,"  indicating  that  it  is  not  a  mere  submissive- 
ness,  but  a  joyful  acceptance  of  the  will  of  God, 
whatever  it  may  be.  In  Wisd  15  1;  Ecclus  5  4, 
we  have  "longsuffering"  (makrothumos)  ascribed  to 
God;   also  in  Ecclus  2  11,  RV  "mercy." 

W.  L.  Walker 
LOOK,  look:  (1)  The  uses  of  the  simple  vb.  in 
EV  are  nearly  all  good  modern  Eng.  In  Isa  5  2, 
however,  "He  looked  that  it  should  bring  forth 
grapes" — "look"  is  used  in  the  sense  of  "expect." 
Cf  AV  of  Sir  20  14;  Acts  28  6,  "They  looked 
when  he  should  have  swollen"  (RV  "They  expected 
that  he  would  have  swollen").  In  1  Mace  4  54, 
AVhas  inserted  "look"  (omitted  in  RV)  as  a  simple 
interjection,  without  a  corresponding  word  in  the 
Gr.  (2)  "Look  upon"  means  "fix  one's  attention 
on,"  and  is  often  so  used  in  EV  without  further 
significance  (Eccl  2  11;  Lk  22  56,  etc);  but  in  2 
Ch  24  22  AV  and  RV,  "Jeh  look  upon  it"  means 
"remember."  However,  continual  attention  given 
to  an  object  usually  denotes  that  pleasure  is  found 
in  it,  and  from  this  fact  such  uses  as  those  of  Prov 
23  31,  "Look  not  thou  upon  the  wine  when  it  is  red," 
are  derived.  In  particular,  God's  "looking  upon"  a 
person  becomes  a  synonym  for  "showing  favor  unto," 
as  in  Dt  26  7  AV;  Ps  84  9  AV  and  RV;  119  132 
AV;  Lk  1  48  RV  only,  etc  (RV  usually  re-words? 
in  such  passages).  On  the  other  hand,  "look  on" 
may  be  weakened,  as  in  such  phrases  as  "fair  to 
look  upon"  (Gen  12  11,  etc),  where  it  means  only 
"fair  to  the  sight."  Or,  as  in  modern  Eng.,  "lookon" 
may  describe  the  attitude  of  the  passive  spectator, 
even  when  applied  to  God.  So  Ps  35  17,  "Lord, 
how  long  wilt  thou  look  on?"  (3)  "Look  to"  usually 
means  "pay  attention  to,"  as  in  Prov  14  15;  Jer  39 
12;  2  Jn  ver  8,  etc,  and  RV  occasionally  uses  this 
phrase  in  place  of  AV's  "look  upon"  (Phil  2  4). 
The  reverse  change  is  made  in  AV's  1  S  16  12, 
"goodly  to  look  to";  Ezk  23  15,  "all  of  them 
princes  to  look  to,"  but  in  the  latter  verse  a  more 
drastic  revision  was  needed,  for  the  meaning  is  'all 
of  them  in  appearance  as  princes."  "Look  out 
may  mean  "search  for"  (Gen  41  33;  Acts  63, 
but  may  also  be  used  lit.  (Gen  26  8,  etc).  AV  s 
"looking  after  those  things"  in  Lk  21  26  has  been 
changed  by  RV  into  "expectation  of  the  things. 
"Look  one  another  in  the  face"  in  2  K  14  8.11 
means  "meet  in  battle." 

Burton  Scott  Easton 


1919 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Longsuffering 
Lord's  Day 


LOOKING-GLASS,  look'ing-glas  (Ex  38  8  AV, 
m  "brasen  glasses").     See  Glass;   Mirror. 

LOOM,  loom.     See  Weaving. 

LOOP,  loop  (in  pi.  ns6b  ,  Md'oth  [Ex  26  4  f. 
lOf;  36  llf.17]):  A  ring  or  fold  made  of  blue 
thread  to  fasten  into  the  corresponding  golden 
clasps,  or  taches  upon  the  curtains  of  the  tabernacle, 
joining  them  in  sets,  or  pairs.     See  Tabernacle. 

LORD,  lord,  THE  LORD:  This  Eng.  word  in 
our  Bible  represents  one  Aram.,  3  Gr  and  9  Heb 
words,  two  of  them  in  two  forms.  It  thus  expresses 
all  grades  of  dignity,  honor,  and  majesty.  It  is  not 
always  possible  to  be  sure  of  the  sense  in  which  the 
term  is  to  be  taken.  In  Gen  18  3;  19  IS,  the 
translators  waver  between  interpreting  of  the  Di- 
vine Person  and  a  finite  angel  (cf  marginal  readings). 
It  represents  the  most  sacred  Heb  name  for  God, 
as  their  covenant  God,  Yah,  Yahweh,  and  the  more 
usual  designation  of  Deity,  'Adhondy,  'Adhon,  a 
term  which  they  adopted  to  avoid  pronouncing  the 
most  holy  designation.  They  had  placed  on  Lev 
24  10  an  interpretation  that  aroused  such  a  dread 
that  they  seldom  dared  use  the  name  at  all.  When 
two  of  the  words  usually  trd  "Lord,"  both  referring 
to  God,  occur  together,  AV  renders  "Lord  God," 
and  ARV  "Lord  Jehovah."  ARV  has  adopted 
the  rule  of  using  the  covenant  name  transliter- 
ated, instead  of  the  term  "Lord,"  in  which  AV 
adopts  the  rule  of  the  Hebrews  to  avoid  the  holy 
name. 

The  Aram,  designation,  Mare',  occurs  only  in 
Dnl  (e.g.  2  47;  5  23),  and  the  same  word  refers  to 
a  man  (4  24). 

( )f  the  Gr  words,  Kurios  is  freely  used  of  both  the 
Deity  and  men.  Despotes,  of  men  in  classic  usage, 
occurs  only  of  God,  including  the.  ascended  Jesus, 
and  is  employed  only  5  t.  Megistdnes  (pi.)  is 
found  once,  of  men  (Mk  6  21).  Rabboni  (Heb 
in  Gr  letters)  is  applied  only  to  the  Christ,  and  is 
simply  transliterated  in  RV,  but  rendered  "Lord" 
in  AV  (cf  Mk  10  51). 

Our  Eng.  VSS  distinguish  the  3  main  uses  of  the 
term  thus:  (1)  "Lord"  represents  the  Heb  Yahweh, 
LNX  Kurios,  except  where  'Adhondy  or  'Adhon  is 
combined  with  Yahweh  (="Lord  God");  ARV  has 
in  these  examples  employed  the  name  as  it  is  found 
in  the  Heb,  simply  transliterated.  (2)  "Lord"  cor- 
responds to  'Adhondy,  'Adhon,  Mare',  also  Gr  Kurios 
(see  [1]),  and  Despotes,  for  which  ARV  has  always 
"Master"  in  either  the  text  or  the  margin.  (3) 
"Lord"  ("lord")  translates  all  the  remaining  8  Heb 
words  and  the  Gr  words  except  Despotes.  It  is  thus 
seen  that  Kurios  corresponds  to  all  three  forms  of 
writing  the  Eng.  term.     See  Jehovah. 

William  Owen  Carver 

LORD  OF  HOSTS:  A  name  or  title  of  God  fre- 
quently used  in  the  OT,  always  trd  "Jeh  of  Hosts" 
(nixni  nin%  Yehowdh  fbha'oth)  in  ARV,  since 
Y'howdh,  never  'Adhondy,  is  used  in  this  phrase. 
Evidently  the  meaning  of  the  title  is  that  all  created 
agencies  and  forces  are  under  the  leadership  or 
dominion  of  Jeh,  who  made  and  maintains  them 
(Gen  2  1;  Isa  45  12).  It  is  used  to  express  Jeh's 
great  power.     See  God,  Names  of,  III,  8. 

LORD'S  DAY  (tj  tcvpiaKT]  T)fi€pa,  he  kuriakt 
hemera):     Formerly  it  was  supposed  that  the  adj. 

kuriakos  (trd  "the  Lord's")  was  a 
1.  Linguis-  purely  Christian  word,  but  recent  dis- 
tic  coveries  have  proved  that  it  was  in 

fairly  common  use  in  the  Rom  Empire 
before  Christian  influence  had  been  felt.  In  secular 
use  it  signified  "imperial,"  "belonging  to  the  lord" — 


the  emperor — and  so  its  adoption  by  Christianity 
in  the  sense  "belonging  to  the  Lord"— to  Christ- 
was  perfectly  easy.  Indeed,  there  is  reason  to 
suppose  that  in  the  days  of  Domitian,  when  the 
issue  had  been  sharply  defined  as  "Who  is  Lord? 
Caesar  or  Christ?"  the  use  of  the  adj.  by  the  church 
was  a  part  of  the  protest  against  Caesar-worship 
(see  Lord).  And  it  is  even  possible  that  the  full 
phrase,  "the  Lord's  day,"  was  coined  as  a  contrast 
to  the  phrase,  "the  Augustean  day"  (tj  o-e/Sacn-T? 
■fl/j-dpa,  he  sebastt  hemera),  a  term  that  seems  to  have 
been  used  in  some  parts  of  the  Empire  to  denote 
days  esp.  dedicated  in  honor  of  Caesar-worship. 

"Lord's  day"  in  the  NT  occurs  only  in  Rev  1  10, 

but  in  the  post-apostolic   literature  we  have  the 

following    references:      Ignatius,     Ad 

2.  Post-  Mag.,  ix.l,  "No  longer  keeping  the 
Apostolic        Sabbath  but  living  according  to  the 

Lord's  day,  on  which  also  our  Light 
arose";  Ev.  Pet.,  ver  35,  "The  Lord's  day  began 
to  dawn"  (cf  Mt  28  1);  ver  50,  "early  on  the 
Lord's  day"  (cf  Lk  24  1);  Barn  15  9,  "We  keep 
the  eighth  day  with  gladness,"  on  which  Jesus  arose 
from  the  dead."  I.e.  Sunday,  as  the  day  of  Christ's 
resurrection,  was  kept  as  a  Christian  feast  and  called 
"the  Lord's  day,"  a  title  fixed  so  definitely  as  to  be 
introduced  by  the  author  of  Ev.  Pet.  into  phrases 
from  the  canonical  Gospels.  Its  appropriateness 
in  Rev  1  10  is  obvious,  as  St.  John  received  his 
vision  of  the  exalted  Lord  when  all  Christians  had 
their  minds  directed  toward  His  entrance  into  glory 
through  the  resurrection. 

This  "first  day  of  the  week"  appears  again  in 

Acts  20  7  as  the  day  on  which  the  worship"  of  the 

"breaking  of  bread"  took  place,  and 

3.  In  the  the  impression  given  by  the  context 
NT  is  that  St.  Paul  and  his  companions 

prolonged  their  visit  to  Troas  so  as 
to  join  iu  the  service.  Again,  1  Cor  16  2  contains 
the  command,  "Upon  the  first  day  of  the  week  let 
each  one  of  you  lay  by  him  in  store,"  where  the 
force  of  the  form  of  the  imperative  used  (the  present 
for  repeated  action)  would  be  better  represented 
in  Eng.  by  "lay  by  on  the  successive  Sundays." 
Worship  is  here  not  explicitly  mentioned  (the  Gr 
of  "by  him"  is  the  usual  phrase  for  "at  home"),  but 
that  the  appropriateness  of  the  day  for  Christian 
acts  involves  an  appropriateness  for  Christian  wor- 
ship is  not  to  be  doubted.  Indeed,  since  the  seven- 
day  week  was  unknown  to  Gr  thought,  some  regu- 
lar observance  of  a  hebdomadal  cycle  must  have 
been  settled  at  Corinth  before  St.  Paul  could  write 
his  command.  Finally,  the  phrase,  "first  day  in 
the  week"  is  found  elsewhere  in  the  NT  only  in  Mt 
28  1;  Mk  16  2;  Lk  24  1;  Jn  20  1.19.  The  word 
in  all  passages  for  "first"  is  poor  Gr  (,uia,  mia,  "one," 
for  irpuiTT),  prote,  a  Hebraism),  and  tin;  coincidence  of 
the  form  of  the  phrase  in  Acts  20  7  and  1  Cor  16  2 
with  the  form  used  by  all  four  evangelists  for  the; 
Resurrection  Day  is  certainly  not  accidental;  it 
was  the  fixed  Christian  base,  just  as  "Lord's  day" 
was  to  the  writer  of  Ev.  Pet. 

The  hebdomadal  observance  of  Sunday  points 
back  of  Corinth  to  Jewish-Christian  soil,  but  it  is 

impossible   to   say   when   the   custom 

4.  Origin       first  began.     Not,   apparently,  in  the 

earliest  days,  for  Acts  2  46  represents 
the  special  worship  as  daily.  But  this  could  not 
have  continued  very  long,  for  waning  of  the  first 
enthusiasm,  necessity  of  pursuing  ordinary  avoca- 
tions, and  increasing  numbers  of  converts  must 
soon  have  made  general  daily  gatherings  impracti- 
cable. A  choice  of  a  special  day  must  have  become 
necessary,  and  this  day  would,  of  course,  have  been 
Sunday.  Doubtless,  however,  certain  individuals 
and  communities  continued  the  daily  gatherings 
to  a  much  later  date,  and  the  appearance  of  Sunday 


Lord's  Day 
Lord's  Supper 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1920 


as  the  one  distinctive  day  for  worship  was  almost 
certainly  gradual. 

Sunday,  however,  was  sharply  distinguished  from 

the  Sabbath.     One  was  the  day  on  which  worship 

was  offered  in  a  specifically  Christian 

5.  Sunday  form,  the  other  was  a  day  of  ritual 
and  the  rest  to  be  observed  by  all  who  were 
Sabbath         subject  to  the  Law  of  Moses  through 

circumcision  (Gal  5  3;  cf  Acts  21 
20).  Uncircumcised  Gentiles,  however,  were  free 
from  any  obligation  of  Sabbath  observance,  and 
it  is  quite  certain  that  in  apostolic  times  no  renewal 
of  any  Sabbath  rules  or  transfer  of  them  to  Sunday 
was  made  for  gentile  converts.  No  observance  of 
a  particular  "day  of  rest"  is  contained  among  the 
"necessary  things"  of  Acts  15  28.29,  nor  is  any  such 
precept  found  among  all  the  varied  moral  directions 
given  in  the  whole  epistolary  literature;.  Quite 
on  the  contrary,  the  observance  of  a  given  day  as 
a  matter  of  Divine  obligation  is  denounced  by  St. 
Paul  as  a  forsaking  of  Christ  (Gal  4  10),  and 
Sabbath-keeping  is  condemned  explicitly  in  Col  2 
1(1.  As  a  matter  of  individual  devotion,  to  be  sure, 
a  man  might  do  as  he  pleased  (Rom  14  5.6),  but 
no  general  rule  as  necessary  for  salvation  could  be 
compatible  with  the  liberty  wherewith  Christ  has 
made  us  free.  Evidently,  then,  the  fact  that  the 
Christian  worship  was  held  on  Sunday  did  not 
sanctify  Sunday  any  more  than  (say)  a  regular 
Wednesday  service  among  us  sanctifies  Wednes- 
day, noting  esp.  that  the  apostolic  service  was  held 
in  the  evening.  For  it  was  felt  that  Christian  en- 
thusiasm would  raise  every  day  to  the  highest  reli- 
gious plane,  the  decay  of  that  enthusiasm  through 
the  long  delay  of  the  Parousia  not  being  contem- 
plated. 

The  delay  occurred,   however,   and    for    human 
beings  in  the  ordinary  routine  of  life  there  are  neces- 
sary, not  only  set  periods  of  worship,  but 

6.  Later  set  periods  of  relaxation  from  routine 
History  to  make  worship  profitable.     And  the 

Christian  fundamental  doctrine  of 
mercy  demands  that  Christianity,  where  she  has 
the  power,  shall  give  to  men  relief  from  the  drain 
of  continuous  toil. 

The  formulation  of  general  rules  to  carry  these  prin- 
ciple's into  effect,  however,  belongs  to  a  period  outside 
NT  times,  and  so  does  not  come  within  the  scope  of  this 
Encyclopaedia.  It  is  enough  to  say  that  the  ecclesias- 
tical rules  for  Sunday  were  felt  to  be  quite  distinct  from 
the  laws  for  Sabbath  observance,  and  that  Alcuin  (733  ?- 
sol)  is  the  first  to  hold  that  the  church  had  transferred 
the  Sabbath  rules  as  a  whole  to  Sunday.  This  principle 
is  still  maintained  in  Roman  Catholic  theology,  but  at 
the  Reformat  ion  was  rejected  uncompromisingly  by 
both  Lutherans  (Augsb.  Conf.,  II,  7)  and  Calvinists 
(Ihhrt.  Conf.,  XXIV,  1-2)  in  favor  of  a  literally' apostolic 
freedom  (Calvin  even  proposed  to  adopt  Thursday  in 
place  of  Sunday).  The  appearance  of  the  opposite  ex- 
treme of  a  genuinely  "  legalistic "  Sabbatarianism  in  the 
thoroughly  Evangelical  Scotch  and  English  Puritanism 
is  an  anomaly  that  is  explained  by  reaction  from  the 
extreme  laxitv  of  the  surroundings. 

Sunday  was  fixed  as  the  day  for  Christian  worship 
by  general  apostolic  practice,  and  the  academic  possi- 
bility of  an  alteration  hardly  seems  worth 
7  Prartiral  discussing.  If  a  literal  apostolicify  is  to 
'•  -rraciicdi  jjje  insiste(j  upon,  however,  the  "breaking 
of  bread"  must  be  made  part  of  the  Sun- 
day service.  Rest  from  labor  for  the  sake  of  worship, 
public  and  private,  is  intensely  desirable,  since  the 
regaining  of  the  general  apostolic  enthusiasm  seems 
unattainable,  but  the  NT  leaves  us  quite  free  as  to  de- 
tails. Rest  from  labor  to  secure  physical  and  mental 
renewal  rests  on  a  still  different  basis,  and  the  working 
out  of  details  involves  a  knowledge  of  sociological  and 
industrial  conditions,  as  well  as  a  knowledge  of  re- 
ligious principles.  It  is  the  task  of  the  pastor  to  com- 
bine the  various  principles  and  to  apply  them  to  the 
particular  conditions  of  his  people  in  their  locality,  in 
accordance  with  the  rules  that  his  own  church  has  indu- 
bitably the  right  to  lay  down — very  special  attention 
being  given,  however,  to  the  highly  important  matter 
of  t tit;  peculiar  problem  offered  by  children.  In  all  eases 
the  general  principles  underlying  the  rules  should  be 
made  clear,  so  that  they  wilt  not  appear  as  arbitrary 
legalism,   and   it    is  probably   best    not  to  use  the  term 


"Sabbath"  for  Sunday.  Under  certain  conditions  great 
freedom  may  be  desirable,  and  such  is  certainly  not  in- 
consistent with  our  liberty  in  Christ.  But  experience, 
and  not  least  of  all  the  experience  of  the  first  churches 
of  the  Reformation,  has  abundantly  shown  that  much 
general  laxness  in  Sunday  rules  invariably  results  dis- 
astrously.    See  further,  Ethics  of  Jesus,  I,  3,  (1). 

Literature. — For  the  linguistic  matters,  Deissmann, 
Light  from  the  Ancient  East,  1910,  361-66.  Hessey's 
Sunday  (ed  1880)  ("Bampton  Lectures,"  I860)  contains  a 
good  summary  of  the  history  of  the  problems.  Zocklcr's 
"Sonntagsfeier,"  PRE,  ed  3,  XVIII,  1906,  521-29  is  the 
best  general  survey.  In  Sch-Herz  this  article  ("Sunday") 
is  harmed  by  abbreviation,  but  an  exhaustive  bibliography 
is  added. 

Burton  Scott  Eastox 
LORD'S   PRAYER,   THE    (Mt  6  9-13;     Lk  11 

2-4):  Prayer  occupied  an  important  place  in  the 
life  and  the  teachings  of  Jesus.  He  was  emphati- 
cally a  man  of  prayer,  praying  frequently  in  private 
and  in  public,  and  occasionally  spending  whole 
nights  in  communion  with  His  heavenly  Father. 
He  often  spoke  to  His  disciples  on  the  subject  of 
prayer,  cautioning  them  against  ostentation,  or 
urging  perseverance,  faith  and  large  expectation, 
and  He  gave  them  a  model  of  devotion  in  the  Lord's 
prayer. 

This  prayer  is  given  by  the  evangelists  in  two 
different  forms  and  in  two  entirely  different  con- 
nections.    In  Mt's  account  the  prayer 

1.  Twofold    is  given  as  a  part  of  the  Sermon  on  the 
Form  Mount  and  in  connection  with  a  criti- 
cism of  the  ostentation  usual  in  the 

prayers  of  the  hypocrites  and  the  heathen.  Lk 
introduces  the  prayer  after  the  Galilean  ministry 
and  represents  it  as  given  in  response  to  a  request, 
from  one  of  His  disciples,  "Lord  teach  us  to  pray, 
as  John  taught  his  disciples."  It  gives  us,  however, 
no  note  of  time  or  place,  and  it  is  quite  possible;  that 
the  incident  which  it  records  took  place  much  ear- 
lier. The  later  form  is  much  shorter  than  that  of 
Mt  and  the  common  parts  differ  materially  in  lan- 
guage. 

In  view  of  the  differences,  the  reader  instinctively 
inquires  whether  the  prayer  was  given  on  two  differ- 
ent occasions  in  these  different  connections,  or  the 
evangelists  have  presented  the  same  incident  in 
forms  derived  from  different  sources,  or  modified 
the  common  source  to  suit  their  immediate  purposes. 

If  the  prayer  was  given  only  on  one  occasion, 
there  is  little  doubt  that  Lk  preserves  the  true  his- 
torical circumstances,  though  not  necessarily  the 
accurate  point  of  time  or  place,  or  the  exact  form 
of  language.  Such  a  request  made  at  the  close  of 
the  prayer  of  Jesus  would  be  natural,  and  the  inci- 
dent bears  every  mark  of  reality.  On  the  other 
hand,  it  would  be  reasonable  to  assume  that  the 
author  of  Mt's  source,  remembering  the  incident, 
incorporated  the  prayer  in  the  Sermon  on  the 
Mount  as  an  illustration  of  the  injunctions  con- 
cerning prayer. 

There  arc  many  reasons  for  regarding  the  Sermon  as 
a  collection  of  sayings  spoken  on  different  occasions  and 
summarized  for  convenience  in  teaching  and  memorizing. 
There  is,  however,  no  proof  that  the  prayer  was  given 
but  once  bv  Jesus.  We  need  not  suppose  that  His  dis- 
ciples were  always  the  same,  and  we  know  that  He  gave 
instruction  in  prayer  on  various  occasions.  He  may 
have  given  the  model  prayer  on  one  occasion  sponta- 
neously and  at  another  time  on  the  request  of  a  disciple. 
It  is  probable  that  the  two  evangelists,  using  the  same 
or  different  sources,  presented  the  prayer  in  such  con- 
nection as  best  suited  the  plan  of  their  narratives.  In 
any  case,  it  is  rather  remarkable  that  the  prayer  is  not 
quoted  or  directly  mentioned  anywhere  else  in  the  NT. 

In    addition    to    the    opening    salutation,    "Our 
Father  who  art  in  heaven,"  the  Lord's  Prayer  con- 
sists of  six  petitions.     These  are  ar- 

2.  Arrange-  ranged  in  three  equal  parts.  In  the 
ment  first    part,    the    thought    is    directed 

toward  God  and  His  great  purposes. 
In  the  second  part,  the  attention  is  directed  to  our 
condition   and   wants.     The   two  sets   of  petitions 


1921 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Loid's  Day 
Lord's  Supper 


are  closely  related,  and  a  line  of  progress  runs 
through  the  whole  prayer.  The  petitions  of  the 
first  part  are  inseparable,  as  each  includes  the  one 
which  follows.  As  the  hallowing  of  God's  name 
requires  the  coming  of  His  kingdom,  so  the  king- 
dom comes  through  the  doing  of  His  will.  Again, 
the  first  part  calls  for  the  second,  for  if  His  will  is 
to  be  done  by  us,  we  must  have  sustenance,  for- 
giveness and  deliverance  from  evil.  If  we  seek 
first  the  glory  of  God,  the  end  requires  our  good. 
While  we  hallow  His  name  we  are  sanctified  in  Him. 
The  doxology  of  Mt  and  our  rituals  is  not  found  in 
the  leading  MSS  and  is  generally  regarded  as  an 
ancient  liturgical  addition.  For  this  reason  it  is 
omitted  by  RV. 

The  sources  of  the  two  accounts  cannot  be  known 

with  certainty.     It  is  hardly  correct    to  say  that 

one  account  is  more  original  than  the 

3.  Sources     other.     The    original    was    spoken    in 

Aram.,  while  both  of  the  reports  are 
certainly  based  on  Gr  sources.  The  general  agree- 
ment in  language,  esp.  in  the  use  of  the  unique 
term  eiriovcnos,  epiousios,  shows  that  they  are  not 
independent  tra  of  the  Aram,  original. 

Three  expressions  of  the  prayer  deserve  special 
notice.     The  words,  "Our  Father,"  an;  new  in  the 

Bible  and  in  the  world.     When  God 

4.  Special  is  called  Father  in  the  OT,  He  is  re- 
Expressions  garded  as  Father  of  the  nation,   not 

of  the  individual.  Even  in  the  moving 
prayer  of  Isa  63  16  (AV),  "Doubtless  thou  art  our 
father,"  the  connection  makes  clear  that  the  ref- 
erence is  to  God  in  the  capacity  of  Creator.  The 
thought  of  God  as  the  Father  of  the  individual  is 
first  reached  in  the  Apoc:  "0  Lord,  Father  and 
Master  of  my  life"  (Sir  23  1;  cfWisd  2  16;  14  3). 
Here  also  the  notion  is  veiled  in  the  thought  of  God 
as  Creator.  It  was  left  for  Jesus  the  Son  to  give;  us 
the  privilege  of  calling  God  "Our  Father." 

Of  the  adj.  epiousion,  "daily"  or  "needful," 
neither  the  origin  nor  the  exact  meaning  is  or  is 
likely  to  be  known.  Whether  it  is  qualitative  or 
temporal  depends  on  its  derivation  from  ewelvai, 
ijx  inai,  or  eiriivai,  epienai.  Our  translators  usually 
follow  the  latter,  translating  "daily."  AHA"  gives 
"needful"  as  a  marginal  rendering. 

The  phrase  d-^o  rod  -wov-gpov,  apd  ton  poiu'rou,  is 
equally  ambiguous.  Since  the  adj.  may  be  either 
masc.  or  neut.,  it  is  impossible  to  decide  whether 
"from  the  evil  one"  or  "from  the  evil"  was  intended. 
The  probability  is  in  favor  of  the  masc.  The 
Oriental  naturally  thought  of  evil  in  the  concrete, 
just  as  we  think  of  it  in  the  abstract.  For  this 
reason  the  Authorized  rendering  "from  evil"  is 
more  real  to  us.  The  evil  deprecated  is  moral,  not 
physical. 

The  Lord's  Prayer  was  given  as  a  lesson  in  prayer. 

As  such  this  simple  model  surpasses  all  precepts 

about    prayer.     It    suggests    to    the 

5.  Purpose    child   of   God   the    proper   objects   of 

prayer.  It  supplies  suitable  forms  of 
language  and  illustrates  the  simple  and  direct 
manner  in  which  we  may  trustingly  address  our 
heavenly  Father.  It  embraces  the  elements  of  all 
spiritual  desire  summed  up  in  a  few  choice;  sen- 
tences. For  those  who  are  not  able  to  bring  their 
struggling  desires  to  birth  in  articulate  language 
it  provides  an  instructive  form.  To  the  mature 
disciple  it  ever  unfolds  with  richer  depths  of 
meaning.  Though  we  learn  these  words  at  our 
mother's  knee,  we  need  a  lifetime  to  fill  them  with 
meaning  and  all  eternity  to  realize  their  answer. 

Liter  \ture. — The  lit.  of  this  subject  is  very  exten- 
sive. For  brief  treatment  the  student  will  consult  the 
relative  sections  in  the  comms.  on  the  Gospels  of  Mt 
and  Lk  and  in  the  Lives  of  Christ  and  the  arts,  on  the 
lord's  Prayer  in  the  several  Bible  diets.  A  collection 
of  patristic  comment  is  given  by  <;.  Tillmann  in  his  /;,;.s- 


Gebet  nach  der  Lehre  der  Heiligen  dargestelll,  2  vols, 
Freiburg,  1876.  The  original  comments  may  be  found 
in  any  of  the  standard  collections  of  the  Church  Fathers. 

Among  historical  studies  may  be  mentioned,  F.  H. 
Chase,  The  Lonl's  Prayer  in  the  Early  Church,  Cam- 
bridge, 1891,  and  G.  Dalman,  Die  Woke  Jesu,  I,  Leip- 
zig, 1898,  ET,  Edinburgh,  1902. 

Among  the  numerous  interpretative  treatments,  the 
following  are  some  of  the  more  important:  N.  Hall,  The 
Lord's  Prayer,  Edinburgh,  18S9;  H.  .1.  Van  Dyke,  The 
Lord's  Prayer,  New  York,  1891;  ,J.  Raskin,  Letters  to 
the  Clergy  on  the  Lord's  Prayer  anil  the  Church,  late  ed. 
New  York,  1896;  E.  Wordsworth,  Thoughts  on  the 
Lord's  Prayer,  New  York,  1898;  C.  W.  Stubbs,  Social 
Teachings  of  the  Lord's  Prayer,  London,  1900;  A.  B. 
Bruce,  The  Training  of  the  Twelve,  cli  vi,  4th  ed,  New 
York,  1905;  L.  T.  Chamberlain,  The  True  Doctrine  of 
Prayer,  New  York,  1906;  F.  M.  Williams,  Spiritual 
Instructions  on  the  Lord' s  Prayer,  Xew  York,  1907. 

Russell  Benjamin  Miller 
LORD'S  SUPPER  (EUCHARIST,  u'ka-rist): 

General 

I.     Definition 
II.     New  Testament  Sources 

1.  Textual  Considerations 

2.  Narratives  Compared 

(1)  Mark 

(2)  Matthew 

(3)  Pauline 

(4)  Luke 

3.  Other  Pauline  Data 

III.  Preparation  for  the  Eucharist 

1.  Miracles  of  Loaves  and  Fishes 

2.  Discourse  at  Capernaum 

IV.  Historical,  Setting  of  the  Eucharist 

1.  Other  Acts  and  Words  of  Christ  on  Eve  of  the 
Passion 

2.  Sacrificial  Language  of  the  Institution 

3.  Sacrificial  System  of  Jewish  Dispensation 

4.  Paschal  Background  of  the  Institution  of  the 
Eucharist 

V.     Sequence  of  the  Institution 
Points  to  Be  Noted 
VI.     The  Church's  Observance  of  the  Eucharist 

1.  Heavenly  Background 

(1)  Christians  a  Priestly  Pace 

(2)  Christ  the  Eternal  High  Priest 

2.  Celebrated  Each  Lord's  Day 

3.  Names  of  the  Eucharist 

(1)  Eucharist 

(2)  Lord's  Supper 

(3)  Breaking  of  Bread 

(4)  Communion 

(5)  Oblation 

VII.     Post-Apostolic  Church 

1.  Guidance  by  the  Holy  Spirit 

2.  Eucharist  in 

(1)  Ignatian  Epistles 

(2)  Justin  Martyr 

(3)  Irenaeus 

(4)  Cyprian 

VIII.     Liturgical  Tradition 

1.  Outline  of  Eucharistic  Prayer 

2.  Significance  of  This  for  Unity 
Literature 

/.  Definition. — Eucharist. — The  distinctive  rite 
of  Christian  worship,  instituted  by  Our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  upon  the  eve  of  His  atoning  death,  being  a 
religious  partaking  of  bread  and  wine,  which,  having 
been  presented  before  God  the  Father  in  thankful 
memorial  of  Christ's  inexhaustible  sacrifice,  have 
become  (through  the  sacramental  blessing)  the 
communion  of  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ  (cf 
Jn  6  54;  Acts  2  42;  20  7.11;  Rom  15  1G;  1 
Cor  10  16;    11  23-26). 

//.  The  NT  Sources.— The  NT  sources  of  our 
knowledge  of  the  institution  of  the  Eucharist  are 
fourfold,  a  brief  account  thereof  being  found  in 
each  of  the  Synoptic  Gospels  and  in  St.  Paul's  First 
Ep.  to  the  Cor  (Mt  26  26-29;  Mk  14  22-25; 
Lk  22  14-20;    1  Cor  11  23-26;    cf  10  16.17). 

The  text  of  these  narratives  has  been  found  to  need 
little  amendment,  save  the  dropping  of  a  word  or  two, 

from    each    account,    that    had    crept    in 

1     Textual      through    the    tendency   of   copyists,    con- 

'       .  ,  sciously    or    unconsciously,    to    assimilate 

Considera-     the    detaiis    OI    parallel    passages.     The 

tions  genuineness  of  Lk  22   19/). 20  is  absolutely 

beyond  question.  Their  omission  in 
whole  or  part,  and  the  alterations  in  the;  order  of  two  or 
three  verses  in  the  whole  section  (vs  14-20),  character- 
istic of  a  very  small  number  of  MSS,  are  due  to  confusion 
in  the  minds  of  a  few  scribes  and  translators,  between 
the;  paschal  cup  (ver  17)  and  the  eucharistic  cup  (ver  20), 


Lord's  Supper      THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1922 


and  to  their  well-meant,  but  mistaken,  attempt  to  im- 
prove upon  the  text  before  them. 

The  briefest  account  of  the  institution  of  the  Eucharist 
is  found  in  Mk  14  22-24.  In  it  the  Eucharist  is  not 
sharply  distinguished  from  its  setting,  the 
9  Narra-  paschal  meal:  "And  as  they  were  eating, 
u,  nana  ^  fcook  ,)r(,ad  and  wnen  nt,  had  blessed, 
tives  jie  brake  it,  and  gave  to  them,  and  said, 

Compared  Take  ye:  this  is  my  body.  And  lie  took  a 
cup,  and  when  he  had  given  thanks,  he 
gave  to  them:  and  they  all  drank  of  it.  And  he  said 
unto  them,  This  is  my  blood  of  the  covenant,  which  is 
poured  out  for  many."  This  represents  a  tradition 
settled  within  20  years  of  the  event  described. 

Mt  26  26-28  gives  a  few  touches  by  way  of  revision, 
apparently  from  one  then  present.  He,  adds  the  ex- 
hortation "eat"  at  the  giving  of  the  bread,  and  puts  the 
personal  command,  "  Drink  ye  all  of  it,"  in  place  of  the 
mere  statement,  "and  they  all  drank  of  it."  He  adds 
also  of  the  blood  that,  as  "poured  out  for  many,"  it  is 
"  unto  remission  of  sins." 

The  Pauline  account,  1  Cor  11  23-26  (the  earliest 
written  down,  C  55  AD),  was  called  forth  in  rebuke  of  the 
scandalous  profanation  of  the,  Eucharist  at  Corinth.  It 
gives  us  another  tradition  independent  of,  and  supple- 
mentary to,  that  of  Mk-Mt.  It  claims  the  authority 
of  the  Saviour  as  its  source,  and  had  been  already  made 
known  to  the  Corinthians  in  the  apostle's  oral  teaching. 
The  time  of  the  institution  is  mentioned  as  the  night  of 
the  betrayal.  We  note  of  the  bread,  "  This  is  my  body, 
which  is  for  you,"  of  the  cup,  "  This  cup  is  the  new  cove- 
nant in  my  blood,"  and  the  redoubled  command,  "This 
do  in  remembrance  of  me." 

The  narrative  given  in  Lk  22  14-20  is  the  latest  (c 
80  AD)  of  our  XT  records.  St.  Luke  had  taken  pains 
to  follow  up  everything  to  its  source,  and  had  reedited 
the  oral  tradition 'in  the  light  of  his  historical  researches 
(1  2  3),  and  thus  his  account  is  of  the  highest  value. 
Writing  for  a  wider  circle  of  readers,  he  carefully  sepa- 
rates and  distinguishes  the  Eucharist  from  the  paschal 
meal  which  preceded  it,  and  puts  the  statement  of 
Christ  about  not  drinking  "from  henceforth  of  the  fruit 
of  the  vine,  until  the  kingdom  of  God  shall  come,"  in  its 
proper  place  as  referring  to  the  paschal  cup  (cf  Mt  26 
29-  Mk  14  25;  and  Lk  22  15-18).  In  describing  the 
actual  institution  of  the  Eucharist,  he  gives  us  an  almost 
verbal  identity  with  the  account  given  by  St.  Paul 
(1  Cor  11   23-25). 

We  should  note  the  statement  appended  by  St.  Paul 
to  his  account  of  the  Institution,  wherein  he  empha- 
sizes the  memorial  aspect  and  evidential 
value  of  the  witness  the  eucharistic  ob- 
servance would  give  throughout  the  ages 
of  the  Christian  dispensation  (ver  26). 
We  should  also  note  the  fact  upon  which 
the  apostle  bases  his  rebuke  to  the  pro- 
fane Corinthians,  namely,  the  real,  though  undefined, 
identity  of  the  bread  and  wine  of  the  Eucharist  with  the 
bodv  and  blood  of  Christ  (vs  27-29) ;  an  identity  estab- 
lished through  the  blessing  pronounced  upon  them,  so 
that  the  bread  and  cup  have  come  to  be  the  "communion 
of  the,  body  of  Christ  and  the  "communion  of  the  blood 
of  Christ,"  respectively  (10  15-17).  To  receive  the 
Eucharist,  and  also  to  partake  of  sacrifices  offered  to 
idols,  is  utterly  incompatible  with  Christian  loyalty. 
To  receive  the  Eucharist  after  a  gluttonous,  winebibbing 
agav'e,  not  recognizing  the  consecrated  elements  to  be 
what  the  Lord  Christ  called  them,  is,  likewise,  a  defiance 
of  God.  Both  acts  alike  provoke  the  judgment  of  God's 
righteous  anger  (vs  21.22;    11   21.22.27-29). 

///.  Preparation  for  the  Eucharist. — The  insti- 
tution of  the  Eucharist  had  been  prepared  for  by- 
Christ  through  the  object-lesson  of 
1.  The  the  feeding  of  the  five  thousand  (Mt 

Miracles  14  13-21;  Mk  6  35-44;  Lk  9  12- 
17;  Jn  6  4-13),  which  was  followed 
up  by  the  discourse  about  Himself  as  the  Bread  of 
Life,  and  about  eating  His  Flesh  and  drinking  His 
Blood  as  the  nourishment  of  eternal  life.  This 
again  was  clinched  by  the  second  object-lesson  of  the 
feeding  of  the  four  thousand  afterward  (Mt  15 
32-39;  Mk  8  1-9).  The  Lord  Christ's  thanks- 
giving, and  His  blessing  of  the  loaves  and  fishes — ■ 
acts  not  elsewhere  recorded  of  Him,  except  at  the 
institut  ion  of  the  Eucharist,  and  at  the  self-revealing 
meal  at  Emmaus  (Lk  24  30) — deeply  impressed 
those  present,  as  indicating  the  source  whence  came 
His  power  to  satisfy  the  hunger  of  the  multitude  (cf 
Mt  14  19;  15  36;  Mk  6  41;  8  6.7;  Lk  9  16;  Jn 
6  11.23). 

In  the  discourse  at  Capernaum  (Jn  6  26-58) 
Christ  led  the  thought  of  His  hearers  from  earthly 
to  heavenly  food,  from  food  that  perished  to  the 
true  bread  from  heaven.     He  declared  Himself  to 


3.  Other 

Pauline 

Data 


be  the  living  bread,  and,  further,  that  it  is  through 
eating  His  flesh  and  drinking  His  blood  that  they 

shall  possess  true  life  in  themselves, 
2.  The  and  be  raised  by  Him  at  the  last  day. 

Discourse      The  difficulties  raised  by  this  discourse 

Christ  did  not  solve  at  the  time.  His 
ascension  would  but  add  to  them.  He  asked  of 
His  disciples  acceptance  of  His  words  in  faith. 
Under  the  administration  of  the  Spirit  would  these 
t  liings  be  realized  (vs  60-69).  The  institution  of  1  he 
Eucharist,  later,  gave  the  clue  to  these  otherwise! 
"hard"  words.  Today  the  Eucharist  remains  as 
the  explanation  of  this  discourse.  A  hardy  moun- 
taineer, e.g.  who  had  read  Jn  6  many  times,  could 
form  no  notion  of  its  purport.  When  first  privileged 
to  be  present  at  the  eucharistic  service  of  the  Book 
of  Common  Prayer,  the  meaning  of  feeding  upon 
Christ's  flesh  and  blood  forthwith  became  apparent 
to  him  (see  The  Spirit  of  Missions,  July,  1911, 
572-73). 

IV.  Historical  Setting  of  the  Eucharist. — We 
should  note  the  setting  in  which  the  institution  of 

the    Eucharist    was    placed.     Though 

1.  Acts  and  the  Fourth  Gospel  does  not  record 
Words  of  this,  it  gives  us  many  otherwise  un- 
Christ  known   data  of  the   words  of   Christ 

spoken  upon  the  eve  of  His  death,  in 
which  historically  the  institution  of  the  Eucharist 
was  set.  The  symbolic  washing  of  the  feet  of  the 
disciples  (Jn  13  3-10),  the  "new"  commandment 
(ver  34),  Christ  as  the  means  of  access  to  the 
Fat  Iter  (14  6),  love  for  Christ  to  be  shown  by  keep- 
ing His  commandments  (vs  15.21.23.24),  the  send- 
ing of  the  Paraclete  Spirit  (vs  16.17.26;  15  26; 
16  13.14),  the  intimate  fellowship  of  Christ  and 
His  disciples,  shown  in  the  metaphor  of  the  vine 
and  its  branches  (15  1-9.13-16)— all  these  throw 
their  illumination  upon  the  commandment,  "This 
do  in  remembrance  of  me"  (Lk  22  19;  1  Cor  11 
24.25).  The  efficacy  of  prayer  'in  Christ's  name' 
(Jn  16  23.24.26-28)  after  His  final  withdrawal  from 
the  midst  of  His  disciples,  and  His  great  prayer 
of  self-oblation  and  intercession  for  His  church 
throughout  time  (Jn  17,  esp.  9-26)  must  not  be 
forgotten  in  considering,  "This  is  my  body  which 
is  given  for  you"  (Lk  22  19),  and,  "This  is  my 
blood  of  the  covenant,  which  is  poured  out  for 
many  unto  remission  of  sins"  (Mt  26  28). 

The  sacrificial  connotation  of  many  of  the  words 

used  in  the  narratives  of  institution  should  be  noted : 

e.g.     "body,"    "blood,"     "covenant," 

2.  Sacrifi-  "given,"  "poured  out,"  "for  you,"  "for 
cial  many"  "unto  remission  of  sins,"  "me- 
Language      morial"  (cf  Ex  24  6-8;    Lev  2  2.9.16; 

4  5-7.16-18.34;  17  11.14;  24  7;  Nu 
10  10;  He  9  11-28;  10  4-10.19.20).  The  very  ele- 
ments of  bread  and  wine  also  suggested  the  idea  of 
sacrifice  to  those  accustomed  to  their  use  in  the 
older  system  of  worship  (cf  Ex  29  38-42;  Nu  15 
4-10;  28  and  29  passim). 

The  general  background,  moreover,  out  of  which 
the  institution  of  the  Eucharist  stands  forth,  is  the 

sacrificial  system  of  the  older  dispen- 

3.  Jewish  sation.  The  chosen  people  of  God,  as 
System  a  priestly  race,  a  holy  nation  (Ex  19 

5.6;  Dt  7  6),  worshipped  God  with  a 
sequence  of  offerings,  Divinely  molded,  and  in- 
spired, which  set  forth  the  sovereign  majesty  and 
overlordship  of  God,  His  holiness,  and  the  awe  and 
penitence  due  from  those  who  would  draw  nigh 
unto  Him,  and  their  desire  for  communion  with 
Him. 

The  more  immediate  background  of  the  Euchar- 
ist is  the  Passover,  and  that  without  prejudice  as 
to  whether  the  Lord  Christ  ate  the  paschal  meal 
with  His  disciples  before  He  instituted  the  Euchar- 
ist,  as  seems  most  probable  (cf  Lk  22  7-18),  or 


1923 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA      Lord's  Supper 


whether  He  died  upon  the  day  of  its  observance 
(see  art.  "Preparation,"  DCG,  II,  409).     The  Pass- 
over was  at  once  a  covenant-recalling 
4.  The  and  a  covenant-renewing  sacrifice,  and 

Paschal  the  Eucharist,  as  corresponding  to  it, 

Background  was  instituted  at  the  time  of  its  yearly 
observance,  and  of  the  immolation  of 
the  true  paschal  lamb,  of  whose  death  it  inter- 
preted the  value  and  significance  (Ex  12  3-28; 
cf  13  3-10  ;  Dt  16  1-8;  1  Cor  5  7;  Jn  6  51;  10 
10.11.15.17.18;   15  13;   17  19). 

V.  Sequence  of  the  Institution. — Let  us  put  before 
ourselves  clearly  the  sequence  of  the  Lord^  Christ's 
acts  and  words  at  the  institution  of  the  Eucharist 
ere  we  proceed  to  examine  the  church's  mode  of 
celebrating  this  ordinance. 

At  the  close  of  the  paschal  Supper,  (1)  the  Lord 
Christ  "took"  the  bread  and  cup,  respectively,  for  use 
in  His  new  rite;  (2)  He  "gave  thanks"  over  them,  con- 
stituting them  a  thank  offering  to  God ;  (3)  He  "  blessed  ^ 
them  to  their  new  and  higher  potency;  (4)  He  "gave' 
them  to  the  apostles  (the  breaking  being  a  requisite  pre- 
liminary to  distribution  of  the  bread);  (5)  He  bade 
them  "Take,  eat,"  and  "  Drink  ye  all  of  it,"  respectively; 
(6)  He  declared,  of  the  bread,  "This  is  my  body  given 
for  you,"  of  the  cup,  "  This  is  my  blood  of  the  covenant," 
or,  "This  is  the  new  covenant  in  my  blood  which  is 
poured  out  for  you,"  "unto  remission  of  sins";  (7)  He 
adds  the  reiterated  command,  "This  do  for  my  me- 
morial." 

It  is  obvious  that  we  are  bidden  to  follow  out  the  same 
series  of  acts,  and  statements,  as  those  of  Christ  Him- 
self. We  should  take  bread  and  wine,  set  them  apart  by 
rendering  thanks  to  God  over  them,  presenting  them  to 
Him  as  symbols  of  Christ's  body  and  blood,  once  for  all 
" given "  and  "poured  out"  for  us;  bless  them  by  asking 
God's  blessing  upon  them  (cf  Gen  14  19;  Nu  6  23-27; 
Mk  8  7;  Lk  2  34;  9  16;  24  50);  and  receive  and  give 
them  as  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ;  for,  "the  cup  of 
blessing  which  we  bless,  is  it  not  a  communion  of  the 
blood  of  Christ  ?  The  bread  which  we  break,  is  it  not 
a  communion  of  the  body  of  Christ?"  (1  Cor  10  16). 
It  is  obvious  that  we  shall  not  forget,  in  this  connection, 
the  distinction  between  the  natural  body  of  Christ  which 
He  took  of  the  Blessed  Virgin,  and  the  bread  which  He 
held  in  His  hand,  and  blessed  and  made  to  function  as 
His  body  for  our  participation  and  inherence  in  Him 
thereby — His  sacramental  body.  The  church  with  her 
many  "members  united  to  the  Head,  and  thus  to  each 
other,  is  also  called  His  body  mystical  (1  Cor  10  17; 
12  27;    Eph  1   22.23;    Col  1  24). 

VI.  The  Church's  Observance  of  the  Eucharist. — ■ 

We  should  remember  the  priestly  character  of  the 
church  of  Christ,  whose  sacrifices  are 

1.  Heavenly  made  under  the  dispensation  of  the 
Background  Holy  Spirit    (1  Pet  2  5.9;    Rev  1  6; 

cf  Acts  1  2.8);  and  also  the  eternal 
priesthood  in  the  heavens  of  our  risen,  ascended 
and  ever-living  Lord  Christ.  He  laid  down  His 
life  in  order  to  take  it  again  (Jn  10  17),  and  now 
in  the  perfection  of  His  glorified  human  nature,  by 
His  very  presence  in  heaven,  He  is  forever  the  pro- 
pitiation inexhaustible  for  our  sins  (He  2  17 — ■ 
3  3;  4  14—5  10;  7  1—8  7;  9  11-28;  10  1-25; 
cf  1  Jn  2  1.2).  As  the  Lamb  slain  once  for  all 
but  alive  for  evermore,  the  Lord  Christ  is  the  focus 
of  the  worship  of  angels  and  the  redeemed  (Rev 
1  17.18;  5  6-14;  7  9.10),  and  the  Christian  dis- 
ciple has  the  privilege  of  feeding  upon  that  eternal 
Priest  and  Victim  (He  13  10;   1  Cor  10  16). 

The  celebration  of  the  Eucharist  was  character- 
istic of  the  pentecostal  church   (Acts  2  42),  esp. 

upon    the    Lord's.  Day    (20  7).     Its 

2.  Day  of      observance  was  preceded  by  the  agape 
Celebration   (1  Cor  11  20.34)  on  the  eve_  (for  the 

circumstances  of  the  institution  were 
closely  imitated,  and  the  day  was  reckoned  as  begin- 
ning at  sunset  after  the  Jewish  fashion),  and  thus 
the  Eucharist  proper  came  late  into  the  night,  or 
toward  morning  (Acts  20  11). 

It  should  be  noted  that  the  name,  "Lord's  Supper," 
belongs  to  the  ayape  rather  than  to  the  Eucharist;  its 
popular  use  is  a  misnomer  of  mediaeval  and  Reforma- 
tion times. 

The  name  "Eucharist"  is  derived  from  the  eucharistesas 


3.  Names 
of  the 
Eucharist 


("gave  thanks")  of  the  institution  and  was  the  most 
widely  used  term  in  primitive  times,  as  applied  to  the 
whole  service,  to  the  consecration  of  the 
bread  and  wine  or  to  the  consecrated  ele- 
ments themselves  (cf  1  Cor  14  10). 

The  term  "breaking  of  bread"  (Acts  2 
42;  20  7.11)  had  little  vogue  after  NT 
times. 

"Communion"  obviously  is  derived  from  1  Cor 
10    16. 

In  connection  with  the  early  and  frequent  use  of  the 
word  "oblation"  (prosphord)  and  its  cognates,  we  should 
note  St.  Paul's  description  of  his  ministry  in  terms  that 
suggest  the  rationale  of  the  prayer  of  consecration,  or 
eucharistic  prayer,  as  we  know  it  in  the  earliest  liturgical 
tradition:  "that  I  should  be  a  minister  of  Christ  Jesus 
unto  the  Gentiles,  ministering  the  gospel  of  God,  that  the 
offering  up  of  the  Gentiles  might  be  made  acceptable,  being 
sanctified  by  the  Holy  Spirit"  (Rom  15   16). 

VII.    Post- apostolic  Church. — The  same  Spirit 

who  guided  the  church  in  the  determination  of  the 

Canon  of  the  NT  Scriptures,  the  same 

1.  Holy  Spirit  who  guided  the  church  in  the 
Spirit's  working  out  of  her  explicit  formulation 
Guidance  of  the  Christian  doctrine  of  the  God- 
head, and  of  the  Christ — that  self- 
same Spirit  guided  the  church  in  the  formation  and 
fashioning  of  her  great  eucharistic  prayer  into  its 
norm  in  the  same  4th  cent.  The  historic  churches 
of  the  East,  by  their  faithful  adherence  to  this  norm, 
have  been  almost  undisturbed  by  the  dissensions 
and  disputes  of  Western  Christendom  touching  the 
Eucharist. 

The  glimpses  given  us  in  the  earlier  Fathers  of 

the  Eucharist  are  in  entire  accord  with  the  more 

articulate  expression  of  the  church's 

2.  The  corporate  eucharistic  worship,  which 
Early  we  find  in  the  liturgical  documents 
Fathers          and  writings  of  the  Nicene  era. 

(1)  The  Ignatian  Epp.  show  us  the 
Eucharist  as  the  focus  of  the  church's  life  and 
order,  the  source  of  unity  and  fellowship.  The  Eu- 
charist consecrated  by  the  prayer  of  the  bishop  and 
church  is  the  Bread  of  God,  the  Flesh  and  Blood  of 
Christ,  the  communication  of  love  incorruptible  and 
life  eternal  (cf  Ephesiahs,  5.13.20;  Trallians,  7.8; 
Romans,  7;  Philadelphians,  4;  Smyrnaeans,  7.8; 
Magnesians,  7). 

(2)  Justin  Martyr  tells  us  that  the  Eucharist 
was  celebrated  on  the  Lord's  Day,  the  day  asso- 
ciated with  creation  and  with  Christ's  resurrection. 
To  the  celebrant  were  brought  bread  and  wine 
mixed  with  water,  who  then  put  up  to  God,  over 
them,  solemn  thanksgiving  for  His  lovingkindness 
in  the  gifts  of  food  and  health  and  for  the  redemp- 
tion wrought  by  Christ.  The  oblations  of  bread 
and  wine  are  presented  to  God  in  memorial  of 
Christ's  passion,  and  become  Christ's  body  and 
blood  through  prayer.  The  Eucharist  is  a  spiritual 
sacrifice  of  praise  and  thanksgiving  commemorative 
of  Christ's  death;  and  the  consecrated  elements  the 
communion  of  Christ's  body  and  blood,  by  reason 
of  the  sacramental  character  bestowed  upon  them 
by  the  invocation  of  the  Divine  blessing  (cf  1  Apol., 
13.65,  66,  67;  Dial,  with  Trypho,  41.70,  117). 

(3)  Irenaeus,  also,  emphasizes  the  fact  that  Christ 
taught  His  disciples  to  offer  the  new  oblation  of  the 
New  Covenant,  to  present  in  thank  offering  the 
first-fruits  of  God's  creatures — bread  and  wine- — 
the  pure  sacrifice  prophesied  before  by  Malachi. 
The  Eucharist  consecrated  by  the  church,  through 
the  invocation  of  God's  blessing,  is  the  communion 
of  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ,  just  as  He  pro- 
nounced the  elements  to  be  at  the  institution 
(cf  Against  Heresies,  i.13.2;  iv.17.5;  18.1-6;  33.2; 
v.22.3). 

(4)  Cyprian,  too,  gives  evidence  of  the  same 
eucharistic  belief,  and  alludes  very  plainly  to  the 
"Lift  up  your  hearts,"  to  the  great  thanksgiving, 
and  to  the  prayer  of  consecration.  This  last  in- 
cluded the  rehearsal  of  what  Christ  did  and  said 


Lord's  Supper      THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1924 


at  the  institution,  the  commemoration  of  His  pas- 
sion, and  the  invocation  of  the  Holy  Spirit  (cf  Ep. 
to  Caecilius,  §§1,2,  4,  9,  10,  14,  17;  Ep.  to  Epictctux, 
§§2,  4;  On  the  Unity  of  the  Church,  I,  17;  On 
the  Lord's  Prayer,  §31;  Firmilian  to  Cyprian, 
§§10,  17). 

VIII.  Liturgical   Tradition.  —When   we   proceed 

to  examine  the  early  liturgical  remains  we  find  the 

articulate  expression  of   the  church's 

1.  The  sacrifice  following  along  these  lines. 
Eucharistic  After  an  introductory  summons  to  the 
Prayer  worshippers  to  "lift  up  their  hearts," 

the  great  eucharistic  prayer  goes  on 
to  pour  forth  sublime  praises  to  God  for  all  the 
blessings  of  creation,  and  for  the  fruits  of  the  earth; 
aligning  the  praises  of  the  church  with  the  worship 
of  the  heavenly  host  around  the  throne  of  Clod. 
The  love  of  God  in  bringing  about  the  redemption  of 
fallen  man  through  the  incarnation,  and  through 
the  self-oblation  of  His  only  Son  upon  the  cross  is 
then  recalled  in  deep  thankfulness.  The  institu- 
tion of  the  Eucharist  in  the  night  of  the  betrayal  is 
next  related,  and  then,  taking  up,  and  fufilling  the 
command  of  Christ  ('Do  this  for  my  memorial') 
therein  recited,  most  solemn  memorial  is  made 
before  God,  with  the  antitypical  elements,  of  the 
death  and  of  the  victorious  resurrection  and  ascen- 
sion of  the  Lord  Christ.  Then,  as  still  further 
carrying  out  this  act  of  obedience,  most  humble 
prayer  is  made  to  the  Eternal  Father  for  the  hallow- 
ing of  the  oblations,  through  the  operation  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  to  be  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ, 
and  to  be  to  those  who  partake  of  them,  for  the 
imparting  of  remission  of  sins,  and  the  bestowal  of 
life  eternal.  To  this  great  act  of  praise  and  prayer 
the  solemn  "Amen"  of  the  assembled  congregation 
assents,  and  thereafter  the  sacramental  gifts  are 
received  by  the  faithful  present,  with  another 
"Amen"  from  each  recipient  to  whom  they  are 
administered. 

The  great  eucharistic  prayer,  as  outlined,  was  the 
first  part  of  the  liturgy  to  crystallize;  into  written 
form,  and  of  its  component  parts  the  invocation  of 
the  Divine  blessing  upon  the  elements  was  probably 
the  first  to  be  written  down. 

Around  the  simplicity  and  the  depth  of  such  a 

truly  apostolic  norm  of  eucharistic  worship,  alone, 

can  be  gathered  into  one  the  now  dis- 

2.  Its  persed  and  divided  followers  of  the 
Unifying  Christ,  for  therein  subsist  in  perfect 
Significance  harmony  the  Godward  and  the  man- 
ward  aspects  of  the  memorial  He  com- 
manded us  to  make  as  complementary,  not  contra- 
dictory; and  the  identity  of  the  consecrated  bread 
and  wine  with  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ  is 
manifested  to  be  in  the  realm  of  their  spiritual 
function  and  potency. 

Literature. — E.  F.  Willis,  The  Worship  of  the  Old 
Covenant  ....  in  Relation  to  That  of  the  New;  Fred- 
eric Kendall,  Sacrificial.  Language  of  the  NT;  Maurice 
Gogucl,  L'eucharistie  des  origines  a  Justin  Martyr,  105  fr; 
\V.  li.  Frankland,  The  Early  Eucharist  (excellent);  H.  B. 
Swete,  "Eucharistic  Belief  in  the  2d  and  3d  Cents.." 
Journal  of  Theological  Studies,  June.  1902,  161  ff;  R. 
M.  Woolley,  The  Liturgy  of  the  Primitive  Church;  M. 
Lepin,_  L'idee  du  sacrifice  dans  la  religion  chretienne; 
W.  Milligan,  The  Ascension  and.  Heavenly  Priesthood  of 
Our  Lord;  Thomas  Brett.  A  True  Scripture  Account  of 
the  Nature  and  benefits  of  the  Holy  Eucharist,  1736;  id, 
A  Discourse  Concerning  the  Necessity  of  Discerning  the 
Lord's  Body  in  the  Holy  Communion,  1720;  J.  R.  Milne, 
Considerations  on  Eucharistic  Worship;  id,  The  Doctrine 
and  Practice  of  the  Eucharist;  H.  R.  (Jummey,  The  Con- 
secration of  the  Eucharist;  A.  J.  Maclean,  Recent  Dis- 
coveries Illustrating  Early  Christian  Life  and  Worship; 
id.  The  Ancient  Church  Orders;  L.  Duchesne,  Origines 
du  culte  chretien;  J.  T.  Levens,  Aspects  of  the  Holy  Com- 
munion; John  Wordsworth,  The  Holy  Communion; 
V.   E.   Brightman,    Liturgies,    Eastern   and    Western. 

Henuy  Riley  Gummey 


Historical 

1.  Original  Institution 

2.  The  Elements 

3.  The  Eucharist  in  the  Apostolic  Church 

4.  The  Eucharist  in  the  Post-apostolic  Church 

5.  Rome  and  the  Eucharist 

6.  Luther  and  the  Eucharist 

7.  Zwingli  and  the  Eucharist 

8.  Calvin  and  the  Eucharist 

This  name  of  the  Lord's  Supper  is  derived  from 
eucharistia,  the  prayer  of  consecration,  and  this 
in  turn  points  back  to  Mt  26  27,  "And  he  took  a 
cup,  and  gave  thanks"  (euchari.stP.tias).  The  most 
common  name  is  "Lord's  Supper"  (deipnon  kuriou 
[1  Cor  11  20]).  It  is  also  called  "Lord's  table" 
(trdpeza  kuriou  [10  21  AV]);  while  the  cup  is  called 
"the  cup  of  blessing"  (potfrioit  tts  eulogias  [ver 
16])  and  "the  cup  of  the  Lord"  (poterion  ku- 
riou [ver  21]).  The  word  koinonia  points  both 
to  the  bread  and  the  cup,  whence  our  common  term 
"communion."  In  post-apostolic  days  it  became 
known  as  leitourgia,  a  sacred  ministration,  whence 
our  word  "liturgy."  It  was  also  named  thusia,  a 
sacrifice,  and  musttrion,  from  its  mystic  character 
and  perhaps  from  the  fact  that  it  was  celebrated 
only  in  the  closed  circle  of  believers.  The  Roman 
Catholic  church  calls  it  missa  or  "mass,"  from  the 
words  congrcgatio  missa  est,  whereby  in  post-apos- 
tolic times  the  first  part  of  worship,  called  the  ?nissa 
cathechumenorum,  was  closed,  and  whereby  the 
second  part  of  worship  was  ushered  in,  known  as 
the  missa  fidelium,  the  sacramental  part  of  worship, 
only  destined  for  believers. 

The  origin  of  the  Eucharist  is  described  in  Mt 
26;  Mk  14,  and  Lk  22.  Paul  introduces  his 
simple  and  comprehensive  recital  of 
1.  Original  the  origin  of  the  institution — the  car- 
Institution  liest  written  record  of  it — with  the 
words:  "For  I  received  of  the  Lord 
that  which  also  I  delivered  unto  you"  (1  Cor  11 
23).  A  comparison  between  the  Gospels  and  Ex 
12  indicates  a  considerable  modification  of  the  origi- 
nal Passover  ritual  in  the  days  of  Jesus  (see  Smith's 
DB,  art.  "Lord's  Supper").  The  composite 
Gospel-picture  of  the  institution  of  the  Eucharist 
shows  us  the  Saviour  in  the  deep  consciousness  of 
the  catastrophe  about  to  overwhelm  Him,  surround- 
ed by  treason  on  the  part  of  Judas  and  a  strange 
and  total  lack  of  appreciation  of  the  true  situation 
on  the  part  of  the  other  disciples.  He  had  greatly 
'desired  to  eat  this  passover  with  them  before  he 
suffered'  (Lk  22  15),  and  yet  they  are  wholly 
unresponsive,  the  chief  question  apparently  in  their 
minds  being  the  old  contention  of  rank  and  pre- 
eminence. Whether  or  not  Judas  was  present  at  the 
eating  of  the  Supper  is  a  moot  point,  which  we  will 
not  discuss  here.  Neither  will  we  touch  the  ques- 
tion whether  or  not  this  Passover-meal  was  the  true 
Jewish  festive  meal  or  an  anticipation  of  it,  called 
pascha  only,  in  allusion  to  the  great  feast,  which 
had  brought  the  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Jews  to 
Jerus  (cf  Mt  26;  Mk  14  with  Jn  12  1;  13  1.2. 
29;   18  28;   19  14.31). 

Both  Mt  and  Mk  leave  the  exact  place  of  the  in- 
stitution of  the  Supper  in  the  festive  meal  indefinite, 
"as  they  were  eating"  (Mt  26  26;  Mk  14  22); 
the  words  of  Lk,  "after  supper"  (22  20),  may  be  a 
hint  in  regard  to  this  matter  (see  Jn  13  1;  1  Cor 
11  25).  But  the  custom  of  the  early  church  of 
celebrating  the  Eucharist  after  the  agape  or  "love 
feast"  appears  to  be  strong  evidence  that  the  original 
institution  was  separate  from  the  paschal  festival 
and  followed  it.  The  entire  subject  of  the  Euchar- 
ist has  been  called  in  question  by  the  radical  Ger- 
man critics,  who  point  to  the  absence  of  the  whole 
matter  in  Jn  and  to  the  omission  of  the  words,  "Do 
this  in  remembrance  of  me,"  in  Mt  and  Mk.  Its 
occurrence  in  Lk  is  ascribed  to  Paul's  influence!  over 


1925 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA      Lord's  Supper 


him  and  to  his  familiarity  with  the  story  of  the  insti- 
tution as  described  by  the  apostle.  But  this  posi- 
tion is  utterly  untenable  in  the  light  of  the  un- 
questioned fact  that  the  Lord's  Supper  as  a  fixed 
part  of  worship  was  firmly  established  from  the 
earliest  days  of  the  Christian  church.  The  doctrine 
of  Christ's  vicarious  suffering  is  nowhere  so  clearly 
enunciated  as  in  the  words  of  the  institution  of  the 
Supper,  "This  is  my  body  which  is  given  for  you" 
(Lk  22  19);  ''This  is  my  blood  of  the  covenant, 
which  is  poured  out  for  many  unto  remission  of 
sins"  (Mt  26  28).  Small  wonder  that  those  who 
have  utterly  done  away  with  the  doctrine  of  the 
vicarious  atonement  or  of  substitution  should 
attack  the  historicity  of  the  Eucharist  and  should 
seek  by  all  means  to  wipe  it  from  the  record. 

Jesus  bids  His  followers  to  observe  the  new  insti- 
tution "in  remembrance  of"  Him.  As  Dr.  Bavinck 
says,  "The  Lord's  Supper  is  instituted  by  Christ  as 
a  permanent  benefit  to  His  church;  it  is  a  blessing 
added  to  all  other  blessings  to  signifv  and  to  seal 
them"  (Geref.  Dogm.,  IV,  310). 

As  to  the  elements  used  in  the  original  institu- 
tion of  the  Supper,  they  were  bread  and  wine.  The 
bread  of   course  was  the  unleavened 

2.  The  bread  of  the  Passover,  during  which 
Elements       feast  every  trace  of  leaven  was  removed 

(Ex  12  19).  The  Eastern  church, 
perhaps  influenced  by  the  bitter  Ebionite  spirit  of 
the  Judaizers,  later  adopted  the  use  of  common 
bread  {koinds  dr(os) ;  the  Western  church  used 
unleavened  bread.  Protestantism  left  the  matter 
among  the  adiaphora. 

As  regards  the  wine,  the  matter  has  been  in  dis- 
pute from  the  beginning  (see  Kitto's  Cyclopaedia  of 
Bib.  Lit.).  The  early  church  always  used  mixed 
wine,  wine  and  water,  following  the  Jewish  custom. 
Whether  the  wine  used  at  the  institution  of  the 
Lord's  Supper  was  fermented  or  unfermented  wine, 
must  of  course  be  determined  by  the  Jewish  Pass- 
over-customs prevailing  at  that  time.  The  matter 
is  in  dispute  and  is  not  easily  settled. 

Modern  Jews  quite  generally  use  raisin-wine,  made  by 
steeping  raisins  over  night  in  water  and  expressing  t  Ik; 
juice  the  next  day  for  use  at  the  Passover-meal.  The 
ancient  Jews,  we  arc  told,  used  for  this  purpose  a  thick 
boiled  wine,  mixed  with  water  (Mish,  T>rum6th,  xi). 
Whether  oinos,  the  word  used  in  the  NT,  stands  literally, 
as  the  name  indicates,  for  fermented  wine,  or  figuratively 
for  the  mixed  drinks,  well  known  to  ancient  and  modern 
Jews,  is  a  debatable  matter.  As  late  as  the  Kith  cent. 
the  Nestorian  Christians  celebrated  communion  with 
raisin-wine,  and  the  same  is  said  of  the  Indian  Chris- 
tians ("St.  Thomas  Christians").  The  word  "new," 
used  by  Christ  in  Alt  26  29,  is  believed  by  some  to  indi- 
cate the  character  of  the  wine  used  by  Christ  at  the 
institution  of  the  Eucharist,  viz.  the  juice  of  grapes  fresh 
pressed  out  (see  Clem.  Alex.,  Paed.,  xi).  On  the  other 
hand  the  third  Council  of  Braga  explicitly  forbade  this 
practice  as  heretical.  It  is  evident  that  the  whole  sub- 
ject is  shrouded  in  much  mystery.  Some  ancient  sects 
substituted  an  entirely  different  element,  water  and 
milk,  for  instance,  being  used  (Epiph.,  Hacr.,  xlix;  Aug., 
Haer.,  xxviii).  Such  customs  were  utterly  condemned 
by  the  Council  of  Braga  (075  AD).  In  general,  however, 
the  Christian  church,  almost  from  the  beginning,  seems 
to  have  used  fermented  red  wine,  either  mixed  or  pure, 
in  the  administration  of  the  Eucharist,  in  order  to  main- 
tain the  correspondence  between  the  symbol  and  the 
thing  symbolized. 

Originally  the  apostolic  church  celebrated  com- 
munion at  every  meeting  for  worship.     They  con- 
tinued    stedfastly    in     the     apostle's 

3.  The  teaching  and  fellowship,  in  the  break- 
Eucharist  ing  of  bread  and  the  prayers  (Acts 
in  the  2  42. 4G).  Very  soon,  however,  if  we 
Apostolic  may  judge  from  the  Acts  and  the 
Church  Pauline  Epp.,  its  administration  was 

confined  to  the  meeting  on  the  first 
day  of  the  week.  The  agape  always  preceded  com- 
munion, and  at  some  part  of  the  service  the  be- 
lievers, the  sexes  after  the  plan  of  the  synagogue 
being   separated,    would     salute    each    other    with 


the  "holy  kiss"  (philema  hdgion)  (1  Cor  16  20;  2 
Cor  13  12).  But  the  introduction  of  the  sacra- 
ment, with  all  its  accessories,  had  evidently  occa- 
sioned grave  abuses  at  Corinth  (1  Cor  11  34). 
Paul  corrects  these  in  unmistakable  language. 
Thus  we  received  our  first  written  record  of  the 
institution  of  the  Supper.  In  Corinth  it  seems  to 
have  been  restricted  from  the  beginning  to  the  first 
day  of  the  week  (Acts  20  7;  1  Cor  16  2).  By  a 
slow  transition  the  deipnon  was  transferred  from  "the 
midnight  hour  to  the  morning.  At  least  we  find 
that  Paul  kept  it  after  midnight  at  Troas  (Acts  20 
11).  It  would  appear  as  if  the  apostle  had  also 
partaken  of  the  Lord's  Supper,  together  with  his 
Christian  companions,  on  board  the  ship,  toward 
the  close  of  his  fateful  trip  on  the  Adriatic  (Acts 
27  35). 

In  the  post-apostolic  church  the  Eucharist  continued 

to  be  celebrated   every   Lord's   day.     But  it  separated 

itself  from  the  preaching  of  the  Word  and 

4.  The  from  prayers,  as  in  the  previous  period. 
■p'  u  ;  f  It  was  invested  with  a  mystic  meaning, 
Jiucnarisi  something  too  holy  for  the  common  eve. 
in  the  Post-  and  thus  the  missa  catechumenorum,  the 
apostolic  open  church-meeting,  was  separated  from 
ChnrcVi  *ne  ""•««  fidelium,  the  gathering  of  be- 
v^nurcn            Movers  only,  in  which  the  Eucharist  was 

celebrated.  Bread,  wine,  oil,  milk,  honey, 
all  the  ingredients  for  the  agape,  from  which  the  ele- 
ments for  the  Supper  were  selected,  were  furnished  by 
the  free-will  offerings  of  the  believers.  These  were 
solemnly  set  apart  by  the  officiating  bishop  with  a  con- 
secrating prayer,  eucharistia,  and  thus  the  sacrament 
obtained  the  name  "Eucharist."  The  gifts  themselves 
were  called  prosphorai,  "oblations,"  or  thusiai,  "sac- 
rifices." The  sacrificial  conception  of  the  Supper  was 
thus  gradually  created  (Ign.,  Phil.,  iv;  Smyrna,  vii. 
viii;  Justin,  Apol..  i.66;  Dial.,  xii.70;  Irenaeus,  Adr. 
llacr.,  iv.  18.5).  The  Eucharist  once  being  conceived 
as  a  sacrifice,  the  conception  of  the  officiating  bishop 
as  a  priest  became  logically  inevitable.  The  Apos 
Const,  xliii  (4)  gives  us  a  fair  idea  of  the  worship  of  the 
church,  toward  the  close  of  the  3d  cent.  Even  at  that 
early  day  a  well-developed  ritual  had  replaced  the  sim- 
plicity of  the  worship  of  the  apostolic  days.  In  the 
African  and  Eastern  churches,  baptized  children  were 
allowed  to  partake  of  communion,  through  the  fear 
engendered  by  Jn  6  53.  The  regenerative  conception 
of  baptism  largely  influenced  this  custom.  The  rem- 
nants of  the  consecrated  elements  were  brought  by  the 
deacons  to  the  sick  and  to  imprisoned  believers.  We 
have  not  the  space  in  a  brief  article  like  this  to  enter 
fully  into  the  development  of  the  doctrinal  conception 
of  the  Supper  as  found  in  the  Fathers.  Suffice  it  to  say 
that  the  symbolical  and  spiritual  concept  of  the  Euchar- 
ist, usually  defined  as  the  "dynamic "  view  of  the  Supper, 
was  advocated  by  such  men  as  Origen,  Eusebius  of 
Caesarea,  Basil  the  Great,  Gregory  of  Nazianzen  and 
others.  On  the  other  hand  Cyril,  Gregory  of  Nyssa, 
Chrysostom  and  John  Damascenus  developed  the  "real- 
istic" theory  of  the  Eucharist,  and  this  view  again 
divided  itself  into  the  " diophysitic "  theory,  later  called 
"consubstantiation,"  and  the  "  monophysitic"  theory, 
later  known  as  "  transubstantiation."  Augustinus,  the 
great  Eat  Father,  knew  nothing  of  the  theory  of  tran- 
substantiation. He  taught  that  communion  carries  a 
blessing  only  for  believers,  while  to  the  unbelieving  it  is 
a  curse,  and  that  the  true  eating  of  the  body  of  Christ 
consists  in  believing  (Serm.  Ail  Infantes,  De  Civ.,  x.6; 
xxii.10;  Tract.  26  in  Joann.).  Paschasius  Radbert  (d. 
805  AD)  was  the  first  fully  to  formulate  the  realistic 
view  as  the  doctrine  of  the  Romish  church,  and  although 
the  dynamic  view  triumphed  for  a  while,  the  condemna- 
tion of  Berengarius  of  Tours  (d.  1088  AD)  proved  that 
by  the  middle  of  the  11th  cent,  the  realistic  view  of  the 
Supper  had  become  the  generally  accepted  doctrine  of 
the  Eucharist. 

The  Romish  church  couches  its  doctrine  of  the 

Eucharist  in  the  word  "transubstantiation,"  which 

means  the  conversion  of  the  substance 

5.  Rome  of  the  elements  used  in  the  Eucharist. 
and  the  The  word  was  first  used  by  Hildebert 
Eucharist       of  Tours  (d.   1134   AD)  in  a  sermon. 

The  doctrine  of  the  Supper  was  finally 
fixed,  together  with  the  new  term,  by  Pope  Inno- 
cent III,  at  the  Lateran  Council  1215  AD.  It  was 
decided  that  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ  are  truly 
contained  in  the  sacrament  of  the  altar,  under  the 
species  of  bread  and  wine,  the  bread  being  tran- 
substantiated into  the  body  and  the  wine  into  the 
blood  of  Christ,  by  the  Divine  power.     This  has 


Lord's  Supper      THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1926 


been  the  Romish  doctrine  of  the  Supper  ever  since. 
The  bread  and  wine  are  changed  into  the  veritable 
body  and  blood  of  Christ,  by  the  words  of  the  insti- 
tution. By  the  institution  of  the  Supper,  Chris! 
made  Mis  disciples  priests,  wherefore  the  Eucharist 
may  be  administered  only  by  an  ordained  priest. 
In  the  miracle  of  the  sacrament,  the  "accidents"  of 
the  elements — bread  and  wine— remain,  but  they 
are  no  longer  inherent  in  a  subject,  the  substance 
in  which  they  inhered  being  replaced  by  another. 
This  new  substance  is  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ, 
which  is  hidden  from  observation  under  the  appear- 
ance of  the  elements.  The  whole  Christ  is  present 
in  each  of  these  elements,  hence  it,  is  not  necessary 
to  commune  under  both  forms  (sub  utraque).  In 
the  Romish  conception  of  the  Supper  communion 
with  Christ  is  a  secondary  idea.  The  main  idea  is 
that  of  the  transubstantiation  itself,  for  the  Supper 
is  more  a  sacrifice  than  a  sacrament ;  thus  the  mass 
becomes  a  sin  offering.  While  it  feeds  faith,  keeps 
us  from  mortal  sin,  wards  off  temporal  punishment, 
unites  believers,  it  also  has  a,  potency  for  those  who 
are  not  present,  and  even  for  the  dead  in  purgatory. 
Thus  the  mass  became  the  very  heart  and  center  of 
the  entire  Romish  cultus  (Conf.  Trid.,  XIII,  21,  22; 
Cat.  Rom.,  CXII,  c.  4;  Bellarm,  De  Sacr.  Euch.,  I, 
iv;  Moehler,  Symb.,  §  34). 

The  Reformers  rejected  the  doctrine  of  transub- 
stantiation, the  sacrificial  conception  of  the  Euchar- 
ist,  the  adoration  of  the  "host,"  the 

6.  Luther  withholding  of  the  cup,  the  efficiency 
and  the  of  the  Eucharist  in  behalf  of  the  dead, 
Eucharist       the  entire;  Romish  conception  of  the 

sacrament  of  the  Supper.  The  origi- 
nal position  of  Luther,  that  the  elements  in  the 
Supper  were  signs  and  seals  of  the  remission  of  sins, 
was  soon  replaced  by  the  doctrine  of  "consub- 
stantiation."  The  bitter  controversy  with  Carl- 
stadt, and  esp.  the  failure  of  the  Marburg  Con- 
ference, drove  Luther  forever  into  the  camp  of  the; 
realists.  As  early  as  1524  he  had  outlined  his 
doctrine  against  Carlstadt.  He  placed  himself 
squarely  on  the  realistic  conception  of  the  words  of 
the  institution,  and  held  that  "the  body  of  Christ 
in  accordance  with  the  will  and  omnipotence  of  God 
and  its  own  ubiquity  is  really  and  substantially 
present  in,  with  and  under  the  Supper,  even  as  His 
Divine  nature  is  in  the  human  as  warmth  is  in  the 
iron.  Wherefore  the  Supper  is  physically  par- 
taken of  by  those  who  are  unworthy,  albeit  to  their 
own  destruction"  (Bavinck,  Geref.  Dogm.,  IV,  318). 
This  doctrine  has  been  fully  developed  by  the 
Lutheran  divines,  and  is  till  this  day  the  view  of  the 
Lutheran  church. 

Zwingli  essentially  sided  with  Carlstadt  in  his 
controversy  with  Luther,  whom  he  thereby  greatly 

embit  tered.     He  interpreted  the  words 

7.  Zwingli  of  the  institution — "this  is" — as  sig- 
and  the  nifying  "this  stands  for,"  "this  signi- 
Eucharist      fies."     This  view  was  fully  set  forth 

in  a  letter  to  Matthew  Alber  at 
Reutlingen  in  1524  and  was  given  its  final  form  in 
his  dogmatic  tract,  Com.  de  vera  et  falsa  rel.  (1525), 
where  he  characterizes  Luther's  doctrine  as  "an 
opinion  not  only  rustic  but  even  impious  and 
frivolous."  The  breach  was  widened  by  the  Mar- 
burg Conference  of  1529.  Reduced  to  its  last 
analysis,  the  eucharistic  concept  of  Zwingli  is  that 
of  a  symbolical  memorial  of  the  suffering  and  death 
of  Christ,  although  Zwingli  does  not  deny  that 
Christ  is  present  to  the  eye  of  faith.  On  the  con- 
trary, He  is  enjoyed  through  the  word  and  through 
faith,  i.e.  in  a  spiritual  way.  In  the  Supper  we 
confess  our  faith,  we  express  what  that  faith  means 
to  us,  and  we  do  it  in  memory  of  Christ's  death 
(Oper.,  ii.l,  426;  iii. 239,  326,  459;  iv.51,  68).  The 
Zwinglian   view   has   been    consciously    or    uncon- 


sciously adopted  by  a  very  large  portion  of  the 
Protestant  church. 

Calvin's  position  on  the  doctrine  of  the  Eucharist 
tends  rather  to  the  Lutheran  than  to  the  Zwinglian 

view.  With  Zwingli  the  sacrament  is 
8.  Calvin  little  more  than  a  sign,  with  Calvin 
and  the  it  is  both  a  sign  and  a  seal.     The  real- 

Eucharist       ity  of  communion  with  Christ  and  the 

benefits  of  His  death,  received  by  a 
living  faith — all  this  is  common  to  the  Lutheran  and 
the  Calvinistic  views.  The  Lord's  Supper  is  far 
more;  than  a  mere  memorial  service,  it  is  a  marvelous 
means  of  grace  as  well.  Calvin  sides  with  Zwingli 
in  denying  all  physical,  local  or  substantial  presence 
of  Christ  in  the  Eucharist.  But  he  differs  from  him 
in  making  the  eucharistic  act  far  more  than  a  con- 
fession of  faith,  and  he  lays  far  greater  stress  than 
Zwingli  on  the  meaning  of  its  true  participation. 
With  Luther  he  holds  that  Christ  is  truly  present 
in  the  Supper,  and  he  lays  stress  esp.  on  the  mystic 
union  of  the  believer  with  Christ.  In  the  Supper 
both  the  benefits  of  Christ's  death  and  His  glorious 
person  are  touched.  But  Christ  does  not  descend 
in  the  Supper  to  the  believer,  but  the  latter  ascends 
to  Him  in  heaven.  The  central  thought  of  the  Cal- 
vinistic conception  of  the  Supper  is  this,  that  the 
communicant,  through  the  operation  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  comes  in  spiritual  contact  with  the  entire 
person  of  Christ  and  that  he  is  thus  fed  unto  life 
eternal.  Every  close  student  of  Calvin's  works 
wall  have  to  admit  that  his  ideas  on  the  subject  are 
somewhat  involved  and  confusing.  This  is  due 
no  doubt  to  the  mediating  position  he  occupied 
between  Luther  and  Zwingli.  But  his  position  as 
a  whole  is  quite  plain.  All  his  followers  agree  in 
holding  that  (1)  Christ  is  only  spiritually  present 
in  the  Supper;  (2)  that  the  participation  in  the 
benefits  of  the  Supper  must  therefore  be  spiritual, 
although  it  is  real,  and  (3)  that  only  true  communi- 
cants, by  a  living  faith,  can  communicate  therein, 
and  that  this  participation  in  the  atoning  death  of 
the  Saviour  is  sealed  to  us  by  the  use  of  the  ordained 
signs  of  the  sacrament.  Henry  E.  Dosker 

Lutheran  Interpretation 

I.     The   Term 

1.  The  Derivation  and  Meaning 

2.  Synonyms 
II.     The   Ordinance 

1.  Source  and  Norm  of  the   Doctrine  of  the  Eu- 
charist 

2.  Interpretation  of  the  Eucharistic  Texts 

3.  Doctrinal  Contents  of  the  Eucharistic  Passages 
III.     Difficulties 

1.  Question  of  Possibility 

2.  The  Place  of  Faith  in  the  Sacrament 

3.  The  Words  of  the  Institution 

/.    The    Term. — "Eucharist"    is    the    anglicized 
form  of  the   Gr  noun  eucharistia,   which  signifies 
"gratitude,"     "thanks,"     or     "praise 
1.  The  offering."     The  noun  is  derived  from 

Derivation  the  vb.  eucharisteo,  which,  with  the 
and  Mean-  vb.  eulogeo  of  kindred  meaning  in  Mt 
ing  26  26.27;     Mk  14  22.23,    is   used    to 

describe  the  action  of  the  Lord  in 
blessing  the  bread  and  wine  at  the  institution  of 
the  Lord's  Supper  (Lk  22  19;  1  Cor  11  23). 
When  used  absolutely,  as  in  these  places,  it  signi- 
fies "the  offering  up  of  praise  that  is  prompted 
by  nothing  else  than  God  Himself  and  His  revealed 
glory"  (Cremer).  The  blessing  of  the  physical 
(dements  was  part  of  the  sacramental  action  at 
subsequent  celebrations  of  the  ordinance  (1  Cor 
10  16),  and  thus  eucharistia  soon  (2d  cent.)  came 
to  mean  the  blessed  elements  and  the  entire  ordi- 
nance in  which  these  were  administered. 

Other  Scriptural  terms  for  the  same  ordinance  are 
"Communion"  (from  koinonia,  in  the  twofold  sense 
indicated  in  1  Cor  10  16.17),  "Lord's  Supper"  (kuria- 
kon  delpnon  [1  Cor  11    20]),      "Lord's  Table"    (trdpeza 


1927 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA      Lord's  Supper 


kuriou  [1  Cor  10  21]),  "Breaking  of  Bread"  (kldsia  toil 
drtou  [Acts  2  42]).     The  lit.  of  the  church  developed  a 

great  many  terms  which  emphasize  one  or 

2    Svno-  tne  °ther  feature  of  the  ordinance.    Luther, 

"  in  his  Small  Catechism,  adopts   the   name 

nyms  "Sacrament  of   the  Altar,"   because  it  is 

administered  at  the  altar.  The  Lutheran 
Confessions  occasionally  employ  the  term  "mass," 
however,  in  the  original  meaning  which  the  early  church, 
not  in  that  which  the  Roman  church,  connects  with 
the  term  ("mass"  derived  either  from  missa,  "things 
sent,"  because  the  materials  for  communion  were  sent 
to  the  place  of  celebration,  or  from  missio,  "a  sending 
[away],"  because  worshippers  who  were  not  members,  or 
minors,  were  dismissed  from  the  service  before  the  cele- 
bration of  the  Eucharist  began;  but  see  McClintock  and 
Strong,  Cyclop,  of  Bib.,   Theol.,  and  Eccles.  Lit.,  V,  863). 

//.    The    Ordinance. — The    "seats   of    doctrine," 

i.e.  the  Scripture  texts  which  must  be  employed  for 

determining    every    essential    part    of 

1.  Source  the  teaching  of  Scripture  regarding  the 
and  Norm  second  sacrament  of  the  Christian 
of  the  Doc-  church,  are  the  words  of  institution 
trine  of  the  recorded  in  Mt  26  26-28;  Mk  14  22- 
Eucharist       24;      Lk  22  19.20;      1  Cor  11  23-25. 

Valuable  statements,  chiefly  concern- 
ing the  proper  use  of  the  sacrament,  are  found  in 
1  Cor  10  15  ff;  11  20  ff.  That  these  texts  are 
controverted  is  no  reason  why  a  doctrine  should 
not  be  established  from  them.  No  doctrine  of  the 
Christian  religion  could  be  established,  if  every  text 
of  Scripture  had  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  argument , 
so  soon  as  it  had  become  controverted.  Jn  6  32- 
59  does  not  treat  of  this  ordinance,  because  (1) 
the  ordinance  must  be  dated  from  the  night  of  the 
betrayal,  which  was  considerably  after  the  Lord's 
discourse  at  Capernaum;  (2)  because  this  passage 
speaks  of  "eating  the  flesh,"  not  the  body,  of  the 
Son  of  man,  and  of  drinking  "his  blood,"  in  such 
a  manner  that  a  person's  eternal  salvation  is  made 
to  depend  upon  this  eating  and  drinking.  If  this 
passage  were  eucharistic,  infants,  children,  persons 
in  durance  among  pagans,  or  temporarily  deprived 
of  the  ministration  of  the  Christian  church,  hence, 
unable  to  commune,  could  not  be  saved. 

The  exposition  of  the  genuine  eucharistic  texts 
of   Scripture   is  governed  by  the  common  law  of 

Bible  exegesis,   viz.   that  every  word 

2.  Interpre-  and  statement  of  Scripture  must  be 
tation  of  the  understood  in  its  proper  and  native 
Eucharistic  sense,  unless  a  plain  and  urgent  reason 
Texts  compels  the  adoption  of  a  figurative 

interpretation.  The  writers  who  have 
recorded  the  institution  of  the  sacrament  have 
given  no  hint  that  they  wish  to  be  understood  fig- 
uratively. The  solemn  occasion — the  Eucharist 
being  the  expression  of  the  last  will  or  testament 
of  the;  Lord — forbids  the  use  of  figurative  language 
(Gal  3  15).  The  fact  that  a  statement  of  Scrip- 
ture transcends  our  natural  powers  of  comprehen- 
sion does  not  justify  us  in  giving  it  a  figurative 
meaning.  If  this  rationalistic  principle  were  to  be 
applied  in  explaining  Scripture,  we  could  not  retain 
a  single  revealed  doctrine.  Besides,  those  who 
have  adopted  a  figurative  interpretation  are  not 
agreed  where  to  locate  the  figure  in  the  words  of 
institution.  Some  claim  that  the  word  touto, 
others  that  estl,  others  that  to  soma  mou  contain  a 
figure,  while  still  others  would  take  the  institutional 
words  in  their  proper  sense,  but  understand  the 
entire  ordinance  figuratively. 

The  eucharistic  passages  contain:   (1)  a  statement 

fixing  the  time  and  occasion  of  the  institution.     It 

was  "in  the  night   in  which  he  was 

3.  Doctrinal  betrayed,"  immediately  before  the 
Contents  of  beginning  of  the  passio  magna  of 
the  Euchar-  Christ,  and  in  connection  with  the 
istic  celebration  of  the  Jewish  Passover 
Passages        (Mt  26  17  ff).     The  ordinance  which 

Christ  instituted  was  to  take  the  place 
of   the  ancient   Passover    (1  Cor  6  7,   which   text 


Luther  aptly  renders:  "We,  too,  have  a  passover, 
which  is  Christ  crucified  for  us").  Jewish  custom 
at  the  time  of  Christ  seems  to  have;  allowed  some 
latitude  as  regards  the  time  for  eating  the  paschal 
lamb.  Thus  the  difference  between  John  (18  2<S; 
19  42)  and  the  synoptists  is  overcome.  Our  Lord 
was  deeply  stirred  with  thoughts  of  love  and  affec- 
tion for  His  disciples  at  the  time  of  the  institution 
(13  1). 

(2)  An  authoritative  declaration  of  Christ,  the 
God-man,  fixing  the  constituent  parts  of  the  sacra- 
ment, and  the  essential  features  of. the  sacramental 
act  (speciem  actus).     This  declaration  names: 

(a)  The  elements  of  the  sacrament,  which  are  of  two 
kinds:  bread  and  wine  (materia  terrena),  and  the  body 
and  blood  of  the  Lord  (materia  coelestis)  (see  Irenaeus, 
Adv.  Haer..  iv.34.363,  quoted  in  Form.  Cm,,-  Sal 
Dec/..  Art.  VII,  no.  14,  649).  There  is  no  law  laid  down 
as  regards  the  quality,  form,  or  quantity  of  the  bread 
(leavened  or  unleavened,  round  or  oblong,  in  large  loaves, 
cakes,  or  in  wafer  form  ready  for  immediate  distri- 
bution). Likewise  the  color  and  quality  of  the  wine  is 
left  undefined.  The  expression  ginnema  tes  ampelou, 
"fruit  of  the  vine"  (Mt  26  29),  sanctions  the  use  of  any 
substance  that  has  grown  on  the  vine,  has  been  pressed 
from  grapes,  and  has  the  characteristics  of  the  substance 
known  as  wine.  That  the  wine  used  by  the  Lord  at  that 
season  of  the  year  and  in  accordance  with  Jewish  custom 
was  fermented  wine,  there  can  be  no  doubt  (Hodge, 
Systematic  Theol.,  Ill,  616).  The  use  of  unfermented 
wine  is  apt  to  introduce  an  element  of  uncertainty  into 
the  sacrament.  The  heavenly  elements  are  defined 
thus:  "My  body,  which  is  given  for  you,"  "my  blood, 
which  is  shed  for  many."  These  terms  signify  the  real, 
substantial,  natural  body  of  Christ,  and  His  real,  natural 
blood  (Luther:  "the  true  body  and  blood  of  our  Lord"). 
Both  the  earthly  and  the  heavenly  elements  are  really 
present  at  the  same  time  in  every  eucharistic  act.  To 
deny  either  the  presence  of  real  bread  and  wine  at  any 
stage  during  the  eucharistic  act,  as  the  Roman  doctrine 
of  transubstantiation  does  (against  1  Cor  11  26. 2X), 
or  the  real  presence  of  the  true  body  and  blood  of  Christ, 
as  reformed  teaching  does,  is  not  doing  justice  to 
Scripture. 

(6)  The  relation  of  the  elements  to  one  another:  In 
offering  the  physical  elements  to  the  disciples  the  Lord 
employs  the  locutio  exhibitiva,  common  to  every  lan- 
guage; of  men:  He  names  that  which  is  not  seen'  while 
giving  that  which  is  seen.  ("Here  are  your  spices," 
says  the  grocer  delivering  the  package  containing  them.) 
The  locutio  exhibitiva,  except  when  used  by  a  jester  or 
dishonest  person,  always  states  a  fact.  The  bread  in 
the  Eucharist  is  the  body  of  Christ,  the  wine,  likewise, 
is  the  blood  of  Christ.  The  relation  is  expressed  in 
I  Cor  10  16.17  by  koinonia,  "communion."  This 
term  is  not  the  same  as  metoche,  "participation,"  which 
would  refer  to  the  communicants  (Plummer,  HDB,  III, 
149).  Koinonia  declares  a  communion  of  the  bread 
with  the  body,  of  the  wine  with  the  blood,  of  Christ. 
It  is  impossible  to  define  the  mode  and  manner  of  this 
communion  of  the  earthly  with  tin;  heavenly  elements. 
Such  terms  as  "consubstantiation,"  "impanation," 
"  invination,"  are  faulty  attempts  to  define  the  unde- 
flnable.  All  we  can  assert  is,  that  in  a  manner  incom- 
prehensible to  us  the  body  and  blood  of  the  Lord  are 
in  a  sacramental  union  with  the  eucharistic  bread  and 
wine. 

(<•)  Tho  action  required,  viz.  "take,  eat";  "take, 
drink."  These  words  refer  to  the  distribution  and 
reception  of  the  sacramental  elements.  These!  are 
essential,  the  mode  is  not,  unless  one  wishes  to  empha- 
size, e.g.  by  the  breaking  of  the  bread,  the  merely  sym- 
bolical meaning  of  the  entire  ordinance.  Accordingly, 
it  is  also  immaterial  whether  the  administrant  place  the 
elements  into  the  hands  of  the  communicant,  who  then 
conveys  them  to  his  mouth,  or  whether  the  administrant 
conveys  the  elements  directly  to  the  mouth  of  the  com- 
municant. The  acts  of  distributing  and  receiving, 
however,  extend  to  the  entire  sacramental  substance, 
i.e.  not  the  bread,  or  the  wine,  alone  are  distributed  and 
received,  but  "in,  with,  and  under  the  bread"  the  body, 
"in,  with,  and  under  the  wine"  the  blood,  of  Christ. 
The  eating  and  drinking  in  the  Eucharist  is  of  a  peculiar 
kind.  It  differs  from  mere  natural  eating  and  drinking 
of  common  food,  and  from  spiritual  eating  and  drinking, 
which  is  a  figurative  expression  signifying  the  believing 
appropriation  of  the  Saviour's  atoning  work,  and  which 
can  never  be  "for  judgment."  In  natural  eating  and 
drinking  there  would  be  only  bread  and  wine,  not  the 
body  and  blood  of  the  Lord;  in  spiritual  eating  and  drink- 
ing there  would  be  only  the  merits  of  the  Redeemer,  not 
bread  and  wine.  In  sacramental  eating  and  drinking 
both  the  bread  and  the  body,  the  wine  and  the  blood, 
of  Christ,  are  sacramentally  received,  the  earthly  ele- 
ments in  a  natural,  the  heavenly  in  a  supernatural, 
undefinable  manner,  both,  however,  orally,  and  both  by 
every  communicant.       For,    according   to  1   Cor  11   29, 


Lord's  Supper 
Lot 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  MIMLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1928 


also  the  unworthy  communicant  receives  the  Lord's  body, 
and  that  for  his  judgment,  "not  discerning"  it  (A Vi. 

(</)  The  end  and  aim  of  the  ordinance:  The  Lord 
says:  "This  do  in  remembrance  of  me."  Paul  says: 
"As  often  as  ye  cat  this  bread,  and  drink  the  cup,  ye 
proclaim  the  Lord's  death  till  he  come."  These  words 
make  the  Eucharist  an  efficient  means  for  strengthening 
the  spiritual  union  of  the  disciples  with  the  Lord  until 
His  second  coming.  They  are  a  call  for  faith  on  the 
part  of  the  communicants,  and  restrict  admission  to 
communion  to  the  believing  followers  of  the  Lord. 
Worthy  communicants  are  those  who  understand  the 
meaning  of  Christ's  sacrifice  and  hope  for  His  return  in 
glory.  (Luther:  "The  sacrament  is  instituted  for  us 
Christians.")  The  duty  of  self-exploration  enjoined 
upon  communicants  further  emphasizes  the  purpose  of 
this  ordinance.  Self-exploration  embraces  knowledge 
and  acknowledgment  of  our  sinful  state,  confidence  in 
the  ever-present  forgiveness  of  God  for  Christ's  sake,  and 
a  sincere  purpose  to  forsake  sin  and  grow  in  holiness. 
Accordingly,  non-believers,  morally  irresponsible  per- 
sons, and  persons  who  lead  offensive  lives  which  they 
will  not  amend,  cannot  be  admitted  to  communion  (Mt 
7  (>).  In  1  Cor  10  17  Paul  names  another  purpose: 
the  strengthening  of  the  bonds  of  brotherly  love  and 
fellowship  by  means  of  communion.  Hence,  unity  of 
faith  and  active  Christian  charity  are  required  in  those 
who  are  to  commune  together  (Mt  5  2:5.24),  and  "close 
communion,"  not  "open,  or  promiscuous  communion" 
is  in  accord  with  the  teaching  of  Scripture.  In  the 
absence  of  any  fixed  rule  as  to  the  frequency  of  a  Christ 
tian's  communing,  the  above  reasons  suffice  to  induce 
him  to  commune  frequently  ("as  often  as"). 

(3)  An  authoritative  statement  of  Christ  concern- 
ing the  continued  use  of  the  sacrament  (exercitium 
actus) :  "This  do."  This  means  (a)  that  the  action  of 
Christ  is  to  be  repeated,  i.e.,  bread  and  wine  should 
be  blessed,  distributed  and  received.  The  blessing 
is  called  the  consecration  and  consists  in  the  reciting 
of  a  prayer  and  the  words  of  the  institution.  Con- 
secration has  no  magical  effects,  it  does  not  produce 
the  sacramental  union.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is 
not  a  mere  meaningless  ceremony,  but  a  solemn 
declaration  that  in  accordance  with  the  will  of  the 
Lord,  bread  and  wine  are  now  being  separated  from 
their  common  use,  to  be  devoted  to  the  use  which 
the  Lord  commanded.  It  is  also  a  prayer  to  the 
Lord  to  be  present  in  the  sacrament;  (b)  that 
whenever  disciples  do  as  their  Lord  did,  He  will 
connect  His  body  and  blood  with  the  earthly  sub- 
stances as  He  did  at  the  first  communion;  (c)  that 
besides  the  blessing  of  the  elements,  only  the  giving, 
or  distribution,  and  the  taking,  or  reception,  of  the 
sacramental  elements  are  proper  and  essential  parts 
of  a  sacramental  action.  A  true  sacramental  action 
is  complete  only  where  these  three  acts  concur: 
consecration,  distribution,  reception,  and  outside 
of  these  acts  nothing  that  may  be  done  with  the  ele- 
ments possesses  the  nature  of  a  sacrament  or  a  sac- 
ramental action.  Offering  the  consecrated  wafer 
for  adoration  is  no  part  of  the  sacrament,  but  is  a 
form  of  idolatry  (artolatry),  because  there  is  no 
sacramental  union  except  in  the  act  of  distributing 
and  receiving  the  consecrated  elements.  The 
withdrawal  of  the  cup  from  the  lay  communicants 
is  an  unwarranted  mutilation  of  the  sacrament 
(Mt  26  27;  Mk  14  23).  But  the  grossest  per- 
version of  the  sacrament,  and  a  standing  reproach 
to  the  completeness  of  the  atoning  sacrifice  of  the 
Lord  is  the  offering  up  of  the  consecrated  elements 
as  tin  unbloody  sacrifice  for  the  sins  of  the  living 
and  the  dead,  which  is  being  done  in  the  Rom  mass 
(He  10  14.  IS). 

///.  Difficulties. — "How  can  these  things  be?" 
This  question  might  be  raised  against  every  doc- 
trine of  Scripture.  The  union  of  the 
1.  Question  natures  in  the  God-man,  the  imputa- 
of  Possi-  tion  of  His  merit  to  the;  believer,  the 
bility  quickening  power  of  the  word  of  Di- 

vine grace,  the  resurrection  of  the 
dead,  etc,  can  all  be  subjected  to  the  same  question- 
ing. 

"Has  faith  no  place  in  this  sacrament?"  Faith 
does  not  create,  nor  help  to  create  the  sacrament, 
neither  the  administrant's  nor  the  communicant's 


faith.     The  sacrament  is  fully  constituted  in  all  its 

parts  by  the  institutional  act   of  the  Lord  and  by 

His  command  to  continue  the  observ- 

2.  Place         ance  of  it.     Man's  faith  cannot  make, 
of  Faith  man's  unbelief  cannot  unmake,  an  ordi- 
nance of  God.     But   faith  is  necessary 

in  order  that  a  communicant  may  receive  the  bless- 
ings offered  in  the  Eucharist,  and  testify  to  his  be- 
lieving relation  to  the  Lord  and  to  his  Christian 
fellowship  with  the  brethren.  The  sacrament 
bestows  no  blessing  ex  opere  operato,  i.e.  by  the  mere 
mechanical  performance  of  the  physical  act. 

"Are   the  words  of   the  institution   part  of  the 

sacred  text?"     Up  to  the  age  of  Paulus,  they  were 

universally  regarded  so,  and  the  criti- 

3.  The  c;d  labors  of  Briggs,  P.  Gardner, 
Words  of  Grafe,  Immer,  Julicher,  etc,  which  can 
the  Insti-  readily  be  explained  by  the  theological 
tution  position  of  these  men,  lack  unity  of 

result  and  are  offset  by  the  labors 
of  Scrivener,  Schultzen,  R.  A.  Hoffman,  Blass, 
Beyschlag,  etc.  Christianity  as  yet  sees  no  reason 
for  discarding  the  words  of  the  institution  and  for 
discontinuing  the  Eucharist  as  a  Divine  ordinance. 

\V.   H.  T.   Dau 

Accordixg  to  the  Belief  axd  Practice  of  the 
Church  of  the  Brethren  (Dunkers) 

I.     The    Last   Suppku    Was  Not  the   Jewish    Pass- 

OVEB 

1.  Date 

2.  Doctrinal 

3.  Tradition 

II.     The  Perpetuation  of  the  Last  Supper 

III.  Practice  of  the  Church  of  the  Brethren 

IV.  The    Meaning  and    Significance   of   the    Love 
Feast 

Literature 

The  interest  of  this  denomination  in  the  Lord's 
Supper  as  related  to  the  Passover  consists  in  two 
points:  (1)  that  the  "Lord's  Supper"  was  not  the 
Jewish  Passover,  but  was  eaten  the  evening  before 
the  Jewish  feast;  and  (2)  that  this  "Last  Supper" 
was  intended  to  be  perpetuated.  This  is  perpetu- 
ated by  the  Church  of  the  Brethren  under  the 
name  of  "Love  Feast"  (see  Agape). 

I.    The  Last  Supper  Was  Not  the  Jewish  Passover.  — 

John  gives  five  distinct  intimations  of  the  date: 

(1))   "Now  beforethe  feast  of  the  pass- 

1      Dafp  OVCr"     (Hpo    Se    tjjs     coprrj?    tou     irdcr\a,     J'ro 

±.   uu.iv  (U  (ig  heortig  tmi  ptscha;   .In  13   1).      This 

shows  that  the  washing  of  the  disciples' 
feet,  and  the  discourses  at  the  Last  Supper  were  before 
the  Passover. 

(2)  "Buy  what  things  we  have  need  of  for  the  feast" 

{ayopaaov  uv  \peiav  €\op.fv  eis  ty)v  eopT?ji',  agoras-im  h6n 
chreian  echomen  eis  thi  heorttn;  13  29).  This  shows  that 
the  Supper  (bfilirvov,  deipnon)  was  not  the  Passover  feast 
(eoprrji',    heorttn). 

(3)  "They  lead  Jesus  therefore  from  Caiaphas  into 
the  Praetorium;  and  it  was  early;  and  they  themselves 
entered  not  into  the  Praetorium,  that  they  might  not 
be  defiled,  but  might  eat  the  passover"  (<W  4>dyuo-u>  to 
Tra<j\a.,  hlna  phdf/osin  to  pdscha;  Jn  18  28).  This  was 
after  the  Supper,  early  on  the  day  of  crucifixion,  before 
the  Passover. 

(4)  "Now  it  was  the  Preparation  of  the  passover:    it 

Was    about    the    Sixth    hour"     (f/V    Si    TTapacTKevrj    toO    nd<T\a, 

in  di  pnraxktut>.  toil  pdscha;  Jn  19  14).  This  again 
shows  conclusively  that  the  Passover  was  not  yet  eaten. 
Jesus  is  before  Pilate;  it  is  the  day  of  the  crucifixion, 
and  after  the  Last  Supper. 

(5)  "The  Jews  therefore,  because  it.  was  the  Prepa- 
ration, that  the  bodies  should  not  remain  on  the  cross 
upon  the  sabbath  (for  the  day  of  that  sabbath  was  a 
high  day),"  ver  31,  etc.     Here  we  have  again  a  reference 

to    the    Preparation    (napacrKevr)   toO     ira.cj\a,    parasheuP.    tori 

pdscha),   and   also  to   the   Sabbath   which,  in  this  case 

was  a  "high  day"  (i)V  yap  p.eydhr)  r;  r)p.epa  eiceii'Oii  toG 
o-a3/3aTou,  tn  gdr  meydle  he  hemera  ekeinou  tou  sabbdtou). 
This  shows  that  the  Passover  was  eaten  on  Friday  even- 
ing after  sunset  on  the  loth  of  NIsan  at  the  beginning 
of  the  Jewish  Sabbath.  Whenever  the  Passover  fell 
upon  the  Sabbath,  that  Sabbath  was  a  "high  day." 

Christ  is  our  Passover:  died  at  the  time  the 
Passover  lamb  was  shun,  hence  after  the  Last 
Supper.     (1)  Christ  died  at  the  time  the  Passover 


1929 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Lord's  Supper 
Lot 


lamb  was  slain  on  Friday  afternoon,  the   14th  of 

Nisan,  and  thus  became  Our  Passover  (1  Cor  5  7), 

"For  our  passover  also  hath  been  sacri- 

2.  Doctrinal  need,    even    Christ."     (2)   Jesus,    the 

"Lamb  of  Clod"  (.In  1  29)  corresponds 
to  the  Passover  lamb  (Ex  12  3).  "Without  blem- 
ish" (Ex  12  5)=Jesus,  "who  did  no  sin"  (1  Pet  2 
22-24).  The  blood  of  a  lamb  sprinkled  upon  houses 
(Ex  12  7.13)  corresponds  to  salvation  by  the  blood 
of  Jesus  (1  Jn  1  7-9).  (3)  Jesus  arose  the  third 
day  and  became  "the  first-fruits  of  them  that  are 
asleep"  (1  Cor  15  4.20.23).  The  resurrection  was 
on  the  first  day  of  the  week.  The  sheaf,  or  first- 
fruits,  was  gathered  on  the  Kith  of  Nisan.  There- 
fore Jesus  must  have  died  on  Friday  the  14th  of 
Nisan,  when  the  Passover  lamb  was  slain;  hence 
after  the  Last  Supper. 

All  the  early  traditions,  both  Jewish  and  Christian, 
agree  that  Jesus  was  crucified  on  the  day  of  Prepa- 
ration of  the  Passover,  and  they  dis- 

3.  Tradition  tinguish  between  the  Passover  and  the 

Last  Supper  which  was  eaten  the 
evening  before  the  Jewish  feast. 

//.  The  Perpetuation  of  the  Last  Supper. — (1) 
Since  the  Last  Supper  was  a  new  institution,  there 
is  no  more  reason  for  perpetuating  one  part  than 
another.  It  is  a  unit,  and  each  event  of  that  night 
has  its  meaning  and  place.  (2)  Jesus  commanded 
the  disciples  to  perpetuate  feet-washing  (see 
Washing  of  Feet)  (Jn  13  14.15.17),  and  likewise 
He  commanded  the  Eucharist  to  be  perpetuated 
as  a  memorial  of  Him  (1  Cor  11  24.25).  Why 
not  the  Agape?  (3)  The  Agape  was  perpetuated 
by  the  apostles  and  disciples.  They  certainly 
understood  Jesus  to  mean  that  the  entire  services 
of  the  Last  Supper  should  be  perpetuated,  else 
they  would  not  have  done  so. 

///•   Practice  of  the  Church  of  the  Brethren  (Dunkers). 

— The  "  Love  Feast"  commemorates  Jesus'  Last  Supper 
with  His  disciples.  These  Love  Feasts  are  held  once  or 
twice  each  year,  always  in  the  evening,  by  each  local 
church  or  congregation.  Preparatory  services  on  "self- 
examination"  (1  ("or  11  28)  precede  the  ordinances. 
The  church  pews  are  converted  into  tables.  The 
Supper  (ieiTTvov,  deipnon)  is  made  ready  beforehand  by 
the  deacons  and  deaconesses.  The  devotional  exercises 
aim  to  accomplish  special  consecration,  confession,  and 
reconciliation.  Before  the  eating  of  the  Supper,  Jn 
13  1-17  is  read  and  explained,  whereupon  the  brethren 
proceed  to  wash  one  another's  feet,  and  the  sisters  like- 
wise by  themselves.  All  tarry  one  for  another  (1  Cor 
11  :VA)  until  they  are  ready  for  the  Supper.  The  offi- 
ciating elder  then  calls  upon  someone  to  offer  prayer  for 
the  meal,  which  is  then  eaten  together.  Another  prayer 
of  thanksgiving  is  offered  at  the  close  of  the  meal. 
After  the  meal,  the  officiating  elder  calls  upon  one  to 
read  t  lie  story  of  Christ's  sufferings  (Isa  53,  or  Jn  19). 
After  a  short  explanation  of  the  meaning  of  the  symbol, 
the  communicants  rise  while  the  officiating  elder  gives 
thanks  for  the  bread.  He  then  turns  to  his  brother  at 
his  right  and  breaks  a  piece  of  the  unleavened  bread  for 
him  with  the  words,  ''My  beloved  brother,  the  bread 
which  we  break  is  the  communion  of  the  body  of  Christ" 
(seel  Cor  10  16).  The  brethren  then  break  the  bread 
one  to  the  other,  with  these  words.  Likewise  the  sis- 
ters in  the  same  manner.  Again  the  congregation  rises 
while  the  officiating  elder  gives  thanks  for  the  cup,  which 
is  then  passed  by  one  to  the  other  with  the  words  "  He- 
loved  brother  [or  sister],  the  cup  of  the  XT  is  the  com- 
munion of  the  blood  of  Christ"  (1  Cor  10  Hi).  This 
is  followed  by  prayers  of  praise  and  thanksgiving,  then 
a  hymn  (Mt  26  30)  and  a  benediction. 

IV.  The  Meaning  and  Significance  of  the  Love 
Feast. — All  these  ordinances  or  symbols  signify 
some  fundamental  virtue  in  the  Christian  life.  We 
are  commanded  to  follow  our  Master  who  is  the 
Way  and  the  Truth.  But  these  symbols  have  a 
real  significance,  apart  from  merely  "following"  or 
"obeying"  the  Lord's  command.  (1)  Feet-washing 
symbolized  humility  and  service,  and  also  the  partial 
cleansing  which  all  Christians  need.  (2)  The  Agape 
signifies  the  bread-and-water  covenant  of  brother- 
hood and  peace.  It  is  not  only  the  symbol  of  true 
Christian  fellowship,  but  is  productive  of  such  fel- 
lowship.    It    is    also   symbolic   of    the    "Marriage 


Supper  of  the  Lamb,"  which  is  supremely  a  symbol 
of  joy.  (3)  the  Eucharist:  (a)  The  broken 'bread 
represents  the  "body  of  Christ"  (1  Cor  10  16) 
"which  is  broken  for  you"  (1  Cor  11  24  AV); 
hence  the  symbol  of  sacrifice.  It  is  a  memorial  of 
Christ  s  sufferings,  and  a  consecration  to  suffer  with 
Him.  It  means  also  feeding  on  Christ,  whose  flesh 
we  must  eat  (Jn  6  35.51.53.54).  (b)  The  cup 
represents  the  blood  of  Christ  (1  Cor  10  16;  Jn 
6  53.54).  It  is  the  blood  covenant  that  symbolizes 
the  unity  of  man  with  God  (Jn  17  21).  Jesus  is 
the  vine,  we  are  the  branches  (Jn  15).  The  same 
mind,  spirit,  life  and  love  which  are  in  God  and 
Christ  are  to  be  in  us. 

Literature.— C.  F.  Yoder,  God's  Means  of  Oraa  ; 
K.  H.  Miller,  Doctrine  of  Brethren  Defended;  I)  W 
Kurtz.  Outline  of  the  Fundamental  Doclrina  (all  of  Elein 
Illinois,  U.S.A.).  ' 

Daniel  Webster  Kurtz 
LORDS  OF  THE  PHILISTINES    (]"!D ,    strcn, 

same  as  Heb  word  for  "axle,"  probably 'a  native 
designation):  These  "lords"  (Josh  13' 3;  Jgs  3 
3;  16  5,  etc;  1  S  5  8.11,  etc),  elsewhere  called 
'princes"  (sar,  1  S  18  30;  29  3.4.9),  were  the 
petty  rulers  or  kings  of  the  5  Phili  cities,  Gaza, 
Ashkelon,  Ashdod,  Ekron,  Gath.     See  Philistines. 


LO-RUHAMAH, 

See  Lo-ammi. 


lo-roo-ha'ma,      ld-roo-ha'ma. 


LOSS:  Xt^n,  hdtd',  "to  suffer  as  one  erring,  or  as 
a  sinner"  (Gen  31  39,  where  Jacob  assures  Laban 
that  he  fJacob]  suffered  the  loss  of  all  animals  of 
the  flock  torn  by  beasts);  b'MV?  ,  sh'khol,  "bereave- 
ment" (Isa  47  8f,  where  the  prophet  foretells  the 
humiliation  of  proud  Babylon  who  shall  suffer  the 
loss  of  her  children,  and  widowhood);  □"'bsttj ,  shik- 
kulim,  "bereavement"  (Isa  49  20,  trd  "bereave- 
ment" in  RV,  where  the  prophet  promises  to  the 
desolate  Zion  enlargement).  In  the  NT  the  tr  of 
three  Gr  words:  dTro/ioX??,  apobott,  "casting  away" 
(Acts  27  22,  where  Paid  assures  the  crew  and  pas- 
sengers that  there  shall  be  no  "loss"  of  life  from  the 
storm);  frula,  zcmia,  "loss"  (Acts  27  21,  referring 
to  the  harm  sustained  in  the  storm;  Phil  3  7f, 
where  Paul  counts  all  his  natural  privileges  and 
attainments  as  forfeited  for  the  excellency  of  the 
knowledge  of  Christ);  tyfu6u,  zemiod,  "to  suffer 
loss"  (1  Cor  3  15,  where  Paul  says  the  man  whose 
works  are  burned  shall  suffer  "loss";  Phil  3  8, 
same  context  as  above) .     Charles  B.  Williams 

LOT,  lot: 

/.  Personality. — The  man  who  bore  the  name  Lot 
(Tj15,  lot;  At&T,  Lot)  is  mentioned  for  the  first  time 
in  Gen  11  27,  at  the  beginning  of  that  section  of 
Gen  which  is  entitled  "the  generations  of  Terah." 
After  Terah's  3  sons  are  named,  it  is  added  that  the 
third  of  these,  Haran,  begat  Lot. 

The  reason  for  thus  singling  out  but  one  of  the 
grandsons  of  Terah  appears  in  the  next  verse,  where 
we  are  told  that  "Haran  died  before  his  father 
Terah  in  the  land  of  his  nativity,  in  Ur  of  the  Chal- 
dees."  For  that  period  in  the  life  of  this  family, 
therefore,  which  begins  with  the  migration  from  Ur, 
L.  represents  his  father's  branch  of  the  family 
(ver  31).  It  is  hardly  probable  that  the  relation 
between  Abraham  and  L.  would  have  been  what 
it  was,  had  not  Haran  died;  but  be  this  as  it  may, 
we  read  this  introduction  of  L.  into  the  genealogy 
of  Terah  as  an  anticipation  of  the  story  to  which  it 
furnishes  an  introduction,  and  in  which  L.  is  des- 
tined to  play  an  important  part. 

The  sections  of  that  story  in  which  L.  appears 
are:  in  ch  11,  the  migration  from  Ur  to  Haran;  in 
ch  12,  Abraham's  wanderings;  in  ch  13,  the  separa- 
tion of  Abraham  and  L.;    in  ch  14,  the  campaign 


Lot 
Love 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1930 


of  the  eastern  kings  against  Sodom  and  Abraham's 
recovery  of  the  captives;  and  in  eh  19,  the  destruc- 
tion of  Sodom, 

In  (Jen  14  14.16  L.  is  termed  the  "brother"  of 
Abraham;  but  that  this  does  not  represent  a  var- 
iant tradition  is  proved  by  reference  to  ver  12  of  the 
same  chapter  (ascribed  to  "an  independent  source") 
and  to  13  S  (ascribed  to  J;  cf  11  28  J). 

//.    Career.  —  L.'s    life,    as    the  scanty  references 

to  him  permit  us  to  reconstruct  it,  fails  into  four 

periods.     Of     the    first     period — that 

1.  First  previous  to  the  migration  from  Haran 
Period             — we    know    nothing    save   L.'s   birth 

in  Ur,  the  death  of  his  father  there,  the 
marriage  of  his  sister  Milcah  to  his  uncle  Nahor 
(of  another  sister,  Iscah,  we  learn  only  the  name), 
and  the  journey  to  Haran  in  company  with  Terah, 
Abraham  and  Sarah.  The  fact  that  Sarah's  child- 
lessness and  Haran's  death  are  the  only  two  cir- 
cumstances related  of  the  family  history,  may  serve 
to  explain  why  L.  went  with  Abraham  instead  of 
staying  with  Nahor.  A  childless  uncle  and  a 
fatherless  nephew  may  well  have  remained  together 
with  the  idea  that,  even  if  there  was  no  formal 
adoption,  the  nephew  might  become  his  uncle's 
heir.  Certainly,  the  promise  of  a  numberless  seed, 
so  often  repeated  to  the  patriarchs,  comes  first  to 
Abraham  immediately  after  L.  has  separated  from 
him  (see  Gen  13  6-18). 

In  the  second  period  of  L.'s  life,  we  find  him  the 
companion  of  Abraham  on  his  journeys  from  Meso- 
potamia to   Canaan,  through  Canaan 

2.  Second  to  Egypt,  and  back  again  to  the  neigh- 
Period  borhood  of   Beth-el.     His  position  is 

subordinate,  for  his  uncle  is  head  of  the 
family,  and  oriental  custom  is  uniform  and  rigorous 
in  the  matter  of  family  rule.  Hence  the  use  of  the 
singular  number  throughout  the  narrative.  What 
Abraham  did,  his  whole  "clan"  did.  Yet  L.'s 
position  was  as  nearly  independent  as  these  pa- 
triarchal conditions  admit.  When  the  story 
reaches  the  point  where  it  is  necessary  to  mention 
this  fact,  the  narrator  explains,  first,  the  generosity 
with  which  Abraham  treated  his  nephew,  in  per- 
mitting him  to  have  "flocks,  and  herds,  and 
tents"  of  his  own,  a  quasi-independent  economy, 
and  second,  that  disproportion  between  their  col- 
lective possessions  and  the  land's  resources  which 
made  separation  inevitable.  Up  to  this  point  the 
only  mention  of  L.  during  this  period  of  wandering 
is  contained  in  13  1,  in  the  words  "and  Lot  with 
him."  And  even  here  the  words  are  useless  (be- 
cause stating  a  fact  perfectly  presumable  here  as 
elsewhere),  except  as  they  prepare  the  reader  for 
the  story  of  the  separation  that  is  immediately  to 
follow. 

That  story  introduces  the  third  period  of  Lot's 
career,  that  of  his  residence  in  the    Kikkdr  (RV 

"Plain,"  RVm  "Circle")  and  in  Sodom. 

3.  Third  To  the  fundamental  cause  of  separa- 
Period  tion,  as  above  stated,  the  author  adds 

the  two  circumstances  which  contrib- 
uted to  produce  the  result,  namely,  first,  the  strife 
that  arose  between  Abraham's  herdsmen  and  L.'s 
herdsmen,  and,  second,  the  presence  in  the  same 
country  of  others — the  Canaanites  and  Perizzites — 
thus  reminding  his  readers  that  it  was  no  vacant 
land,  through  which  they  might  spread  themselves 
absolutely  at  will  and  so  counteract  the  operation 
of  the  principal  cause  and  the  contributory  cause 
already  set  forth. 

With  a  magnanimity  that  must  have  seemed 
even  greater  to  minds  accustomed  to  patriarchal 
authority  than  it  seems  to  us,  and  that  was  in  fact 
much  more  remarkable  than  it  would  be  here  and 
now,  Abraham  offers  to  his  nephew  the  choice  of 
the  land — from  the  nomad's  point  of  view.     In  the 


"we  are  brethren"  (ver  8),  the  whole  force  of  the 
scene  is  crystallized.  L.,  who  believes  himself  to 
have  chosen  the  better  part,  is  thereupon  traced 
in  his  nomadic  progress  as  far  as  Sodom,  and  the 
reader  leaves  him  for  a  time  face  to  face  with  a 
city  whose  men  "were  wicked  and  sinners  against, 
Jeh  exceedingly,"  while  the  narrative  moves  on 
with  Abraham  through  that  fresh  scene;  of  revela- 
tion which  presented  to  this  man  of  magnanimity 
a  Divine  deed  to  all  the  land,  and  to  this  man,  now 
left  without  an  heir  from  among  his  own  kindred 
(cf  15  2.3),  a  Divine  pledge  of  innumerable  off- 
spring. 

L.  returns  for  a  moment  t.o  our  view  as  the  main- 
spring of  Abraham's  motions  in  the  campaign  of 
ch  14.  We  are  expressly  told  that  it  was  "when 
Abram  heard  that  his  brother  was  taken  captive," 
that  he  "led  forth  his  trained  men  ....  and 
pursued."  On  the  one  hand  we  hear  that  L.  now 
"dwelt  in  Sodom,"  having  abandoned  the  life  in 
tents  that  he  had  led  since  Mesopotamian  days,  and 
on  the  other  hand  we  find  in  him  a  foil  to  the  ener- 
getic, decisive  and  successful  figure  of  his  uncle — for 
L.  plays  a  sorry  role,  bracketed  always  with  "the 
women  and  the  goods." 

This  period  of  his  life  ends  with  the  annihilation 
of  his  chosen  home,  his  wealth,  his  companions,  and 
all  that  was  his  save  two  daughters,  who,  it  would 
seem,  might  better  have  perished  with  the  rest. 
Ch  19,  coming  immediately  after  the  intercession 
of  Abraham  for  Sodom  that  poignantly  impresses 
on  the  reader's  mind  the  wickedness  of  L.'s  environ- 
ment, exhibits  to  us  the  man  himself  in  his  sur- 
roundings, as  they  have  affected  him  through  well- 
nigh  a  score  of  years  (cf  12  4;  17  1).  What  we 
see  is  a  man  who  means  well  (courtesy,  ver  1; 
hospitality,  vs  2.3.6-8;  natural  shame,  ver  7; 
loyalty,  ver  14;  and  gratitude,  ver  19),  but  who  is 
hopelessly  bound  up  with  the  moral  life  of  the  city 
through  his  family  connections — alliances  that 
have  pulled  him  down  rather  than  elevated 
others  (vs  9.14.26.31-35).  The  language  of  2  Pet 
2  7.8  reminds  us  that  L.  was,  even  at  this  time  of 
his  life,  a  "righteous"  man.  Viewed  as  a  part  of 
his  environment  (the  writer  has  been  speaking  of 
Sodom,  ver  6),  L.  was  certainly  entitled  to  be 
called  a  "righteous"  man,  and  the  term  fits  the  im- 
plications of  Gen  18  23-32.  Moreover,  Gen  19 
itself  shows  L.  "vexed  ....  with  their  lawless 
deeds"  and  "sore  distressed  by  the  lascivious  life 
of  the  wicked"  (cf  vs  3.7.8.14).  Yet  the  contrast 
with  Abraham  is  always  present  in  the  reader's 
mind,  so  that  the  most  lasting  impressions  are  made 
by  L.'s  selfishness,  worldliness,  vacillation  and  cow- 
ardice, not  to  mention  the  moral  effect  made  by  the 
closing  scene  of  his  life  (vs  30-38). 

The  fourth  period  of  L.'s  career  is  of  uncertain 
duration.  Upon  the  destruction  of  Sodom  he 
dwelt  at  first  in  Zoar,  the  "little" 
4.  Fourth  city,  spared  as  a  convenient  refuge  for 
Period  him  and  his;   but  at  some  time  un- 

specified, he  "went  up  out  of  Zoar," 
for  "he  feared  to  dwell  in  Zoar" — why,  we  cannot 
say.  This  fear  was  greater  than  even  the  evi- 
dently great  fear  he  entertained  of  dwelling  in 
"the  mountain"  (ver  19).  In  this  mountain- 
country  of  rocks  and  caves  (Driver  in  IIDB,  art. 
"Lot,"  cites  Buckingham,  Travels  in  Syria,  61- 
63,  87,  as  authority  for  the  statement  that  people 
still  live  in  caves  in  this  region),  L.  and  his  two 
remaining  daughters  dwell;  and  the  biography  of 
this  companion  of  "the  friend  of  God"  ends  in  a 
scene  of  incest,  which  supplies  the  logical  epilogue 
to  a  drama  of  progressive  moral  deterioration. 
This  bestial  cave-man  of  Gen  19  is  the  "brother" 
of  Abraham,  but  he  has  reached  this  goal  because 
his  path  had  led  down  from  Beth-el  to  Sodom. 


1931 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Lot 
Love 


The  origin  of  the  two  neighboring  and  kindred 
nations,  Moab  and  Amnion,  is  by  the  Heb  tradition 
traced  thus  to  Lot  and  his  daughters. 

///.  Place  in  Later  Literature. — In  the  Bible, 
L.  finds  mention  only  as  the  father  of  Moab  and 
Amnion  (Dt  2  9.19;  Ps  83  8),  and  in  the  passage 
in  2  Pet  already  noticed;  and,  besides  these  places, 
in  Lk  17  28-32.  Here  L.  represents  the  central 
figure  in  the  destruction  of  Sodom,  as  Noah  in  the 
flood  in  the  preceding  context  (cf  the  association  of 
these  two  characters  in  2  Pet  and  the  Koran). 
His  deliverance  is  mentioned,  the  haste  and  narrow- 
ness of  that  escape  is  implied,  and  his  wife's  fate 
is  recalled.  In  Jewish  and  Mohammedan  lore  (in- 
cluding many  passages  in  the  Koran  itself),  L.  is 
a  personage  of  importance,  about  whom  details  are 
told  which  fancy  has  added  to  the  sober  traditions 
of  old  Israel.  But  particularly  for  Mohammed 
there  was  point  of  attachment  in  L.'s  career,  offered 
in  Gen  19  7.14.  Like  Mohammed  to  the  men  of 
wicked  Mecca,  L.  becomes  a  preacher  of  righteous- 
ness and  a  messenger  of  judgment  to  the  men  of 
wicked  Sodom.  He  is  one  of  the  line  of  apostles, 
sent  to  reveal  God's  will  and  purpose  to  his  con- 
temporaries. 

IV.    Critical  Theories  about  the  Figure  of  Lot. — The 

common  view  of  those  who  deny  the  historical  reality 
of  L.  is  that  this  name  simply  stands  for  the  ethnic 
group,  Moab  and  Amnion.  Wellhausen,  e.g.,  expressly 
calls  "Lot"  a  national  name  (Volksname).  As  to  what 
is  told  of  him  in  Gen  he  remarks:  "  Were  it  not  for  the 
remarkable  depression  in  which  the  Dead  Sea  lies,  Sodom 
and  Gomorrah  would  not  have  perished;  were  it  not 
for  the  little  hat  tongue  of  land  that  reaches  out  into  the 
swamp  from  the  S.E.,  Lot  would  have  fled  at  once  to 
the  mountains  of  his  sons,  Moab  and  Amnion,  and  not 
have  made  the  detour  by  Zoar,  which  merely  serves  the 
purpose  of  explaining  why  this  corner  is  excepted  from 
'the  overthrow,'  to  the  territory  of  which  it  really 
belongs"  {Prolegomena  6,  323).  Meyer  confesses  that 
nothing  can  be  made  of  L.,  because  "any  characteristic 
feature  that  might  furnish  a  point  of  attachment  is 
entirely  lacking."  The  first  of  the  families  of  the  Hor- 
ites  of  Seir  was  named  Lotan  (Gen  36  20.22),  and  this 
writer  believes  it  "probable  that  this  name  is  derived 
from  Lot;  but  that  Lot  was  ever  a  tribal  name  (Stamm- 
name)  follows  neither  from  this  fact  (rather  the  con- 
trary) nor  from  the  designation  of  Moab  and  the  bene 
'Amnion  as  '  Sons  of  Lot'"  (Die  Israeliten  und  ihre  Nach- 
barstdmmc,  311;  cf  261,  339).  If  "Horite"  was  under- 
stood as  "cave-dweller,"  the  story  in  (Jen  19  30  might 
be  adduced  in  support  of  this  combination.  But  the 
most  recent  line  of  reasoning  concerning  these  patriarchal 
figures  makes  their  names  "neither  Divine  names  nor 
tribal  names,  whether  in  actual  use  or  regarded  as  such, 
but   rather  simple  personal  names  like  Tom,  Dick  and 

Harry Typical     names    they    became  ....  so 

that  ....  Israel's  story-tellers  would  connect  the 
name  of  L.  with  the  overthrow  of  the  cities"  (Gressmann, 
art.  in  Z AT  W ,  1910).  These  names  were  chosen  just 
because  "they  were  very  common  at  the  time  when  the 
narratives  were  stamped  into  types";  later  they  became 
unfashionable,  but  the  story-tellers  held  fast  to  the  old 
names.  "Oik;  sees  from  this  at  once  into  how  ancient 
a  time  the  proper  names  Abraham  and  Lot  must  reach, 
and  understands  therefore  the  more  easily  how  they 
could  be  changed  into  tribal  ancestors."  It  does  not 
require  the  cautions,  uttered  by  writers  of  this  way  of 
thinking,  against  regarding  their  views  as  a  return  to  the 
old  historical  view  of  the  patriarchs,  to  remind  us  that, 
in  spite  of  all  that  may  be  said  to  the  contrary,  the 
present  trend  of  thought  among  the  most  radical  critics 
of  the  Genesis-traditions  is  much  more  favorable  to  that 
conservative  historical  view  than  were  the  opinions  which 
they  have  overthrown.  So  that  it  may  justly  be  asserted, 
as  Gressmann  writes:  "  Confidence  in  tradition  is  in  any 
case  on  the  rise." 

Lot's  Wife:  This  woman,  unknown  by  name, 
figures  in  the  narrative  of  Lot  that  relates  his  escape 
from  Sodom.  She  is  mentioned  in  Gen  19  only 
in  vs  15-17,  where  she  is  commanded  to  flee  from 
the  doomed  city  with  her  husband  and  daughters, 
and  is  laid  hold  upon  by  the  angelic  visitors  in  their 
effort  to  hasten  the  slow  departure;  and  in  ver  26, 
where  she  alone  of  the  four  fugitives  disobeys  the 
warning,  looks  back,  and  becomes  a  "pillar  of  salt." 
This  disobedience,  with  the  moral  state  it  implied 
and  the  judgment  it  entailed,  is  held  up  as  an  ex- 
ample by  Christ  in  Lk  17  32.     In  the  Scriptures 


this  is  all  that  is  said  of  a  person  and  event  that 
furnished  the  basis  for  a  great  deal  of  speculation. 
Jos  {Ant,  I,  xi,  4)  adds  to  the  statement  derived  from 
Gen,  "She  was  changed  into  a  pillar  of  salt,"  the 
words,  "for  I  visited  it,  and  it  still  remains  even 
now"  (see  also  Wisd  10  7). 

Among  Christian  writers  contemporary  with  and  sub- 
sequent to  Jos,  as  well  as  among  the  Jews  themselves 
and  other  Orientals,  the;  same  assertion  is  found,  and 
down  to  recent  times  travelers  have  reported  the  per- 
sistence of  such  a  "pillar  of  salt,  "  either  on  the  testimony 
of  natives  or  as  eyewitnesses.  The  question  of  the 
origin  and  nature  of  these;  "pillars"  is  a  part  of  the  larger 
question  of  Sodom  and  its  neighborhood  (sec;  Salt; 
Siddim;  Slime);  for  that  no  one  particular  "pillar" 
has  persisted  through  the  centuries  mav  be  regarded  as 
certain;  nor  if  it  had,  would  the  identification  of  Lot's 
wife  with  it  and  with  it  alone;  be  ascertainable.  This  is 
just  an  early,  persistent  and  notable  case  of  that  "  identi- 
fication" of  Bib.  sites  which  prevails  all  over  the  Holy 
Land.  It  is  to  be  classed  with  the  myth-  and  legend- 
building  turn  of  mind  in  simple  peoples,  which  has  e.g. 
embroidered  upon  this  OT  account  of  the  destruction  of 
Sodom  such  marvelous  details  and  embellishments. 

The  principal  thing  to  observe  is  the  vagueness 
and  the  simplicity  of  the  story  in  Gen.  For  it  does 
not  necessarily  imply  the  "metamorphosis"  popu- 
larly attributed  to  it,  in  the  strict  sense  of  that 
word.  And  it  lacks,  even  in  a  narrative  like  this, 
where  the  temptation  would  be  greatest,  all  indica- 
tions of  that  "popular  archaeology"  or  curiosity, 
which,  according  to  some  critics,  is  alleged  to  have 
furnished  the  original  motive  for  the  invention  of 
the  patriarchal  narratives.  "She  became  a  pillar 
of  salt,"  and  "Remember  Lot's  wife":  this  is  the 
extent  of  the  Bib.  allusions.  All  the  rest  is  com- 
ment, or  legend,  or  guess,  or  "science." 

J.  Oscar  Boyd 

LOT.     See  Divination. 

LOTAN,  lo'tan  ("Bib,  lotan):  Son  of  Seir,  a 
chief  (AV  "duke")  of  Edom  (Gen  36  20.22.20;  1 
Ch  1  38  f). 

LOTHASUBUS,  loth-a-su'bus  (AwGdo-ovpos, 
Ldthdsoubos):  One;  of  those  who  stood  by  Ezra  at 
the  reading  of  the  law  (1  Esd  9  44);  called 
"Hashum"  in  Neh  8  4. 

LOTS.     See  Divination. 

LOTS,  FEAST  OF.     See  Purim. 

LOTUS,  Io'tus,  TREES  (D">b££ ,  ce'tllm;  AV 
shady  trees) :  The  trees  under  which  behemoth  (the 
"hippopotamus")  rests;  "He  lieth  under  the  lotus- 
trees,"  "The  lotus-trees  cover  him  with  their  shade" 
(Job  40  21.22).  The  Arab,  equivalent  is  the  dum 
tree,  Zizyphus  lotus,  a  species  of  jujube  tree  (N.O. 
Rhamneae);  it  has  many  spines  and  small  globular 
fruit  a  little  bigger  than  a  pea.  It  is  common  in  the 
Jordan  valley.  This  plant  has  nothing  to  do  with 
the  Egyp  lotus.     See  Lily. 

LOVE,  luv  pnS?,  'ahebh,  rnnX,  'ah&bhdh,  noun; 
4>iX.€to,  philed,  dva-irdw,  agapdo,  vb.;  d-ydirt],  agape, 
noun) :  Love  to  both  God  and  man  is  fundamental  to 
true  religion,  whether  as  expressed  in  the  OT  or  tin; 
NT.  Jesus  Himself  declared  that  all  the  law  and  the 
prophets  hang  upon  love  (Mt  22  40;  Mk  12  28- 
34).  Paul,  in  his  matchless  ode  on  love  (1  Cor  13), 
makes  it  the  greatest  of  the  graces  of  the  Christian 
life — greater  than  speaking  with  tongues,  or  the 
gift  of  prophecy,  or  the  possession  of  a  faith  of 
superior  excellence;  for  without  love  all  these;  gifts 
and  graces,  desirable  and  useful  as  they  are  in 
themselves,  are  as  nothing,  certainly  of  no  perma- 
nent value  in  the  sight  of  God.  Not  that  either 
Jesus  or  Paul  underestimates  the  faith  from  which 
all  the  graces  proceed,  for  this  grace  is  recognized 


Love 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1932 


as  fundamental  in  all  Cod's  dealings  with  man  and 
man's  dealings  with  Cod  (.In  6  28  f;  He  11  6); 
but  hot  h  alike  count  1  hat  faith  as  hut  idle  and  wort  h- 
less  belief  that  does  not  manifest  itself  in  love  to 
both  God  and  man.  As  love  is  the  highest  expres- 
sion of  Cod  and  His  relation  to  mankind,  so  it,  must, 
be  the  highest  expression  of  man's  relation  to  his 
Maker  and  to  his  fellow-man. 

/.  Definition. — While  the  Heb  and  Or  words  for 
'"love"  have  various  shades  and  intensities  of  mean- 
ing, they  may  be  summed  up  in  some;  such  defini- 
tion as  this:  Love,  whether  used  of  Cod  or  man,  is 
an  earnest  and  anxious  desire  for,  and  an  active 
and  beneficent  interest  in,  the  well-being  of  the  one 
loved.  Different  degrees  and  manifestations  of 
this  affection  are  recognized  in  the  Scriptures  accord- 
ing to  the  circumstances  and  relations  of  life,  e.g. 
the  expression  of  love  as  between  husband  and  wife, 
parent  and  child,  brethren  according  to  the  flesh, 
and  according  to  grace;  between  friend  and  enemy, 
and,  finally,  between  Cod  and  man.  It  mustnot 
be  overlooked,  however,  that  the  fundamental  idea 
of  love  as  expressed  in  the  definition  of  it  is  never 
absent,  in  any  one  of  these  relations  of  life,  even 
though  the  manifestation  thereof  may  differ  accord- 
ing to  the  circumstances  and  relations.  Christ's 
interview  with  the  apostle  Peter  on  the  shore  of  the 
Sea  of  Tiberias  (Jn  21  15-18)  sets  before  us  in  a 
most  beautiful  way  the  different  shades  of  meaning 
as  found  in  the  NT  words  4>i\iw,  philed,  and  dya- 
•n-dw,  agapdo.  In  the  question  of  Christ,  "Lovest 
thou  me  more  than  these?''  the  Gr  vb.  ayairys, 
agapds,  denotes  the  highest,  most  perfect  kind  of 
love  (Lat  diligere),  implying  a  clear  determination 
of  will  and  judgment,  and  belonging  particularly 
to  the  sphere  of  Divine  revelation.  In  his  answer 
Peter  substitutes  the  word  </u\u>,  philo,  which  means 
the  natural  human  affection,  with  its  strong  fending, 
or  sentiment,  and  is  never  used  in  Scripture  lan- 
guage to  designate  man's  love  to  God.  While  the 
answer  of  Peter,  then,  claims  only  an  inferior  kind 
of  love,  as  compared  to  the  one  contained  in  Christ's 
question,  he  nevertheless  is  confident  of  possessing 
at  least  such  love  for  his  Lord. 

//.  The  Love  of  God. — First,  in  the  consideration 
of  the  subject  of  "love"  comes  the  love  of  God — 
He  who  is  love,  and  from  whom  all  love  is  derived. 
The  love  of  God  is  that  part  of  His  nature — indeed 
His  whole  nature,  for  "God  is  love" — which  leads 
Him  to  express  Himself  in  terms  of  endearment 
toward  His  creatures,  and  actively  to  manifest  that 
interest  and  affection  in  acts  of  loving  care  and  self- 
sacrifice  in  behalf  of  the  objects  of  His  love.  God 
is  "love"  (1  Jn  4  8.16)  just  as  truly  as  He  is 
"light"  (1  5),  "truth"  (1  6),  and  "spirit"  (Jn  4  24). 
Spirit  and  light  are  expressions  of  His  essential 
nature;  love  is  the  expression  of  His  personality 
corresponding  to  His  nature.  God  not  merely 
loves,  but  is  love;  it  is  His  very  nature,  and  He 
imparts  this  nature  to  be  the  sphere  in  which  His 
children  dwell,  for  "he  that  abideth  in  love  abideth 
in  God,  and  God  abideth  in  him"  (1  Jn  4  10). 
Christianity  is  the  only  religion  that  sets  forth  the 
Supreme  Being  as  Love.  In  heathen  religions  He 
is  set  forth  as  an  angry  being  and  in  constant  need 
of  appeasing. 

The  object  of  God's  love  is  first  and  foremost 
His  own  Son,  Jesus  Christ  (Mt  3  17;    17  5;    Lk 

20  13;  Jn  17  24).  The  Son  shares 
1.  Objects  the  love  of  the  Father  in  a  unique 
of  God's  sense;  He  is  "my  chosen,  in  whom  my 
Love  soul    delighteth"     (Isa  42  1).     There 

exists  an  eternal  affection  between  the 
Son  and  the  Father — the  Son  is  the  original  and 
eternal  object  of  the  Father's  love  (Jn  17  24).  If 
God's  love  is  eternal  it  must  have  an  eternal  object, 
hence  Christ  is  an  eternal  being. 


God  loves  the  believer  in  His  Son  with  a  special 
love.  Those  who  are  united  by  faith  and  love  to 
Jesus  Christ  are,  in  a  different  sense  from  those  who 
are  not  thus  united,  the  special  objects  of  God's 
love.  Said  Jesus,  thou  "lovedst  them,  even  as  thou 
lovedst  me"  (.In  17  23).  Christ  is  referring  to 
the  fact  that,  just  as  the  disciples  had  received  the 
same  treatment  from  the  world  that  He  had  re- 
ceived, so  they  had  received  of  the  Father  the  same 
love  that  He  Himself  had  received.  They  were  not 
on  the  outskirts  of  Cod's  love,  but  in  the  very  center 
of  it.  "For  the  father  himself  loveth  you,  because 
ye  have  loved  me"  (.In  16  27).  Here  philed  is  used 
for  love,  indicating  the  fatherly  affection  of  Cod  for 
the  believer  in  Christ,  His  Son.  This  is  love  in  a 
more  intense  form  than  that  spoken  of  for  the 
world  (Jn  3  16). 

Cod  loves  the  world  (Jn  3  16;  cf  1  Tim  2  4; 
2  Pet  3  9).  This  is  a  wonderful  truth  when  we 
realize  what  a  world  this  is — a,  world  of  sin  and  cor- 
ruption. This  was  a  startling  truth  for  Nicodemus 
to  learn,  who  conceived  of  God  as  loving  only  the 
Jewish  nation.  To  him,  in  his  narrow  exclusive- 
ism,  the  announcement  of  the  fact  that  God  loved 
the  whole  world  of  men  was  startling.  God  loves 
the  wrorld  of  sinners  lost  and  ruined  by  the  fall. 
Yet  it  is  this  world,  "weak,"  "ungodly,"  "without 
strength,"  "sinners"  (Rom  5  6-8),  "dead  in  tres- 
passes and  sins"  (Eph  2  1  AV),  and  unrighteous, 
that  God  so  loved  that  He  gave  His  only  begotten 
Son  in  order  to  redeem  it.  The  genesis  of  man's 
salvation  lies  in  the  love  and  mercy  of  God  (Eph 
2  4  f ) .  But  love  is  more  than  mercy  or  compassion ; 
it  is  active  and  identifies  itself  with  its  object.  The 
love  of  the  heavenly  Father  over  the  return  of  His 
wandering  children  is  beautifully  set  forth  in  the 
parable  of  the  Prodigal  Son  (Lk  15).  Nor  should 
the  fact  be  overlooked  that  God  loves  not  only  the 
whole  world,  but  each  individual  in  it;  it  is  a  special 
as  well  as  a  general  love  (Jn  3  16,  "whosoever"; 
Gal  2  20,  "loved  me,  and  gave  himself  up  forme"). 

God's  love  is  manifested  by  providing  for  the 
physical,  mental,  moral  and  spiritual  needs  of 
His  people  (Isa  48  14.20.21;  62  9-12; 
2.  Manifes-  63  3.12).  In  these  Scriptures  Cod  is 
tations  of  seen  manifesting  His  power  in  behalf 
God's  Love  of  His  people  in  the  time  of  their  wilder- 
ness journeying  and  their  captivity. 
He  led  them,  fed  and  clothed  them,  guided  them 
and  protected  them  from  all  their  enemies.  His 
love  was  again  shown  in  feeling  with  His  people, 
their  sorrows  and  afflictions  (Isa  63  9);  He  suffered 
in  their  affliction,  their  interests  were  His;  Pie  was 
not  their  adversary  but  their  friend,  even  though 
it  might  have  seemed  to  them  as  if  He  either  had 
brought  on  them  their  suffering  or  did  not  care 
about  it.  Nor  did  He  ever  forget  them  for  a  mo- 
ment during  all  their  trials.  They  thought  He 
did;  they  said,  "God  hath  forgotten  us,"  "He  hath 
forgotten  to  be  gracious";  but  no;  a  mother  might 
forget  her  child  that  she  should  not  have  compassion 
on  it,  but  God  would  never  forget  His  people. 
How  could  He?  Had  He  not  graven  them  upon  t  he 
palms  of  His  hands  (Isa  49  15  f)?  Rather  than  His 
love  being  absent  in  the  chastisement  of  His  people, 
the  chastisement  itself  was  often  a  proof  of  the 
presence  of  the  Divine  love,  "for  whom  the  Lord 
loveth  he  chasteneth,  and  scourgeth  every  son 
whom  he  receiveth"  (He  12  6-11).  Loving  re- 
proof and  chastisement  are  necessary  ofttimes  for 
growth  in  holiness  and  righteousness.  Our  re- 
demption from  sin  is  to  be  attributed  to  God's 
wondrous  love;  "Thou  hast  in  love  to  my  soul  de- 
livered it  from  the  pit  of  corruption;  for  thou  hast 
cast  all  my  sins  behind  thy  back"  (Isa  38  17;  cf 
Ps  50  21;  90  8).  Eph  2  4  f  sets  forth  in  a  wonder- 
ful way  how  our  entire  salvation  springs  forth  from 


1933 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Love 


the  mercy  and  love  of  God;  "But  God,  being  rich 
in  mercy,  for  his  great  love  wherewith  he  loved  us, 
even  when  we  were  dead  through  our  trespasses, 
made  us  alive  together  with  Christ,"  etc.  It  is 
because  of  the  love;  of  the  Father  that  we  are  granted 
a  place  in  the  heavenly  kingdom  (Eph  2  6-8). 
But  the  supreme  manifestation  of  the  love  of  God, 
as  set  forth  in  the  Scripture,  is  that  expressed  in  the 
gift  of  His  only-begotten  Son  to  die  for  the  sins  of 
the  world  (Jn  3  16;  Rom  5  6-8;  1  Jn  4  9f),and 
through  whom  the  sinful  and  sinning  but  repentant 
sons  of  men  are  taken  into  the  family  of  God,  and 
receive  the  adoption  of  sons  (1  Ji/3  If;  Gal  4 
4-0).  From  this  wonderful  love  of  God  in  Christ 
Jesus  nothing  in  heaven  or  earth  or  hell,  created 
or  uncreated  or  to  be  created,  shall  be  able  to  sepa- 
rate us  (Rom  8  37  f). 

///.  The  Love  of  Man. — Whatever  love  there  is  in 
man,  whether  it  be  toward  God  or  toward  his  fellow- 
man,  has  its  source  in  God — "Love  is 
1.  Source  of  God;  and  every  one  that  loveth  is  be- 
of  Man's  gotten  of  God,  and  knoweth  God.  He 
Love  that  loveth  not  knoweth  not  God;  for 

God  is  love"  (1  Jn  4  7f);  "We  love, 
because  he  first  loved  us"  (1  Jn  4  19).  Trench,  in 
speaking  of  agape,  says  it  is  a  word  born  within  the 
bosom  of  revealed  religion.  Heathen  writers  do 
not  use  it  at  all,  their  nearest  approach  to  it  being 
philanthropia  or  Philadelphia — the  love  between 
those  of  the  same  blood.  Love  in  the  heart  of  man 
is  the  offspring  of  the  love  of  God.  Only  the  regen- 
erated heart  can  truly  love  as  God  loves;  to  this 
higher  form  of  love  the  unregenerate  can  lay  no 
claim  (1  Jn  4  7.19.21;  2  7-11;  3  10;  4  11f). 
The  regenerate  man  is  able  to  see  his  fellow-man 
as  ( rod  sees  him,  value  him  as  God  values  him,  not 
so  much  because  of  what  he  is  by  reason  of  his  sin 
and  unlovehness,  but  because  of  what,  through 
Christ,  he  may  become;  he  sees  man's  intrinsic 
worth  and  possibility  in  Christ  (2  Cor  6  14-17). 
This  love  is  also  created  in  the  heart  of  man  by  the 
Holy  Ghost  (Rom  5  5),  and  is  a  fruit  of  the  Spirit 
(( ral  5  22).  It  is  also  stimulated  by  the  example  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who,  more  than  anyone  else, 
manifested  to  the  world  the  spirit  and  nature  of 
true  love  (Jn  13  34;  15  12;  Gal  2  20;  Eph  5 
25-27;   1  Jn  4  9f). 

God  must  be  the  first  and  supreme  object  of 
man's  love;  He  must  be  loved  with  all  the  heart, 
mind,  soul  and  strength  (Mt  22  37 f; 
2.  Objects  Mk  12  29-34).  In  this  last  passage 
of  Man's  the  exhortation  to  supreme  love  to 
Love  God  is  connected  with  the  doctrine 

of  the  unity  of  God  (Dt  6  4  f ) — inas- 
much as  the  Divine  Being  is  one  and  indivisible,  so 
must  our  love  to  Him  be  undivided.  Our  love  to 
God  is  shown  in  the  keeping  of  His  commandments 
(Ex  20  6;  1  Jn  5  3;  2  Jn  ver  6).  Love  is  here  set 
forth  as  more  than  a  mere  affection  or  sentiment; 
it  is  something  that  manifests  itself,  not  only  in 
obedience  to  known  Divine  commands,  but  also  in 
a  protecting  and  defence  of  them,  and  a  seeking  to 
know  more  and  more  of  the  will  of  God  in  order  to 
express  love  for  God  in  further  obedience  (cf  Dt 
10  12).  Those  who  love  God  will  hate  evil  and  all 
forms  of  worldliness,  as  expressed  in  the  avoidance 
of  the  lust  of  the  eyes,  the  lust  of  the  flesh  and  the 
pride  of  life  (Ps  97  10;  1  Jn  2  15-17).  Whatever 
there  may  be  in  his  surroundings  that  would  draw 
the  soul  away  from  God  and  righteousness,  that  the 
child  of  God  will  avoid.  Christ,  being  God,  also 
claims  the  first  place  in  our  affections.  He  is  to  be 
chosen  before  father  or  mother,  parent  or  child, 
brother  or  sister,  or  friend  (Mt  10  35-38;  Lk  14 
20).  The  word  "hate"  in  these  passages  does  not 
mean  to  hate  in  the  sense  in  which  we  use  the  word 
today.     It  is  used  in  the  sense  in  which  Jacob  is 


said  to  have  "hated"  Leah  (Gen  29  31),  that  is,  lie 
loved  her  less  than  Rachel;  "He  loved  also  Rachel 
more  than  Leah"  (ver  30).  To  love  Christ  supreme- 
ly is  the  test  of  true  diseipleship  (Lk  14  20),  and 
is  an  unfailing  mark  of  the  elect  (1  Pet,  1  8).  We 
prove  that  we  are  really  God's  children  by  thus 
loving  His  Son  (Jn  8  42).  Absence  of  such  love 
means,  finally,  eternal  separation  (1  Cor  16  22). 

Man  must  love  his  fellow-man  also.  Love  for 
the  brotherhood  is  a  natural  consequence  of  the  love 
of  the  fatherhood;  for  "In  this  the  children  of  God 
are  manifest,  and  the  children  of  the  devil:  whoso- 
ever doeth  not  right eousness  is  not  of  God,  neither 
he  that  loveth  not  his  brother"  (1  Jn  3  10).  For 
a  man  to  say  "I  love  God"  and  yet  hate  his  fellow- 
man  is  to  brand  himself  as  "a  liar"  (4  20);  "He 
that  loveth  not  his  brother  whom  he  hath  seen, 
cannot  love  God  whom  he  hath  not  seen"  (ver  20); 
he  that  loveth  God  will  love  his  brother  also  (ver21).' 
The  degree  in  which  we  are  to  love  our  fellow-man 
is  "as  thyself"  (Mt  22  39),  according  to  the  strict 
observance  of  the  law.  Christ  set  before  His 
followers  a  much  higher  example  than  that,  however. 
According  to  the  teaching  of  Jesus  we  are  to  super- 
sede this  standard:  "A  new  commandment  I  give 
unto  you,  that  ye  love  one  another;  even  as  I  have 
loved  you,  that  ye  also  love  one  another"  (Jn  13  34). 
The  exhibition  of  love  of  this  character  toward  our 
fellow-man  is  the  badge  of  true  diseipleship.  It 
may  be  called  the  sum  total  of  our  duty  toward  our 
fellow-man,  for  "Love  worketh  no  ill  to  his  neighbor: 
love  therefore  is  the  fulfilment  of  the  law";  "for 
he  that  loveth  his  neighbor  hath  fulfilled  the  law" 
(Rom  13  8.10).  The  qualities  which  should  char- 
acterize the  love  which  we  are  to  manifest  toward 
our  fellow-men  are  beautifully  set  forth  in  1  Cor  13. 
It  is  patient  and  without  envy;  it  is  not  proud  or 
self-elated,  neither  does  it  behave  discourteously;  it 
does  not  cherish  evil,  but  keeps  good  account  of  the 
good;  it  rejoices  not  at  the  downfall  of  an  enemy  or 
competitor,  but  gladly  hails  his  success;  it  is  hope- 
ful,! rustful  and  forbearing — for  such  there  is  no  law, 
for  they  need  none;  they  have  fulfilled  the  law. 

Nor  should  it  be  overlooked  that  Our  Lord  com- 
manded His  children  to  love  their  enemies.  1  hose  who 
spoke  evil  of  them,  and  despitefully  used' them  (Mt 
5  43-48).  They  were  not  to  render  evil  for  evil, 
but,  contrariwise,  blessing.  The  love  of  the  disciple 
of  Christ  must  manifest  itself  in  supplying  the 
necessities,  not  of  our  friends  only  (1  Jn  3  10-18) 
but  also  of  our  enemies  (Rom  12  20  f). 

Our  love  should  be  "without  hypocrisy"  (Rom 
12  9);  there  should  be  no  pretence  about  it;  it 
should  not  be  a  thing  of  mere  word  or  tongue,  but 
a  real  experience  manifesting  itself  in  deed  and 
truth  (1  Jn  3  18).  True  love  will  find  its  expres- 
sion in  service  to  man:  "Through  love  be  servants 
oik;  to  another"  (Gal  5  13).  What  more  wonderful 
illustration  can  be  found  of  ministering  love  than 
that  set  forth  by  Our  Lord  in  the  ministry  of  foot- 
washing  as  found  in  Jn  13?  Love  bears  the  infirmi- 
t  ies  of  the  weak,  does  not  please  itself,  but  seeks  the 
welfare  of  others  (Rom  15  1-3;  Phil  2  21;  Gal  6 
2;  1  Cor  1024);  it  surrenders  things  which  may 
be  innocent  in  themselves  but  which  nevertheless 
may  become  a  stumbling-block  to  others  (Pom  14 
15.21);  it  gladly  forgives  injuries  (Eph  4  32),  and 
gives  the  place  of  honor  to  another  (Rom  12  10). 
What,  then,  is  more  vital  than  to  possess  such  love? 
It  is  the  fulfilment  of  the  royal  law  (Jas  2  8),  and 
is  to  be  put  above  everything  else  (Col  3  14);  it  is 
the  binder  that  holds  all  the  other  graces  of  the 
Christian  life  in  place  (Col  3  14);  by  the  posses- 
sion of  such  love  we  know  that  we  have  passed  from 
death  unto  life  (1  Jn  3  14),  and  it  is  the  supreme 
test  of  our  abiding  in  God  and  God  in  us  (1  Jn  4 
12.16).  William  Evans 


Love,  Brotherly 
Luke,  Evangelist 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1934 


LOVE,  BROTHERLY.     See  Brotherly  Love. 
LOVE-FEAST,  luv'fest.    Sec  Agape. 

LOVELY,  luv'li  PHS,  'ahabh,  2!"»X,  'ahebh;  -n-poo-- 
<{hX.t|s,  prosphilts):  "Lovely"  occurs  only  4  t.  In 
2  S  1  23  it.  is  the  tr  of  'ahebh,  "to  be  loved"  ("Saul 
and  Jonathan  were  lovely  and  pleasant  [AVm 
"sweet"]  in  their  lives"),  where  it-  seems  to  mean 
"loving"  or  "lovable."  Two  other  words  are  so 
tr'1  in  the  OT:  mahmadh,  "desire,"  a  "desirable 
thing"  (Cant  5  16,  "He  is  altogether  lovely,"  that 
is,  "lovable,"  "to  be  desired,"  lit.  "all  of  him  lova- 
bleness,"  or  "desirableness");  '■aghuhhlm  "loves," 
or  "Charms"  (Ezk  33  32,  "Thou  art  unto  them  as 
a  very  lovely  song,"  AVm  "a  song  of  loves,"  HVm 
"a  love-song";  in  ver  31  the  same  word  is  trd 
"much  love,"  AVm  "They  make  loves  or  jests"); 
in  Phil  4  8  we  have  prosphiles,  "very  lovely,"  or 
"lovable,"  "whatsoever  things  are  lovely." 

W.    L.    \\  ALKER 

LOVER,  luv'er  (nn'S ,  'ohebh,  SHX,  'ahebh):  In 
the  OT  'ohebh,  from  'ahebh,  "to  love,"  is  sometimes 
"lover"  in  the  sense  of  "friend,"  in  the  older  Eng. 
sense  of  the  word  (1  K  5  1,  "Hiram  was  ever 
a  lover  of  David";  Ps  38  11;  88  IS;  Lam  12); 
more  frequently  it  has  the  meaning  of  "lover"  in 
the  special  sense,  sometimes  in  the  evil  sense  of  the 
word  (Jer  22  20.22;  30  14;  Ezk  16  33.36  f,  etc; 
Hos  2  5.7.10,  etc);  'aghabh,  "to  love"  (Jer  4  30), 
re°\  "companion"  (Jer  3  1),  and  'dhahhlm,  "loves" 
(Hos  8  9),  are  also  trd  "lovers"  in  this  sense. 

In  the  NT  the  simple  word  "lover"  does  not  occur, 
but  we  have  various  compound  words,  phildtheos 
"lover  of  Cod"  (2  Tim  3  4);  phildgathos,  "lover  of 
good,"  and  philoxenos,  "lover  of  hospitality"  (Tit 
1  8);  philautos,  "lover  of  self"  (2  Tim  3  2);  philt- 
donos,  "lover  of  pleasure"  (2  Tim  3  4). 

In  RV  we  have,  for  "a  lover  of  hospitality"  (Tit 

1  8),  "given  to";  for  "covetous"  (Lk  16  14;  2 
Tim  3  2),  "lovers  of  money";  for  "not  covetous" 
(1  Tim  3  3),  "no  lover  of  money";  for  "despisers 
of  them  that  are  good"  (2  Tim  3  3),  "no  lovers  of 
good."  W.  L.  Walker 

LOVES,  luvz  (Ps  45  1,  title).    See  Psalms. 

LOVINGKINDNESS,  luv-ing-kind'nes  OOfi, 
hesedh) :  "Lovingkindness"  in  AV  always  represents 
this  word  (30  t),  but  of  hesedh  there  are  many  other 
renderings,  e.g.  "mercy"  (frequently),  "kindness" 
(38),  "goodness"  (12).  The  word  is  derived  from 
hdsadh,  meaning,  perhaps,  "to  bend  or  bow  oneself," 
"to  incline  oneself";  hence  "to  be  gracious  or  mer- 
ciful." ERV  has  not  many  changes,  but  in  ARV 
"lovingkindness"  is  invariably  employed  when 
hesedh  is  used  of  God,  and,  as  a  rule,  "kindness" 
when  it  is  used  of  man,  as  in  Gen  21  23;  Jgs  1  24 
(AV   "mercy,"   RV   "deal  kindly");    Ruth  3  10; 

2  Ch  32  32;  35  26  (AV  "goodness,"  m  "Heb 
kindness,"  RV  "good  deeds");  Job  6  14,  etc.  Of 
the  uses  of  the  word  as  on  man's  part  toward  God, 
the  oidy  occurrences  are:  Jer  2  2,  "I  remember 
for  thee  the  kindness  of  thy  youth,  the  love  of  thine 
espousals,"  etc;  Hos  6  4.6,  "Your  goodness  [RVm 
"or  kindness"]  is  as  a  morning  cloud,"  "I  desire 
goodness  [AV  "mercy,"  RVm  "kindness"],  and  not 
sacrifice,"  which  last  passage  may  denote  kindness 
as  toward  man. 

When  used  of  God  hesedh  denotes,  in  general,  "the 
Divine  Love  condescending  to  His  creatures,  more 
esp.  to  sinners,  in  unmerited  kindness"  (Delitzsch). 
It  is  frequently  associated  with  forgiveness,  and  is 
practically  equivalent  to  "mercy"  or  "mercifulness" 
(Ex  20  6),  "showing  lovingkindness  [ERV  "mercy"] 
unto   thousands  of   them   that   love   me";    34  6  f , 


"slow  to  anger,  and  abundant  in  lovingkindness 
[ERV  "plenteous  in  mercy"]";  [ver  7]  "keeping  loving- 
kindness [ERV  "mercy"]  for  thousands,  forgiving 
iniquity  and  transgression  and  sin"  (cf  Nu  14  IS); 
Mic  7  IS,  "He  retaineth  not  his  anger  for  ever, 
because  he  delighteth  in  lovingkindness"  (ERV 
"mercy").  This  quality  in  Jeh  was  one  by  which 
He  sought  to  bind  His  people  to  Himself.  It  is 
greatly  magnified  in  the  OT,  highly  extolled  and 
gloried  in,  in  many  of  the  psalms  (Ps  136  has  the 
constant  refrain,  "For  his  lovingkindness  endureth 
forever").  In  Dt  7  12  it  is  associated  with  the 
covenant,  and  in  2  8  7  15  with  the  covenant  with 
David  (cf  Isa  55  3,  etc).  It  was  something  that 
could  always  be  relied  on. 

Being  such  an  essential  and  distinctive  quality 
of  God,  the  prophets  taught  that  it  should  also 
characterize  His  people.  It  is  part  of  the  Divine 
requirement  in  Mic  6  8,  "to  love  kindness"  (cf 
Zee  7  9,  "Show  kindness  and  compassion  every 
man  to  his  brother").  The  want  of  it  in  the  nation 
was  a  cause  of  Jeh's  controversy  with  them,  e.g. 
Hos  4  1,  "There  is  no  truth,  nor  goodness  [he§edh] 
[AV  and  ERV  "mercy"],  nor  knowledge  of  God  in 
the  land";  12  6,  "Therefore  turn  thou  to  thy  God: 
keep  kindness  [AV  and  ERV  "mercy"]  and  justice, 
and  wait  for  thy  God  continually."  Cheyne  (EB) 
regards  hesedh  as  denoting  paternal  affection  on 
God's  part,  answered  by  filial  and  loyal  affection 
and  brotherly  love  on  man's  part  (Philadelphia  in 
the  NT). 

The  word  "lovingkindness"  does  not  occur  in  the 
NT,  but  as  its  equivalents  we  have  such  terms  as 
"mercy"  "goodness,"  "kindness,"  "brotherly  love" 
(see  special  articles).  W.  L.  Walker 

LOW  COUNTRY.    See  Shephelah. 

LOWLAND,  If/land  (nbBffi,  sh'phelah;  cf  Arab. 

RJLAa*/,  sufdlat,  "the  lowest  part"):  The  western 
part  of  Pal,  including  the  maritime  plain  and  the 
foothills.  There  has  been  an  attempt  to  restrict 
the  term  to  the  foothills,  at  least  as  far  as  the  more 
ancient  documents  are  concerned,  but  there  can  be 
little  doubt  that  the  maritime  plain  should  be  in- 
cluded. RV  has  "lowland"  throughout  for  sh'phe- 
lah,  while  AV  has  "low  country"  (2  Ch  26  10;  28 
18),  "low  plains"  (1  Ch  27  2S;  2  Ch  9  27), 
"plain"  (Jer  17  2(5;  Ob  ver  19;  Zee  7  7),  "vale" 
or  "valley"  (Dt  1  7;  Josh  9  1;  10  40).  See 
Country;   Shephelah.  Alfred  Ely  Day 

LOZON,  lo'zon  (Ao£<iv,  Lozon):  Head  of  a 
family  of  Solomon's  servants  (1  Esd  5  33);  called 
"Darkon"  in  Ezr  2  56;   Neh  7  58. 

LUBIM,  lu'bim  (D^Slb ,  lubhwi) :  A  people  men- 
tioned in  the  OT  (2  Ch  12  3;  16  8;  Dnl  11  43; 
Nah  3  9).  In  all  these  cases  the  word  is  trd  in 
AV  "Libyans";  in  RV  oidy  in  Did  11  43.  The 
people  so  named  had  their  seat  in  North  Africa, 
W.  of  Egypt  (cf  Acts  2  10,  "the  parts  of  Libya 
about  Cyrene").  See  Libya.  On  three  different 
occasions  the  Libyans  invaded  Egypt,  and  at  length, 
in  the  10th  cent.  BC,  succeeded  in  founding  an 
Egyp  dynasty  under  Shishak  (q.v.). 

LUCAS,  lu'kas,  167/kas.  In  Philem  ver  24  AV, 
for  "Luke"  (RV). 

LUCIFER,  lCi'si-fer,  ldo'si-fer:  The  morning  star, 
an  epithet  of  the  planet  Venus.     See  Astrology,  1 1 . 

LUCIUS,  lu'shi-us,  lu'shus  (Aovkios,  Loukios, 
Acvkios,  Leukios):  A  Rom  consul  who  is  said  (1 
Mace  15  16  ff)  to  have  written  a  letter  to  Ptolemy 


1935 


Euergetes  securing  to  Simon  the  high  priest  and 
to  the  Jews  the  protection  of  Rome.  As  the 
praenomen  only  of  the  consul  is  given,  there  has 
been  much  discussion  as  to  the  person  intended. 
The  weight  of  probability  has  been  assigned  to 
Lucius  Calpurnius  Piso,  who  was  one  of  the  consuls 
in  139-138  BC,  the  fact  of  his  praenomen  being 
Cneius  and  not  Lucius  being  explained  by  an  error 
in  transcription  and  the  fragmentary  character  of 
the  documents.  The  authority  of  the  Romans  not 
being  as  yet  thoroughly  established  in  Asia,  they 
were  naturally  anxious  to  form  alliances  with  the 
kings  of  Egypt  and  with  the  Jews  to  keep  Syria 
in  check.  The  imperfections  that  are  generally 
admitted  in  the  transcription  of  the  Rom  letter 
are  not  such  as  in  any  serious  degree  to  invalidate 
the  authority  of  the  narrative  in  1  Mace. 

J.  Hutchison 
LUCIUS   (Aovkios,  Loiikios) :   This  name  is  men- 
tioned twice : 

(1)  In  the  church  at  Antioch  which  sent  out 
Barnabas  and  Saul  as  its  missionaries  were  several 
prophets  and  teachers,  among  whom  was  Lucius 
of  Cyrene  (Acts  13  1).  He  was  probably  one  of 
those  "men  of  Cyprus  and  Cyrene,  who,  when  they 
were  come  to  Antioch,  spake  unto  the  Greeks  also'' 
(Acts  11  20).  It  has  been  suggested  that  he  is  the 
same  as  St.  Luke,  but  this  is  merely  conjecture. 

(2)  "Lucius  and  Jason  and  Sosipater,  my  kins- 
men" were  among  those  who  joined  St.  Paul  in 
saluting  the  Christians  in  Rome  (Rom  16  21). 
By  "kinsmen"  St.  Paul  means  "Jews"  (cfRom  9  3; 
16  11.21).  This  Lucius  may  have  been  the  same 
person  as  (1),  but,  as  we  have  no  more  information 
about  either,  we  cannot  determine  this. 

S.  P.  Hunter 
LUCRE,  lii'ker,  Ioo'ker  ("5? ,  bega%;  K<=p6os, 
kerdos):  Lit.  "gain"  (1  S  8  3;  Tit  1  7),  hence  in 
tlic  XT  always  qualified  by  "filthy"  (1  Tim  3  8, 
"not  greedy  of  filthy  lucre"  [aiaxpoKepd^,  aixchroker- 
dta])  so  Tit  1  7).  The  advb.  is  found  in  1  Pet  5  2 
(see  also  Tit  1  11).  In  1  Tim  3  3,  RV  changes 
AV  to  "no  lover  of  money"  (dcpiXapyvpos,  aphildr- 
guros) . 

LUD,  hid,  LUDIM,  hl'dim,  lood'im  {Tb ,  liidh, 

D'Hlb,  ludhlm,  D^Tlb,  ludhlylm,  "Ludites";  AovS, 

Loud,  Aov8iei(x,   Loudieim;   Tg  Onk: 

1.  Two  liSTD  ,mha'e):  In  Gen  10  13  Ludim 
Different  appears  as  the  firstborn  of  Mizraim 
Nation-  (Egypt),  and  in  10  22  Lud  is  the 
alities  fourth  son  of  Shem.  We  have  there- 
fore to  do  with  two  different  national- 
ities bearing  the  same  name,  and  not  always  easy 
to  distinguish.  1  Ch  1  11.17  simply  repeat  the 
statements  of  Gen  10  13.22.  In  Isa~66  19  Lud  is 
mentioned  with  Tarshish  and  Pul  (generally  re- 
garded as  a  mistake  for  Phut),  Tubal,  Javan,  and 
the  isles.  Accepting  this  emendation,  the  passage 
agrees  with  Jer  46  9,  where  the  Ludim  are  spoken 
of  with  Kush  and  Phut  as  the  allies  of  Egypt;  and 
also  with  Ezk  27  10,  where  Lud  is  referred  to  with 
Persia  and  Put  as  soldiers  of  Tyre.  Lud,  again,  is 
mentioned  with  Ethiopia  (Cush),  Put,  all  the  mingled 
people,  Cab,  and  the  children  of  the  land  which  is 
in  league  (or,  m  "the  land  of  the  covenant"),  which 
were  all  to  fall  by  the  sword  (Ezk  30  5). 

Coming  to  the  Semitic  Lud,  it  is  to  be  noted  that 

the  Assyrians  called  Lydia  Lu{d)du,  and  that  the 

mythical    ancestor    of    the    Lydians, 

2.  The  according  to  Herodotus  (i.7),wasLy- 
Semitic  dos,  and  their  first  king,  Agros,  was 
Lud  descended  from  Ninos  and  Belos,  i.e. 

Assyria  and  Babvlonia.  The  appar- 
ently Assyr  colony  in  Cappadocia  about  2000  BC, 
who  used  the  Bab  script,  may  be  regarded  as  sup- 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA   Love,  Brotherly 

Luke,  Evangelist 

porting  this  statement,  and  that  there  were  other 
colonies  of  the  same  nationality  in  the  neighbor- 
hood is  implied  by  the  fact  that  Assyro-Bab  was 
one  of  the  official  languages  of  the  Hittite  state 
whose  capital  was  Hattu  or  Boghaz-keui.  On  the 
other  hand  when  Gyges  sent  an  embassy  to  Assur- 
bani-aph  of  Assyria,  Lu(d)du  is  described  as  a 
country  whose  name  had  never  before  been  heard, 
and  whose  language  was  unknown.  As,  however, 
the  earlier  kings  of  Assyria  certainly  warred  in  that 
district,  this  statement  has  to  be  taken  with  caution. 
Perhaps  the  name  had  changed  in  the  interval, 
owing  to  an  immigration  similar  to  that  which 
brought  the  Hittites  into  Asia  Minor,  and  caused  a 
change  in  the  language  at  the  same  time. 
_  Naturally  Lydia  was  not  recognizable  as  Sem 
in  classical  times.  The  existence  of  Lud  in  the 
neighborhood  of  Egypt  as  well  as  in 

3.  Not  Asia  Minor  finds  parallels  in  the  Syr- 
Recogniz-  ian  Musri  of  the  Assyr  inscriptions 
able  as  by  the  side  of  the  Musur  which  stood 
Semitic  for  Egypt,  and  still  more  in  the  Cappa- 
Later              docian  Cush  (Kilsu)  of  certain  Assyr 

letters  relating  to  horses,  by  the  side 
of  the  Cush  (Ktlsu  likewise)  which  stands  for 
Ethiopia. 

Everything  points,  therefore,  to  the  Sem  Lud  and 

Ludim  being  Lydia,  and  the  identification  may  be 

regarded  as  satisfactory.      It  is  alto- 

4.  Egyptian  get  her  otherwise  with  the  Egyp  Lud 
Lud  Not  and  Ludim,  however,  about  which  little 
Recogniz-  can  be  said  at  present.  The  reference 
able  to  a  city  which  seems  to  be  Putu-yawan 

in  an  inscription  mentioning  the  37th 
year  of  Nebuchadrezzar,  and  apparently  referring 
to  an  expedition  against  Aniasis,  though  it  may 
stand  for  "Grecian  Phut,"  has  very  little  bearing 
upon  the  position  of  the  Egyp  Lud,  esp.  as  the  text 
in  which  it  occurs  is  very  mutilated.  One  thing  is 
certain,  however:  the  Hebrews  regarded  this  Lud 
and  Ludim  as  being  Hamitic,  and  not  Semitic. 

T.  G.  Pinches 
LUHITH,  lu'hith,  167/hith,  ASCENT  OF  (Hb^E 
mmsn,  mcfaleh  ha-luhlth):  A  place  named  in  Isa 
15  5;  Jer  48  5.  It  is  clearly  identical  with  the 
way,  or  descent ,  of  Horonaim.  Onom  places  Luhith 
bet  ween  Areopolis  and  Zoar.  Some  way  is  intended 
by  which  fugitives  from  the  Arabah  could  reach  the 
uplands  of  the  Moabite  plateau.  Guthe  thinks 
it  may  be  the  road  which  leads  from  the  district  of 
the  ancient  Zoar  on  the  eastern  shore  of  the  Dead 
Sea  to  the  uplands  through  Wady  Bene  Hammad. 
Along  this  track  ran  also  a  Rom  road.  If  Horo- 
naim were  the  higher  of  the  two  places,  this  might 
account  for  the  way  being  called  the  "descent"  of 
Horonaim  as  going  down  from  that  place,  and  the 
"ascent"  of  Luhith  as  going  up  thence.  Neither 
place  can  as  yet  be  identified  with  certainty. 

W.   EwiNG 

LUKE,  look,  luk,  THE  EVANGELIST:  The 
name  Luke  (AoukSj,  Loukds)  is  apparently  an  abbre- 
viation for  AovkclvSs,  Loukanos.  Old 
1.  Name  Lat  MSS  frequently  have  the  words 
Cata  Ltxcanum  as  the  title  of  the 
Third  Gospeh  (But  the  form  Aotf/aos,  Loukios,  is 
also  found  in  inscriptions  synonymous  with  Aou/cas; 
cf  Ramsay,  Expos,  December,  1912.) 

It  was  a  common  fashion  in  the  koine  to  abbreviate 
proper  names,  as  it  is  today,  for  that  matter  (cf  Amphias 
from  Amphiatos,  Antipas  from  Antipatros,  Apollos  from 
Apollonian,  Dernas  from  Demetrios,  Zenas  from Zenodoros, 
etc;  and  see  Jannaris,  Historical  Gr  Grammar,  §  287). 

Paul  alone  names  Luke  (Col  4  14;  2  Tim  4  11; 
Philem  ver  24).  He  does  not  mention  his  own  name 
in  the  Gospel  or  in  the  Acts.  Cf  the  silence  of 
the   Fourth   Gospel    concerning   the   name  of   the 


Luke,  Evangelist 
Luke,  Gospel  of 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1936 


apostle  John.     There  was  no   particular  occasion 

to  mention  Luke's  name  in  the  Gospel,  except  as 

the  author,  if  he  had  so  wished.     The 

2.  Men-  late  legend  that  Luke  was  one  of  the 
tioned  Seventy  sent  out  by  Jesus  (Epiphanius, 
Three  Haer.,  ii.51,  11)  is  pure  conjecture, 
Times  by  as  is  the  story  that  Luke  was  one  of 
Name     '         the    Greeks    who    came   to    Philip  for 

an  introduction  to  Jesus  (Jn  12  20  f), 
or  the  companion  of  Cleopas  in  the  walk  to  Em- 
maus  (Lk  24  1)5).  The  clear  implication  of  Lk  1 
2  is  that  Luke  himself  was  not  an  eyewitness  of 
the  ministry  of  Jesus. 

In  Col  4*14  Luke  is  distinguished  by  Paid  from 
those  "of   the   circumcision"    (Aristarchus,    Mark, 

Jesus  Justus).     Epaphras,  Luke,  De- 

3.  A  Gentile  mas  form  the  gentile  group.     He  was 

believed  by  the  early  Christian  writers 
to  have  come  directly  from  heathendom  to  Chris- 
tianity. He  may  or  may  not  have  been  a  Jewish 
proselyte.  His  first  appearance  with  Paul  at  Troas 
(cf  the  "we"-sections,  Acts  16  10-12)  is  in  har- 
mony with  this  idea.  The  classic  introduction  to 
the  Gospel  (1  1-4)  shows  that  he  was  a  man  of 
culture  (cf  Apollos  and  Paul).  He  was  a  man  of 
the  schools,  and  his  Greek  has  a  literary  flavor  only 
approached  in  the  NT  by  Paul's  writings  and  by 
the  Ep.  to  the  He. 

His   home   is    very   uncertain.     The   text    of   D 

(Codex  Bezae)  and  several  Latin  authorities  have 

a     "we-"passage    in     Acts  11  27.     If 

4.  Home        this   reading,   the  so-called   B  text  of 

Blass,  is  the  original,  then  Luke  was 
at  Antioch  and  may  have  been  present  at  the  great 
event  recorded  in  Acts  13  1  f .  But  it  is  possible 
that  the  Western  text  is  an  interpolation.  At  any 
rate,  it  is  not  likely  that  Luke  is  the  same  person  as 
Lucius  of  Acts  13*1.  Ramsay  (St.  Paul  the  Travel- 
ler, 389 f)  thinks  that  Eusebius  (HE,  III,  iv,  0) 
does  not  mean  to  say  that  Luke  was  a  native  of 
Antioch,  but  only  that  he  had  Antiochian  family 
connections.  Jerome  calls  him  Lucas  medicus 
Antiochensis.  He  certainly  shows  an  interest  in 
Antioch  (cf  Acts  11  19-27";  13  1;  14  20;  15  22. 
23.30.35;  18  22).  Antioch,  of  course,  played  a 
great  part  in  tin;  early  work  of  Paul.  Other  stories 
make  Luke  live  in  Alexandria  and  Achaia  and 
narrate  that  he  died  in  Achaia  or  Bithynia.  But 
we  know  that  he  lived  in  Philippi  for  a  consider- 
able period.  He  first  meets  Paul  at  Troas  just 
before  the  vision  of  the  Man  from  Macedonia 
(Acts  16  10-12),  and  a  conversation  with  Paul 
about  the  work  in  Macedonia  may  well  have 
been  the  human  occasion  of  that  vision  and  call. 
Luke  remains  in  Philippi  when  Paul  and  Silas  leave 
(Acts  16  40,  "They  ....  departed').  He  is  here 
when  Paul  comes  back  on  his  3d  tour  bound 
for  Jerus  (Acts  20  3-5).  He  shows  also  a  natural 
pride  in  the  claims  of  Philippi  to  the  primacy  in 
the  province  as  against  Amphipolis  and  Thessa- 
lonica  (Acts  16  12,  "thefirst  of  the  district").  On 
the  whole,  then,  we  may  consider  Philippi  as  the 
home  of  Luke,  though  he  was  probably  a  man  who 
had  traveled  a  great  deal,  and  may  have  been  with 
Paul  in  Galatia  before  coming  to  Troas.  He  may 
have  ministered  to  Paul  in  his  sickness  there  (Gal 
4  14).  His  later  years  were  spent  chieflv  with  Paul 
away  from  Philippi  (cf  Acts  20  3-28*31,  on  the 
way  to  Jerus,  at  Caesarea,  the  voyage  to  Rome  and 
in  Rome). 

Paul  (Col  4  14)  expressly  calls  him  "the  beloved 
physician."     He   was  Paul's   medical   adviser,  and 

doubtless  prolonged  his  life  and  res- 
5.  Physician  cued  him  from  many  a  serious  illness. 

He  was  a  medical  missionary,  and  prob- 
ably kept  up  his  general  practice  of  medicine  in 
connection  with  his  work  in  Rome  (cf  Zahn,  Intro, 


III,  1).  He  probably  practised  medicine  in  Malta 
(Acts  28  9f).  He  naturally  shows  his  fondness 
for  medical  terms  in  his  books  (cf  Hobart,  The 
Medical  Language  of  St.  Luke;  Harnack,  NT 
Studies:  Luke  the  Physician,  175-98).  Harnack 
adds  some  examples  to  those  given  by  Hobart,  who 
has  overdone  the  matter  in  reality.  Sec;,  further, 
Acts  of  the  Apostles. 

It  is  possible,  even  probable  (see  Souter's  article 

in    DCG),   that  in  2  Cor  8  18   "the   brother''   is 

equivalent  to  "the  brother"  of  Titus 

6.  Brother  just  mentioned,  thai  is,  "his  brother." 
of  Titus  If  so,  we  should  know  that  Paul  came 

into  contact  with  Luke  at  Philippi  on 
his  way  to  Corinth  during  his  2d  tour  (cf  also  2  Cor 
12  18).  It  would  thus  be  explained  why  in  Acts 
the  name  of  Titus  does  not  occur,  since  he  is  the 
brother  of  Luke  the  author  of  the  book. 

If  the  reading  of  D  in  Acts  11  27  f  is  correct, 

Luke  met  Paul  at  Antioch  before  the  1st  missionary 

tour.     Otherwise!  it  may  not  have  been 

7.  Connec-  till  Troas  on  the  2d  tour.  But  he  is 
tion  with  the  more  or  less  constant  companion 
Paul  of  Paul  from  Philippi  on  the  return 

to  Jerus  on  the  3d  tour  till  the  2  years 
in  Rome  at  the  close  of  the  Acts.  He  was  appar- 
ently not  with  Paul  when  Phil  (2  20)  was  written, 
though,  as  we  have  seen,  he  was  with  Paul  in  Rome 
when  he  wrote  Col  and  Philem.  He  was  Paul's 
sole;  companion  for  a  while  during  the  2d  Rom 
imprisonment  (2  Tim  4  11).  His  devotion  to 
Paul  in  this  time  of  peril  is  beautiful. 

For  the  proof  of  the  Lukan  authorship  of  the  Acts 

see  Acts  of  the  Apostles.       For  the  discussion 

of  the  Lukan  authorship  of  the  Gospel 

8.  Author  with  his  name,  see  Luke,  Gospel  of. 
of  Both  Our  interest  in  him  is  largely  due  to 
Gospel  this  fact  and  to  his  relations  with  Paul, 
and  Acts        The  Christian  world  owes  him  a  great 

debt  for  his  literary  productions  in  the 
interest  of  the  gospel. 

One  legend  regarding  Luke  is  that  he  was  a  painter. 
Plummer  (Comm.  on   Luke,  xxif)   thinks  that  the 

legend  is  older  than  is  sometimes  sup- 

9.  Legends    posed   and   that  it  has  a  strong  ele- 

ment of  truth.  It  is  true  that  he  has 
drawn  vivid  scenes  with  his  pen.  The  early  artists 
were  esp.  fond  of  painting  scenes  from  the  Gospel 
of  Lk.  The;  allegorical  figure  of  the  ox  or  calf  in 
Ezk  1  and  Rev  4  has  been  applied  to  Luke's 
Gospel. 

Literature. — Bible  diets.,  oomms.,  lives  of  Paul, 
intros.  See  also  Harnack,  "Lukas,  der  Arzt,  der  Ver- 
fasscr"  (1906);  NT  Studies:  Luke  the  Physician  (1007); 
Ramsay,  Luke  the  Physician  (1908);  Selvvyn,  St.  Luke 
the  Prophet  (1901);  Hobart,  The  Medical  Language  of  St. 
Luke  (1882);  Ramsay,  Was  Christ  Born  at  Bethlehem? 
A  Study  in  the  Credibility  of  St.  Luke  (1898);  Mac- 
lachlan,  St.   John,   Evangelist  and  Historian  (1912). 

A.  T.  Robertson 
LUKE,  THE  GOSPEL  OF: 

1.  Text 

2.  Canonicity 
'.i.   Authorship 

4.  Sources 

5.  Credibility 

6.  Characteristics 

7.  Date 

8.  Analysis 
Literature 

The  five  primary  uncials  (X ,  A,  B,  C,  D)  are  the 
chief  witnesses  for  the  text  of  Luke's  Gospel.     This 

group  is  reinforced  by  L,  A  and  the 
1.  Text  Freer   (Detroit)  MS;   R,  T,  X  and  £ 

are  also  valuable  in  fragments.  The 
other  uncials  are  of  secondary  value.  The  Lat, 
Egyp  and  Syr  VSS  are  also  of  great  importance. 
There  are  4  Lat  VSS  (African,  European,  Italian, 
Vulg),  3  Egyp  (Memphitic,  Sahidic,  Bohairic),  5 
Syr     (Curetonian,     Sinaitic,     Peshitto,     Harclean, 


1937 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA   Luke'  Evangelist 
A      Luke,  Gospel  of 


Palestinian  or  Jerusalem).  Many  of  the  cursive 
(minuscule)  MSS  are  also  of  considerable  worth,  as 
are  some  of  the  quotations  from  the  Fathers. 

Blass.  Philology  of  the  Gospel.?  (1898),  has  advanced 
the  theory  of  two  recensions  of  this  Gospel  (a  longer  and 
a  shorter),  such  as  he  holds  to  be  true  of  Acts.  In  the 
case  of  Acts,  t  In;  theory  has  won  some  acceptance  (see 
Acts  of  the  Apostles),  but  that  is  not  true  of  the  Gos- 
pel to  any  extent.  The  Western  text  of  the  Gospel  is  the 
shorter  text,  while  in  Acts  it  is  the  longer  text.  In  both 
instances  Blass  holds  that  the  shorter  text  was  issued 
after  t  he  longer  and  original  text.  His  idea  is  that  Luke 
himself  revised  and  issued  the  shorter  text.  In  itself 
this  is,  of  course,  possible,  since  the  books  are  both  ad- 
dressed to  an  individual,  Theophilus.  The  other  edition 
may  have  been  meant  for  others.  WH  explain  the 
omission  in  the  Western  text  of  the  Gospel  as  "Western 
non-interpolations,"  and  often  hold  them  to  be  the  true 
text.  As  samples  one  may  note  Lk  10  41;  12  19;  24 
H6. 40. 42,  where,  the  Western  text  is  t  he  shorter  text.  This 
is  not,  always  true,  however,  for  in  6  2ff  D  has  the  famous 
passage  about  the  man  working  on  the  Sabbath,  which 
the,  other  documents  do  not  give.  In  Lk  3  22,  I)  has 
the  reading  of  Ps  2  7  ("Thou  art  my  Son;  this  day  I 
have  begotten  thee")  for  the,  usual  text.  Zahn  (Intro, 
III.  :iS)  accepts  this  as  the  true  text.  There  is  no  doubt 
of  the  interest  and  value;  of  the  Western  readings  in  Lk, 
but  it  cannot  be  said  that  Blass  has  carried  his  point  here. 
The  peculiar  mutilation  of  the  Gospel  by  Marcion  has 
an  interest  of  its  own. 

Plummer  {Coram,  on   Lk,   lxxx)  says:    "In  the 
second  half  of  the  2d  cent,  this  Gospel  is  recognized 
as  authentic   and   authoritative;    and 
2.  Canon-     it  is  impossible  to  show  that  it  had  not 
icity  been  thus  recognized  at  a  very  much 

earlier  date."  On  the  other  hand, 
Schmiedel  (EB)  says:  "This  'tradition,'  however, 
cannot  be  traced  farther  back  than  toward  the  end 
of  the  2d  cent.  (Irenaeus,  Tertullian,  Clement  of 
Alexandria  and  the  Muratorian  Fragment);  there 
is  no  sound  basis  for  the  contention  of  Zahn  (II, 
175)  that  the  existence  of  the  tradition  can  also  be 
found  as  early  as  in  Marcion,  because  that  writer, 
from  his  aversion  to  the  Third  Gospel  (which  never- 
theless was  the  only  one  he  admitted  into  his  col- 
lection— with  alterations  it  is  true)  omitted  the 
expression  of  honor  applied  to  Luke  in  Col  4  14." 
Here  the  two  views  are  well  stated.  Schmiedel 
shows  dogmatic  bias  and  prejudice  against  Lk. 
Jiilicher,  however,  frankly  admits  (Intro,  330)  that 
"the  ancients  were  universally  agreed  that  the  writer 
was  that  Luke,  disciple  of  Paul,  who  is  mentioned 
in  Philem  yer  24;  2  Tim  4  11,  and  called  'the 
physician'  in  Col  4  14;  presumably  a  native  of 
Antioch."  This  statement  bears  more  directly  on 
the  question  of  authorship  than  of  canonicity,  but 
it  is  a  good  retort  to  the  rather  cavalier  tone  of 
Schmiedel,  who  is  reluctant  to  admit  the  facts. 
The;  recognition  of  flu;  Third  Gospel  in  the  Mura- 
torian Canon  (170  AD)  is  a  fact  of  much  signifi- 
cance. It  was  used  in  Tatian's  Diatessaron  (c  170 
AD)  as  one  of  the  four  recognized  Gospels  (cf 
Hemphill,  Diatessaron  of  Tatian,  3ff).  The  fact 
that  Marcion  (140  AD)  mutilated  this  Gospel  to 
suit  his  theology  and  thus  used  it  is  even  more  sig- 
nificant (ef  Sanday,  Gospels  in  the  2d  Cent.,  App.). 
Other  heretics  like  the  Valentinians  (ef  Lightfoot, 
Bib.  Essays,  5-7)  made  use  of  it,  and  Heracleon  (cf 
Clem.  Alex.,  Strom.,  iv.9)  wrote  a  coram,  on  it. 
Irenaeus  (end  of  2d  cent.)  makes  freqtient  quota- 
tions from  this  Gospel.  He  argues  that  there  could 
be  only  "four"  Gospels  because  of  the  four  points 
of  the  compass — an  absurd  argument,  to  be  sure, 
but  a  powerful  testimony  to  the  general  acceptance 
of  this  Gospel  along  with  the  other  three.  It  is 
needless  to  appeal  to  the  presence  of  the  Third 
Gospel  in  the  Curetonian  Syr,  tin;  Sinaitic  Syr,  the 
African  Lat — VSS  that  date  to  the  2d  cent.,  not  to 
mention  the  probability  of  the  early  date  of  the 
Memphitic  (Coptic)  VSS.  Examples  of  the  early 
use  of  this  Gospel  occur  in  various  writings  of  the 
2d  cent.,  as  in  Justin  Martyr  (150  AD),  the  Test. 
XTI  P  (e  140  AD),  Celsus  (c  AD  100),  the  Gospel 


of  Peter  (2d  cent.),  the  Ep.  of  the  Church  of  Lyons 
and  Vienne  (177  AD),  probably  also  Did.  (2d  cent.) 
Clement  of  Alexandria  (190-202  AD),  Tertullian 
(190-220  AD).  It  is  doubtful  about  Clement  of 
Rome,  Ignatius,  Polycarp;  and  the  Ep.  of  Barna- 
bas seems  to  make  no  use  of  the  Third  Gospel. 
But  Clement  of  Rome,  Ignatius  and  Polycarp 
quote  Acts.  But  surely  the  general  use  and  ac- 
ceptance of  the  Third  Gospel  in  the  early  2d  cent, 
is  beyond  reasonable  doubt,  It  is  not  easy  to  de- 
cide when  the  actual  use  began,  because  we  have 
so  little  data  from  the  1st  cent,  (cf  Plummer,  Comm., 
lxxiii). 

The  fact  that  the  author  was  not  an  apostle  affected 
the  order  of  the  book  in  some  lists.  Most  MSS  and 
\  SS  have,  the  common  order  of  today,  but  the  Western 
order  (Ml,  .In.  Lk,  Mk)  is  given  by  I),  man  v  Old  Lat  MSS 
tin-  Gothic  ^  S.  the  Apos  Tonst.  The  object  was  prob- 
ably to  place  the;  books  by  apostles  together  and  first 
The  Old  Lat  k  has  Lk  second  (Jn,  Lk,  Mk,  Mt),  while 
the  Curetonian  Syr  has  Lk  last  of  the  four.  The  cur- 
sives 90  and  399  also  have  Lk  second. 

The  first  writers  who  definitely  name;  Ltike  as  the 
author  of  the  Third  Gospel  belong  to  the  end  of 
the  2d  cent.     They  are  the  Canon  of 
3.  Author-     Muratori    (possibly    by    Hippolytus), 
ship  Irenaeus,  Tertullian,  Clement  of  Alex- 

andria. We  have;  already  seen  that 
Jiilicher  {Intro,  330)  admits  that  the  ancients  uni- 
versally agreed  that  Luke  wrote  the  Third  Gospel. 
In  the  early  part  of  the  2d  cent,  the  writers  did  not, 
as  a  rule,  give  the  names  of  the  authors  of  the  Gos- 
pels quoted  by  them.  It  is  not  fair,  therefore,  to 
use  their  silence  on  this  point  as  proof  either 
of  their  ignorance  of  the  author  or  of  denial  of 
Luke's  authorship.  Jiilicher,  for  instance,  says 
{Intro,  330):  "There  is  no  tradition  worthy  of  the 
name  concerning  Luke,  whom  Papias  did  not  men- 
tion, or  at  any  rate  did  not  know."  But  we  owe 
to  Eusebius  all  the  fragments  that  we  have  pre- 
served from  the  writings  of  Papias.  Our  ignorance 
of  Papias  can  hardly  be  charged  up  to  him.  Plum- 
mer {Comm.,  xii)  says  that  nothing  in  Bib. 
criticism  is  more  certain  than  the  fact  that  Luke 
wrote  the  Third  Gospel.  On  the  other  hand, 
Jiilicher  (Intro,  331)  is  not  willing  to  let  it  go  as 
easily  as  that.  He  demands  appeal  to  Acts,  and 
there  (ib,  447)  he  denies  the  Lukan  authorship  save 
as  to  the  "we"  sections.  J.  Weiss  (Die  Schriften 
des  Neuen  Testaments;  das  Lukas  Evang.,  1906, 
37S)  admits  that  but  for  Acts  no  sufficient  reason 
would  exist  for  denying  the  authorship  of  the  Third 
Gospel  to  Luke,  the  disciple  of  Paul.  A  Pauline 
point  of  view  in  this  Gospel  is  admitted  generally. 
Many  modern  critics  take  it  for  granted  that  the 
Lukan  authorship  of  Acts  is  disproved,  and  hence 
that  of  the  Gospel  likewise  falls  by  the  way.  So 
argue  Baur,  Clemen,  De  Wette,  Hausrath,  Hilgen- 
feld,  Holtzmann,  Jiilicher,  Pfleiderer,  Schurer, 
Spitta,  von  Soden,  J.  Weiss,  Weizsiicker,  Zeller. 
Men  like  Blass,  Credner,  Harnack,  Hawkins, 
Hobart,  Klostermann,  Plummer,  Ramsay,  Renan, 
Vogel,  Zahn,  stand  by  the  tradition  of  Ltikan 
authorship,  but  Harnack  is  almost  irritated  (Luke 
the  Physician,  1907,  6),  since  "the  indefensibility 
of  the  tradition  is  regarded  as  being  so  clearly  estab- 
lished that  nowadaj's  it  is  thought  scarcely  worth 
while  to  reprove  this  indefensibility,  or  even  to 
notice  the  arguments  of  conservative  opponents." 
Harnack  proceeds  to  make  a  plea  for  a  hearing. 
Jacobus  (Standard  Bible  Diet.)  admits  that  "Acts 
tells  us  nothing  more;  of  the  author  than  does  the 
Gospel."  That  is  true  so  far  as  express  mention  is 
concerned,  but  not  so  far  as  natural  implication 
goes.  It  is  true  that  the  place  to  begin  the  dis- 
cussion of  the  Ltikan  authorship  of  the  Gospel  is 
Acts.  For  detailed  discussion  of  the  proof  that 
Luke  wrote  Acts,  see  Acts  of  the  Apostles.     It  is 


Luke,  Gospel  of        THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1938 


e 


there  shown  that  the  line  of  argument  which  has 
convinced  Harnack,  the  leader  of  the  liberal  criti- 
cism of  Germany,  ought  to  convince  any  open- 
minded  critic.  It  means  a  good  deal  when  Harnack 
(Luke  the  Physician,  14)  says:  "I  subscribe  to  the 
words  of  Zahn  (Einl,  11,  427):  'Hobart  has  proved 
for  everyone  who  can  at  all  appreciate  proof 
that  the  author  of  the  Lukan  work  was  a  man 
practised  in  the  scientific  language  of  Gr  medicine 
— in  short,  a  Gr  physician.'  "  It  is  here  assumed 
that  the  line  of  argument  pursued  in  the  art.  on 
Acts  of  the  Apostles  is  conclusive.  If  so,  little 
remains  to  be  done  in  the  way  of  special  proof  for 
the  Gospel.  The  author  of  Acts  specifically  refers 
(Acts  1  1)  to  a  former  treatise  which  was  likewise 
addressed  to  Theophilus.  This  we  find  to  be  the 
ease  with  the  Gospel  passing  under  the  name  of 
Luke  (1  4).  The  critics  who  admit  the  Lukan 
authorship  of  Acts  and  deny  the  Lukan  author- 
ship of  the  Gospel  are  hardly  worth  considering. 

It  is,  therefore,  largely  a  work  of  supererogation  to 
give  at  length  the  proof  from  internal  grounds  that  Luke 
wrote  the  Gospel,  after  being  convinced  about  Acts. 
Still  it  may  be  worth  while. to  sketch  in  outline  the  lino 
of  argument,  even  though  it  is  very  simple.  Plummer 
(Comm.,  x-xvii)  argues  three  propositions:  "(1)  The 
author  of  the  Third  Gospel  is  the  author  of  the  Acts. 
(2)  The  author  of  Acts  was  a  companion  of  Paul.  (3) 
This  companion  was  St.  Luke."  Harnack  (The  Acts  of 
tin-  Apostles,  I'M)'.))  has  argued  with  great  minuteness  and 
skill  the  theory  that  the  same  linguistic  peculiarities 
occur  in  all  portions  of  Acts,  including  the  "we- "sec- 
tions. He  accepts  the  facts  set  forth  by  Hawkins 
(Horae  Synopticae)  and  adds  others.  He  agrees,  there- 
fore, that  the  author  of  Acts  was  a  companion  of  Paul. 
Harnack  is  convinced  by  the  exhaustive  labors  of  Hobart 
(Medical  Language  of  St.   Luke)  that  this  author  was  a 

hysician,  as  we  know  Luke  to  have  been  (Col  4  14). 

[e  shows  this  to  be  true  of  the  author  of  Acts  by  the 
use  of  "us"  in  Acts  28  10,  showing  that  the  author  of 
Acts  received  honors  along  with  Paul,  probably  because 
he  practised  medicine  and  treated  many  (of  Harnack,  Luke 
the  Physician,  15  f).  These  medical  terms  occur  in  the 
Gospel  of  Lk  also,  and  the  same  general  linguistic  style 
is  found  in  both  the  Gospel  and  Acts.  Hawkins  has 
made  a  careful  study  of  likenesses  and  variations  in  style 
in  these  two  books  (cf  Horae  Synopticae,  15-25,  174-89). 
The  argument  is  as  conclusive  as  such  a  line  of  proof  can 
be  expected  to  be.  For  further  discussion  see  Kamsav, 
Luke  the  Physician,  190S,  1-68;  Zahn,  Intro,  III,  160  If. 
There  are  no  phenomena  in  the  (Jospcl  hostile  to  this 
position  save  the  Sem  character  of  chs  1  and  2  (barring 
the  classical  introduction  1  1-4).  Luke,  though  a 
Gentile,  lias  in  these  chapters  the  most  Sem  narrative  in 
the  NT.  But  the  explanation  is  obvious.  He  is  hero 
using  Sem  material  (either  oral  or  written),  and  has  with 
true  artistic  skill  preserved  the  tone  of  the  original.  To 
a  certain  extent  the  same  thing  is  true  of  the  opening 
chapters  of  Acts. 

The  synoptic  problem  (see  Gospels,  Synoptic) 

remains  the  most  difficult  one  in  the  realm  of  NT 

criticism.     But     the     Gospel    of     Lk 

4.  Sources    yields  on  the  whole  more  satisfactory 

results  than  is  yet  true  of  Mt. 

(1)  Unity. — If  the  Lukan  authorship  of  the  book 
is  accepted,  there  remains  no  serious  doubt  concern- 
ing the  unity  and  integrity  of  the  Gospel.  The 
abridgment  of  Luke's  Gospel  used  by  Marcion  does 
not  discredit  those  portions  of  the  Gospel  omitted 
by  him.  They  are  omitted  for  doctrinal  reasons 
(cf  Sanday,  Gospels  in  the  2d  Cent.,  ch  viii).  His 
readings  are  of  interest  from  the  viewpoint  of  tex- 
tual criticism,  as  are  the  quotations  of  other  early 
writers,  but  his  edition  does  not  seriously  challenge 
the  value  of  Luke's  work. 

(2)  Luke's  method. — Luke  has  announced  his 
methods  of  work  in  a  most  classic  introduction  (1 
1-4).  Here  we  catch  a  glimpse  of  the  author's  per- 
sonality. _  That  is  not  possible  in  Mk  nor  in  Mt, 
and  only  indirectly  in  passing  shadows  in  the  Fourth 
GospeL  But  here  the  author  frankly  takes  the 
reader  into  his  confidence  and  discloses  his  stand- 
point and  qualifications  for  the  great  task.  He 
writes  as  a  contemporary  about  the  recent  past, 
always  the  most  difficult  history  to  interpret  and 
often  the  most  interesting.     He  speaks  of  "those 


matters  which  have  been  fulfilled  among  us,"  in 
our  time.  He  does  not  himself  claim  to  have  been 
an  eyewitness  of  "those  matters."  As  we  know 
already,  Luke  was  a  Gentile  and  apparently  never 
saw  Jesus  in  the  flesh.  He  occupies  thus  a  position 
outside  of  the  great  events  which  he  is  to  record. 
He  does  not  disguise;  his  intense  interest  in  the 
narrative,  but  he  claims  the  historical  spirit.  He 
wishes  to  assure  Theophilus  of  "the  certainty  con- 
cerning the  things  wherein  thou  wast  instructed." 
He  claims  to  have  investigated  "the  course  of  all 
tilings  accurately  from  the  first,"  just  as  the  true 
historian  would.  He  thus  implies  that  some  of  the 
attempts  made  had  been  fragmentary  at  any  rate, 
and  to  that  extent  inaccurate.  He  has  also  pro- 
duced an  "orderly"  narrative  by  which  Theophilus 
may  gain  a  just  conception  of  the  historical  progress 
of  the  events  connected  with  the  life  of  Jesus  of 
Nazareth.  The  fact  that  "many  have  taken  in 
hand  to  draw  up  a  narrative  concerning  those 
matters"  does  not  deter  Luke  from  his  task.  The 
rather  he  is  stirred  thereby  ("It  seemed  good  to  me 
also")  to  give  his  interpretation  of  the  life  and  work 
of  Jesus  as  the  result  of  his  researches.  He  stands 
not  farther  away  than  one  generation  from  the 
death  of  Jesus.  He  has  the  keen  interest  natural 
to  a  cultured  follower  of  Jesus  in  the  origin  of  what 
had  become  a  great  world-movement.  He  is  able 
to  get  at  the  facts  because  he  has  had  intercourse 
with  eyewitnesses  of  Jesus  and  His  work,  "even  as 
they  delivered  them  unto  us,  who  from  the  begin- 
ning were  eyewitnesses  and  ministers  of  the  word." 
Luke  had  abundant  opportunity  during  the  two 
years  at  Caesaroa  with  Paid  (Acts  24-26)  to  make 
careful  and  extended  investigations.  Many  of  the 
personal  followers  of  Jesus  were  still  living  (1  Cor 
15  6).  It  was  a  golden  opportunity  for  Luke's 
purpose.  He  had  also  the  written  narratives  which 
others  ("many")  had  already  drawn  up.  We  are, 
then,  to  expect  in  Luke's  Gospel  a  book  closely  akin 
to  Acts  in  style  and  plan,  with  the  historian's  love 
of  accuracy  and  order,  with  the  author's  own  con- 
tribution in  the  assimilation  and  use  of  this  oral  and 
written  material.  One  would  not  expect  in  such 
a  writer  slavish  copying,  but  intelligent  blending  of 
the  material  into  an  artistic  whole. 

(3)  The  Aramaic  infancy  narrative. — The  very 
first  section  in  this  Gospel  (1  5 — 2  52)  illustrates 
Luke's  fidelity  in  the  use  of  his  material.  Well- 
hausen  drops  these  two  chapters  from  his  edition 
of  Luke's  Gospel  as  not  worthy  of  consideration. 
That  is  conjectural  criticism  run  mad  and  is  not 
to  be  justified  by  the  example  of  Marcion,  who  be- 
gins with  ch  4.  Wright  (Gospel  ace.  to  St.  Luke  in 
Gr,  1900,  viii  f;  s.v.  "Luke's  Gospel,"  DCG)  holds 
that  this  section  was  the  last  to  be  added  to  the 
Gospel  though  he  holds  that  it  comes  from  Luke. 
It  may  be  said  in  passing  that  Wright  is  a  stout 
advocate  for  the  oral  source  for  all  of  Luke's  Gospel. 
He  still  holds  out  against  the  "two-document"  or 
any  document  theory.  However,  he  claims  rightly 
that  Luke's  information  for  these  two  chapters  was 
private.  This  material  did  not  form  part  of  the 
current  oral  Gospel.  In  Mt  the  narrative  of  the 
birth  of  Jesus  is  given  from  the  standpoint  of  Joseph, 
and  Mary  is  kept  in  the  background,  according  to 
Eastern  feeling  (Wright).  But  in  Lk  the  story  is 
told  from  Mary's  point  of  view.  Luke  may,  indeed, 
have  seen  Mary  herself  in  the  years  57-59  AD  (or 
58-60).  He  could  easily  have  seen  some  of  Mary's 
intimate  friends  who  knew  the  real  facts  in  the  case. 
The  facts  were  expressly  said  to  have  been  kept  in 
Mary's  heart.  She  would  tell  only  to  sympathetic 
ears  (cf  Ramsay,  Was  Christ  Born  at  Bethlehem? 
74  f).  It  is  not  possible  to  discredit  Luke's  narra- 
tive of  the  Virgin  Birth  on  a  priori  grounds  (cf  Orr, 
The    Virgin  Birth  of    Christ,    1907;    Sweet,    Birth 


1939 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA     Luke,  Gospel  of 


and  Infancy  of  Jesus  Christ,  1906).  The  curious 
Sem  flavor  of  this  narrative  argues  strongly  for  its 
genuineness,  since  Luke  was  a  Greek.  We  do  not 
know  whether  Luke  knew  Aram,  or  not.  That 
was  possible,  since  he  spent  these  2  years  in  Pal. 
We  do  not  know  whether  this  information  came  to 
him  in  written  form  (note  esp.  the  hymns  of  Mary 
and  of  Zacharias)  or  in  oral  tradition.  But  it  is 
hardly  possible  to  credit  a  Greek  with  the  invention 
of  these  birth-narratives  and  poems  which  ring  so 
true  to  the  soil  and  the  Heb  life.  Immediately 
after  Luke's  statement  about  historical  research 
comes  the  narrative  of  the  birth  of  Jesus.  It  is  the 
first  illustration  of  his  work  on  his  sources. 

(4)  Luke's  relation  to  Mark's  Gospel. — Luke 
knew  Mark  in  Rome  (Col  4  10.14;  Philem  ver  24). 
He  may  have  met  him  in  Pal  also.  Had  he  seen 
Mark's  Gospel  when  he  wrote  his  own?  Was  it 
one  of  the  "many"  narratives  that  came  under 
Luke's  eye?  Wright  (cf  DCG)  denies  that  Luke 
had  our  Mk.  He  admits  that  he  may  have  had  an 
Urmarkus  or  proto-Mk  which  he  heard  in  oral  form, 
but  not  the  present  (written)  Gospel  of  Mk.  He 
thinks  that  this  can  best  be  accounted  for  by  the 
fact  that  out  of  223  sections  in  Mk  there  are  54  not 
in  Lk.  But  most  modern  critics  have  come  to  the 
conclusion  that  both  Matthew  and  Luke  had  Mk 
before  them  as  well  as  other  sources.  Matthew,  if 
he  used  Mk,  in  the  early  chapters,  followed  a  topical 
arrangement  of  his  material,  combining  Mk  with  the 
other  source  or  sources.  But  Luke  has  followed  the 
order  of  Mk  very  closely  in  this  part  and  indeed 
throughout.  Luke  has  a  special  problem  in  9  51 — 
19  27,  but  the  broad  general  outline  follows  that  of 
Mk.  But  it  cannot  be  said  that  Luke  made  a 
slavish  use  of  Mk,  if  he  had  this  Gospel  before  him. 
He  gives  his  own  touch  to  each  incident  and  selects 
what  best  suits  his  purpose.  It  is  not  possible  for 
us  to  tell  always  that  motive,  but  it  is  idle  to  sup- 
pose that  Luke  blindly  recorded  every  incident 
found  in  every  document  or  every  story  that  came 
to  his  ears.  He  implies  in  his  introduction  that  he 
has  made  a  selection  out  of  the  great  mass  of  ma- 
terial and  has  woven  it  into  a  coherent  and  pro- 
gressive narrative.  We  may  admit  with  Harnack 
{New  Testament  Studies:  Sayings  of  Jesus,  xiii) 
that  the  Markan  problem  "has  been  treated  with 
scientific  thoroughness"  and  that  Luke  had  Mk 
as  one  of  his  sources.  The  parallel  between  Lk  and 
Mk  in  the  narrative  portion  is  easily  seen  in  any 
Harmony  of  the  Gospels,  like  Broadus  or  Stevens 
and  Burton. 

(5)  Q  (Quelle)  or  the  Logia. — It  is  a  matter  of 
more  uncertainty  when  we  come  to  t  he  mass  of  mat  e- 
rial  common  to  Mt  and  Lk,  but  absent  from  Mk. 
This  is  usually  found  in  the  discourses  of  Jesus. 
The  more  generally  accepted  theory  today  is  that 
both  Matthew  and  Luke  made  use  of  Mk  and  also 
this  collection  of  Logia  called  Q  for  short  (Ger. 
Quelle,  "source").  But,  while  this  theory  may  be 
adopted  as  a  working  hypothesis,  it  cannot  be 
claimed  that  it  is  an  established  fact.  Zahn  (cf 
Intro)  stoutly  stands  up  for  the  real  authorship  of 
the  First  Gospel  of  Matthew.  Rev.  Arthur  Carr 
("Further  Notes  on  the  Synoptic  Problem,"  Expos, 
January,  1911,  543-553)  argues  strongly  for  the 
early  date  and  Matthaean  authorship  of  the  First 
Gospel.  He  says  on  the  whole  subject:  "The 
synoptic  problem  which  has  of  late  engaged  the 
speculation  of  some  of  our  keenest  and  most  labo- 
rious students  is  still  unsolved."  He  even  doubta 
the  priority  of  Mark's  Gospel.  Wellhausen 
(Einleitung  in  die  drei  ersten  Evangelien,  73-89) 
advocates  the  priority  of  Mark  to  Q.  But  Harnack 
balances  the  problem  of  "Q  and  St.  Mark"  (Sayings 
of  Jesus,  193-233)  and  decides  in  favor  of  Q.  In 
any  case,  it  is  to  be  noted  that  the  result  of  critical 


research  into  the  value  of  Q  is  to  put  it  quite  on  a 
par  with  Mk.  Harnack  is  quite  impressed  with 
the  originality  and  vivid  reality  of  the  matter  in  Q. 
The  material  present  in  Q  cannot  be  gauged  so 
accurately  as  that  in  Mk,  since  we  have  the  Gospel 
of  Mk  in  our  hands.  Where  both  Mt  and  Lk  give 
material  not  found  in  Mk,  it  is  concluded  that  this 
is  drawn  from  Q.  But  it  cannot  be  shown  that  Mat- 
thew may  not  have  used  Q  at  some  points  and  Lk 
at  still  others  independently.  Besides  Q  may  have 
contained  material  not  preserved  either  in  Mt  or  Lk. 
A  careful  and  detailed  comparison  of  the  material 
common  to  both  Mt  and  Lk  and  absent  from  Mk 
may  be  found  in  Hawkins,  florae  Synopticae,  107- 
13;  Harnack,  Sayings  of  Jesus,  127-82;  Well- 
hausen, Einleitung,  06;  Robertson,  "Matthew"  in 
Bible  for  Home  and  School,  14-19.  But,  if  it  is 
true  that  Luke  made  use  of  Q  as  of  Mk,  he  was  no 
mere  copyist.  No  solution  of  the  synoptic  prob- 
lem can  ever  be  obtained  on  the  idea  that  the  Gos- 
pels are  mere  reproductions  of  previous  documents. 
There  was  freedom  in  the  use  of  all  the  material, 
both  oral  and  written,  and  the  writer  gave  his  own 
interpretation  to  the  result.  It  was  often  a  re- 
statement in  the  author's  own  language,  not  formal 
quotation.  Wright  (DCG)  calls  this  editorial 
element  "editorial  notes";  that  is,  of  course,  often 
true  when  the  author  makes  comments  on  the 
matters  presented,  but  "ancient  authors  took  im- 
mense pains  to  reduce  the  rude  chronicles  which 
they  used,  into  literary  form"  (ib).  The  point  of 
all  this  is  that  a  great  deal  of  criticism  of  the  Gospels 
is  attempting  the  impossible,  for  many  of  the  vari- 
ations cannot  possibly  be  traced  to  any  "source." 
Wright  (ib)  puts  it  tersely  again:  "And  if  in  St. 
John's  Gospel  it  is  more  and  more  recognized  that 
the  mind  of  the  evangelist  cast  the  utterances  of 
Our  Lord  into  the  peculiar  form  which  they  there 
hold,  the  same  process  of  redaction  may  be  ob- 
served in  St.  Luke,  who  comes  nearest  of  the  synop- 
tists  to  the  methods  of  St.  John."  As  a  matter  of 
fact,  this  is  as  it  should  be  expected.  The  frank 
recognition  of  this  point  of  view  marks  progress 
in  synoptic  criticism. 

(0)  Other  sources. — There  is  a  large  block  of  ma- 
terial in  Lk  (9  51 — 18  14)  which  is  given  by  him 
alone.  There  are  various  sayings  like  some  re- 
ported by  Matthew  (or  Mark)  in  other  connections. 
Some  of  the  incidents  are  similar  to  some  given 
elsewhere  by  Matthew  and  Mark.  There  are 
various  theories  concerning  this  position  of  Lk. 
Some  critics  hold  that  Luke  has  here  put  a  mass  of 
material  which  he  had  left  over,  so  to  speak,  and 
which  he  did  not  know  where  to  locate,  without  any 
notion  of  order.  Against  this  theory  is  the  express 
statement  of  Luke  that  he  wrote  an  orderly  narra- 
tive (1  3  f).  One  is  disposed  to  credit  Luke's  own 
interpretation  unless  the  facts  oppose  it.  It  is 
common  for  traveling  preachers,  as  was  Jesus,  to 
have  similar  experiences  in  different  parts  of  the 
country  and  to  repeat  their  favorite  sayings.  So 
teachers  repeat  many  of  their  sayings  each  year  to 
different  classes.  Indeed,  it  is  just  in  this  section 
of  Lk  that  the  best  parts  of  his  Gospel  are  found 
(the  parables  of  the  Good  Samaritan,  the  Prodigal 
Son,  the  Pharisee  and  the  Publican,  etc).  "The 
more  we  consider  this  collection,  the  more  we  are 
entranced  with  it.  It  is  the  very  cream  of  the 
Gospel,  and  yet  (strange  to  say)  it  is  peculiar  to 
Luke"  (Wright,  DCG).  Wright  calls  this  "a  Paul- 
ine collection,"  not  because  Paul  is  responsible  for 
the  material,  but  because  the  chapters  breathe  the 
cosmopolitan  spirit  of  Paul.  That  is  true,  but 
Jesus  loved  the  whole  world.  This  side  of  the  teach- 
ing of  Jesus  may  have  appealed  to  Luke  powerfully 
because  of  its  reflection  in  Paul.  Matthew's  Gos- 
pel was  more  narrowly  Jewish  in  its  outlook,  and 


Luke,  Gospel  of 
Lust 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1940 


Mark's  had  fewer  of  the  sayings  of  Christ.  But  it 
is  to  be  noted  that  this  special  material  in  Lk  ex- 
tends more  or  less  all  through  the  Gospel.  Burton 
(Some  Principles  of  Literary  Criticism  and  Their 
Application  to  the  Synoptic  Problem,  49)  calls  this 
special  material  in  Lk  9  .51 — 18  14  "the  Peraean 
document."  We  do  not  know,  of  course,  anything 
of  the  actual  source  of  this  material.  Whether 
Luke  has  here  followed  one  or  more  documents, 
he  has,  as  elsewhere,  given  his  own  stamp  to  the 
whole,  while  preserving  in  a  marvelous  way  the 
spirit  of  Jesus.  (For  the  possible  parallel  between 
tliis  section  of  Lk  and  .Jn  see  Robertson's  ''Notes" 
to  Broadus,  Harmony  of  the  Gospels,  249-52.)  For 
the  earlier  material  in  Lk  not  found  elsewhere  (3 
7-15.17.18;  4  26-13  [14.15],  16-30;  5  1-11;  6  21- 
49;  7  1 — 8  3)  Burton  suggests  "the  Galilean  docu- 
ment" as  the  source.  Wright,  on  the  other  hand, 
proposes  ''anonymous  fragments"  as  the  source  of 
Luke's  material  not  in  the  infancy  narrative,  nor 
in  Mk,  nor  in  Q,  nor  in  the  "Pauline"  or  Peraean 
document.  At  any  rate,  it  is  certain  that  Luke's 
own  words  of  explanation  should  warn  us  against 
drawing  too  narrow  a  line  around  the  "sources" 
used  by  him.  His  "many"  may  well  have  included 
a  dozen  sources,  or  even  more.  But  it  may  be 
said,  in  a  word,  that  all  that  criticism  has  been  able 
to  learn  on  the  subject  has  confirmed  the  statement 
of  Luke  himself  concerning  his  method  of  research 
and  his  use  of  the  material. 

More  fault  has  been  found  with  Luke  as  a  his- 
torian in  Acts  than  in  the  Gospel.     Harnack  (Acts 

of  the  Apostles)  is  not  disposed  to  give 
5.  Credi-  Luke  ftdl  credit  as  a  reliable  historian, 
bility  But  Ramsay  (Luke  the  Physician,  5) 

champions  the  reliability  of  Luke  (cf 
also  *S'L  Paul  the  Traveller;  The  Church  in  the  Roman, 
Empire)  against  the  skepticism  of  Harnack,  which 
is  growing  less,  since  in  the  Theol.  Literaturzeitung 
(July  7,  1906,  S.  4)  he  speaks  well  of  Luke's  ability 
to  secure  correct  information.  So  in  Luke  the 
Physician  (121-45)  Harnack  urges  that  the  possible 
"instances  of  incredibility  have  been  much  exag- 
gerated by  critics."  He  adds  about  Acts  5  36: 
"It  is  also  possible  that  there  is  a  mistake  in  Jos" 
(cf  Chase,  Credibility  of  the  Book  of  the  Acts  of  the 
Apostles;  see  also  Acts  of  the  Apostles). 

But  the  Gospel  is  not  free  from  attack.  The  chief 
matter  in  the  Gospel  of  Lk  which  is  challenged  on  his- 
torical grounds,  apart  from  the  birth-narratives,  which 
some  critics  treat  as  legendary,  is  the  census  in  Lk  2 
1  ff.  Critics,  who  in  general  have  accepted  Luke's 
veracity,  have  sometimes  admitted  that  here  he  fell  into 
error  and  confused  the  census  under  Quirinius  in  6-7 
AD  when  Quirinius  came,  after  the  banishment  of 
Archelaus,  to  take  a  census  and  to  collect  taxes,  much 
to  the  indignation  of  the  Jews  (cf  Acts  5  37;  Jos,  Ant, 
XVIII,  i).  It  was  not  known  that  Quirinius  had  been 
governor  of  Syria  before  this  time,  nor  was  there  an- 
other knowledge  of  a  census  under  Augustus.  The  case 
against  Luke  seemed  strong.  But  Ramsay  (Was  Christ 
Born  at  Bethlehem.'  227  ff)  shows  that  the  inscription 
at  Tibur,  as  .agreed  by  Mommsen  and  like  authorities, 
shows  that  Quirinius  "twice,  governed  Syria  as  legatus 
of  the  divine  Augustus."  He  was  consul  in  12  BC,  so 
that  the  first  mission  was  after  that  date.  Ramsay 
shows  also  from  the  papyri  that  the,  14-year  cycle  was 
used  for  the  Rom  census  (many  census  papers  are  known 
from  20  AD  on).  He  argues  that  the  first  one  was  insti- 
tuted by  Augustus  in  8  BC.  Herod,  as  a  vassal  king, 
would  naturally  be  allowed  to  conduct  it  in  the  Jewish 
fashion,  not  the  Rom,  and  it  was  probably  delayed 
several  years  in  the  provinces.  Thus  once  more  Luke 
is  vindicated  in  a  remarkable  way  (see  Chronology  of 
XT,  I,  1,  [2]). 

The  Acts  of  the  Apostles  has  come  out  of  the 
critical  ordeal  in  a  wonderful  manner,  so  that 
Luke's  credit  as  a  historical  writer  is  now  very 
high  among  those  qualified  to  know  the  facts.  He 
has  been  tested  and  found  correct  on  so  many  points 
that  the  presumption  is  in  his  favor  where  he  cannot 
as  yet  be  verified.  Moffatt  (Intro  to  the  Lit.  of  the 
NT,  265)  finds  Luke  "more  graphic  than  historical." 


He  was  the  most  versatile  of  the  Gospel  writers. 
He  was  a  Greek,  a  Christian,  a  physician,  a  man  of 
travel,  a  man  of  world-outlook,  sym- 
6.  Charac-    pathetic,    cultured,    poetic,    spiritual, 
teristics  artistic,    high-minded.     His    Prologue 

is  the  most  classic  piece  of  Gr  in  the 
NT,  but  the  rest  of  ch  1  and  all  of  ch  2  are  the  most 
Sem  in  tone.  The  breadth  of  his  literary  equip- 
ment is  thereby  shown.  He  not  only  uses  many 
medical  terms  common  to  technical  circles,  but  he 
has  the  physician's  interest  in  the  sick  and  afflicted, 
as  shown  in  the  large  number  of  miracles  of  healing 
narrated.  His  interest  in  the  poor  is  not  due  to 
Ebionitic  prejudice  against  the  rich,  but  to  human 
compassion  for  the  distressed.  His  emphasis  on  the 
human  side  of  the  work  of  Jesus  is  not  due  to  Ebion- 
itic denial  of  the  Divinity  of  Jesus,  but  to  his  keen 
appreciation  of  the  richness  of  the  human  life  of  the 
Son  of  God.  His  rich  and  varied  vocabulary  re- 
veals a  man  who  read  and  mingled  with  the  best 
life  of  his  time.  He  wrote  his  books  in  the  ver- 
nacular, but  the  elevated  vernacular  of  an  educated 
man  touched  with  a  distinct  literary  flavor.  His 
poetic  temperament  is  shown  in  the  preservation 
of  the  beautiful  hymns  of  the  nativity  and  in  the 
wonderful  parables  of  Jesus  in  chs  10,  i5-18.  They 
are  reported  with  rare  grace  and  skill.  Luke  is 
fond  of  showing  Christ's  sympathy  with  women 
and  children,  and  he  has  more  to  say  about  prayer 
than  the  authors  of  the  other  Gospels.  His  interest 
in  individuals  is  shown  by  the  dedication  of  both 
his  books  to  Theophilus.  His  cosmopolitan  sym- 
pathies are  natural  in  view  of  his  training  and  in- 
heritance, but  part  of  it  is  doubtless  due  to  his  asso- 
ciation with  the  apostle  Paid.  He  comes  to  the 
interpretation  of  Jesus  from  a  world-standpoint 
and  does  not  have  to  overcome  the  Pharisaic  limi- 
tations incident  to  one  reared  in  Pal.  It  is  a 
matter  of  rejoicing  that  we  have  this  book,  called 
by  Renan  the  most  beautiful  book  in  the  world,  as 
a  cultured  Greek's  interpretation  of  the  origin  of 
Christianity.  He  thus  stands  outside  of  the  pale 
of  Judaism  and  can  see  more  clearly  the  world- 
relations  and  world-destiny  of  the  new  movement. 
With  Luke,  Jesus  is  distinctly  the  world's  Saviour. 
The  accent  on  sin  is  human  sin,  not  specifically 
Jewish  sin.  John  in  his  Gospel  came  in  his  old  age 
to  look  back  upon  the  events  in  Judaea  from  a  non- 
Jewish  standpoint.  But  he  rose  to  the  essentially 
spiritual  and  eternal  apprehension  of  Christ,  rather 
than  extended  his  vision,  as  Luke  did,  to  the  cos- 
mopolitan mission  and  message  of  Jesus,  though 
this  did  not  escape  John.  The  Gospel  of  Lk  thus 
has  points  of  affinity  with  Paul,  John  and  the 
author  of  He  in  style  and  general  standpoint.  But 
while  Luke's  own  style  is  manifest  throughout,  it 
is  not  obtrusive.  He  hides  himself  behind  the 
wonderful  portrait  of  Jesus  which  he  has  here  drawn 
in  undying  colors. 

_  The  extreme  position  of  Baur  and  Zeller  may  be 
dismissed  at  once.     There  is  no  reason  for  dating 

the  Gospel  of  Lk  in  the  2d  cent,  on  the 
7.  Date         ground  that  he  used  Marcion's  Gospel, 

since  it  is  now  admitted  all  round  that 
Marcion  made  use  of  Lk.  The  supposed  use  of  Jos 
by  Luke  (see  Acts  of  the  Apostles  for  discussion 
and  refutation)  leads  a  goodly  number  of  radical 
scholars  (Hilgenfeld,  Holsten,  Holtzmann,  Jiilicher, 
Krenkel,  Weizsacker,  Wernle)  to  date  the  book  at 
the  end  of  the  1st  cent.  This  is  still  extreme,  as 
Harnack  had  already  shown  in  his  Chronologie  der 
altchristl.  Lilt.,  I,  1897,  246-50.  Any  use  of  Jos 
by  Luke  is  highly  improbable  (see  Plummer  on  Lk, 
xxix).  The  Gospel  was  certainly  written  before  Acts 
(Acts  1  1)  and  while  Paul  was  alive,  if  1  Tim  5  18 
be  taken  as  a  quotation  from  Lk  10  7,  which  is  by  no 
means  certain,  however.     But  it  is  true  that  the  most 


1941 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Luke,  Gospel  of 
Lust 


natural  way  to  interpret  the  sudden  close  of  Acts, 
after  2  years  in  Rome  (Acts  28  31),  is  the  fact  that 
Luke  finished  the  book  at  that  time  (Maclean,  1- 
vol  HDB).  Moffatt  {Historical  NT,  273)  calls 
this  early  date  "reactionary"  and  "extravagant." 
But  it  is  supported  by  Alford,  Blass,  Ebrard,  Far- 
rar,  Gloag,  Godet,  Grau,  Guerickc,  Hahn,  Head- 
lam,  Hitzig,  Hofmann,  Hug,  Keil,  Lange,  Lumby, 
Marshall,  Nosgen,  Oosterzee,  Resch,  Riehm,  Schaff, 
Schanz,  Thiersch,  Tholuck,  Wieselcr,  and  Harnack 
himself  is  now  ready  to  join  this  goodly  company. 
He  warns  critics  against  too  hasty  a  closing  of  the 
chronological  question  (Acts  of  the  Apostles,  291), 
and  admits  that  Acts  was  written  "perhaps  so  early 
as  the  beginning  of  the  7th  decade  of  the  1st  cent." 
[ib,  297],  "the  Acts  (and  therefore  also  the  Gospel)." 
Inthe  Dateofthe  Actsand  the  Synoptic  Gospels  (1911, 
124)  Harnack  says :  "It  seems  now  to  be  established 
beyond  question  that  bot  h  books  of  this  great  his- 
torical order  were  written  while  St.  Paul  was  still 
alive."  There  is  an  intermediate  date  about  80  AD, 
assigned  by  Adeney,  Bartlett,  Plummer,  Sanday, 
Weiss,  Wright,  on  the  ground  that  the  investiga- 
tions mentioned  in  Lk  1  1-4  describe  the  use  of 
narratives  which  could  have  been  written  only  after 
a  long  period  of  reflection.  But  that  is  not  a  valid 
objection.  There  is  no  sound  critical  reason  why 
the  Gospel  of  Mk,  Q,  the  infancy  narratives,  and 
all  the  other  sources  alluded  to  by  this  preface  could 
not  have  been  in  circulation  in  Pal  by  55  AD. 
Indeed,  Allen  writes  in  Expos  T  (July,  1910):  "I 
see  no  reason  why  such  an  original  [Mark's  Gospel 
in  Aram.]  should  not  have  appeared  before  the  year 
50  AD."  The  other  objection  to  the  early  date 
conies  out  of  Lk  21  20,  "Jerus  compassed  with 
armies"  as  compared  with  "the  abomination  of 
desolation"  in  Mk  13  14.  The  change  is  so  specific 
that  it  is  held  by  some  critics  to  be  due  to  the  fact 
that  Luke  is  writing  after  the  destruction  of  Jerus. 
But  it  is  just  as  likely  (Maclean)  that  Luke  has 
here  interpreted  the  Hebraism  of  Mk  for  his  gentile 
readers.  Besides,  as  Plummer  (p.  xxxi)  shows, 
Luke  in  21  5-36  does  not  record  the  fact  that  Jerus 
was  destroyed,  nor  does  he  change  Christ's  "flee  to 
the  mountains"  to  "Pella  in  North  Peraea,"  whither 
the  Christians  actually  fled.  Besides,  the  fact  that 
Acts  shows  no  acquaintance  with  Paul's  Epp.  is 
best  explained  on  the  assumption  of  the  early  date. 
The  question  is  thus  practically  settled  in  favor  of 
t  he  early  date.  The  place  of  the  writing  is  not  known. 
The  early  date  naturally  falls  in  with  Caesarea 
(Blass,  Michaelis,  Thiersch),  but  there  is  little  to 
guide  one. 

(t)   Prologue,  1   1-4. 

(2)   Infancy  and  childhood  of  John  and  Jesus,  1   5 — 

8.  Analysis    J^  Beginning  of  Christ's  Ministry,  3   1 

(4)   Galilean  Campaign,  4  14 — 9  6. 
(5)   Retirement  from  Galilee,  9  7-50. 
((>)  Later  Judaean  and  Peraean  Ministry,  9  51 — 19  28. 

(7)  Close  of  the  Public  Ministry  in  Jerusalem,  19  29— 
21    37. 

(8)  The  Dreadful  End.  chs  21-23- 

(9)  Resurrection  of  Christ,  ch  24- 

Literature. — See  extended  list  of  books  at  close  of 
art.  on  Acts  of  the  Apostles;  the  extensive  list  of 
Comms.  Plummer's  Comm.  on  Lk  can  also  be  consulted. 
After  Plummer  the  best  comms.  on  Luke's  Gospel  are 
Bruce,  Expositor's  Gr  Test.;  Weiss's  Meyer  Krit.-exeget. 
Komm.;  Godet;  Holtzmann,  Hand-Comm.  Of  the  many 
Intros  to  the  NT,  Zahn's  is  the  ablest  and  most  ex- 
haustive (conservative)  and  Julicher's  is  the  fairest  of 
the  radical  school.  The  best  of  the  briefer  ones  is 
Gregory's  Canon  and  Text  (1907).  Special  treatises  de- 
serving mention  here  are  Blass,  Philology  of  the  Gospels 
(1898);  Ev.  secundum  Lukam  (1897);  Wellhausen,  Das 
Ev.  Lukae  (1904);  Sense,  Origin  of  the  Third  Gospel 
(1901)-  Priedrich,  Das  Lukasevangelium  und  die  Apostel- 
geschichle,  Werke  desselben  Verfassers  (1890);  Harnack, 
Luke  the  Phi/sician  (1907),  and  Sayings  of  Jesus  (1908); 
The  Date  of  the  Acts  and  the  Synoptic  Gospels  (1911); 
Hawkins,  Home  Si/nnpticae  (2d  ed,  1909);  Hervey, 
Authenticity  of  Luke  (1892);  Hobart,  Medical  Language  of 


St.  Luke  (1882);  Litzinger,  Die  Entstehung  des  Lukasevan- 
gelium und  der  Apostelgeschichte  (1883);  Ramsay,  Was 
Christ  Bom  at  Bethlehem?  (1898)  and  Luke  the  Physician 
(1908);  Resch,  Das  Kindheit-Evangelium  nach  Lukas  und 
Matthdus;  Selwyn,  St.  Luke  the  Prophet  (1901);  Vogel, 
Zur  Characteristik  des  Lukas  nach  Sprache  und  Stil  (1897) ; 
Weiss,  Quellen  des  Lukasevangelium  (1907);  Wright,  Syn- 
opsis of  the  Gospels  and  his  Gospel  ace.  to  St.  Luke  in  Gr 
(1900). 

A.  T.  Robertson 
LUNATIC (K),  lQ'na-tik: 

/.  Epilepsy. — The  Eng.  word  "lunatic,"  which  in 
popular  speech  signifies  a  sufferer  from  any  mental  de- 
rangement, whether  periodic  or  chronic, 

1.  Incorrect  other  than  congenital  idiocy,  appears 
Translation  in  AV  as  a  tr  of  the  Gr  *vord  o-eXyvtd- 

fbjitcu,  selenidzomai,  in  the  two  pas- 
sages where  it  occurs.  In  RV  the  word  has  very 
properly  been  displaced  by  the  strictly  accurate 
term  "epileptic."  This  change  is  justified  not  only 
by  the  extra-Bib.  usage  (see  Liddell  and  Scott,  s.v.), 
but  clearly  enough  by  Mt  17  15  (cf  4  24),  where 
epilepsy  is  circumstantially  described. 

The  original  meaning  of  the  term  seleniazomai, 
"moon-struck,"    is    connected    with    the    popular 

belief,  widespread  and  of  strange  per- 

2.  Original  sistency,  that  the  moon,  in  certain  of 
Meaning        its  phases,  is  injurious  to  human  beings, 

esp.  in  the  case  of  diseases  of  a  periodic 
or  remittent  character.  There  are  no  data  by 
which  to  determine  whether,  in  the  NT  times,  this 
particular  word  represented  a  living  and  active 
belief  or  had  passed  into  the  state  of  usage  in 
which  the  original  metaphor  disappears,  and  the 
word  simply  indicates  the  fact  signified  without 
reference  to  the  idea  embodied  in  the  etymology. 
We  still  use  the  word  "lunatic"  to  signify  a  person 
mentally  diseased,  although  we  have  long  since 
ceased  to  believe  in  the  moon's  influence  in  such 
cases. 

//.  Madness. — The  Bible  designates  "madness," 
or  alienation  of  mind,  by  various  terms,  all  of  which 
seem  to  be  onomatopoetic.  These  various  words 
seem  to  be  derived  from  the  strange  and  fierce  or 
mournful  cries  uttered  by  the  unfortunate  victims 
of  this  dread  malady.  In  Dt  28  34  the  word 
"maddened"  is  ^tV ,  meshugga\  part,  of  T^XO , 
shdgha'  (cf  also  1  S  21  15).  With  this  corresponds 
the  word  fxaiuo/j-ai,  mainomai,  in  the  NT.  In  1  S 
21  13  (Heb  14)  the  word  is  a  form  of  the  vb.  bb~  , 
halal,  which  is  also  a  derivative  from  the  sound 
indicated. 

In  certain  cases,  though  by  no  means  uniformly, 
madness  is  ascribed  to  demon-possession  (Lk  8  26  f). 
One  is  struck  by  the  fact  that  mental  derangement 
occupies  a  very  small  place  in  Scripture. 

Louis  Matthews  Sweet 

LURK,  lurk,  LURKING-PLACE,  lurk'ing-plas: 
"To  lurk"  means  "to  lie  in  wait,"  usually  with 
intent  to  do  harm  (see  Ps  17  12;    Prov  1  11.18). 

Lurking-place,  a  place  of  hiding,  usually  for  the 
purpose  of  murder.     Seel  S  23  23;  Ps  10  8. 

LUST  (5  Heb  and  5  Gr  words  are  so  rendered,  viz. : 
[1]  TBS:,  nephesh,  [2]  rfflTH^ ,  sherlruth,  [3]  rTJ$P, 
ta'dwhh,  [4]  "Ian,  hamadh,  [5]  7118 ,  'awah;  [1]  *wi- 
eujiCa,  epithumla,  [2]  tiSovt|,  hedone,  [3]  €irnroeea>, 
epipotheo,  [4]  opefcis,  orexis,  [5]  irdeos,  pathos) :  The 
word  both  as  vb.  and  as  subst,  has  a  good  and  a  bad 
meaning.  It  probably  meant  at  first  a  strong  de- 
sire, a  craving,  abnormal  appetite,  not  only  for  physi- 
cal but  for  spiritual  satisfaction.  It  has  come, 
however,  to  be  confined  in  its  use  almost  entirely 
to  the  bad  sense-.  Some  old  tr3  are  not  accepted 
now,  the  word  being  used  in  connections  which  at 
present  seem  almost  irreverent.  Shades  of  mean- 
ing are  learned  from  an  examination  of  the  Heb  and 
Gr  originals. 


Lute 

Lysias 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1942 


The  subst.  and  vbs.  arc:    (1)    Nephesh,  in  Ex  15 
it  and  Ps  78    IS  trd  "desire";    "My  desire  shall  he 
satisfied";    "by  asking  food  according 
1.  The  OT     to    their   desire."     A    strong   but   not, 
Use  sensual  sense.     (2)  Sherlruth,  meaning 

"obstinacy,"  evil  imagination.  Jen 
said  (Ps  81  12),  "I  let  them  go  after  the  stub- 
bornness of  their  heart,"  a  wilful  self-satisfaction. 
(3)  Ta'&wdh,  "a  delight."  "a  longing  satisfaction," 
and  so  it  came  to  mean  "sinful  pleasure."  Trdin  Ps 
78  30,  "that  which  they  desired,"  intensely  longed 
for,  referring  to  Jeh's  provision  of  food  in  the 
wilderness.  Also  in  Nu  11  4  concerning  "flesh  to 
eat,"  it  is  said  the  multitude  "lusted  exceedingly," 
i.e.  "craved  eagerly."  (4)  Hdmadh,  the  vb.  mean- 
ing "to  delight  in,"  "greatly  belove,"  "covet," 
probably  for  evil  purposes.  The  young  man  is 
warned  against  the  evil  woman  (Prov  6  25):  "Lust 
not  after  her  beauty."  Here  the  bad  sense  is 
evident,  for  in  the  same  connection  are  used  such 
expressions  as  "harlot,"  "adulteress,"  "evil  woman." 
(5)  'Awah,  meaning  "greatly  to  desire,"  long  after, 
with  undue  emphasis,  with  evil  spirit  though  not 
perhaps  with  impure  thought.  In  Nu  11  34  refer- 
ence is  made  to  a  place  called  kibhroth  ha-la'awdh, 
"the  graves  of  lust,  '  where  "they  buried  the  people 
that  lusted."  Ps  106  14  also  refers  to  the  Israelites 
who  "lusted  exceedingly."  Tr'MnDt  12  15.21  "de- 
sire of  thy  soul";  12  20;  14  20,  "thy  soul  desireth." 
These  Dt  passages  evidently  mean  lust  only  in  the 
good  sense. 

As  in  the  OT,  so  in  the  NT  we  find  both  mean- 
ings of  the  word.  (I)  Epithumia  is  used  most  fre- 
quently, and  means  a  longing  for  the 
2.  The  NT  unlawful,  hence  concupiscence,  de- 
Use  sire,  lust.  The  following  references 
hold  the  idea,  not  only  of  sinful  desire 
known  as  "fleshly,"  "worldly,"  as  opposed  to 
"spiritual,"  "heavenly,"  "the  will  of  man"  as 
opposed  to  "the  will  of  God,"  but  also  the  sensual 
desire  connected  with  adulter}-,  fornication;  vb. 
in  Mt  5  28;  Mk  4  19;  Jn  8  44;  Rom  1  24;  1 
Cor  10  6;  Gal  5  16.17.24;  Tit  2  12;  1  Pet  1 
14;  1  Jn  2  16 f;  Jude  vs  16.18;  Rev  18  14.  (2) 
Hedone,  delight  in  sensuality,  hence  wicked  pleas- 
ures; trd  in  Jas  4  1.3  "pleasures":  "Your  pleasures 
that  war  in  your  members";  "Ye  ask  amiss,  that 
ye  may  spend  it  in  your  pleasures"  (AV  "lusts"). 
(3)  Epipotheo  means  to  crave  intensely  the  wrong 
possession;  trd  in  Jas  4  5  "long  [AV  "lusteth"] 
unto  envying."  (4)  Orexis,  used  in  Rom  1  27, 
from  context  evidently  meaning  "lust"  in  the  worst 
sense;  trd  "lust."  (5)  Pathos,  meaning  "passion," 
inordinate  affection,  with  the  idea  in  it  of  suffer- 
ing;  trd  in  1  Thess  4  5  "passion  of  lust." 

,         William  Edward  Raffety 

LUTE,  lut  P23,  nebhel;  thus  RV;  AV  viol 
[Isa  5  12]):  Nebhel  is  rendered  elsewhere  by 
"psaltery"  or  "viol."  The  lute  was  originally  an 
Arab,  instrument.  It  resembled  a  guitar,  though 
with  a  longer  and  more  slender  neck.  The  name  is 
derived  from  Arab,  al'ood,  with  a  of  art.  elided; 
hence  Italian  liuto;  Fr,  luth.     See  Music. 

LUZ  (Tib,  luz):  The  Heb  word  means  "almond 
tree"  or  "almond  wood"  (OHL,  s.v.).  It  may  also 
mean  "bone,"  particularly  a  bone  of  the  spine,  and 
might  be  applied  to  a  rocky  height  supposed  to 
resemble  a  backbone  (Lagarde,  Uebersicht.,  157  f). 
Winckler  explains  it  by  Aram,  laudh,  "asylum," 
which  might  be  suitably  applied  to  a  sanctuary  (Ge- 
schichie  Israels).  Cheyne  (EB,  s.v.)  would  derive  it 
by  corruption  from  Hibn,  hdlucdh,  "strong  [city]." 

(1)  This  was  the  ancient  name  of  Bethel  (Gen 
28  19;  Jgs  1  23;  cf  Gen  35  6;  48  3;  Josh  16  2; 
18  13).     It  has  been  thought  that  Josh  16  2  con- 


tradicts this,  and  that  the  two  places  were  distinct. 
Referring  to  Gen  28  19,  we  find  that  the  name 
Bethel  was  given  to  "the  place,"  ha-mdkom,  i.e.  "the 
sanctuary,"  probably  "the  place"  (ver  11,  Heb) 
associated  with  the  sacrifice  of  Abraham  (12  8), 
which  lay  to  the  E.  of  Bethel.  The  name  of  the  city 
as  distinguished  from  "the  place"  was  Luz.  As  the 
fame  of  the  sanctuary  grew,  we  may  suppose,  its 
name  overshadowed,  and  finally  superseded,  that 
of  the  neighboring  town.  The  memory  of  the 
ancient  nomenclature  persisting  among  the  people 
sufficiently  explains  the  allusions  in  the  passages 
cited. 

(2)  A  Bethelite,  the  man  who  betrayed  the  city 
into  the  hands  of  the  children  of  Joseph,  went  into 
the  land  of  the  Hittites,  and  there  founded  a  city 
which  he  called  Luz,  after  the  ancient  name  of  his 
native  place  (Jgs  1  26).  No  satisfactory  identifi- 
cation has  been  suggested.  W.  Ewing 

LYCAONIA,  lik-a-o'ni-a,  ll-ka-o'ni-a  (AvKaovta, 
Lukaonia  [Acts  14  6],  AvKaovio-rC,  Lukaonisti, 
[Acts  14  11,  "in  the  speech  of  Lycaonia  ];  Ly- 
caonia is  meant,  according  to  the  South  Galatian 
view,  by  the  expression  r\\v  Ya\ariKTjv  x^Pav,  ten 
Galatiken  choran,  in  Acts  18  23,  and  the  incidents 
in  Acts  16  1-4  belong  to  L.) :  Was  a  country  in  the 
central  and  southern  part  of  Asia  Minor  whose 
boundaries  and  extent  varied  at  different  periods. 
In  the  time  of  Paul,  it  was  bounded  on  the  N.  by 
Galatia  proper  (but  lay  in  the  Rom  province  Gala- 
tia),  on  the  E.  by  Cappadocia,  on  the  S.  by  Cilicia 
Tracheia,  and  on  the  W.  by  Pisidia  and  Phrygia. 
The  boundary  of  Phrygia  and  L.  passed  between 
Iconium  and  Lystra  (see  Iconium).  L.  consists  of 
a  level  plain,  waterless  and  treeless,  rising  at  its 
southern  fringe  for  some  distance  into  the  foothills 
of  Taurus,  and  broken  on  its  eastern  side  by  the 
volcanic  mass  of  Kara-Dagh  and  by  many  smaller 
hills.  _  Strabo  informs  us  that  King  Amyntas  of 
Galatia  fed  many  flocks  of  sheep  on  the  Lyeaonian 
plain.  Much  of  the  northern  portion  of  L.  has 
been  proved  by  recent  discovery  to  have  belonged 
to  the  Rom  emperors,  who  inherited  the  crown  lands 
of  Amyntas. 

In  Acts  14  p  L.  is  summed  up  as  consisting  of 
the  cities  of  Lystra  and  Derbe  and  the  district 
(including_  many  villages)  lying  around  them. 
This  description  refers  to  a  particular  division  of  L., 
which  alone  is  mentioned  in  the  Bible.  In  the  time 
of  Paul,  L.  consisted  of  two  parts,  a  western  and 
an  eastern.  The  western  part  was  a  "region"  or 
subdivision  of  the  Rom  province  Galatia;  the 
eastern  was  called  Lycaonia  Antiochiana,  after 
Antiochus  of  Commagene  under  whom  it  had  been 
placed  in  37  AD.  This  non-Rom  portion  was 
traversed  by  Paul;  but  nothing  is  recorded  of  his 
journey  through  it  (see  Derbe).  It  included  the 
important  city  of  Laranda;  and  when  L.  is  described 
as  consisting  of  the  cities  of  Lystra  and  Derbe  and 
the  surrounding  district,  the  writer  is  clearly  think- 
ing only  of  the  western  portion  of  L.,  which  lay  in, 
and  formed  a  "region"  of,  the  province  Galatia. 
This  is  the  tract  of  country  which  is  meant  in  Acts 
18  23,  where  it  is  called  the  "region"  of  Galatia, 
and  placed  side  by  side  with  Phrygia,  another  region 
of  Galatia.  The  province  Galatia  was  divided  into 
districts  technically  known  as  "regions,"  and  Rom 
L.  is  called  the  "region  of  Galatia"  in  implied  con- 
trast with  Antiochian  L.,  which  lay  outside  the 
Rom  province.  Of  the  language  of  L.  (see  Lystra) 
nothing  survives  except  some  personal  and  place- 
names,  which  are  discussed  in  Kretschmar's  Ein- 
leitung  in  die  Gesch.  der  griech.  Sprache. 

Literature. — Ramsay,  Hist.  Comm.  on  Galatians 
(Intro);    Sterrett,    Wolfe  Expedition  (inscriptions). 

W.  M.  Calder 


1943 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Lute 
Lysias 


LYCIA,  lish'i-a  (AvkLo.,  Lukla):  An  ancient. 
country  forming  the  southeast  portion  of  Asia 
Minor.  The  surface  of  Lycia  is  exceedingly  rugged, 
and  its  lofty  mountains  rise  almost  directly  from  t  he 
sea.  Over  them  several  trade  routes  or  passes  lead 
from  the  coast  to  the  interior.  Down  the  mountain 
sides  rush  many  small  rivers,  of  which  the  Xanthus 
is  the  chief.  The  history  of  L.,  like  that  of  the 
neighboring  countries,  forms  a  part  of  the  history 
of  Asia  Minor.  Successively  it  was  in  the  pos- 
session of  the  Persians,  of  Alexander  the  Great,  of 
the  Seleucid  kings  and  of  the  Ptolemies.  In  188 
BC  it  fell  into  the  hands  of  the  Romans,  who  gave 
it  to  the  island  of  Rhodes;  20  years  later,  because 
of  its  loyalty  to  Rome,  it  became  free  and  inde- 
pendent (1  Mace  15  23).  In  53  AD,  during  the 
reign  of  the  emperor  Claudius,  it  became  a  Rom 
province,  and  in  74  AD  it  was  united  with  Pam- 
phylia  to  form  a  double  province  over  which  a  Rom 
governor  presided. 

At  different  times  during  the  history  of  L.,  there 
were  about  100  places  which  issued  coins  of  their 
own.  Pliny  speaks  of  70  cities  which  had  existed 
there,  but  in  his  age  there  were  but  36.  Of  these, 
Patara,  Myra  and  Phaselis  are  of  interest  to  Bible 
students.  From  the  coast  city  of  Patara,  accord- 
ing to  Acts  21  1  f,  Paul  took  ship  for  Phoenicia. 
It  was  a  place  celebrated  not  only  as  a  trading- 
center,  and  a  port  of  entry  to  the  interior,  but  as 
the  seat  of  the  oracle  of  Apollo,  and  the  birthplace 
of  St.  Nicholas.  Myra,  though  over  2  miles  from  the 
coast,  possessed  a  harbor,  and  was  also  a  trading- 
cent  er.  Here,  according  to  Acts  27  5-38,  Paul 
found  a  corn  ship  from  Alexandria.  For  some  time 
Myra  was  the  capital  of  the  Rom  province;  to 
Christendom  it  is  esp.  known  as  the  home  of  St. 
Nicholas,  who  was  its  bishop  and  the  patron  saint 
of  the  sailors  along  the  coast.  Phaselis,  on  the 
border  of  Pamphylia,  was  also  the  home  of  the 
bishop. 

L.  was  a  stopping-place,  rather  than  the  scene 
of  the  active  work  of  Paul,  and  therefore  it  figures 
little  in  the  earliest  history  of  Christianity.  For 
a  long  time  the  people  strongly  opposed  the  intro- 
duction of  a  strange  religion,  and  in  312  AD  they 
even  petitioned  the  Rom  emperor  Maximin  against 
it.  A  portion  of  the  petition  has  been  discovered 
at,  Arykander.  E.  J.  Banks 

LYDDA,  lid'a.     See  Lod. 

LYDIA,  lid'i-a  (Av8ta,  Ludia):  An  important 
country  in  the  western  part  of  Asia  Minor  bounded 
on  the  N.  by  Mysia,  on  the  E.  by  Phrygia,  on  the 
S.  by  Caria,  and  on  the  W.  by  the  Aegean  Sea.  Its 
surface  is  rugged,  but  along  the  valleys  between  its 
mountain  ranges  ran  some  of  the  most  important 
highways  from  the  coast  cities  to  the  distant  interior. 
Of  its  many  rivers  the  chief  are  the  Cayster,  the 
Lower  Hermus,  the  Cogamos,  the  Caicus  and, 
during  a  part  of  its  course,  the  Maeander. 

Lydia  was  an  exceedingly  ancient  and  powerful 
kingdom  whose  history  is  composed  chiefly  of  that 
of  its  individual  cities.  In  546  BC  it  fell  into  the 
hands  of  the  Persians,  and  in  334  BC  it  became  a 
part  of  Alexander's  empire.  After  the  death  of 
Alexander  its  possession  was  claimed  by  the  kings 
both  of  Pergamos  and  of  Seleucia,  but  in  190  BC 
it  became  the  undisputed  possession  of  the  former 
(1  Mace  8  8).  With  the  death  of  Attalus  III, 
133  BC,  it  was  transferred  by  the  will  of  that  king 
to  Rome,  and  L.,  which  then  became  but  a  name, 
formed,  along  with  Caria,  Mysia  and  Phrygia,  a 
part  of  the  Rom  province  of  Asia  (see  Asia).  Chief 
among  its  cities  were  Smyrna  and  Ephesus,  two  of 
the  most  important  in  Asia  Minor,  and  Smyrna  is 
still  the  largest  and  wealthiest  city  of  that  part  of 


Turkey.  At  Ephesus,  the  seat  of  the  goddess 
Diana,  Paul  remained  longer  than  elsewhere  in 
Asia,  and  there  his  most  important  missionary 
work  was  done  (Acts  19).  Hence  L.  figures  promi- 
nently in  the  early  history  of  the  church;  it  became 
Christianized  during  the  residence  of  the  apostle 
at  Ephesus,  or  soon  afterward  (see  also  Lud). 

E.  J.  Banks 
LYDIA,  lid'i-a  (AvSta,  Ludia):  The  fern,  of 
Lydian,  a  native;  of  Lydia,  a  large  country  on  the 
W.  of  Asia  Minor,  and  the  name  of  St.  Paul's  first 
convert  in  Europe.  This  name  was  a  popular  one 
for  women  (cf  Horace  Odes  i.8;  hi. 9;  vi.20),  but 
Ramsay  thinks  she  "was  familiarly  known  in  the 
town  by  the  ethnic  that  showed  her  origin" 
(II DB,  s.v.  "Lydia";  cf  St.  Paul  the  Traveller, 
214).  It  has  always  been  and  is  still  a  common 
custom  in  the  Orient  to  refer  to  one  living  in  a 
foreign  land  by  employing  the  adj.  which  desig- 
nates the  nationality.  Renan  thinks  it  means 
"the  Lydian";  Thyatira  is  a  city  of  Lydia.  Lydia 
was  (1)  living  in  Philippi,  (2)  of  the  city  of  Thya- 
tira, (3)  a  seller  of  the  purple-dyed  garments  from 
her  native  town,  (4)  and  "one  that  worshipped  Cod." 
Her  occupation  shows  her  to  have  been  a  woman  of 
some  capital.  The  phrase  which  describes  her 
religion  (sebomene  tun  Theori)  is  the  usual  designa- 
tion for  a  proselyte.  She  was  in  the  habit  of  fre- 
quenting a  place  of  prayer  by  a  riverside,  a  situation 
convenient  for  the  necessary  ablutions  required  by 
the  Jewish  worship,  and  there  Paul  and  his  com- 
panions met  her.  After  she  had  been  listening  to 
St.  Paul  (Gr  impf.),  the  Lord  opened  her  heart  to 
give  heed  to  his  teaching  ("To  open  is  the  part  of 
God,  to  pay  attention  that  of  the  woman,  Chry- 
sostom).  Her  baptism  and  that  of  her  household 
followed.  To  prove  her  sincerity  she  besought  the 
missionaries  to  accept  the  hospitality  of  her  home. 
Her  house  probably  became  the  center  for  the 
church  in  Philippi  "(Acts  16  14.15.40).  L.  is  not 
mentioned  in  St.  Paul's  letter  to  the  Philippians, 
but,  if  Ramsay  be  correct,  she  may  have  been 
Euodias  or  Syntyche  (Phil  4  2).     S.  F.  Hunter 

LYDIAN,  lid'i-an.    See  Lydia. 

LYE,  11.     See  Nitre. 

LYING,  li'ing.     See  Lie. 

LYSANIAS,  ll-sa'ni-as  (Avcravias,  Lusanias): 
Mentioned  in  Lk  3  1  as  tetrarch  of  Abilene  in  the 
15th  year  of  the  reign  of  Tiberius  Caesar,  and  thus 
fixing  the  date  of  the  preaching  of  John  the  Baptist 
in  the  wilderness  at  about  26  or  28  AD.  A  Lysanias 
is  mentioned  by  Jos  as  having  ruled  over  Chalcis 
and  Abilene,  and  as  having  been  slain  by  Mark 
Antony  at  the;  instigation  of  Cleopatra.  As  this 
happened  about  36  BC,  Luke  has  been  charged  with 
inaccuracy.  Inscriptions,  however,  corroborate 
the  view  that  the  L.  of  Luke  was  probably  a  de- 
scendant of  the  L.  mentioned  by  Jos  (cf  Schurer, 
IIJP,  div  I,  vol  II,  App.  1,  p.  338).    C.  M.  Kerr 

LYSIAS,  lis'i-as  (Avo-ias,  Lusias): 

(1)  "A  noble  man,  and  one  of  the  blood  royal" 
whom  Antiochus  Epiphanes  (c  166  BC)  left  with  the 
government  of  Southern  Syria  and  the  guardian- 
ship of  his  son,  while  he  went  in  person  into  Persia 
to  collect  the  revenues  which  were  not  coming 
in  satisfactorily  (1  Mace  3  32;  2  Mace  10  11). 
According  to  Jos  (  Ant,  XII,  vii,  2),  the  instructions 
of  Lysias  were  "to  conquer  Judaea,  enslave  its  in- 
habitants, utterly  destroy  Jerus  and  abolish  the 
whole  nation."  L.,  accordingly,  armed  against 
Judas  Maccabaeus  a  large  force  under  Ptolemy,  son 
of  Dorymenes,  Nicanor  and  Gorgias.     Of  this  force 


Lysimachus 
Maaseiah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1914 


Judas  defeated  the  two  divisions  under  Nicanor 
and  Gorgias  near  Emmaus  (166  BC),  and  in  the 
following  year  L.  himself  at  Bethsura  (1  Mace  4), 
after  which  he  proceeded  to  the  purification  of  the 
temple.  In  the  narration  of  these;  campaigns  there 
are  considerable  differences  between  the  writers  of 
1  Mace  and  2  Mace  which  scholars  have  not  found 
easy  to  explain.  Antiochus  died  at  Babylon  on 
his  Pers  expedition  (104  BC),  and  L.  assumed  the 
office  of  regent  during  the  minority  of  his  son,  who 
was  yet  a  child  (1  Mace  6  17).  He  collected 
another  army  at  Antioch,  and  after  the  recapture  of 
Bethsura  was  besieging  Jerus  when  he  learned  of 
the  approach  of  Philip  to  whom  Antiochus,  on  his 
deathbed,  had  intrusted  the  guardianship  of  the 
prince  (1  Mace  6  15;  2  Mace  13).  He  defeated 
Philip  in  lf>3  BC  and  was  supported  at  Rome,  but  in 
the  following  year  he  fell  with  his  ward  Antiochus 
into  the  hands  of  Demetrius  I  (Soter),  who  put  both 
of  them  to  death  (I   Mace  7  1-23). 

(2)  See  Claudius  Lysias  (Acts  23  26). 

J.  Hutchison 

LYSIMACHUS,  ll-sim'a-kus  (Avo-i^axos,  Lusl- 
machos) : 

(1)  The  son  of  Ptolemy,  of  Jerus,  is  named  (Ad 
Est  11  1)  as  the  interpreter  (translator  of  the  Rest 
of  Esther  into  Gr).     See  Esther,  The  Rest  of. 

(2)  Brother  of  Menelaus,  a  Gr  name  said  by  Jos 
{Ant,  XII,  v,  1)  to  have  been  assumed  by  Onias, 
the  high  priest  in  the  hellenizing  days  of  Antiochus 
Epiphanes,  as  the  Jewish  name  Jesus  was  changed 
to  Jason.  When  Menelaus  was  summoned  to 
Antioch  (2  Mace  4  29)  on  a  charge  of  malversa- 
tion, he  left  L.  as  his  deputy  in  the  priesthood  at 
Jerus.  _  L.  robbed  the  temple  and  caused  an  in- 
surrection in  which  he  met  his  death  beside  the 
treasury  (2  Mace;  4  42).  The  name  of  L.  does 
not  appear  in  1  he  narrative  of  these  events  given  by 
J°s-  J.  Hutchison 

LYSTRA,  lis'tra:  The  forms  Atio-Tpav,  Liistran, 
and  Avo-Tpois,  Liistrois,  occur.  Such  variation  in 
the  gender  of  Anatolian  city-names  is  common  (see 
Harnack,  Apostelgeschichte,  86;  Ramsav,  St.  Paul 
the  Traveller,  128).  Lystra  was  visited  by  Paul  4  t 
(Acts  14  6.21;  16  1;  18  23— the  last  according 
to  the  "South  Galatian"  theory),  and  is  mentioned 
in  2  Tim  3  10  f  as  one  of  the  places  where  Paul 
suffered  persecution.  Timothy  resided  in  L. 
(Acts  16  1). 

L.  owed  its  importance,  and  the  attention  which 
Paul  paid  to  it,  to  the  fact  that  it  had  been  made  a 
Rom  colouia  by  Augustus  (see  An- 
tioch), and  was  therefore,  in  the  time 
of  Paul,  a  center  of  education  and  en- 
lightenment. Nothing  is  known  of 
its  earlier,  and  little  of  its  later,  his- 
The  site  of  L.  was  placed  by  Leake  (1820) 


1.  Char- 
acter and 
Site 


tory 


at  a  hill  near  Khatyn  Serai,  18  miles  S.S.W.  from 
Iconium;  this  identification  was  proved  correct  by 
an  inscription  found  by  Sterrett  in  1885.  The 
boundary  between  Phrygia  and  Lycaonia  passed  be- 
tween Iconium  and  L.  (Acts  14  6)  (see  Iconium). 

The  population  of  L.  consisted  of  the  local  aris- 
tocracy of  Rom  soldiers  who  formed  the  garrison  of 
the  colonia,  of  Greeks  and  Jews  (Acts  16  1.3),  and 
of  native  Lycaonians  (Acts  14  11). 


After  Paul  had  healed  a  life-long  cripple  at  L., 
the  native  population  (the  "multitude"  of  Acts  14 
llj  regarded  him  and  Barnabas  as 
2.  Worship  pagan  gods  come  down  to  them  in  Hie 
of  Paul  and  likeness  of  men,  and  called  Barnabas 
Barnabas  "Zeus"  and  Paul  "Hermes."  Com- 
mentators on  this  incident  usually 
point  out  that  the  same  pair  of  divinities  appeared 
to  Baucis  and  Philemon  in  Ovid's  well-known  story, 
which  he  locates  in  the  neighboring  Phrygia.  The 
accuracy  in  detail  of  this  part  of  the  narrative  in 
Acts  has  been  strikingly  confirmed  by  recent  epi- 
graphic  discovery.  Two  inscriptions  found  in  the 
neighborhood  of  L.  in  1909  run  as  follows:  (1) 
"Kakkan  and  Maramoas  and  Iman  Licinius  priests 
of  Zeus";  (2)  "Tones  Macrinus  also  called  Abas- 
cantus  and  Bafasis  son  of  Bretasis  having  made  in 
accordance  with  a  vow  at  their  own  expense  [a 
statue  of]  Hermes  Most  Great  along  with  a  sun-dial 
dedicated  it  to  Zeus  the  sun-god." 

Now  it  is  evident  from  tin;  narrative  in  Acts  that 
the  people  who  were  prepared  to  worship  Paid  and 
Barnabas  as  gods  were  not  Greeks  or  Romans,  but 
native  Lycaonians.  This  is  conclusively  broughl 
out  by  the  use  of  the  phrase  "in  the  speech  of  Ly- 
caonia" (Acts  14  11).  The  language  in  ordinary 
use  among  the  educated  classes  in  Central  Anato- 
lian cities  under  the  Rom  Empire  was  Gr;  in  some 
of  those  cities,  and  esp.  of  course,  in  Rom  colonies, 
Lat  also  was  understood,  and  it  was  used  at  this 
period  in  official  documents.  But  the  Anatolian 
element  in  the  population  of  those  cities  continued 
for  a  long  time  to  use  the  native  language  (e.g. 
Phrygian  was  in  use  at  Iconium  till  the  3d  cent,  of 
our  era;  see  Iconium).  In  the  story  in  Acts,  a 
fast  distinction  is  implied,  and  in  fact  existed,  be- 
tween the  ideas  and  practices  of  the  Greeks  and  the 
Rom  colonists  and  those  of  the  natives.  This  dis- 
tinction would  naturally  maintain  itself  most  vigor- 
ously in  so  conservative  an  institution  as  religious 
ritual  and  legend.  We  should  therefore  expect  to 
find  that  the  association  between  Zeus  and  Hermes 
indicated  in  Acts  belonged  to  the  religious  system 
of  the  native  population,  rather  than  to  that  of  t  he 
educated  society  of  the  colony.  And  this  is  pre- 
cisely the  character  of  the  cult  illustrated  in  our 
two  inscriptions.  It  is  essentially  a  native  cult, 
under  a  thin  Gr  disguise.  The  names  in  those  in- 
scriptions can  only  have  been  the  names  of  natives; 
the  Zeus  and  Hermes  of  Acts  and  of  our  inscriptions 
were  a  graeci zed  version  of  the  Father-god  and  Son- 
god  of  the  native  Anatolian  system.  The  college 
of  priests  which  appears  in  inscription  no.  1  (sup- 
porting the  Bezan  variant  "priests"  for  "priest" 
in  Acts  14  13)  was  a  regular  Anatolian  institu- 
tion. The  miracle  performed  by  Paul,  and  his  com- 
panionship with  Barnabas  would  naturally  suggest 
to  the  natives  who  used  the  "speech  of  Lycaonia" 
a  pair  of  gods  commonly  associated  by  them  in  a 
local  cult.  The  two  gods  whose  names  rose  to  t  heir 
lips  are  now  known  to  have  been  associated  by  the 
dedication  of  a  statue  of  one  in  a  t  emple,  of  the  other 
in  the  neighborhood  of  L. 

Literature. — Ramsay,  Cities  of  St.  Paul,  407  ft*. 
On  tho  new  inscriptions,  see  Calder,  Ex  pox,  1910,  I  ir, 
14SfF;  id,  Classical  Review,  1910,  67  IT.  Inscriptions 
of  Lystra  are  published  in  Sterrett.  Wolfe  Expedition, 
and  in  Jour.  Hill,  stud.,  1904  (Cronin). 

W.  M.  Calder 


1945 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Lysimachus 
Maaseiah 


M 


MAACAH,  MAACHAH,  ma'a-ka  (nDTtt ,  ma- 
*&khdh) : 

(1)  B,  Moxd,  Mochd,  A,  MtoXa,  Mocha,  daughter 
of  Nahor,  borne  to  him  by  Reumah  (Gen  22  24). 

(2)  B,  Maaxa,  Maachd,  A,  MaaxdO,  Maachdlh, 
the  one  wife  of  David  who  was  of  royal  rank,  the 
daughter  of  Talmai,  king  of  Geshur,  who  became 
the  mother  of  Absalom  (2  S  3  3;    1  Ch  3  2). 

(3)  Maaxa,  Maachd,  father  of  Achish,  king  of 
Gath  (1  K  2  39).  He  is  probably  referred  to  as 
"Maoch"  in  1  S  27  2. 

(4)  The  daughter  of  Absalom,  the  favorite  wife 
of  Rehcboam,  ami  mother  of  Abijah  (1  K  15  2; 
2  Ch  11  20,  etc).  Evidently  "daughter"  must 
here  be  understood  as  "granddaughter,"  accord- 
ing to  a  common  oriental  usage.  Tamar  was  the 
only  daughter  of  Absalom.  If  Tamar  married 
Uriel  of  Gibeah  (2  Ch  13  2),  then  Maacah  was 
her  daughter.  In  that  case  the  name  Micaiah  in 
this  passage  would  be  either  a  copyist's  error  or 
a  variant  of  Maacah.  She  must  have  been  a  woman 
of  strong  personality.  Unfortunately  her  influence 
was  cast  upon  the  side  of  idolatry.  She  maintained 
her  position  in  the  palace,  however,  till  the  reign  of 
her  grandson  Asa.  Possibly  she  acted  as  regent 
during  his  minority.  Ultimately  she  was  degraded 
bv  him  for  an  act  of  peculiar  infamy  (1  K  15  13; 
2  Ch  15  16). 

(5)  Concubine  of  Caleb,  son  of  Hezron  (1  Ch  2 
48). 

(6)  Sister  of  Huppim  and  Shuppim  the  Benja- 
mites,  who  became  the  wife  of  Machir  1  he  Manassite, 
the  "father"  of  Gilead  (1  Ch  7  12.15  f). 

(7)  Wife  of  Jeiel,  the  "father"  of  Gibeon,  an 
ancestress  of  King  Saul  (1  Ch  8  29;   9  35). 

(8)  Father  of  Hanan,  one  of  David's  might v 
men  (1  Ch  11  43). 

(9)  Father  of  Shephatiah,  ruler  of  the  Simeonites 
under  David  (1  Ch  27  16).  W.  Ewing 

MAACAH,  ma'a-ka  {T\Z^'Q ,  mcfakhah;  B,  Ma>xa, 
Mochd,  A,  Maaxa,  Maachd):  A  small  Syrian  king- 
dom adjoining  that  of  Geshur  on  the  western  border 
of  Bashan,  the  inhabitants  of  which  are  called 
Maachathites  (RV  "Maacathites"),  whose  terri- 
tory was  taken  by  Jair  (Dt  3  14;  Josh  12  5). 
The  border  of  the  Geshurites  and  the  Maacathites 
and  all  Mt.  Hermon  were  given  to  the  half-tribe 
of  Manasseh  (Josh  13  11).  The  inhabitants  of 
these  kingdoms,  however,  were  not  driven  out  by 
Israel  (ver  13),  and  at  a  later  day  the  children  of 
Ammon  hired  mercenaries  from  Maacah  for  their 
encounter  with  David.  The  armies  met  near 
Medeba  when  the  "Syrians"  from  Maacah  found 
themselves  opposed  to  Joab.  That  famous  captain 
completely  routed  them  (2  S  10  6  ff,  LXX  "Ama- 
lek").  In  1  Ch  19  G  it  is  called  Aram-maacah, 
Syria-maachah  (AV);  and  in  1  Ch  2  23  "Aram" 
appears  instead  of  "Maacah." 

It  evidently  lay  between  Geshur  on  the  S.  and 
Hermon  on  the  N.,  being  probably  bounded  by 
Jordan  on  the  W.,  although  no  certain  indication 
of  boundaries  is  now  possible.  They  would  thus  be 
hemmed  in  by  Israel,  which  accounts  for  'Geshur 
and  Maacath  dwell  in  the  midst  of  Israel"  (Josh 
13  13).  It  is  possible  that  Abel-beth-maacah 
may  have  been  a  colony  founded  by  men  from 
Maacah.  W.  Ewing 

MAACATHITES,  ma-ak'a-thits  prolan ,  ha- 
ma\ikhdthl;  B,  6  MaxareC,  ho  Machatei,  A,  MaxaOC, 
Machathi):    Mentioned   in   Scripture  are   Ahasbai 


(2  S  23  34),  Jaazaniah  (2  K  25  23),  Naham  (1 
Ch  4  19)  and  Jezaniah  (Jer  40  X).  See  preceding 
article. 

MAADAI,  ma-a-da'l,  ma'a-dl  P13p3  ,  ma*ddhay): 
Son  of  Bani;  one  of  those  who  married  foreign 
wives  (Ezr  10  34). 

MAADIAH,  ma-a-dl'a  (rP~?"a ,  ma'adhydh, 
"whose  ornament  is  Jah"):  A  priest  who  returned 
with  Zerubbabel  (Neh  12  5).  The  name  also 
occurs  in  the  form  "Moadiah"  (Neh  12  17). 

MAAI,  ma-a'I,  ma'I  p^tt  ,  md'ay) :  An  Asaphite 
musician  who  took  part  in  the  ceremony  of  the 
dedication  of  the  walls  (Neh  12  30). 

MAALEH-ACRABBIM,  ma'a-la-a-krab'im,  ma- 
al'a-.     See  Akrabbim. 

MAANI,  ma'a-ni  (MaavC,  Maani): 

(1)  AV  "Meani"  (1  Esd  5  31),  corresponding 
to  "Meunim"  in  Ezr  2  50;  Neh  7  52. 

(2)  RV  "Baani,"  head  of  a  family,  many  of  whom 
had  married  foreign  wives  (1  Esd  9  34;  called 
"Bani"  in  Ezr  10  34). 

MAARATH,  ma'a-rath  (fn^E ,  ma'drdth):  A 
city  in  the  hill  country  of  Judah,  mentioned  between 
Gedor  and  Beth-anoth  (Josh  15  59).  The  small 
village  of  Beit  Ummar  upon  the  watershed,  a  little 
to  the  W.  of  the  carriage  road  to  Hebron  and  about 
a  mile  from  Kh.  Jedur  (Gedor),  is  a  probable  site. 
There  are  many  rock  tombs  to  its  E.  The  village 
mosque  is  dedicated  to  Ncbi  Malta,  i.e.  St.  Matthew. 
See  PEF,  III,  305,  Sh  XXI. 

MAAREH-GEBA,  ma'a-re-ge'ba,  -ga'ba  {TT\TlZ 
3725 ,  monarch  gebhaK;  B,  Mapaa-ydBt,  Maraagdbe, 
A,  8vo-fjuSv  ttis  TaPad,  das  11  ton  tts  Gabad) :  The  place 
where  the  men  of  Israel  lay  in  ambush,  from  which 
they  broke  forth  upon  the  children  of  Benjamin 
(Jgs  20  33).  AV  renders  "the  meadows  of  Gib- 
eah," RVm  "the  meadow  of  Geba  [or  Gibeah]." 
LXX  A  affords  a  clue  to  the  correct  reading.  It 
is  not  a  place-name.  The  text  must  be  emended 
to  read  minima-* drabh  frgcbha*,  "to  the  W.  of 
Geba."  Pesh  suggests  a  reading  mimme-xdrath 
gebha*,  "from  the  cave  of  Geba."  This,  however, 
there  is  nothing  to  warrant.  \V.  Ewinu 

MAASAI,  ma'a-sl,  ma-as'i  ptoytt ,  mahay;  AV 
Maasiai):  A  priest,  son  of  Abdid  (1  Ch  9  12). 

MAASEAS,  ma-a-se'as  (Maao-atos,  Maasalos; 
AV  Maasias):  Grandfather  of  Baruch  (Bar  11); 
called  Mahseiah  in  Jer  32  12;   51  59. 

MAASEIAH,  ma-a-se'ya,  ma-a-si'a  (VHIJSp? , 
yna'daeydhil,  "Jeh's  work";  Maacro-aid,  Maassaid, 
and  Massaias  in  LXX):  A  name  common  in  exilic 
and  late  monarchic  times  (Gray,  IIPN). 

(1)  A  Levite  musician  named  in  connection  with 
David's  bringing  up  of  the  ark  from  the  house  of 
Obed-edom  (1  Ch  15  18.20).  _ 

(2)  A  Levite  captain  who  aided  Jehoiada  at  the 
coronation  of  Joash  (2  Ch  23  1). 

(3)  An  officer  of  Uzziah  (2  Ch  26  11). 

(4)  Ahaz'  son,  slain  by  the  Ephraimite,  Zichri 
(2  Ch  28  7). 

(5)  A  governor  of  Jerus  under  Josiah  (2  Ch  34 
8). 


Maasiai 
Mace,  Books  of 


Til  10  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1946 


(6)  (7)  (8)  (9)  The  name  of  4  men,  3  of  them 
priests,  who  had  married  foreign  wives  (Ezr  10 
18.21.22.30). 

(10)  Father  of  Azariah,  one  of  the  builders  of  the 
wall  (Neh  3  23). 

(11)  One  of  those  who  stood  at  Ezra's  right  hand 
during  the  reading  of  the  Law  (Neh  8  4). 

(12)  Oneof  the  expounders  of  the  Law  (Neh  8  7). 

(13)  One  of  those  who  took  part  in  sealing  the 
covenant   (Neh  10  25). 

(14)  AJudahite  inhabitant  of  Jerus  (Neh  11  5), 
who  in  1  Ch  9  5  is  called  Asaiah. 

(15)  A  Benjamite  (Neh  11  7). 

(16)  (17)    Name  of  two  priests  (Neh  12    11  f). 

(18)  A  priest  in  Zedekiah's  reign,  father  of  a 
certain  Zephaniah  who  interviewed  the  prophet 
Jeremiah  (Jer  21  1 ;    29  25;    37  3). 

(19)  Father  of  the  false  prophet  Zedekiah  (Jer 
29  21). 

(20)  A  keeper  of  the  threshold  in  the  reign  of 
Jehoiakim  (Jer  35  4). 

(21)  Baaseiah  (q.v.),  a  Kohathite  name  (1  Ch 
6  40),  is  probably  a  textual  error  for  Maaseiah. 

(22)  AV  for  Mahseiah,  an  ancestor  of  Baruch 
(Jer  32  12).  John  A.  Lees 

MAASIAI,  ma-as'i-I.     See  Maasai. 

MAASMAS,  ma-as'mas,  ma'as-mas  (Maao-|xds, 
Maasmds;  Swete  reads  Maasmdn;  AV  Masman, 
1  Esd  8  43):  Corresponds  to  "Shemaiah"  in  Ezr 
8  16. 

MAATH,  ma'ath  (Mad9,  Madth):  An  ancestor 
of  Jesus  in  St.  Luke's  genealogy  in  the  12th  gen- 
eration before  Joseph,  the  husband  of  Alary  (Lk 
3  26). 

MAAZ,  ma'az  (Y'2'Q ,  ma*ag):  A  descendant  of 
Judah  (1  Ch  2  27). 

MAAZIAH,  ma-a-zi'a  OrPTjpa  ,  mcfazyahu): 

(1)  The  priest  to  whom  fell  the  lot  for  the  124th 
course  (1  Ch  24  IS). 

(2)  One  of  those  who  took  part  in  sealing  the 
covenant  (Neh  10  8). 

MABDAI,  mab'da-i.     See  Mamdai. 

MABNABEDAI,  mab-nab'e-dl.  See  Machna- 
DEBAI. 

MACALON,  mak'a-lon  (ol  «k  Ma.Ka.Xaiv,  fmi  ek 
Makaldn;  1  Esd  5  21):  This  corresponds  to  "the 
men  of  Michmas"  in  Ezr  2  27.  The  mistake  has 
probably  arisen  through  reading  M  in  Gr  uncials 
for  A  A. 

MACCABAEUS,  mak-a-be'us  (MaKKafiatos,  Mak- 
kabaios),    MACCABEES,    mak'a-bez     (ol    MaKKa- 
Paloi,  hoi  Makkabaioi): 
I.     Palestine  under  Kings  of  Syria 

1.  Rivalry  of  Syria  and  Egypt 

2.  Palestine  Seized  by  Antiochus  the  Great 

3.  Accession  of  Antiochus  Epiphanes 
II.     Palestine  under  the  Maccabees 

1.  Mattathias 

2.  Judas 

3.  Jonathan 

4.  Simon 

5.  John  Flyreanus 

(J.  John  and  Eleazar 
Literature 

The  name  Maccabaeus  was  first  applied  to  Judas, 
one  of  the  sons  of  Mattathias  generally  called  in 
Eng.  the  Maccabees,  a  celebrated  family  who  de- 
fended Jewish  rights  and  customs  in  the  2d  cent. 
BC  (1  Mace  2  1-3).  The  word  has  been  variously 
derived    (e.g.   as   the   initial   hitters    of    Ml    Kha- 


mdkhd,  Bd-'elim  Yahuwh!  "Who  is  like  unto  thee 
among  the  mighty,  ()  Jeh?"),  but  it  is  probably  best 
associated  with  makkdbhah,  "hammer,"  and  as 
applied  to  Judas  may  be  compared  with  the  malleus 
Scotorum  and  malleus  haerelicorum  of  the  Middle 
Ages  (see  next,  article).  To  understand  the  work 
of  the  Maccabees,  it  is  necessary  to  take  note  of  the 
relation  in  which  the  Jews  and  Pal  stood  at  the 
time  to  the  immediately  neighboring  nations. 

/.   Palestine  under  Kings  of  Syria. — On  the  di- 
vision of  Alexander's  empire  at  his  death  in  the 
year  323   BC,    Pal  became   a  sort  of 

1.  Rivalry  buffer  state  between  Egypt  under  the 
of  Syria  Ptolemies  on  the  S.,  and  Syria,  under 
and  Egypt      the  house  of  Seleucus,  the  last  survivor 

of  Alexander's  generals,  on  the  N. 
The  kings  of  Syria,  as  the  Seleucid  kings  are  gen- 
erally called,  though  their  dominion  extended  prac- 
tically from  the  Mediterranean  Sea  to  India,  had 
not  all  the  same  name,  like  the  Ptolemies  of  Egypt, 
though  most  of  them  were  called  either  Seleucus 
or  Antiochus.  For  a  hundred  years  after  the  death 
of  Alexander,  the  struggle  went  on  as  to  which  of  the 
two  powers  was  to  govern  Pal,  until  in  the  year  223 
came  the  northern  prince  under  whom  Pal  was 
destined  to  fall  to  the  Seleucids  for  good. 

This  was  Antiochus  III,  commonly  known  as 
Antiochus   the   Great.     He  waged  two   campaigns 

against   Egypt   for   the   possession   of 

2.  Palestine  Pal,  finally  gaining  the  upper  hand  in 
Seized  by  the  year  198  BC  by  his  victory  at 
Antiochus  Panium,  so  called  from  its  proximity 
the  Great      to  a  sanctuary  of  the  god  Pan,  a  spot 

close  to  the  sources  of  the  Jordan  and 
still  called  Banias.  The  Jews  helped  Antiochus  to 
gain  the  victory  and,  according  to  Jos,  his  rule  was 
accepted  by  the  Jews  with  goodwill.  It  is  withhim 
and  his  successors  that  the  Jews  have  now  to  deal. 
Antiochus,  it  should  be  noticed,  came  in  contact  with 
the  Romans  after  their  conquest  of  Macedonia  in 
197,  and  was  defeated  by  Scipio  Asiaticus  at  Mag- 
nesia in  190.  He  came  under  heavy  tribute  which 
he  found  it  difficult  to  pay,  and  met  his  end  in  187, 
while  plundering  a  Gr  temple  in  order  to  secure  its 
contents.  His  son  and  successor  Seleucus  IV  was 
murdered  by  his  prime  minister  Heliodorus  in  170- 
175  BC,  who  reaped  no  benefit  from  his  crime. 

The  brother  of  the  murdered  king  succeeded  to 

the  throne  as  Antiochus  IV,  generally  known  as 

Antiochus     Epiphanes      ("the     Illus- 

3.  Acces-  triotts"),  a  typical  eastern  ruler  of 
sion  of  considerable  practical  ability,  but 
Antiochus  whose  early  training  while  a  hostage 
Epiphanes      at  Rome  had  made  him  an  adept  in 

dissimulation.  Educated  in  the  fash- 
ionable Hellenism  of  the  clay,  he  made  it  his  aim 
during  his  reign  (175-164  BC)  to  enforce  it  upon 
his  empire,  a  policy  which  brought  him  into  conflict 
with  the  Jews.  Even  before  his  reign  many  Jews 
had  yielded  to  the  attraction  of  Gr  thought  and 
custom,  and  the  accession  of  a  ruler  like  Antiochus 
Epiphanes  greatly  increased  the  drift  in  that  direc- 
tion, as  will  be  found  described  in  the  article  dealing 
with  the  period  between  the  Old  and  the  New  Tes- 
taments (see  Between  the  Testaments).  Pious 
Jews  meanwhile,  men  faithful  to  the  Jewish  tradi- 
tion, Chasldim  (see  Hasidaeans),  as  they  were 
called,  resisted  this  tendency,  and  in  the  end  were 
driven  to  armed  resistance  against  the  severe  op- 
pression practised  by  Antiochus  in  advancing  his 
Hellenizing  views.     See  Asmoneans. 

//.  Palestine  under  the  Maccabees. — Mattathias,  a 
priest  of  the  first  24  courses  and  therefore  of  the  noblest 

who  dwelt  at  Modin,  a  city  of  Judah,  was 
1.  Matta-  the  first  to  strike  a  blow.  With  his  own 
thias  hand  he  slew  a  Jew  at  Modin  who  was 

willing  to  offer  the  idolatrous  sacrifices 
ordered  by  the  king,  and  also  Apelles,  the  leader  of  the 


1947 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Maasiai 
Mace,  Books  of 


kind's  messengers  (1  Mace  2  15-28).  He  fled  with  his 
sons  to  the  mountains  (168  BO),  where  he  organized  a 
successful  resistance;  but  being  of  advanced  age  and 
unfit  for  the  fatigue  of  active  service,  he  died  in  10(5  BO 
and  was  buried  "in  the  sepulchres  of  his  fathers"  at 
Modin  (1  Mace  2  70;  Jos,  Ant,  XII,  vi,  3).  He  appar- 
ently named  as  his  successor  his  3d  son,  Judas,  though 
it  was  with  real  insight  that  on  his  deathbed  he  recom- 
mended the  four  brothers  to  take  Simon  as  their  coun- 
sellor (1  Mace  2  65). 

Judas,  commonly  called  Judas  Maccabaeus — often 
called  in  2  Mace  "Judas  the  Maccabee" — held  strongly 
the  opinions  of  his  father  and  proved  at 
2  Tildas  least  a  very  capable  leader  in  guerilla  war- 
J  "  fare.  He  defeated  several  of  the  generals 
of  Antiochus — Apollonius  at  Beth-horon, 
part  of  the  army  of  Lysias  at  Emmaus  (160  BC),  and 
Lysias  himself  at  Bethsura  the  following  year.  He  took 
possession  of  Jerus,  except  the  "Tower,"  where  he  was 
subsequently  besieged  and  hard  pressed  by  Lysias  and 
the  young  king  Antiochus  Eupator  in  103  BC;  but 
quarrels  among  the  Syrian  generals  secured  relief  and 
liberty  of  religion  to  the  Jews  which,  however,  proved  of 
short  duration.  The  Hellenizing  Jews,  with  Alcimus 
(q.v.)  at  their  head,  secured  the  favor  of  the  king,  who 
sent  Nicanor  against  Judas.  The  victory  over  Nicanor 
first  at  Capharsalama  and  later  (161  BC)  at  Adasa  near 
Beth-horon,  hi  which  engagement  Nicanor  was  slain, 
was  the  greatest  of  Judas'  successes  and  practically 
secured  the  independence  of  the  Jews.  The  attempt  of 
Judas  to  negotiate  an  alliance;  with  the  Romans,  who 
had  now  serious  interests  in  these  regions,  caused  much 
dissatisfaction  among  his  followers;  and  their  defection 
at  Elasa  (101  BC),  during  the  invasion  under  Bacchides, 
which  was  undertaken  before  the  answer  of  the  Bom 
Senate  arrived,  was  the  cause  of  tin;  defeat  and  death  of 
Judas  in  battle.  His  body  was  buried  "in  the  sepulchres 
of  his  fathers"  at  Modin.  There  is  no  proof  that  Judas 
held  the  office  of  high  priest  like  his  father  Mattathias. 
(An  interesting  and  not  altogether  favorable  estimate 
of  Judas  and  of  the  spiritual  import  of  the  revolt  will  be 
found  in  Jerusalem  under  tin  High  Priests,  97-99,  by 
E.  R.  Bevan,  London,  1904.) 

Jonathan  (called  Apphus,  "the  wary"),  the  youngest 
of  the  sons  of  Mattathias,  succeeded  Judas,  whose  defeat 
and  death  had  left  the  patriotic  party  in 
Q  Tnno+tion  a  deplorable  condition  from  which  it  was 
o.  jonatnan  rescued  t)V  the  skm  and  ability  of  Jona- 
than, aided  largely  by  the  rivalries  among 
the  competitors  for  the  Syrian  throne.  It  was  in  reality 
from  these  rivalries  that  resulted  the  05  years  (129-04 
BC)  of  the  completely  independent  rule  of  the  Has- 
monean  dynasty  (see  Asmoneans)  that  elapsed  between 
the  Gr  supremacy  of  the  Syrian  kings  and  the  Rom 
supremacy  established  by  Pompey.  The  first  step 
toward  the  recovery  of  the  patriots  was  the  permission 
granted  them  by  Demetrius  [  to  return  to  Judaea  in 
158  BC — the  year  in  which  Bacchides  ended  an  unsuc- 
cessful campaign  against  Jonathan  and  in  fact  accepted 
the  terms  of  the  latter.  After  his  departure,  Jonathan 
"judged  the  people  at  Michmash"  (1  Mace  9  73). 
Jonathan  was  even  authorized  to  reenter  Jerus  and  to 
maintain  a  military  force,  only  the  "Tower"  the  '  Akra, 
as  it  was  called  in  Or,  being  held  by  a  Syrian  garrison. 
See  further  under  Asmoneans;  Lacedaemonians; 
Tryphon. 

Simon,  surnamed  Thassi   ("the  zealous"?)  was  now 

the  only  surviving  member  of  the  original  Maeeabean 

family,  and  he  readily  took  up  the  inherit- 

4  Simnn         ance.     Tryphon    murdered    the    boy-king 
oiiiiuii         Antiochus  Dionysus  and  seized  the  throne 

of  Seleucus,  although  having  no  connection 
with  the  Seleucid  family.  Simon  accordingly  broke 
entirely  with  Tryphon  after  making  successful  overtures 
to  Demetrius,  who  granted  the  fullest  immunity  from 
all  the  dues  that  had  marked  the  Seleucid  supremacy. 
Even  the  golden  crown,  which  had  to  be  paid  on  the 
investiture  of  a  new  high  priest,  was  now  remitted.  On 
the  23d  of  Ijjar  (May),  141,  the  patriots  entered  even 
the  'Akra  "with  praise  and  palm  branches,  and  with 
harps,  and  with  cymbals  and  with  viols,  and  with  hymns, 
and  with  songs"  (1  Mace  13  51).  Simon  was  declared 
in  a  Jewish  assembly  to  be  high  priest  and  chief  of  the 
people  "for  ever,  until  there  should  arise  a  prophet 
worthy  of  credence"  (1  Mace  14  41),  a  limitation  that 
was  felt  to  be  necessary  on  account  of  the  departure1 
of  the  people  from  the  Divine  appointment  of  the  high 
priests  of  the  old  line  and  one  that  practically  perpetuated 
the  high-priesthood  in  the  family  of  Simon.  Even  a 
new  era  was  started,  of  which  the  high-priesthood  of 
Simon  was  to  be  year  1,  and  this  was  really  the  founda- 
tion of  the  Hasmonean  dynasty  (see  Asmoneans). 

John  Hyrcanus,  one  of  the  sons  of  Simon,  escaped  from 
the  plot  laid  by  Ptolemy,  and  succeeded  his  father,  both 

as    prince    and    high    priest.      See    Asmo- 

5  Tohn  neans.  He  was  succeeded  (104  BC)  by 
t^  his  son  Aristobulus  I  who  took  the  final 
.tLyrcanuS       step  0f  assuming  the  title  of  king. 

Two  members  of  the  first  generation  of  the  Maeea- 
bean family  still  remain  to  be  mentioned:   (1)  John, 


the     eldest,    surnamed     Gaddis     (AV     "Caddis"), 
probably   meaning  "my   fortune,"    was    murdered 
by   a   marauding    tribe,    the   sons    of 
6.  John  Jambri    (q.v.),  near  Medeba,  on    the 

and  Eleazar  E.  of  the  Jordan,  when  engaged  upon 
the  convoy  of  some  property  of  the 
Maccabees  to  the  friendly  country  of  the  Naba- 
taeans  (1  Mace  9  35-42).  (2)  Eleazar,  surnamed 
Avaran,  met  his  death  (1G1  BC)  in  the  early  stage 
of  the  Syrian  war,  shortly  before  the  death  of 
Judas.  In  the  battle  of  Bethzacharias  (163  BC), 
in  which  the  Jews  for  the  first  time  met  elephants 
in  war,  he  stabbed  from  below  the  elephant  on 
which  he  supposed  the  young  king  was  riding. 
He  killed  the  elephant  but  he  was  himself  crushed 
to  death  by  its  fall  (1  Mace  6  43-4G).  For  the 
further  history  of  the  Hasmonean  dynasty,  see 
Asmoneans;    Maccabees,  Books  of. 

Literature. — There  is  a  copious  literature!  on  the 
Maccabees,  a  family  to  which  history  shows  few,  if  any, 
parallels  of  such  united  devotion  to  a  sacred  cause.  The 
main  authorities  are  of  course  the  Maeeabean  Books  of 
the  Apocrypha;  but  special  reference  may  be  made  to  the 
chapters  of  Stanley,  Lectures  on  the  History  of  the  Jewish 
Church,  dealing  with  the  subject,  and  to  E.  R.  Bevan, 
Jerusalem  under  the  High  Priests,  1904,  or  to  the  2d 
vol  of  House  of  Seleucus  by  the  same  author,  1902. 

J.  Hutchison 

MACCABEES,  mak'a-bez,  BOOKS  OF: 

I.     1  Maccabees 

1.  Name 

2.  Canonicity 

3.  Contents 

4.  Historicity 

5.  Author's  Standpoint  and  Aim 

0.  Date 

7.   Sources 

s.  Original  Language 
9.  Text  and  Versions 
Literature 
II.     2   Maccabees 

1.  Name 

2.  Canonicity 

3.  Contents 

4.  Sources 

5.  Historicity 

0.  Teaching  of  the  Book 

7.  Author 

8.  Date 

9.  Original  Language 
10.  Text  and  Versions 

Literature 

III.  3  Maccabees 

1.  Name 

2.  Canonicity 

3.  Contents 

4.  Historicity 

5.  Aim  and  Teaching 

0.  Authorship  and  Date 

7.  Original  Language 

8.  Text  and  Versions 
Literature 

IV.  4  Maccabees 

1.  Name 

2.  Canonicity 

3.  Contents 

4.  Teaching 

5.  Authorship  and  Date 

0.  Original  Language 
7.  Text  and  Versions 

Literature 

V.     5  Maccabees 

1.  Name 

2.  Canonicity 

3.  Contents 

4.  Historicity 

5.  Original  Language 

6.  Aim  and  Teaching 

7.  Authorship  and  Date 

8.  Text  and  Versions 
Literature 

/.  1  Maccabees. — The  Heb  title  has  perished 
with  the  original  Heb  text.    Rabbinical  writers  call 

the  Books  of  Mace  D^ittttJnn  "nSO  , 
1.  Name        §iphrre  ha-hashmonim,  "The  Book   of 

the  Hasmoneans"  (see  Asmoneans). 
Origen  gives  to  Book  I  (the  only  one  he  seemed  to 
know  of)  the  name  Zapped  "Zapavai A,  Sarbtth  Saba- 
naiel,  evidently  a  Heb  or  Aram,  name  of  very  un- 
certain meaning,  but  which  Dalman  (Aram.  Gram., 
§  6)  explains  as  a  corruption  of  Aram.  words=  "The 


Mace,  Books  of    THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1948 


Book  of  the  House  of  the  Hasmoneans"  (cf  the  rab- 
binical name  given  above).  In  the  Or  MSS  N, 
AV  (Cod.  Venetus),  the  4  books  go  under  the  desig- 
nation MaKicapalwv,  Makkabaion,  A  B  V  A,  /S^Xos, 
biblos,  being  understood.  In  the  Vulg  the  1st,  and 
2d  books  are  alone  found,  and  appear  under  the 
name  Machabaeorum  liber  primus,  secundus.  The 
spelling  Machabaeorum  reproduces  probably  the 
pronunciation  current  in  Jerome's  day. 

The  name  "Maccabee"  belongs  strictly  only  to 
Judas,  who  in  2  Mace  is  usually  called  "the  Mac- 
cabee" (6  Ma/cKttj3atos,  ho  Makkabalos).  But  the 
epithet  came  to  be  applied  to  the  whole  family  and 
their  descendants.  The  word  means  probably 
"extinguisher"  (of  persecution)  0?3£ ,  makhbl, 
from  kabhah,  "to  be  extinguished";  so  Niese;  Jos, 
Ant,  XII,  vi,  1  f;  S.  J.  Curtis,  The  Nana:  Macca- 
bee). The  more  usual  explanation,  "hammerer" 
("OpTQ,  makkabhay),  is  untenable,  as  the  noun  from 
which  it  is  derived  l^^JQ  ,  makkcbhelh)  (Jgs  4  21) 
denotes  a  smith's  hammer. 

Since  the  Vulg  includes  only  the  first  2  books  of 
Mace,  these  are  the  only  books  pronounced  canon- 
ical by  the  Council  of  Trent  and  in- 
2.  Canon-     eluded  in   recognized   Protestant  VSS 
icity  of  the  Apoc  (see  Apocrypha).     That 

1  Mace  was  used  largely  in  the  early 
Christian  church  is  proved  by  the  numerous  ref- 
erences made  to  it  and  quotations  from  it  in  the 
writings  of  Tertullian  (d.  220),  Clement  of  Alex- 
andria (d.  220),  Hippolytus  (d.  235),  Origen  (d. 
254),  etc.  The  last  named  states  that  1  Mace  is 
uncanonical,  and  it  is  excluded  from  the  lists  of 
canonical  writings  given  by  Athanasius  (d.  373), 
Cvril  of  Jerus  (d.  386),  and  Gregory  of  Nazianzus 
(d.  390).  Indeed,  none  of  the  books  of  the  Mace 
was  recognized  as  canonical  until  the  Council  of 
Trent  (1553)  gave  this  rank  to  the  first  2  books, 
and  Protestants  continue  in  their  confessions  to 
exclude  the  whole  of  the  Apoc  from  the  Bible  proper, 
though  Luther  maintained  that  1  Mace  was  more 
worthy  of  a  place  in  the  Canon  than  many  books 
now  included  in  it. 

1  Mace  gives  first  of  all  a  brief  view  of  the  reign  of 

Alexander  the  Great  and  the  partition  of  his  kingdom 

among    his    successors.    Having   thus   ex- 

0  pnn*pntc  plained  the.  origin  of  the  Seleucid  Dynasty, 
a.  ^ontenib  tll0  author  proceeds  to  give  a  history  of  the 

Jews  from  the  accession  of  Antiochus  IV, 
king  of  Syria  (175  BO),  to  the  death  of  Simon  (135  BC). 
The  events  of  these  40  years  are  simply  but  graphically 
related  and  almost  entirely  in  the  order  of  their  occur- 
rence. The  contents  of  1  Mace  and  2  Mace  4-15  are 
in  the  main  parallel,  dealing  with  the  same  incidents;  but 
the  simple  narrative  character  of  1  Mace,  in  contrast 
to  the  didactic  and  highly  religious  as  well  as  super- 
natural coloring  of  2  Mace,  can  easily  be  seen  in  these 
corresponding   parts.     The  victories  due   to  heroism  in 

1  Mace  are  commonly  ascribed  to  miraculous  interven- 
tion on  the  part  of  God  in  2  Mace  (see  1  Mace  4  1  f; 
cf  2  Mace  8  23  f).  2  Mace  is  more  given  to  exaggera- 
tions. The  army  of  Judas  at  Bethsura  consists  of  10,000 
according  to  1   Mace  4  29,  but  of  80,000  according  to 

2  Mace  11  2.  The  following  is  a  brief  analysis  of  1 
Mace: 

(1)  1  1-10:  An  account  of  the  rise  of  the  Seleucid 
Dynasty. 

(2)  1  11 — 16  24:  History  of  the  Jews  from  175  to 
135  BC. 

(a)  1  11-04:  Introductory.  Some  Jews  inclined  to 
adopt  Or  customs  (religious,  etc);  Antioclrus'  aim  to 
conquer  Egypt  and  to  suppress  the  Jewish  religion  as  a 
source  of  Jewish  disloyalty.  Desecration  of  the  Jewish 
temple:    martyrdom  of  many  faithful  Jews. 

(6)  2  1-70:  The  revolt  of  Mattathias. 

(c)  3  1 — 9  22:  Leadership  of  Judas  Maccabaeus 
after  his  father's  death.  Brilliant  victories  over  the 
Syrians.  Purification  of  the  temple.  Death  of  An- 
tiochus  IV  (Epiphanes)  and  accession  of  Antiocnus  V 
(Eupator)  (164  BO).  Demetrius  I  became  king  of  Syria, 
and  Alcimus  Jewish  high  priest  (162  BC).  Treaty  be- 
tween Jews  and  Romans.  Defeat  of  Jews  at  Eleasa  and 
death  of  Judas  Maccabaeus  (161  BO). 

(d)  9  23 — 12  53:  Leadership  of  Jonathan,  5th  son  of 
Mattathias,  elected  to  succeed  his  brother  Judas.  He 
becomes  high  priest.  Political  independence  of  Judaea 
secured. 


(e)  13  31 — 16  24:  Peaceful  and  prosperous  rule  of 
Simon,  brother  of  Jonathan;  accession  of  his  son  John 
Hyrcanus  (135  BC). 

That  the  author  of  1  Mace  aims  at  giving  a  cor- 
rect narrative,  and  that  on  the  whole  his  account  is 
correct,  is  the  opinion  of  practically 
4.  Histo-  all  scholars.  The  simple,  straight - 
ricity  forward  way  in  which  he  writes  inspires 

confidence,  and  there  can  be  no  doubt 
that  we  have  here  a  first-class  authority  for  the 
period  covered  (175-135  BC).  It  is  the  earliest 
Jewish  history  which  dates  events  in  reference  to  a 
definite  era,  this  era  being  that  of  the  Seleucids, 
312  BC,  the  year  of  the  founding  of  that  dynasty. 
The  aid  received  from  God  is  frequently  recognized 
in  the  book  (2  51  ff;  3  18;  4  10  f;  9  40;  16  3), 
yet  it  is  mainly  through  personal  valor  that  the 
Jews  conquer,  not,  as  in  2  Mace  (see  III,  3  below), 
through  miraculous  Divine  interpositions.  Ordi- 
nary, secondary  causes  are  almost  the  only  ones 
taken  into  account,  so  that  the  record  may  be  relied 
upon  as  on  the  whole  trustworthy.  Yet  the  writer 
shows  the  defects  which  belong  to  his  age  and  en- 
vironment, or  what  from  the  standpoint  of  literal 
history  must  be  counted  defects,  though,  as  in  the 
case  of  2  Mace  (cf  Ch),  a  writer  may  have  other 
aims  than  to  record  bare  objective  facts.  In  1  1-9 
the  author  errs  through  ignorance  of  the  real  facts 
as  regards  Alexander's  partition  of  his  kingdom; 
and  other  misstatements  of  fact  due  to  the  same 
cause  occur  in  10  1  ff  (Alexander  [Balas],  son  of 
Antiocnus  Epiphanes)  and  in  13  31  ff  (time  of  assas- 
sination of  Antiochus  VI  by  Tryphon).  In  6  37 
it  is  said  there  were  32  men  upon  each  elephant ,  per- 
haps a  misreading  of  the  original  "2  or  3,"  although 
the  Indian  elephant  corps  of  today  carry  more. 

We  know  nothing  of  a  Pors  village  Elymais  (6  1). 
The  number  of  Jewish  warriors  that  fought  and 
the  number  slain  are  understated,  while  there  are 
evident  exaggerations  of  the  number  of  soldiers  who 
fought  against  them  and  of  those  of  them  who  were 
left  dead  on  the  field  (see  4  15;  7  46;  11  45-51,  etc). 

But  in  this  book,  prayers,  speeches  and  official 
records  abound  as  they  do  in  Ezra,  Nehemiah  (see 
Century  Bible,  "Ezr,"  "Neh,"  "Est,"  12  ff),  and 
many  modern  Protestant  writers  doubt  or  deny 
the  authenticity  of  a  part  of  those,  though  that  is 
not  necessarily  to  question  their  genuineness  as  part 
of  the  original  narrative. 

As  regards  the  prayers  (3  50-54;  4  30-33)  and 
speeches  (2  7-13;  2  50-68;  4  6-11,  etc),  there  is 
no  valid  reason  for  doubting  that  they  give  at  least 
the  substance  of  what  was  originally  said  or  written, 
though  ancient  historians  like  Thucydides  and 
Livy  think  it  quite  right  to  edit  the  speeches  of  their 
characters,  abbreviating,  expanding  or  altering. 
Besides,  it  is  to  be  remembered  that  the  art  of 
stenography  is  a  modern  one;  even  Dr.  Johnson, 
in  default  of  verbatim  reports,  had  to  a  large  extent 
to  make  the  speeches  which  he  ostensibly  reported. 

There  is,  however,  in  the  book  a  large  number 
of  official  documents,  and  it  is  in  regard  to  the 
authenticity  of  these  that  modern  criticism  has 
expressed  greatest  doubt.     They  are  the  following: 

(1)  Letter  of  the  Jews  in  Gilead  to  Judas  (5  10-13). 

(2)  Treaty  of  alliance  between  the  Romans  and  Jews; 
copv  written  on  brass  tablets  sent  to  Judas  (8  22-32). 

(3)  Letter  from  King  Alexander  Balas  to  Jonathan 

(4)  Letter  from  King  Demetrius  I  to  Jonathan  (10 
25—45). 

(5)  Letter  from  King  Demetrius  II  to  Jonathan  (11 
30-37),  together  with  letter  to  Lasthenes  (11  31-37). 

(6)  Letter  from  the  young  prince  Antiochus  to  Jona- 
than, making  the  latter  high  priest  (11  57). 

(7)  Letter  from  Jonathan  to  the  Spartans,  asking  for 
an  alliance  (12  5-18).  . 

(8)  Earlier  letter  of  the  Spartan  king  Anus  to  the  high 
priest  Onias  (12  20-23). 

(9)  Letter  from  King  Demetrius  II  to  Simon  (13  36- 
40). 


1949 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA    Mace,  Books  of 


(10)  Letter  from  the  Spartans  to  Simon  (14  20-24). 

(11)  A  decree  of  the  Jews  recognizing  the  services  of 
Simon  and  his  brothers  (14  27-45). 

(12)  Letters  from  Antiochus  VII  (Sidetes)  to  Simon 
(15  2-9). 

(13)  Message  from  the  Rom  consul  Lucius  to  Ptolemy, 
king  of  Egypt,  asking  protection  for  the  Jews  (15  16-21). 
A  copy  was  sent  to  Simon  (15  24). 

Formerly  the  authenticity  of  these  state  docu- 
ments was  accepted  without  doubt,  as  they  are  still 
by  Romanist  commentators  (Welte,  Scholz,  etc). 
At  most  they  are  but  translations  of  translations, 
for  the  originals  would  be  written  in  Gr  and  Lat, 
from  which  the  author  would  translate  into  Heb. 
The  Gr  of  our  book  is  a  tr  from  the  Heb  (see  II,  8 
below). 

Rawlinson  (Speaker's  Apoc,  II,  329)  says  these 
documents  "have  a  general  air  of  authenticity." 
Most  modern  scholars  reject  the  letters  purporting 
to  emanate  from  the  Romans  (nos.  2  and  13  above) 
and  from  the  Spartans  (nos.  8,  10  above),  together 
with  Jonathan's  message  to  the  latter  (no.  7,  above), 
on  the  ground  that  they  contain  some  historical  in- 
accuracies and  imply  others.  How  could  one  consul 
issue  official  mandates  in  the  name  of  the  Rom 
republic  (see  no.  13,  above)?  In  no.  8  above,  it  is 
the  king  of  the  Spartans  who  writes  on  behalf  of  his 
people  to  Onias  the  high  priest;  but  it  is  the  eptioroi 
or  rulers  who  write  for  the  Spartans  to  Simon.  Why 
the  difference?  Moreover,  in  12  21  the  Spartans 
and  Jews  are  said  to  be  kinsmen  (lit.  brothers), 
both  alike  being  descendants  of  Abraham;  so  also 
14  20.  This  is  admittedly  contrary  to  fact.  For 
a  careful  examination  of  these  official  documents 
and  their  objective  value,  see  Kautzsch,  Die 
Apokryphen  des  AT,  27-30.  Though,  however, 
these  documents  and  some  others  can  be  proved  in- 
correct as  they  stand,  they  do  seem  to  imply  actual 
negotiations  of  the  kind  described ;  i.e.  the  Jews  must 
have  had  communications  with  the  Romans  and 
Spartans,  the  Jews  of  Gilead  must  have  sent  a  missive 
to  Judas  (no.  1),  Alexander  Balas  did  no  doubt  write 
to  Jonathan,  etc,  though  the  author  of  1  Mace  puts 
the  matter  in  his  own  way,  coloring  it  by  his  own 
patriotic  and  religious  prejudices. 

Though  the  name  of  the  author  is  unknown,  the 
book  itself  supplies  conclusive  evidence  that  he 
belonged  to  tin;  Sadducee  party,  the 
5.  Author's  party  favored  by  the  Hasmoneans. 
Standpoint  The  aim  of  the  writer  is  evidently  his- 
and  Aim  torical  and  patriotic,  yet  his  attitude 
toward  religious  questions  is  clearly 
indicated,  both  directly  and  indirectly. 

(1)  Nowhere  in  the  book  is  the  Divine  Being 
mentioned  under  any  name  except  Heaven  (3  18  f. 
50.60;  4  10.55;  12  15,  etc),  a  designation  common 
in  rabbinical  Heb  (Talm,  etc).  As  early  as  300  BC 
the  sacred  name  "Yahwe"  was  discarded  in  favor 
of  "Adonai"  (Lord)  for  superstitious  reasons.  But 
in  1  Mace  no  strictly  Divine  name  meets  us  at  all. 
This  would  seem  to  suggest  the  idea  of  a  certain 
aloofness  of  God,  such  as  characterized  the  theology 
of  the  Sadducee  party.  Contrast  with  this  the 
mystic  closeness  of  God  realized  and  expressed  by 
the  psalmists  and  prophets  of  the  OT. 

(2)  The  author  is  a  religious  patriot,  believing 
that  his  people  have  been  Divinely  chosen  and  that 
the  cause  of  Israel  is  the  cause  of  God. 

(3)  He  is  also  a  strict  legalist,  believing  it  the 
duty  of  every  Jew  to  keep  the  Law  and  to  preserve 
its  institutions  (1  1 1.15.43.49. 5-4. 60.G2  f;  2  20  ff. 
27.42.48.50;  3  21,  etc),  and  deprecating  attempts 
to  compel  Jews  to  desecrate  the  Sabbath  and  feast 
days  (1  45),  to  eat  unclean  food  (1  63)  and  to  sac- 
rifice to  idols  (1  43).  Yet  the  comparatively  lax 
attitude  toward  the  Sabbath  implied  in  2  41  ff, 
involving  the  principle  of  Christ's  words,  "The 
sabbath  was  made  for  man,  and  not  man  for  the 


Sabbath"    (Mk  2  27),   agrees  with   the  Sadducee 
position  against  that  of  the  Pharisees. 

(4)  The  book  teaches  that  the  age  of  inspiration 
is  past,  and  that  the  sacred  books  already  written 
are  the  only  source  of  comfort  in  sorrow  and  of  en- 
couragement under  difficulties  (12  9). 

(5)  The  legitimacy  of  the  high-priesthood  of 
Simon  is  not  once  questioned,  though  it  is  con- 
demned by  both  the  Deuteronomic  law  (D),  which 
restricts  the  priesthood  to  the  tribe  of  Levi,  and  by 
the  priestly  law  (P),  which  requires  in  addition  that 
a  priest  must  be  of  the  family  of  Aaron.  This 
laxity  agrees  well  with  the  general  tenets  of  the 
Sadducees. 

(6)  The  book  contains  no  trace  of  the  Messianic 
hope,  though  it  was  entertained  at  the  time  in  other 
circles  (the  Pharisees;  see  Messiah,  II,  2;  Proph- 
ecy); 2  57  is  no  exception,  for  it  implies  no  more 
than  a  belief  that  there;  would  be  a  restoration  of  the 
Davidic  Dynasty.  Perhaps  it  is  implied  that  that 
expectation  was  realized  in  the  Hasmoneans. 

(7)  There  is  no  reference  in  the  book  to  the  doc- 
trine of  a  resurrection  from  the  dead  or  to  that  of 
the  immortality  of  the  soul,  though  we  know  that 
both  these  beliefs  were  commonly  held  by  Jews  of 
the  time  (see  Dnl  12  3;  En  1  9;  22  11-14;  9  1. 
5ff;  2  Mace  7  9.11.14.29).  We  know  that  the 
Pharisee  party  believed  in  a  resurrection  (see  Acts 
23  0) .  The  Maccabean  heroes  fought  their  battles 
and  faced  death  without  fear,  not  because,  like 
Moslems,  they  looked  to  the  rewards  of  another 
life,  but  because  they  believed  in  the  Tightness  of 
their  cause  and  coveted  the  good  name  won  by 
their  fathers  by  acts  of  similar  courage  and  devotion. 

This  outline  of  the  doctrines  taught  or  implied 
in  the  book  makes  it  extremely  likely  that  the 
author  was  a  member  of  the  Sadducee  party. 

1  Mace  must  have  been  written  before  the  Rom 
conquest  under  Pompey,  since  the  writer  speaks 
of  the  Romans  as  allies  and  even 
6.  Date  friends  (8  1.12;  12  1;  14  40);  i.e. 
the  composition  of  the  book  must 
have  been  completed  (unless  we  except  chs  14-16; 
Bee  below)  before  63  BC,  when  Pompey  conquered 
Jerus,  and  Judaea  became  a  Rom  province.  We 
thus  get  63  BC  as  a  terminus  ad  quern.  Moreover, 
the  historical  narrative  is  brought  down  to  the 
death  of  Simon  (16  16),  i.e.  to  135  BC.  We  have 
thus  an  undoubted  terminus  a  quo  in  135  BC.  The 
book  belongs  for  certain  to  the  period  between 
135  and  63  BC.  But  16  18-24  implies  that  John 
Hyrcanus  (d.  105  BC)  had  for  some  time  acted  as 
successor  to  Simon,  and  Rcuss,  Ewald,  Fritzsche, 
Grimm,  Schiirer,  Kautzsch,  etc,  are  probably  right 
in  concluding  from  16  23  f  that  John  was  dead  when 
the  book  was  completed,  for  we  have  in  this  verse 
the  usual  formula  recording  the  close;  of  a  roval 
career  (see  1  K  11  41;  2  K  10  34,  etc),  and  the 
writer  makes  it  sufficiently  understood  that  all  his 
acts  were  already  "entered  in  the  public  annals  of 
the  kingdom"  (Ewald,  History  of  Israel,  V,  463,  n.), 
so  that  repetition  was  unnecessary.  But  Bertheau, 
Keil,  Wellhausen  and  Torrey  draw  the  contrary  con- 
clusion, arguing  that  John  had  but  begun  his  rule, 
so  that  at  the  time  of  writing  there  was  practically 
nothing  to  record  of  the  doings  subsequent  to  135, 
when  John  succeeded  Simon  (sqcEB,  III,  2860  [Toy]). 
In  13  30  we  read  that  the  monument  erected  in 
143  BC  by  Simon  in  memory  of  his  father  and 
brothers  was  standing  at  the  time  when  this  book 
was  written,  words  implying  the  lapse  of  say  30 
years  at  least.  This  gives  a  terminus  a  quo  of  113 
BC.  Moreover,  the  panegyric  on  Simon  (d.  135 
BC)  and  his  peaceful  rule  in  14  4-15  leaves  the 
impression  that  he  had  been  long  in  his  grave.  We 
cannot  be  far  wrong  in  assigning  a  date  for  the  book 
in  the  early  part  of  the  last  cent.  BC,  say  80  BC. 


Mace,  Books  of 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1950 


Destinon  {Die  Quellen  des  Flavins  Jos,  I,  1882,  SO 
ff),  followed  by  Wellhausen  (IJG,  1S<>4,  222  f), 
maintained  that  Jos  (d.  c  95),  who  followed  1  Mace 
up  to  the  end  of  eh  13,  could  not  have  seen  ehs 
14-16  (or  from  14  16?),  or  he  would  not  have  given 
so  meager  an  account  of  the  high-priesthood  of 
Simon  (see  Ant,  XIII,  vi,  7),  which  the  author  of 
I  Mace  describes  so  fully  in  those  chapters.  But 
Jos  must  have  used  these  chapters  or  he  could  not 
have  written  of  Simon  even  as  fully  as  he  does. 

If,  as  Torrey  {EB,  111,  2S62)  holds,  we  have  in 

1  Mace  "the  account  of  one  who  had  witnessed  the 

whole  Maccabean  struggle  from  itsbe- 

7.  Sources     ginning,"  the  'nook  having  been  com- 

pleted soon  after  the;  middle  of  the  2d 
cent.  BC,  it  may  then  be  assumed  that  the  writer 
depended  upon  no  other  sources  than  his  own.  But 
even  in  this  case  one  is  compelled,  contrary  to  Torrey 
(I.e.),  to  assume  that  written  sources  of  his  own 
were  used,  or  the  descriptions  would  not  have  been 
so  full  and  the  dating  so  exact.  If,  however,  we 
follow  the  evidence  and  bring  down  the  date  of  the 
book  to  about  80  BC  (see  1,0),  it  must  be  supposed 
that  the  author  had  access  to  written  sources.  It 
may  legitimately  be  inferred  from  9  22  and  16  23 
and  from  the  habit  of  earlier  times  (see  Century 
Bible,  "Ezr,"  etc,  11  ff)  that  official  records  were 
kept  in  the  archives  of  the  temple,  or  elsewhere. 
These  might  have  contained  the  state  documents 
referred  to  in  I,  4,  some  or  all,  and  reports  of 
speeches  and  prayers,  etc.  It  must  be  admitted 
that,  unlike  the?  compilers  of  the  historical  books 
of  the  OT  (S,  K,  Ch,  etc),  the  author  of  1  Mace  does 
not  definitely  name  his  written  sources.  The 
writer  might  well  be  supposed  to  have  kept  a  kind 
of  diary  of  his  own  in  which  the  events  of  his  own 
early  life  were  recorded.  Oral  tradition,  much 
more  retentive  of  songs,  speeches  and  the  like  in 
ancient  than  in  modern  times,  must  have  been  a 
very  important  source. 

We  have  the  testimony  of  Origen  (see  I,  1)  and 

Jerome  {Prolog.  Galeatus)  that  the  book  existed  in 

Heb  in  their  day.     But  it  is  doubtful 

8.  Original    whether  the  words  of  Origen  imply  a 
Language      Heb  or  an  Aram,  original,  and  though 

Jerome  does  speak  of  the  book  as  Heb 
{hebraicus),  it  has  to  be  remembered  that  in  later 
times  the  Gr  adj.  denoting  Heb  (e^pa'Carl,  hebralsti) 
and  perhaps  the  corresponding  Lat  one  {hebraicus) 
denoted  often  Palestinian  Aram,  (see  Jgs  5  2;  19 
13.17;  and  Kautzsch,  Gramniatih  des  bib.  Aram., 
19). 

Hebraisms  (or  Aramaisms?)  abound  throughout 
the  book.  In  the  following  examples  Hebraisms 
are  literally  rendered  in  Gr,  though  in  the  latter 
language  they  are  unidiomatic  and  often  unintelli- 
gible: "two  years  of  days"  =  two  full  years  (1  29, 
etc);  "month  and  month"  =  every  month  (1  58); 
"a  man  [or  each  one]  his  neighbor"  =  each  .... 
the  other  (2  40;  3  43);  "sons  of  the  fortress"  = 
occupants  of  the  fortress  (4  2);  "against  our  face" 
=  before  us  (4  10);  "men  of  power"  =  warriors 
(5  32);  "of  them"  =  some  of  them  (6  2;  cf  7  33, 
"of  the  priests"  =  some  of  the  priests);  "the  right 
hand  wing"  =  the  southern  wing  (9  1);  "yester- 
day and  the  third  day"  =  hitherto  (9  44).  The 
above  are  strictly  Hebraisms  and  not  for  the  most 
part  Aramaisms.  The  implied  use  of  the  "waw- 
consecutive"  in  3  1.41;  8  1;  9  1,  and  often,  points 
also  to  a  Heb,  not  to  an  Aram,  origin.  "Heaven" 
as  a  substitute  for  "God,"  so  common  in  this  book 
(see  I,  5),  is  perhaps  as  much  an  Aramaism  as  a 
Hebraism  (see  Tg  Jerus  Nu  25  19).  Many  of  the 
proper  names  in  the  book  are  obviously  but  trans- 
literations from  the  Heb;  thus  $v\urriclv,  Phulis- 
tiein  (3  24);  cf  Sir  46  18;  47  7;  see  the  names  in 
11  34;  and  Schurer,  GJV\  I,  233. 


The  original  Heb  text  of  1  Mace  (sec  T,  8)  must  have 
been  lost  at  a  very  early  time,  since  we  have  no  evidence 

of    its    use    by    any    early    writer.     .).    1). 

9.  Text  Michaelis  held  that  Jos 'used  it,  but  this 

"  j     '  idea   has  been   abandoned   in   the   face  of 

fy       .  overwhelming    evidence    to    the    contrary. 

Versions         The  Heb  text  of  the  first  half  of  1  Mace, 

edited  by  A.  Schweizer  and  taken  by  him 
to  be  a  part  of  the  original  text,  ;s  in  reality  a  tr  from  the 
Lat  made  in  the  lltli  cent,  of  our  era  (so  Noldeke,  etc). 

(1)  Greek. — The  (lr  text  from  which  the  other  VSS 
are  nearly  all  made  is  given  in  all  edd  of  the  LXX.  It 
occurs  in  the  uncials  X  (Fritzsche,  X),  A  (Fritzsche,  III), 
and  V  (8th  or  9th  cent.),  not  in  11 ;  and  in  a  large  number 
of  cursives.  Swete  (OT  in  Gr)  gives  the  text  of  A  with 
the  variations  of  X  and  V.  Though  the  Or  text  lias  so 
many  Hebraisms,  it  is  an  exceedingly  good  rendering, 
full  of  spirit  and  on  the  whole  more  idiomatic  than  the 
rest  of  the  LXX. 

(2)  Latin. — There  are  two  Lat  recensions  of  the  book: 
(«)  that  found  in  the  Vulg,  which  agrees  almost  entirely 
with  the  Old  Lat  VS.  It  is  in  the  main  a  literal  rendering 
of  the  Gr.  (b)  Sabatier  (Bibliorum  sacrorum  Latinae 
versiones  antiquae,  II)  published  in  174:5  a  Lat  VS  of  chs 
1-13  found  in  but  one  MS  (Sangirmanensis).  Though 
it  is  evidently  made  from  the  Or  it  differs  at  many  points 
from  the  Vulg.  It  is  probably  older  than  the  Old  Lat  and 
therefore  than  the  Vulg. 

(3)  Si/riar. — There  are  also  two  varying  texts  in  this 
language,  (a)  The  best  known  is  that  printed  in  the 
Paris  Polyglot  (vol  IX),  copied  with  souk;  changes  into 
the  London  Polyglot  (vol  IV;  for  readings  see  vol  V). 
Lagarde  (Lib.  Vet.  Test.  Apoc.  Syr.,  1801)  has  edited 
this  VS,  correcting  and  appending  readings,  (b)  A  text 
differing  in  many  respects  from  (a)  is  given  by  Ceriani 
in  his  Cod.  Ambros.  of  the  Pesh  (1876-83),  though  this 
also  is  made  from  the  Or.  For  a  careful  collection  of 
both  the  above  Svr  texts  by  O.  Schmidt,  see  ZATW, 
1897,    1-17,   233-62. 

Literature. — Sec  literature  cited  in  the  foregoing 
material.  For  texts  and  comms.  on  the;  Apoc,  see 
Apocrypha.  The  following  comms.  deserve  special 
mention:  Grimm,  Kurz.  exeg.  Handbuch,  etc,  to  which  the 
comms.  by  Keil  (1  and  2  Mace)  and  Bissel  (Lange)  owe 
very  much;  Kautzsch,  Die  Apoc  des  AT;  W.  Fair- 
weather  and  J.  S.  Black,  Cambridge  Bible,  "1  Mace." 
and  Oesterley  in  1  he  Oxford  Apoc  edited  by  R.  H.Charles 
(1913).  Of  the  diet.  arts,  those  in  EB  (Torrey)  and  II DB 
(Fairweather)  are  excellent.  See  also  E.  Montet,  E.isai 
sur  les  origines  den  saducSens  et  des  pharisiens,  1885; 
Wlbrich,  Juden  und  Grierhen  ror  der  mak.  Erhebung,  1S75, 
69-76;  B.  Niese,  Kritik  der  beiden  Makkabderbilcher, 
1900.  For  a  very  full  bibliography  see  Schurer,  GJ  V*, 
III,  198  ff,  and  his  art.  "Apocrypha"  in  RE3,  and  in 
Sch-Uerz. 

II.  2  Maccabees. — Seel,  above.    The  earliest  ex- 
tant mention  of  the  book  as  2  Mace  is  in  Euseb., 
Pracp.  Evang..  VIII,  9.     Jerome  also 

1.  Name        {Prol.  Galeatus)  calls  it  by  this  name. 

In    the    early  church  2   Mace   was 

much  less  valued  and  therefore   less  read  than   1 

Maec.     Augustine  was  the  only  church  Father  to 

claim  for  it  canonical  rank  and  even  he, 

2.  Canon-      in  a  controversy  with   the   Donatists 
icity  who  quoted  2  Mace,  replied  that  this 

book  had  never  been  received  into  the 
Canon.  Since  they  formed  an  integral  part  of  the 
Vulg,  1  and  2  Mace  were  both  recognized  by  the 
Council  of  Trent  as  belonging  to  the  Romanist 
Canon. 

(1)  1 — 2  18:  Two  letters  from  the  Jews  of  Jerus  to 
their  brethren  in  Egypt,  urging  them  to  keep  the  Feast 

of  Dedication  and  in  a  general  way  to  ob- 

3p  x  fe  serve  the  Law  given  them  by  Ood  through 
.  ^onxenib  ]y[osos.  Both  letters  appear  designed  to 
win  for  the  Jerus  temple  the  love  and  de- 
votion which  the  Jews  of  Egypt  were  in  danger  of  lavish- 
ing upon  the  Leontopolis  temple  in  Egypt.  These  letters 
have  no  connection  with  the  rest  of  the  book  or  with 
each  other,  and  both  are  undoubted  forgeries.  There 
can  be  no  doubt  that  2  Mace  was  first  of  all  composed, 
and  that  subsequently  either  the  author  or  a  later  hand 
prefixed  these  letters  on  account  of  their  affinity  in 
thought  to  the  book  as  it  first  existed.  See  further  on 
these  letters  II,  4  and  9. 

(2)  2  19-32:  Introduction  to  what  follows.  The 
author  or  epitomizer  claims  that  his  history  (ch  3  to  end 
of  the  book)  is  an  epitome  in  one  book  of  a  larger  work 
in  5  books  by  Jason  of  Gyrene.     But  see  II,  4,  below. 

(3)  3  1 — 15  39  (end  of  book):  History  of  the  rise  and 
progress  of  the  Maccabean  wars  from  176  BC,  to  the 
closing  year  of  the  reign  of  Seleucus  IV  Philopator,  to 
the  defeat  and  death  of  Nicanor  in  161  BC,  a  period  of 
15  years.  The  record  in  2  Mace  begins  one  year  earlier 
than  that  of  1  Mace,  but  as  the  latter  reaches  down  to 


1951 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA    Mace,  Books  of 


135  BC  (and  probably  below  105  BC;  see  I,  5),  1  Mace 
covers  a  period  of  at  least  40  years,  while  2  Mace  gives 
the  history  of  but  15  years  (176-161  BC).  The  history 
of  this  period  is  thus  treated:  (a)  3  1 — 4  6:  Traitorous 
conduct  of  the  Benjamite  Simon  in  regard  to  the  temple 
treasures  and  the  high  priest;  futile  attempt  of  Helio- 
dorus,  prime  minister  of  Seleucus  IV",  to  rob  the  temple 
(see  I,  3,  [11]  above);  (6)  4  7—7  42  1  Mace  1  10-64, 
with  significant  variations  and  additions.  Accession  of 
Antiochus  Epiphanes  (175  BC);  the  Hellenizing  of  some 
Jews;  persecution  of  the  faithful;  martyrdom  of  Eleazar 
and  the  /  brethren  and  their  mother  (this  last  not  in 
1  Mace);  (r)  chs  815  (end)  ||  1  Mace  3-7,  with  sig- 
nificant divergences  in  details.  Rise  and  development 
of  the  Maccabean  revolt  (see  1,  3,  above).  In  the  closing 
verses  (15  38  IF)  the  writer  begs  that  Ms  composition 
may  be  received  with  consideration. 

The  record  of  events  in  2  Mace  ends  with  the  brilliant 
victory  of  Judas  over  Nicanor,  followed  by  the  death  of 
the  latter;  but  it  is  strange  that  the  history  of  the  main 
hero  of  the  book  should  be  dropped  in  the  middle.  Per- 
haps this  abrupt  ending  is  due  to  the  writer's  aim  to 
commend  to  the  Jews  of  Egypt  the  two  new  festivals, 
both  connected  with  the  Jerus  temple:  (a)  tfanukkah 
(Festival  of  Dedication)  (1  9.18;  2  16;  10'  8) ;  (6) 
Nicanor  Day  (15  36),  to  commemorate  the  defeat  and 
death  of  Nicanor.  To  end  the  book  with  the  account  of 
the  institution  of  the  latter  gives  it  greater  prominence. 

In  its  present  form  2  Mace  is  based  ostensibly 
on  two  kinds  of  written  sources. 

(1)  In  2  19-32  the  writer  of  3  1  to 
4.  Sources  the  end,  which  constitutes  the  book 
proper,  says  that  his  own  work  is  but 
an  epitome,  clearly,  artistically  and  attractively  set 
out,  of  a  larger  history  by  one  Jason  of  Cyrene. 
Most  commentators  understand  this  statement 
literally,  and  endeavor  to  distinguish  between  the 
parts  due  to  Jason  and  those  due  to  the  epitomizer. 
Some  think  they  see  endings  of  the  5  books  reflected 
in  the  summaries  at  3  40;  7  42;  10  9;  13  20; 
15  37.  But  W.  H.  Rosters  gives  cogent  reasons 
for  concluding  that  the  reference  to  Jason  is  but  a 
literary  device  to  secure  for  his  own  composition 
the  respect  accorded  in  ancient,  as  in  a  lesser  degree 
in  modern,  times  to  tradition.  The  so-called 
"epitomizer"  is  in  that  case  alone  responsible  for 
the  history  he  gives.  The  present  writer  has  no 
hesitation  in  accepting  these  conclusions.  We 
read  nowhere  else  of  a  historian  called  "Jason,"  or 
of  such  a  large  history  as  his  must  have  been  if  it 
extended  to  5  books  dealing  with  the  events  of  15 
years,  though  such  a  man  and  so  great  a  work  could 
hardly  have  escaped  notice.  Hitzig  {(lesch.  des 
Volkcs  Israels,  II,  415)  held  that  Jason  or  his  sup- 
posed epitomizer  made  use  of  1  Mace,  altering, 
adding  and  subtracting  to  suit  his  purpose.  But 
the  different  order  of  the  events  and  the  contra- 
dictions in  statements  of  facts  in  the  2  books,  as 
well  as  the  omission  from  2  Mace  of  important  items 
found  in  1  Mace,  make  Hitzig's  supposition  quite 
untenable.  A  careful  examination  of  2  Mace  has  led 
Grimm,  Schiirer,  Zockler,  Wibrich,  Cornill,  Torrey 
and  others  to  the  conclusion  that  the  author  de- 
pended wholly  upon  oral  tradition.  This  gives  the 
best  clue  to  the  anachronisms,  inconsistencies  and 
loose  phrasing  which  characterize  the  book.  Ac- 
cording to  1  Mace  4  26-33,  the  first  campaign  of 
Lysias  into  Judaea  took  place  in  1G5  BC,  the  year 
before  the  death  of  Antiochus  IV;  but  2  Mace  11 
tells  us  that  it  occurred  in  163  BC,  i.e.  subsequent 
to  the  death  of  Antiochus  IV.  Moreover,  in  the 
latter  passage  this  1st  expedition  of  Lysias  is  con- 
nected with  tin;  grant  of  freedom  to  the  Jews,  which 
is  really  an  incident  of  the  2d  expedition,  and  in 
13  1-24  is  rightly  mentioned  in  the  account  of  the 
2d  expedition.  The  writer  of  2  Mace,  relying  upon 
memory,  evidently  mixes  up  the  stories  of  two 
different  expeditions.  Similarly  the  invasions  of 
neighboring  tribes  under  Judas,  which  are  repre- 
sented in  1  Mace  5  1-68  as  taking  place  in  quick 
succession,  belong,  according  to  2  Mace  8  30; 
10  15-38;  12  2-45,  to  separate  dates  and  different 
sets  of  circumstances.     The  statements  in  2  Mace 


are  obscure  and  confused,  those  in  1  Mace  6  clear 
and  straightforward.  Though  in  2  Mace  10  37 
we  read  of  the  death  of  Timotheus,  yet  in  12  2  ff  he 
appears  as  a  leader  in  other  campaigns.  There 
again  the  writer's  memory  plays  him  false  as  he 
recalls  various  accounts  of  the  same  events.  It 
was  Mattathias  who  gathered  together  the  Jews  and 
organized  them  for  resistance  against  Syria,  if  we 
follow  1  Mace  2  1-70;  but  2  Mace  8  1-7  ascribes 
this  role  to  his  son  Judas.  The  purification  of  the 
temple  took  place  3  years  subsequent  to  its  prof- 
anation, according  to  1  Mace  1  54;  4  52,  but 
only  2  years,  according  to  2  Mace  10  3. 

(2)  The  two  letters  sent  from  Palestinian  to 
Egyp  Jews  (1  1—2  18)  form  no  integral  part  of  the 
original  2  Mace.  They  are  clearly  forgeries,  and 
abound  in  inaccuracies  and  inconsistencies.  The 
second  letter,  much  the  longer,  gives  an  account 
of  the  death  of  Antiochus  Epiphanes,  which  is  irrec- 
oncilable with  that  in  9  1-28  and  also  with  that 
in  1  Mace  6  1-16.  Nehemiah  is  said  in  1  18  to 
have  rebuilt  the  temple  and  altar,  a  work  accom- 
plished by  Zerubbabel  nearly  a  cent,  earlier  (Ezr  3 
3;  6  15).  Nehemiah's  work  was  to  repair  the 
gates  and  walls  (Neh  3  1-32;  6  1;  7  1;  Sir  49 
13).  The  writer  of  this  letter  says  (2  Mace  2  3-5) 
that  at  the  time  of  the  exile,  Jeremiah  concealed 
in  a  cave  on  Mt.  Pisgah  the  tabernacle,  the  ark  of 
the  covenant  and  the  altar  of  incense,  a  statement 
which  no  one  accepts  as  correct  or  even  plau- 
sible. That  the  author  of  the  rest  of  the  book  is 
not  the  composer  of  the  letters  is  proved  by  the  dif- 
ference of  style  and  the  contradictions  in  subject- 
matter.  But  that  he  himself  prefixed  them  is 
made  probable  by  the  connecting  particle  in  the  Gr 
(5<?),  though  some  (Bertholdt,  Grimm,  Paulus, 
Kosters)  think  rather  plausibly  that  the  letters 
were  added  by  a  later  hand,  the  connection  in  the 
Gr  being  also  introduced  by  him  and  not  by  the 
.author  of  the  rest  of  the  book.  It  has  been  main- 
tained that  we  have  but  one  letter  in  1  1 — 2  18, 
and  on  the  other  hand  that  there  are  three.  But 
the  division  into  two  is  quite  natural  and  is  almost 
universally  accepted. 

2  Mace  belongs  to  the  class  of  lit.  called  by  the 
Germans  Tendenz-Schrifteti,  i.e.  writings  originating 
in  the  desire  to  teach  some  doctrine 
5.  Histo-  or  to  correct  some  supposed  error, 
ricity  1  Mace  gives  us  a  history  of  the  Macca- 

bean wars  as  such,  taking  so  little 
notice  of  the  part  played  by  God  that  the  Divine 
Being  is  not  so  much  as  mentioned,  except  under 
tin;  impersonal  form  Heaven  (cf  "Heaven  helps 
those  who  help  themselves").  Nor  has  1  Mace  a 
word  to  say  about  a  life  beyond  the  grave.  In 
short,  1  Mace  is  written  from  the  standpoint  of  the 
Sadducees,  to  which  party  the  reigning  dynasty 
(the  Hasmonean)  belonged.  The  writer  of  2  Mace 
is  evidently  a  Pharisee  and  his  aim  is  not  historical 
but  doctrinal;  i.e.  the  book  is  a  historical  romance 
with  a  purpose,  that  purpose  being  to  make  promi- 
nent the  outstanding  tenets  of  the  Pharisees  (see 
II,  6).  Two  extreme  opinions  have  been  defended 
as  to  the  historical  value  of  2  Mace:  (1)  That  2 
Mace  is  a  strictly  historical  work,  is  more  trust- 
worthy than  1  Mace  and  is  to  be  followed  when  the 
two  books  differ;  so  the  bulk  of  Roman  Catholics 
and  also  Niese  and  Schlatter.  The  supernatural- 
ism  of  the  book  is  to  Romanists  a  recommendation. 
(2)  That  2  Mace  has  virtually  no  historical  value, 
since  it  was  written  for  other  than  historical  ends; 
so  Wibrich,  Kosters  and  Kamphausen.  But  the 
bulk  of  Protestant  critics  of  recent  times  occupy  a 
position  midway  between  these  two  opposite  opin- 
ions, viz.  that  1  Mace  is  much  more  accurate  than 
2  Mace  and  is  to  be  preferred  when  the  2  books  of 
Mace  differ  or  contradict  each  other;    so  Grimm, 


Mace,  Books  of    THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1952 


Reuss,  Schiirer,  Kamphausen.  On  the  other  hand, 
when  2  Mace  contains  historical  matter  absent 
from  1  Mace  it.  is  to  be  accepted  as  correct  unless 
opposed  by  intrinsic  improbability  or  direct  contrary 
evidence.  In  clis  3-5  we  have  details  concerning 
the  Maccabean  revolt  not  found  in  1  Mace,  and  in 
treatment  of  episodes  or  incidents  with  which  1 
Mace  deals  it  is  often  fuller  and  more  specific,  as 
in  10  14-23;  12  7-1)  (cf  1  Mace  5  1-5;  12  17-25); 
10  24-3S  (ef  1  Mace  5  29-44);  12  32-45  (cf 
1  Mace  6  65.68.63  f).  On  the  other  hand,  the 
account  of  the  celestial  appearances  in  3  24  IT;  11 
8,  etc,  and  the  description  in  6  IS  ff  of  the  martyr- 
dom of  Eleazar  the  scribe  and  of  the  7  brethren  and 
their  mother,  carry  on  their  fact1  the  marks  of  their 
legendary  and  unhistorical  character.  The  edi- 
fying remarks  scattered  throughout  the  book,  many 
of  them  pragmatic  and  reminding  one  of  the  Book  of 
Did,  confirm  the  impression  otherwise  suggested, 
that  the  author's  aim  was  didactic  and  not  his- 
torical. The  book  as  it  stands  is  a  real  authority 
for  the  ideas  prevalent  in  the  writer's  circle  at  the 
time  of  its  composition. 

In  general  it  may  be  said  that  the  doctrines  taught 
in  2  Mace  arc1  those  of  the  Pharisees  of  the  day. 
Several  scholars  consider  2  Mace  the 
6.  Teach-  answer  of  Pharisaism  to  the  Saddu- 
ing  of  the  ceeism  of  1  Mace  (see  Wellhausen, 
Book  Die    Pharisder  und  die  Saducder;    cf 

Geiger,  Urschrift  und  Ubersetzungen 
der  Bibel,  219  ff).  But  there  is  evidence  enough 
(see  II,  4)  that  the  author  of  2  Mace  had  not  seen 
1  Mace.  Yet  it  is  equally  clear  that  2  Mace 
does  give  prominence  to  the  distinctive  tenets  of 
Pharisaism,  and  it  was  probably  written  on  that 
account. 

(1)  The  strictest  observance  of  the  law  is  en- 
forced. The  violation  of  the  sanctity  of  the  Sabbath 
countenanced  under  special  circumstances  in  1  Mace 
(2  39-48)  is  absolutely  forbidden  in  2  Mace  (6  6.11 ; 
8  26  f;  12  38);  ef  the  words  of  the  Pharisees  to 
Petronius  when  the  latter  proposed  to  have  a  statue 
of  the  emperor  Cains  erected  in  the  temple:  "We 
will  die  rather  than  transgress  the  law"  (Jos,  Ant, 
XVIII,  viii,  3). 

(2)  The  Pharisaic  party  took  but  little  interest 
in  political  affairs,  and  supported  the  Hasmoneans 
only  because  and  in  so  far  as  they  fought  for  the 
right  to  observe  their  religious  rites.  When,  how- 
ever, they  compromised  with  Hellenism,  the  Phari- 
sees turned  against  them  and  their  allies  the  Sad- 
ducees.  In  this  book  we  miss  the  unstinted  praise 
accorded  the  Hasmonean  leaders  in  1  Mace,  and  it 
is  silent  as  to  the  genealogy  of  the  Hasmoneans, 
the  death  of  Judas  Maccabaeus  and  the  family 
grave  at  Modin. 

(3)  The  book  reveals  thus  early  the  antagonism 
between  the  Pharisees  and  the  priestly  party,  which 
is  so  evident  in  the  Gospels.  The  high-priesthood 
had  through  political  circumstances  become  the 
property  of  the  Maccabees,  though  they  were  not 
of  the  Aaronic  family,  or  even  of  the  tribe  of  Levi. 
The  priestly  circle  became  the  aristocratic,  broad- 
church  party,  willing  to  come  to  terms  with  Gr 
thought  and  life.  Hence  in  2  Mace,  Jason  and 
Menelaus  are  fit  representatives  of  the  priesthood. 
In  the  list  of  martyrs  (chs  6  f)  no  priest  appears, 
but  on  the  other  hand,  Eleazar,  one  of  the  principal 
scribes — scribes  and  Pharisees  were  then  as  in  NT 
times  virtually  one  party — suffered  for  his  loyalty 
to  the  national  religion,  "leaving  his  death  for  an 
example"  (6  1X-31). 

(4)  The  temple  occupies  a  high  and  honorable 
place  in  2  Mace,  as  in  the  mind  of  the  orthodox 
party  (see  2  19;  3  2;  5  15;  9  16;  13  23;  14  31). 
Great  stress  is  laid  on  the  importance  of  the  feasts 
(6  6;   10  S,  etc),  of  sacrifice  (10  3),  of  circumcision 


(6  10),  of  the  laws  of  diet  (6  IS;  11  31).  The 
author  seems  in  particular  anxious  to  recommend 
to  his  readers  (Egyp  Jews)  the  observance  of  the 
two  new  festivals  instituted  to  commemorate  the 
purification  of  the  temple  after  its  pollution  by  the 
Syrians  and  also  the  victory  over  Nicanor.  Accord- 
ing to  this  book  the  IJanukkahhvdstv/as  established 
immediately  after  the  death  of  Antiochus  Epiphanes 
(10  (iff),  not  before  this  event  (1  Mace  4  56), 
probably  to  give  it  additional  importance.  The 
book  closes  with  the  defeat  and  death  of  Nieanor  and 
the  founding  of  the  Nicanor  Day  festival,  without 
mentioning  the  death  of  Judas,  as  though  the 
writer's  aim  was  to  give  prominence  to  the  two 
new  festivals. 

(5)  This  book  shows  a  Jewish  particularism  which 
agrees  well  with  Pharisaism  and  Scribism,  but  is 
opposed  to  the  broader  sentiments  of  the  ruling 
party:  Israel  is  God's  people  (1  26);  His  por- 
tion (14  15);  He  often  intervenes  miraculously  on 
behalf  of  Israel  and  the  religion  of  Israel  (3  24-30; 
10  29  f;  11  6-8);  even  the  calamities  of  the  nation 
are  proofs  of  Divine  love  because  designed  for  the 
nation's  good  (5  18);  but  the  sufferings  brought 
upon  the  heathen  are  penal  and  show  the  Divine 
displeasure  (4  38;  5  9;  13  8;  15  32  f).  The 
writer  is  deadly  opposed  to  the  introduction  of  Gr 
customs  and  in  particular  to  the  establishment  of 
a  gymnasium  in  Jerus  (4  7f;  11  24).  The  Book 
of  Jub,  also  written  by  a  zealous  Pharisee,  takes  up 
the  same  hostile  attitude  toward  foreign  customs 
(see  3  31;  7  20,  and  the  note  by  II.  H.  Charles 
[Book  of  Jub]  on  the  former) . 

(6)  This  book  gives  prominence  to  the  doctrine 
of  a  resurrection  and  of  a  future  life  about  which 
1  Mace,  a  document  of  the  Saddueee  party,  is  silent 
(cf  I,  5  above;  see  7  9.11.14.36;  12  43-45;  14 
46  [ef  IV,  4,  below]).  The  Sadducees,  to  which  the 
Hasmoneans  belonged,  denied  a  resurrection,  limit- 
ing their  conception  of  religion  to  the  present  life, 
in  this  agreeing  with  the  teaching  of  the  Heb  Scrip- 
tures down  to  the  time  of  the  exile  (536  BC).  But 
the  Pharisees  and  scribes,  though  professing  to  rest 
their  beliefs  on  the  "Law  of  Moses,"  departed  from 
that  law  in  this  matter  (see  Warburton,  The 
Divine  Legation  of  Moses).  The  resurrection  is  to 
be  a  bodily  one  (7  11.22  f ;  14  46)  and  to  a  life  that 
is  unending  (7  9.36).  The  following  related  beliefs 
supported  in  this  book  and  forming  part  of  the  creed 
of  orthodox  Pharisaism  are  adduced  by  Roman- 
ists on  behalf  of  their  own  teaching:  (a)  the  effi- 
cacy of  prayers  for  the  dead  (12  44) ;  (6)  the  power 
exercised  by  the  intercession  of  saints  (15  12-14); 
Philo  (Deexecrat.,  9)  and  Jos  (Ant,  I,  xi,  3)  held 
the  same  doctrine;  (c)  the  atoning  character  of  the 
martyrdom  of  the  right eous  (7  36.38;  cf  4  Mace 
17  22;  see  IV,  4,  [3],  below). 

(7)  The  angelology  of  2  Maec  forms  a  prominent 
feature  of  the  book  (see  3  24-30;  10  29  f;  11  6-8). 
The  Sadducees  accepted  the  authority  of  the  Pent, 
though  they  rejected  tradition.  They  were  there- 
fore inconsistent  in  allowing  no  place  for  angelic 
beings  in  their  creed,  though  consistent  in  rejecting 
the  doctrine  of  a  future  life. 

(8)  The  comparative  silence  of  this  book  on  the 
question  of  the  Messianic  hope  is  strikingly  in  con- 
trast with  the  prominence  of  the  subject  in  Ps  Sol 
(17  23  ff,  etc;  see  Ryle  and  James,  Psalms  of 
Solomon,  lii  ff)  and  other  contemporary  writings 
emanating  from  the  Pharisees.  But  why  should 
the  author  of  2  Mace  be  expected  to  give  equal 
prominence  to  all  his  opinions  in  one  tract?  Some 
such  hope  as  that  connected  with  the  Messiah  does, 
however,  seem  to  be  implied  in  1  27;  2  18;  7  33; 
14  15. 

The  present  writer  holds  that  one  man  is  respon- 
sible for  2  Mace  in  its  present  form  and  that  the 


1953 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA    Mace,  Books  of 


only  written  source  was  the  2  letters  with   which 

the   book   opens    (1  1 — 2    18)    (see  II,  4,  above). 

Even  if  we  have  to  assume  an  origi- 

7.  The  nal  in  5  books  of  which  2  Mace,  as  we 
Author  have  it,  is  but  an  epitome,  it  is  not  pos- 
sible to  distinguish  between  the  senti- 
ments of  "Jason"  and  his  epitomizer.  The  author 
— assuming  but  one — was  evidently  an  Egyp, 
probably  an  Alexandrian  Jew,  who  nevertheless 
retained  his  loyalty  to  the  Jerus  temple  and  its 
constitutions  and  desired  to  prevent  the  alienation 
of  his  fellow-countrymen  in  the  same  country  from 
the  home  sanctuary  and  its  feasts,  esp.  the  two  new 
feasts,  Hanakkah  (Dedication)  and  Nicanor  Day. 
The  Jews  of  Egypt  had  a  temple  of  their  own,  in 
opposition  to  the  teaching  of  the  Jewish  law  (D  and 
P;  cf  Dt  12  2-18  and  Lev  17  1-9;  19  30),  and 
it  was  perhaps  the  growing  influence  of  this  temple 
that  prompted  the  author  to  compose  this  book 
which  sets  so  much  honor  upon  the  Jerus  temple 
and  its  observances.  The  character  of  the  Gr  (see 
II,  9,  below),  the  ignorance  of  Pal  and  also  the;  deep 
interest  in  Egypt  which  this  book  reveals — these 
and  other  considerations  point  to  the  conclusion 
that  the  author  lived  and  wrote  in  Egypt.  There 
is  no  evidence  that  Judas  Maccabaeus  (Leon 
Allatius),  or  the  author  of  Sir  (Hasse)  or  Philo  the 
Jew  (Honorius  d'Autun)  or  Jos  wrote  the  book, 
though  it  has  been  ascribed  by  different  scholars 
to  each  of  the  persons  named. 

The  book  must  have  been   written  sufficiently 

long  after  161  BC,  t lie  year  with  which  the  record 

closes,  to  allow  mythical  tales  of  the 

8.  Date  martyrdoms  in  chs  6  f  and  the  history 

of  the  supernatural  appearances  in 
3  24-30,  etc,  to  arise.  If  we  allow  30  years,  or  the 
lifetime  of  a  generation,  we  come  down  to  say  130 
BC  as  a  terminus  a  quo.  There  is  probably  in  15 
36  a  reference  to  the  Book  of  Est  (so  Cornill, 
Kautzschand  Wellhausen,L/(74,  302  f)  which  would 
bring  the  terminus  a  quo  down  to  about  100  BC. 
That  2  Mace  was  written  subsequently  to  1  Mace 
(i.e.  after  80  BC)  is  made  certain  by  the  fact  that 
the  Jews  now  pay  tribute  to  Rome  (8  10.36). 
Since  Philo,  who  died  about  40  AD,  refers  to  4  8 
- — 7  42  (Quod  omnis  probus  liber,  Works,  ed  Mangey, 
II,  459),  the  book  must  have  been  composed  before 
40  AD.  This  is  confirmed  by  the  certainty  that  it 
was  written  before  the  destruction  of  Jerus  and 
the  temple  (70  AD),  for  the  city  still  exists  and  the 
temple  services  are  in  full  operation  (3  6  IT,  etc). 
He  11  35  f  is  no  doubt  an  echo  of  6  18— 7  42  and 
shows  that  the  unknown  author  of  He  had  2  Mace 
before  him.  The  teaching  of  the  book  represents 
the  views  of  the  Pharisees  about  the  middle  of  the 
last  cent.  BC.  A  date  about  40  BC  would  agree 
with  all  the  evidence. 

That  the  original  language  was  Gr  is  made  exceed- 
ingly likely  by  the  easy  flow  of  the  style  and  the  almost 
entire  absence  of  Hebraisms  (yet  see  8  15; 
Q  nritrlnal  9  5;  14  24).  No  scholar  of  any  standing 
v.  ungnidi  hag  pleaded  for  a  Heb  original  of  the 
Language  present  book.  Bertholdt,  however,  ar- 
gued that  the  two  letters  (1  1 — 2  18) 
were  composed  in  Heb  (or  Aram.).  Ewald  held  that  the 
2d  letter  (1  11 — 2  18)  is  from  the  Heb,  and  Sehliinkes 
that  this  applies  to  the  1st  only.  But  the  evidence  given 
by  these  scholars  is  unconvincing,  though  the  1st  letter 
is' certainly  more  Hebraic  in  style  than  the  2d,  the  con- 
trary of  what  Ewald  said. 

As  to  the  texts  and  versions,  see  1,0,  above,  where  the 
statements  apply  here  with  but  slight  qualifications. 
But  the  book  is  lacking  in  5?  as  well  as  in 
A.  In  addition  to  the  Old  Lat  text 
adopted  for  the  Vulg,  we  have  another 
Lat  text  in  Cod.  Ambrosianus,  published 
in  1824  by  Peyron;  but  this  book  is 
unrepresented  in  Sabatier's  collection  of 
Old  Lat  texts. 

Literature. — In  addition  to  the  lit.  mentioned  under 
Apocrypha  and  I  above,  and  in  the  course  of  the  present 
art.,  note  the  following  items:  Comm.  of  Moffatt  {Oxford 


10.  Text 

and 

Versions 


Apoc);  O.  Bertheau,  De  sec.  lib.  Marc,  182!)  (largely 
quoted  by  Grimm);  W.  II.  Kosters,  "  De  Polemiek  van 
net  tweede  boek  de  Mak, "  TT,  XII,  491-558;  Schlatter, 
"Jason  von  Gyrene,"  TLZ,  1893,  322;  A.  Bvichler,  Die 
Tobiaden  u.  die  Oniaden  im  II  Mak,  1889;  Wibrich,  Juden 
and  Griechen,  etc.  1895,  64;  Kamphausen  (Kautzsch,  Die 
Apoc  des  AT).  The  following  discussing  the  two  letters 
(1  1 — 2  18)  deserve  mention:  Valckenaer,  De  Aristobulo, 
38—44;  Schlunkes,  Epislolae  quae  secundo  Mace  libra  I, 
etc,  1844,  1—9;  also  Difficiliorum  locorum  epistolae,  etc, 
1847;  Graetz,  "Das  Sendschreiben  der  Palaestinenser  an 
die  aegyptischen  Gemeinden,"  etc,  Monatss.  fur  Gesch.  u. 
fVissen.  des  Judenthums,  1877,  1-10,  49-60;  A.  Biichler, 
"Das  Sendschreiben  der  Jerusalemer,"  etc,  Monatss.  far 
Gesch.  u.  Wissen.  des  Judenthums;  see  last  notice,  1897, 
481-500,  529-54);  Bruston,  "Trois  lettres  des  Juifs  de 
Palestine,"  ZATW,  X,  110-17;  W.  II.  Kosters,  "Strek- 
king  der  brieven  in  2  Mace,"  TT,  1898,  68-76;  Torrey, 
"  Die  Briefe  2  Mak,"  ZA  T  W,  1900,  225-42. 

///.  3  Maccabees. — The  name  3   Mace,  though 
occurring  in  the  oldest  MSS  and  VSS,  is  quite  un- 
suitable,  because   the   book   refers   to 

1.  Name       events  which  antedate  the  Maccabean 

age  by  about  half  a  cent.,  and  also  to 
events  in  which  the  Maccabees  took  no  part.  But 
this  book  tells  of  sufferings  and  triumphs  on  the 
part  of  loyal  Jews  comparable  to  those;  of  the 
Maccabean  period.  Perhaps  the  term  Maccabees 
was  generalized  so  as  to  denote  all  who  suffered  for 
their  faith.  Some  hold  that  the  book  was  written 
originally  as  a  kind  of  introduction  to  the  Books  of 
Mace,  which  it  precedes  as  Book  1  in  Cotton's  Five 
Books  of  Maccabees.  But  the  contents  of  the  book 
do  not,  agree  with  this  view.  Perhaps  the  title  is 
due  to  a  mistake  on  the  part  of  a  copyist. 

The  book  has  never  been  reckoned  as  canonical 
by  the  Western  church,  as  is  shown  by  the  fact  that 

it   exists   in    no    edition   of   the   Vulg 

2.  Canon-  and  was  not  included  in  the  Canon  by 
icity  the  Council  of  Trent.     It   is  for  the 

latter  reason  absent  from  the  Protes- 
tant VSS  of  the  Apoc  which  contain  but  the  Books 
of  .Mace  (1  and  2).  But  3  Mace  has  a  place  in  two 
uncials  of  the  LXX  (A  and  V)  and  also  in  the  an- 
cient (Posh)  Syr  VS  of  the  Scriptures,  and  it  is 
given  canonical  rank  in  the  Apos  Const  (canon  85). 
The  book  must  therefore  have  been  held  in  high 
esteem  in  the  early  church. 

3  Mace  is  a  historical  novel  in  which  there  Is  much 
more  romance  than  history,  and  more  silly  and  super- 
ficial writing  than  either.  It  professes 
q  Pr.ti+on+c  to  narrate  occurrences  in  the  history  of  the 
6.  contents  jews  Which  took  place  at  Jerus  and  at 
Alexandria  in  which  the  Jews  were  per- 
secuted but  in  various  ways  delivered. 

(1)  1  1 — 2  24:  After  conquering  at  Raphia  Antiochus 
III.  the  great  king  of  Syria  (224-187  BC),  Ptolemy  IV 
Philopator,  king  of  Egypt  (221-204  BC),  resolved  to 
visit  Jerus  and  to  enter  the  sanctum  ("holy  of  holies," 
vaoi,  nads)  of  the  temple  to  which  by  the  Jewish  law 
access  was  allowed  only  to  the  high  priest,  and  even  to 
him  hut  once  a  year  (Day  of  Atonement  [1  11]).  The 
Jews,  priests  and  people,  were  in  a  paroxysm  of  grief 
and  earnestly  entreated  him  to  desist,  but  he  persisted 
in  his  plan.  They  then  through  Simon,  the  high  priest, 
219-199  BC,  prayed  that  God  might  intervene  and  avert 
this  desecration.  The  prayer  is  answered,  the  king  being 
paralyzed  before  realizing  his  purpose. 

(2)  2  25-30:  Returned  to  Alexandria,  Ptolemy  is  ex- 
asperated at  the  failure  of  his  long-cherished  project  and 
resolves  to  wreak  his  vengeance  upon  the  Jews  of  Kgypt. 
He  issues  a  decree  that  all  Jews  in  Alexandria  who  re- 
fused to  bend  the  knee  to  Bacchus  should  be  deprived 
of  all  their  rights  as  citizens. 

(3)  2  31—4  21:  A  goodly  number  of  Alexandrian  Jews 
refuse  to  obey  the  royal  mandate,  whereupon  Ptolemy 
issues  an  edict  that  all  the  Jews  of  Egypt,  men,  women 
and  children,  shall  be  brought  in  chains  to  Alexandria 
and  confined  in  the  race-course  (hippodrome),  with  a 
view  to  their  wholesale  massacre.  Prior  to  the  massacre 
there  is  to  bo  a  complete  register  taken  of  the  names  of 
the  assembled  Jews.  Before  the  list  is  complete  the 
writing  materials  give  way  and  the  huge  slaughter  is 
averted.  .       ,,     ,  .      , 

(4)  4  22 — 6  21 :  The  king,  still  thirsting  for  the  blood 
of  this  people,  hits  upon  a  different  method  of  compass- 
ing their  ruin.  Five  hundred  elephants  are  intoxicated 
with  wine  and  incense  and  let  loose  upon  the  Jews  in  the 
race-course.  Here  we  have  the  principal  plot  of  the 
book  and  we  reach  the  climax  in  the  various  providential 

i    expedients,  childish  in  their  character,  of  preventing  the 


Mace,  Books  of    THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1954 


execution  of  the  king's  purpose.  The  lesson  of  it  all 
seems  to  be  tiiat  God  will  deliver  those  who  put  their 
trust  in  Him. 

(5)  6  22 — 7  23:  At  length  the  king  undergoes  a 
change  of  heart.  He  releases  the  .lews  and  restores 
them  to  all  their  lost  rights  and  honors.  In  response 
to  their  request,  he  gives  them  permission  to  slay  their 
brother-Jews  who,  in  the  hour  of  trial,  had  given  up  their 
faith.  They  put  to  death  300,  "esteeming  this  destruc- 
tion of  the  wicked  a  season  of  joy"  (7  15). 

3  Mace  is  made  up  of  a  number  of  incredible  tales,  the 
details  of  which  are  absurd  and  contradictory.  The 
beginning  of  the  book  lias  evidently  been  lost,  as  appears 
from  the  opening  words,  "Now  when  Philopator"  (<> 
ie  il'iAonai-mp,  li<>  de  Philopdtdr),  and  also  from  the  refer- 
ences to  an  earlier  part  of  the  narrative  now  lost,  e.g.: 

1  1  ("from  those  who  came  back");  1  2  ("the  plot 
afore  mentioned");  2  25  ("the  aforenamed  boon  com- 
panions"), etc. 

The  book  contains  very  little  that  is  true  history, 
notwithstanding  what  Israel  Abrahams  (see  "Litera- 
ture" to  this  sect  ion),  depending  largely 
4.  Histo-       on  Mahaffy  (The Empire  of  the  Ptole- 
ricity  mies),  says  to  the  contrary.     It  is  much 

more  manifest  than  even  in  the  case  of 

2  Mace  that  the  writer's  aim  was  to  convey  certain 
impressions  and  not  to  write  history  (see  III,  5). 

The  improbabilities  of  the  book  are  innumerable 
(see  Bissell,  The  Apoc  of  theOT,6Wf),  and  it  is 
evident  that  we  have  to  do  here  with  a  combination 
of  legends  and  fables  worked  up  in  feeble  fashion 
with  a  view  to  making  prominent  certain  ideas 
which  the  author  wishes  his  readers  to  keep  in  mind. 
Yet  behind  the  fiction  of  the  book  there  are  certain 
facts  which  prompted  much  of  what  the  writer  says. 

(1)  That  Ptolemy  IV  bore  the  character  of 
cruelty  and  capriciousness  and  effeminacy  is  borne 
out  by  Polybius  (204-121  BC)  in  his  History  and 
by  Plutarch  in  his  Life  of  Cleomenes. 

(2)  The  brief  outline  of  the  war  between  Ptolemy 
IV  and  Antiochus  III,  the  latter  being  conquered 
at  Raphia  (chs  1  f),  agrees  in  a  general  way  with 
what  has  been  written  by  Polybius,  Livy  and 
Justin. 

(3)  In  this  book,  by  the  command  of  Ptolemy, 
500  intoxicated  elephants  are  let  loose  upon  the 
Jews  brought  bound  to  the  race-course  of  Alexan- 
dria. Jos  (CAp,  II,  v)  tells  us  that  Ptolemy  VII 
Physcon,  king  of  Egypt,  145-117  BC,  had  the 
Jews  of  Alexandria,  men,  women  and  children, 
brought  bound  and  naked  to  an  inclosed  space  and 
that  he  had  let  loose  on  them  a  herd  of  elephants, 
which,  however,  turned  instead  upon  his  own  men, 
killing  a  large  number  of  them.  The  cause  of  the 
king's  action  was  that  the  Jewish  residents  of 
Alexandria  sided  with  his  foes.  In  3  Mace  the 
cause  of  the  action  of  Ptolemy  IV  was  the  failure 
of  his  project  to  enter  the  sanctum  of  the  Jerus 
temple;  this  last  perhaps  a  reflection  of  2  Mace  3  9 
ff,  where  it  is  related  that  Heliodorus  was  hindered 
from  entering  the  temple  by  a  ghostly  apparition. 
Now  these  two  incidents,  in  both  of  which  Jews 
are  attacked  by  intoxicated  elephants,  must  rest 
upon  a  common  tradition  and  have  probably  a 
nucleus  of  fact.  Perhaps,  as  Israel  Abrahams 
holds,  the  tradition  arose  from  the  action  of  the 
elephants  of  Ptolemy  in  the  Battle  of  Raphia. 
Most  writers  think  that  the  reference  is  to  some- 
thing that  occurred  in  the  reign  of  Ptolemy  VII. 

(4)  The  shutting-up  of  the  Jews  in  the  race- 
course at  Alexandria  was  not  improbably  suggested 
by  a  similar  incident  in  which  Herod  the  Great 
was  the  principal  agent. 

(5)  In  the  opinion  of  Grimm  (Cornm.,  216)  we 
have  in  the  two  festivals  (6  3b;  7  19)  and  in  the 
existence  of  the  synagogue  at  Ptolemais  an  implied 
reference  to  some  great  deliverance!  vouchsafed  to 
the  Jews. 

3  Mace  was  probably  written  by  an  Alexandrian 
Jew  at  a  time  when  the  Jews  in  and  around  Alex- 


andria were  sorely  persecuted  on  account  of  their 

religion.     The  purpose  of  the  author  seems  to  have 

been  to  comfort  those  suffering  for  the 

5.  Aim  and  faith  by  giving  examples  showing  how 
Teaching        God    stands    by    His   people,    helping 

in  all  their  trials  and  delivering 
them  out  of  the  hands  of  their  enemies.  Note 
further  the  following  points:  (1)  The  book,  unlike 
2  Mace,  is  silent  as  to  a  bodily  resurrection  and  a 
future  life,  though  this  may  be  due  to  pure  accident. 
Hades  ("AiStjs,  1  [aides)  in  4  8;  5  42;  6  31,  etc. 
appears  to  stand  only  for  death,  regarded  as  the 
end  of  all  human  life.  (2)  Yet  the  belief  in  angelic 
beings  is  clearly  implied  (see  6  18  ff).  (3)  The 
author  has  much  confidence  in  the  power  of  prayer 
(see  2  10;  2  21-24;  5  0-10.13.50  f;  6  1-15,  etc). 
(4)  The  book  lays  stress  upon  the  doctrine  that  God 
is  on  the  side  of  His  people  (4  21,  etc),  and  even 
though  they  transgress  His  commandments  He 
will  forgive  and  save  them  (2  13;  4  13,  etc). 

From  the  character  of  the  Gr,  the  interest  shown 
in  Alexandrian  Judaism,  and  the  acquaintance  dis- 
played with  Egyp  affairs  (see  I.  Abra- 

6.  Author-  hams,  op.  cit.,  39  ff),  it  may  be  in- 
ship  and  ferred  with  confidence  that  the  author 
Date  was    a    Jew    residing    in    Alexandria. 

The  superior  limit  {terminus  a  quo)  for 
the  date  is  some  time  in  the  last  cent.  BC.  Since 
the  existence  of  the  additions  to  Dnl  is  implied  (see 
Did  6  6),  the  inferior  limit  (terminus  ad  quern)  is 
some  time  before  70  AD.  If  the  temple  had  been 
destroyed,  the  continuance  of  the  temple  services 
could  not  have  been  implied  (see  1  8ff).  As  the 
book  seems  written  to  comfort  and  encourage 
Alexandrian  Jews  at  a  time  when  they  were  per- 
secuted, Ewald,  Hausrath,  Reuss  and  others  thought 
it  was  written  during  the  reign  of  the  emperor 
Caligula  (37-41  AD),  when  such  a  persecution 
took  place.  But  if  Ptolemy  is  intended  to  repre- 
sent Caligula,  it  is  strange,  as  Schurer  (GJVi,  III, 
491)  remarks,  that  the  writer  does  not  make 
Ptolemy  claim  Divine  honors,  a  claim  actually 
made  by  Caligula. 

Though  Jos  (d.  95  AD)  coidd  not  have  known  the 
book,  since  his  version  of  the  same  incidents  differs 
so  much,  yet  it  must  have  been  written  some  30 
years  before  his  death,  i.e.  before  the  destruction 
of  Jerus  and  the  temple  in  71  AD. 

That  3  Mace  was  composed  in  Gr  is  the  opinion  of  all 
scholars  and  is  proved  by  the  free,  idiomatic  and  rather 
bombastic  character  of  the  language  in  the 
LXX. 

(1)   Greek. — This  book  occurs  in  the  two 
uncials  A  and  V  (not  inBorS),  in  most  cur- 
sives and  also  in  nearly  all  edd  of  t  he  LXX . 
— The   Syr  VS    (Pesh)    reproduced    in    the 
Paris  and  London  Polyglot  and  by  Lagarde,  Lib.  Apoc. 
Vet.  Teat.     It  is  not  a  good  tr. 

(3)  Latin. — The  earliest  Lat  tr  is  that 
made  for  the  Complutensian  Polyglot. 

(4)  The  earliest  in  Eng.  is  that  of  Walter 
Lynne  (1650). 

Literature. — Besides  thecomms.by  Grimm  (the  best), 
Bissell  (Lange),  Kautzsch  and  Emmet  (Oxford  Apoc),  and 
the  arts,  in  11DH  (Fairweather,  excellent),  Eli  (Torrev, 
good),  GJV*  (Schurer),  III,  489-92;  11.1  P,  II,  iii.  216-19, 
let  the  following  be  noted:  A.  Hausrath,  A  Hist  of  XT 
Times,  1895,  II.  70  ff;  Wibrich,  Juden  u.  Griechen;  Abra- 
hams, "The  Third  Book  of  the  Mace,"  JQH,  IX,  1897, 
39-58;  A.  Biichlcr,  Die  Tobiaden  u.  die  Oniaden,  1899, 
172-212.  Both  Abrahams  and  Buchler  defend  the  his- 
toricity of  some  parts  of  3  Mace;  Wibrich,  "  Der  histori- 
scheKerndes  III  Makk,"  Hermes,  Bd.  39,  1904,  244-58. 
For  KT  see  (1)  Henry  Cotton,  The  Five  Hooks  of  Mace 
(Cotton  calls  it  First  Hook  of  Marx);  (2)  W.  K.  Churton, 
The  V ncanonical  and  Apocryphal  Scriptures,  and  (3)  Bax- 
ter, The  Apoc,  Gr  and  Eng. 


7.  Original 
Language 

(2)    Syriac. 


8.  Text  and 
Versions 


IV.  4  Maccabees. — 4   Mace  is   a  philosophical 

treatise  or  discourse  on  the  supremacy  of  pious 
reason  (  =  religious  principle)  in  the  vir- 

1.  Name  tuousman.  The  oldest  title  of  the  book, 
4  Mace  (MaKKa/3cuW  5,  Makkabaion  d, 

[4]),  occurs  in  the  earliest  extant  MSS  of  the  LXX 


1955 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA    Mace,  Books  of 


(X ,  A,  V,  etc),  in  the  list  of  the  Cod.  Claromontanus 
(3(1  cent.?),  the  Catalogue  of  the  Sixty  Canonical 
Books  (5th  cent.?)  and  the  Synopsis  of  Athanasius 
(9th  cent.).  It  obtained  this  name  from  the  fact 
that  it  illustrates  and  enforces  its  thesis  by  examples 
from  the  history  of  the  Maccabees.  Some  early 
Christian  writers,  believing  4  Mace  to  be  the  work 
of  Jos  (see  IV,  5),  gave  it  a  corresponding  title. 
Eusebius  and  Jerome,  who  ascribe  the  book  to  Jos, 
speak  of  it  under  the  name  of:  A  Discourse  con- 
cerning Die  Supreme  Power  of  Reason. 

Though  absent  from  the  Vulg,  and  therefore  from 
the  Romanist  Canon  and  from  Protestant  VSS  of 
its  Apoc,  4  Mace  occurs  in  the  prin- 
2.  Canon-      cipal    MSS  ^  (X,  A,    V,  etc)    and   edd 
icity  (Fritzsche,  Swete,  not  Teschendorf)  of 

the  LNN,  showing  it  was  highly  es- 
teemed and  perhaps  considered  canonical  byal  least 
some  early  Christian  Fathers. 

This  book  is  a  philosophical  disquisition  in  the  form 

of  a  sermon  on  the  question  "Whet tier  pious  reason  is 

absolute   master   of   the   passions"    (1   1). 

o     Pnnt^ntc        (1)   1   1—12:    The  writer  first  of  all  states 

o.  isumeiub   his   theme   ami   tne  method  in  which  he 

intends  to  treat  it. 

(2)  1  13 — 3  18:  He  defines  his  terms  and  endeavors 
from  general  principles  to  show  that  pious  reason  does 
of  right  rule  the  passions. 

(3)  3  l'.>  to  end  of  book:  He  tries  to  prove  the  same 
proposition  from  the  lives  of  the  Maccabean  martyrs. 
These  historical  illustrations  are  based  on  2  Mace  6  18 — 
7  42  (cf  3   Mace  6). 

Because  the  book  is  written  as  a  discourse  or  sermon 
and  is  largely  addressed  to  an  apparent  audience  (1  17; 
2  1-1;  13  H)';  18  4),  Freudenthal  and  others  think  we 
have  here  an  example  of  a  Jewish  sermon  delivered  as 
here  written.  But  Jewish  preachers  based  their  dis- 
courses on  Scripture  texts  and  their  sermons  were  more 
concise  and  arresting  than  this  book. 

The  author's    philosophical    standpoint  is    that 

of  Stoicism,  viz.  that  in  the  virtuous  man  reason 

dominates    passion.     His    doctrine   of 

4.  Teach-      four   cardinal   virtues   (<ppbvr)<ns,   phro- 
ing  nesis,    Sikolloo-vvt),    dikaiosune,    av5peiat 

andreia,  awqbpoo-vvri,  sophrosune,  '"Provi- 
dence," "Justice,"  "Fortitude,"  "Temperance"  [1 
18]),  is  also  derived  from  Stoicism.  Though,  how- 
ever, he  sets  out  as  if  he  were  a  true  Stoic,  he  pro- 
ceeds to  work  out  his  discourses  in  orthodox  Jewish 
fashion.  His  all-dominating  reason  is  that  which  is 
guided  by  the  Divinely  revealed  law,  that  law  for 
the  faithful  observing  of  which  the  martyrs  died. 
The  four  cardinal  virtues  are  but  forms  of  that  true 
wisdom  which  is  to  be  obtained  only  through  the 
Mosaic  law  (7  15-18).  Moreover,  the  passions 
are  not,  as  Stoicism  taught,  to  be,  annihilated,  but 
regulated  (1  61;  3  5),  since  God  has  planted  them 
(2  21). 

The  author's  views  approach  those  of  Pharisaism. 
(1)  He  extols  the  self-sacrificing  devotion  to  the 
law  exhibited  by  the  Maccabean  martyrs  men- 
tioned in  3  9  to  the  end  of  the  book.  (2)  He  be- 
lieves in  a  resurrection  from  the  dead.  The  souls 
of  the  righteous  will  enjoy  hereafter  ceaseless 
fellowship  with  God  (9  8;  15  2;  18  5),  but  the 
wicked  will  endure  the  torment  of  fire  forever  and 
ever  (10  11.15;  12  12;  13  14).  Nothing,  how- 
ever, is  said  of  the  Pharisees'  doctrine  of  a  bodily 
resurrection  which  2  Mace,  a  Pharisaic  document 
(see  II,  6,  [6],  above),  clearly  teaches.  (3)  The  mar- 
tyrdom of  the  faithful  atones  for  the  sins  of  the 
people  (6  24;  17  19-21:  cf  Rom  3  25). 

According  to    Eusebius    (HE,   III,    6),    Jerome 

(De   Viris  Illust.,   xiii;    C  Peleg,  ii.G),  Suidas   (Lex 

'la>cn77ros,    Iosepas)    and     other    early 

5.  Author-     writers,  Jos  is  the  author  of  this  book, 
ship  and         and  in  Gr  edd  of  his  works  it  const i- 
Date  tutes  the  last  chapter  with  the  head- 
ing:     4>\a/3.    'loarjirov     els     MaKKa/laLovs 

X670S,  7)  wepl  avTOKpdropos  \oyiap.ou,  Phlah.  lostpou  eis 
Makkabaious    logos,  e    peri    autokrdtoros    logismoii, 


"The  Discourse  of  Flavius  Josephus:  or  concerning 
the  Supreme  Power  of  Reason"  (so  Niese,  Bekker, 
Dindorf,  etc).  But  this  tradition  is  negatived  by 
the  style  and  thought,  which  differ  completely  from 
those;  found  in  the  genuine  writings  of  that  Jewish 
historian.  Besides  this,  the  author  of  the  book 
makes  large  use  of  2  Mace,  of  which  Jos  was  ig- 
norant. Moreover,  there  are  traditions  equally 
ancient  of  a  contrary  kind. 

The  author  must  have  been  a  Jew  and  he  prob- 
ably belonged  to  the  Pharisee  party  (see  IV,  7). 
He  was  also  a  Hellenist,  for  he  reveals  tin;  influence 
of  Gr  thought  more  than  any  other  apocryphal 
writer.  He  was  also,  it  would  appear,  a  resident 
of  Alexandria,  for  the  earliest  notices  of  it  occur  in 
literature  having  an  Alexandrian  origin,  and  the 
author  makes  considerable  use  of  2  Mace,  which 
emanated  from  Alexandria. 

It  is  impossible  definitely  to  fix  the  date  of  the 
book.  But  it  was  certainly  written  before;  the 
destruction  of  the  temple  in' 70  AD  and  after  the 
composition  of  2  Mace,  on  which  it  largely  depends. 
A  date  in  the  first  half  of  the  1st,  cent,  of  our  era 
would  suit  all  the  requirements  of  the  case. 

The  book  was  certainly  written  in  Gr,  as  all  scholars 

agree.     It  employs  many  of  the  terms  of  Gr  philosophy 

and    it    bears    the    general   characteristics 

6.  Original  of  fcne  (!r  spoken  and  written  at  Alexan- 
Lan      a  dria  at  the  commencement  of  the  Christian 

(1)   Greek — This  book  occurs  in  the  prin- 

cipal    MSS    (X,    A,    V,   etc)    and    printed    edd    (Grabe, 

Breitinger,  Apel,  Fritzsche,  Swete  [God.  A  with  variants 

of  X  and  V]  and  Baxter,  The  Apoc,  Gr  and 

7.  Text  and  Eng.),  also  in  various  Jos  MSS  and  most 
V-„-  _  _  edd  of  Jos,  including  Naber,  but  not  Niese. 
versions  (2)   Latin.— No   Old   Lat  VS   lias  come 

down  to  us. 

(3)  Si/riac. — The;  Pesh  text  is  printed  in  Cod.  Ambros. 
(Ceriani)  and  by  Bensley  from  a  MS  in  The  Fourth  Book 
(if  Mace  and  Kindred  Documents  in  Syr  (agrees  mostly 
with  Cod.  A).  Sixtus  Senensis  {Bibliotheca  Sancta,  1566, 
1.  39)  speaks  of  having  seen  another  4  Mace.  But  this 
was  probably  "simply  a  reproduction  of  Jos"  (Schiirer, 
HJP,  II,  iii,  14). 

Literature. — Besides  the  lit.  mentioned  under  the 
other  books  of  Mace,  under  Apocrypha,  and  in  the 
course  of  the  present  art.,  note  the  following:  The;  comms. 
of  Grimm  (excellent;  the  only  one  on  the  complete  book) 
and  Deissmann  (in  Kautzsch,  Apok  des  AT,  brief  but 
up  to  date  and  good);  the  valuable  monograph  by 
Freudenthal:  Die  Flavius  Josephus  beigelegte  Schrift 
ilber  die  Herrschafft  der  Vernunft  (IV.  Makkabaerbuch) 
Untersucht,  1869.  See;,  besides  the  arts,  in  IIDH  (Fair- 
weather);  EB  (Torrey);  Gfrorer,  Philo,  etc,  II,  1831,  173- 
200;  Dahne,  Gesch.  Darstellung  der  jiid.-alex.  Religions- 
Philosophie,  II,  1834,  UK)-!)1.);  and  the  History  of  Ewald, 
IV,  <;:-!2  if.  There  are  ETs  in  Cotton,  The  Fire.  Bonks 
of  Marc,  Oxford,  1832;  W.  R.  Churton,  The  Uncanonical 
and  Apocryphal  Scripture;  Baxter,  The  Apoc,  Gr  and 
Eng. 

V.  5  Maccabees. — The  designation  5  Mace  was 

first  given  to  the  bexik  (now  commonly  so  e'alle'd) 

by  Cotton  (The  Five  Books  of  Mace  in 

1.  Name        Eng.,  1832),  and  it  has  been  perpet- 

uated by  Dr.  Samuel  Davidsem  (Intro 
to  the  0T,  III,  465);  Ginsburg  (Kitto's  Cyc.  of  Bit,. 
Lit.);  Bissell  (Apoc  of  the  0T)  and  other's.  It  has 
been  called  the  Arab.  2  Mace  (so  in  the  Paris  and 
London  Polyglot),  and  the1  Arab.  Mace.  The>  5 
Mace  in  the  Translatio  Syra,  Peshitto,  edited  by 
Ceriani,  is  really  nothing  meire1  than  a  Syr  VS  of  the1 

6th  book  of  Jos,  The  Wars  of  the  Jars. 

2.  Canon-         This  book  has  never  been  recognized 
icity  as  canonical  by  either  Jews  or  Chris- 
tians. 

The  book  is  ostensibly  a  history  of  the  Jews  from  the' 
attempt  of  Heliodoreis  to  plunder  the  temple  (186  HO 

to  about  (i  BC.  It  is  really  nothing  more; 
1  r>~„+«,,+^  tlian  a  clumsy  compilation  from  1  and  2 
6.  moments  ^lacc  anel  Jos  (except  ch  12,  which  is  the 

onlyoriginal  part ,  and  this  teems  with  errors 
of  various  kinds);  a  note;  at  the  end  of  ch  16  says  1  I— 
16  26  is  calle;d  The  Second  Book  of  Mace  according  to  the 
Tr  of  the.  Hebrews.  Ch  19  e-loses  with  the  events  narrated 
at  the  end  of  1  Mace:.  The;  rest  of  the;  be>e>k  (e^hs  20- 
59)  folleiws  Jos   (B.l,  I  f)  e-le>sely.      Perhaps  the  original 


Macedonia 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1956 


work  ended  with  ch  19.  Ginsburg  (op.  cit.,  Ill,  17). 
Bissell  (Apoc,  (>:5<))  and  Wcllhausen  (Der  arab.  Josippux) 
give  useful  tables  showing  the  dependence  of  the  various 
parts  of  5  Mace  on  the  sources  used. 

In  so  far  as  this  book  repeats  the  contents  of  1 

and  2  Mace  and  Jos,  it-  has  the  historical  value  of 

the,   sources   used.     But   in    itself    the 

4.  Histo-  book  has  no  historical  worth.  The 
ricity  author  calls   Rom   and   Egyp  soldiers 

"Macedonians,"  Mt.  Gerizim,  "Jeze- 
bel," Samaria  "Sebaste,"  Shechem  "Neapolis"  or 
"Naploris."  Herod  and  Pilate  exchange  names. 
Some  of  the  mistakes  may  of  course  be  traceable 
to  the  tr. 

The  original  work  was  almost  certainly  composed 
in  Heb,  though  we  have  no  trace  of  a  Heb  text  (so 

Ginsburg,  op.  cit.,  and  Bissell).     This 

5.  Original    conclusion    is   supported    by   the  nu- 
Language       merous  Hebraisms  which  show  them- 
selves even  in  a  double  tr.     The  Pent 

is  called  the  "Torah,"  the  Heb  Scriptures  are  spoken 
of  as  "the  twenty-four  books,"  the  temple  is  "the 
house  of  God"  or  "the  holy  house,"  Judaea  is  "the 
land  of  the  holy  house"  and  Jerus  is  "the  city  of  the 
holy  house."  These  and  like  examples  make  it 
probable  that  the  writer  was  a  Jew  and  that  the 
language  he  used  was  Heb.  Zunz  (Die  gotlesdienst- 
lichcn  Vortrdge,  1832,  140  ff),  Graetz  (Gcschichte, 
V,  281)  and  Dr.  S.  Davidson  (op.  cit.,  465)  say  the 
book  was  written  in  Arab,  from  Heb  memoirs. 
According  to  Zunz  (I.e.)  and  Graetz  (I.e.)  the  Jew- 
ish history  of  Joseph  ben  Gorion  (Josippon),  the 
"pseudo-Josephus"  (10th  cent.),  is  but  a  Heb  re- 
cension of  5  Mace  (the  Arab.  2  Mace).  On  the 
contrary,  Wcllhausen  (op.  cit.)  and  Schtirer  (GJV*, 
1,    159  f)   maintain   that   the  shorter  narrative  in 

5  Mace  represents  the  extent  of  the  original  com- 
position far  more  correctly  than  the  Heb  history  of 
Josippon  (which  ranges  from  Adam  to  70  AD),  and 
than  other  recensions  of  the  same  history. 

The  book  was  compiled  for  the  purpose  of  con- 
soling the  Jews  in  their  sufferings  and  encouraging 
them  to  be  stedfast  in  their  devotion 

6.  Aim  and  to  the  Mosaic  law.  The  same  end 
Teaching       was  contemplated  in  2,  3  and  4  Mace 

and  in  a  lesser  degree  in  1  Mace,  but 
the  author  or  compiler  of  the  present  treatise  wished 
to  produce  a  work  which  would  appeal  in  the  first 
instance  and  chiefly  to  Heb  (or  Arab.?)  readers. 
The  author  believes  in  a  resurrection  of  the  body, 
in  a  future  life  and  a  final  judgment  (5  13.43  f). 
The  righteous  will  dwell  in  future  glory,  the  wicked 
will  be  hereafter  punished  (5  49.50  f;    59  14). 

We  have  no  means  of  ascertaining  who  the  author 
was,  but  he  must  have  been  a  Jew  and  he  lived  some 

time  after  the  destruction  of  the  temple 

7.  Author-  in  70  AD  (see  9  5;  21  30;  22  9;  53 
ship  and  8,  though  Ginsburg  regards  these 
Date  passages   as   late   additions   and  fixes 

the  date  of  the  original  work  at  about 

6  BC,  when  the  history  ends).  The  author  makes 
large  use  of  Jos  (d.  95  AD),  which  also  favors  the 
lower  date. 

The  Arab,  text  of  the  book  and  a  Lat  tr  by  Gabriel 

Sionita  is  printed  in  the  Paris  and  London   Polyglots. 

No  other  ancient  text  has  come  down  to 

8.  Text  and  us.  Cotton  (op.  cit.,  xxx)  errs  in  saying 
Versions         that  there  is  a  Syr  VS  of  the  book. 

Literature. — The  most  important  lit.  has  been 
mentioned  in  the  course  of  the  art.  The  Eng.  and 
earlier  Ger.  edd  of  Schtirer,  GJ  V,  do  not  help.  The  only 
Eng.  tr  is  that  by  Cotton  made  directly  from  the  Lat  of 
Gabriel  Sionita.  Bissell  says  that  a  Fr.  VS  appears  as 
an  appendix  in  the  Bible  of  de  Sacy;  not,  however,  in  the 
Nouvelle  Edition  (1837)  in  the  possession  of  the  present 
writer. 

T.  WlTTON  Davies 

MACEDONIA,  mas-e-dd'ni-a  (Mai«8ovia,  Make- 
donia,  ethnic  Mo,k«Swv,  Makcdon): 


I.     The  Macedonian  People  and  Land 
11.     History    (if   Macedonia 

1.  Philip  and  Alexander 

2.  Roman  intervention 
15.    Roman  Conquest 

4.  Macedonia  a  Roman  Province 

5.  Later  History 

III.  Paul  and  Macedonia 

1.  Paul's  First  Visit 

2.  Paul's  Second  Visit 

3.  Paul's  Third  Visit 

4.  Paul's  Later  Visits 

IV.  The  Macedonian   Church 

1.  Prominence  of  Women 

2.  Marked  Characteristics 

3.  Its  Members 
Literature 

A  country  lying  to  the  N.  of  Greece,  afterward 
enlarged  and  formed  into  a  Rom  province;  it  is  to 
the  latter  that  the  term  always  refers  when  used 
in  the  NT. 

/.  The  Macedonian  People  and  Land. — Eth- 
nologists differ  about  the  origin  of  the  Macedonian 
race  and  the  degree  of  its  affinity  to  the  Hellenes. 
But  we  find  a  well-marked  tradition  in  ancient  times 
that  the  race  comprised  a  Hellenic  element  and  a 
non-Hellenic,  though  Aryan,  element,  closely  akin 
to  the  Phrygian  and  other  Thracian  stocks.  The 
dominant  race,  the  Macedonians  in  the  narrower 
sense  of  the  term,  including  the  royal  family,  which 


Coin  of  Macedonia. 

was  acknowledged  to  be  Gr  and  traced  its  descent 
through  the  Temenids  of  Argos  back  to  Heracles 
(Herod,  v. 22),  settled  in  the  fertile  plains  about  the 
lower  Haliacmon  (Karasu  or  Vistritza)  and  Axius 
(Vardar),  to  the  N.  and  N.W.  of  the  Thermaic 
Gulf.  Their  capital,  which  was  originally  at  Edessa 
or  Aegae  (Vodhena),  was  afterward  transferred  to 
Fella  by  Philip  II.  The  other  and  older  element — 
the  Lyncestians,  Orestians,  Pelagonians  and  other 
tribes — were  pushed  back  northward  and  westward 
into  the  highlands,  where  they  struggled  for  gen- 
erations to  maintain  their  independence  and  weak- 
ened the  Macedonian  state  by  constant  risings  and 
by  making  common  cause  with  the  wild  hordes  of 
Illyrians  and  Thracians,  with  whom  we  find  the 
Macedonian  kings  in  frequent  conflict.  In  order 
to  maintain  their  position  they  entered  into  a  good 
understanding  from  time  to  time  with  the  states  of 
Greece  or  acknowledged  temporarily  Pers  suze- 
rainty, and  thus  gradually  extended  the  sphere  of 
their  power. 

//.  History  of  Macedonia. — Herodotus  (viii.137- 
39)  traces  the  royal  line  from  Perdiccas  I  through 
Argaeus,  Philip  I,  Aeropus,  Alcetas  and  Amyntas  I 
to  Alexander  I,  who  was  king  at  the  time  of  the 
Pers  invasions  of  Greece.  He  and  his  son  and 
grandson,  Perdiccas  II  and  Archelaus,  did  much  to 
consolidate  Macedonian  power,  but  the  death  of 
Archelaus  (399  BC)  was  followed  by  40  years  of 
disunion  and  weakness. 

With  the  accession  of  Philip  II,  son  of  Amyntas 
II,  in  359  BC,  M.  came  under  the  rule  of  a  man 
powerful  alike  in  body  and  in  mind,  an  able  gen- 
eral and  an  astute  diplomatist,  one,  moreover,  who 
started  out  with  a  clear  perception  of  the  end  at 
which  he  must  aim,  the  creation  of  a  great  national 
army  and  a  nation-state,  and  worked  consistently 


1957 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Macedonia 


and  untiringly  throughout  his  reign  of  23  years  to 

gain    that    object.     He    welded    the    Macedonian 

tribes  into  a  single    nation,   won   by 

1.  Philip  force  and  fraud  the  important  posi- 
and  tions  of  Amphipolis,  Pydna,  Potidaea, 
Alexander     Olynthus,  Abdera  and  Maronea,  and 

secured  a  plentiful  supply  of  gold  by 
founding  Philippi  on  the  site  of  Crenides.  Grad- 
ually extending  his  rule  over  barbarians  and  Greeks 
alike,  he  finally,  after  the  battle  of  Chaeronea  (338 
BC),  secured  his  recognition  by  the  Greeks  them- 
selves as  captain-general  of  the  Hellenic  states  and 
leader  of  a  Graeco-Macedonian  crusade  against 
Persia.  On  the  eve  of  this  projected  eastern  ex- 
pedition, however,  he  was  assassinated  by  order 
of  his  dishonored  wife  Olympias  (336  BC),  whose 
son,  Alexander  the  Great,  succeeded  to  the  throne. 
After  securing  his  hold  on  Thrace,  Illyria  and 
Greece,  Alexander  turned  eastward  and,  in  a  series 
of  brilliant  campaigns,  overthrew  the  Pers  empire. 
The  battle  of  the  Granicus  (334  BC)  was  followed 
by  the  submission  or  subjugation  of  most  of  Asia 
Minor.  By  the  battle  of  Issus  (333),  in  which 
Darius  himself  was  defeated,  Alexander's  way  was 
opened  to  Phoenicia  and  Egypt;  Darius'  second 
defeat,  at  Arbela  (331),  sealed  the  fate  of  the  Pers 
power.  Babylon,  Susa,  Persepolis  and  Ecbatana 
were  taken  in  turn,  and  Alexander  then  pressed 
eastward  through  Hyrcania,  Aria,  Arachosia,  Bac- 
tria  and  Sogdiana  to  India,  which  he  conquered 
as  far  as  the  Hyphasis  (Sutlej)'.  thence  he  returned 
through  Gedrosia,  Carmania  and  Persis  to  Babylon, 
to  make  preparations  for  the  conquest  of  Arabia. 
A  sketch  of  his  career  is  given  in  1  Mace  1  1-7, 
where  he  is  spoken  of  as  "Alexander  the  Mace- 
donian, the  son  of  Philip,  who  came  out  of  the  land 
of  Chittim"  (ver  1):  his  invasion  of  Persia  is  also 
referred  to  in  1  Mace  6  2,  where  he  is  described 
as  "the  Macedonian  king,  who  reigned  first  among 
the  Greeks,"  i.e.  the  first  who  united  in  a  single 
empire  all  the  Gr  states,  except  those  which  lay 
to  the  \Y.  of  the  Adriatic.  It  is  the  conception  of 
the  Macedonian  power  as  the  deadly  foe  of  Persia 
which  is  responsible  for  the  description  of  Hainan 
in  Ad  Est  16  10  as  a  Macedonian,  "an  alien  in 
truth  from  the  Pers  blood,"  and  for  the  attribution 
to  him  of  a  plot  to  transfer  the  Pers  empire  to  the 
Macedonians  (ver  14),  and  this  same  thought  ap- 
pears in  the  LXX  rendering  of  the  Ileb  Agagite 
C"mX,  'dghdghi)  in  Est  9  24  as  Macedonian 
(Makedon) . 

Alexander  died  in  June  323  BC,  and  his  empire 

fell  a  prey  to  the  rivalries  of  his  chief  generals  (1 

Mace  1  9);    after  a  period  of  struggle 

2.  Roman  and  chaos,  three  powerful  kingdoms 
Intervention  were  formed,  taking  their  names  from 

Macedonia,  Syria  and  Egypt.  Even 
in  Syria,  however,  Macedonian  influences  remained 
strong,  and  we  find  Macedonian  troops  in  the  serv- 
ice of  the  Seleucid  monarchs  (2  Mace  8  20).  In 
215  King  Philip  V,  son  of  Demetrius  II  and  suc- 
cessor of  Antigonus  Doson  (229-220  BC),  formed 
an  alliance  with  Hannibal,  who  had  defeated  the 
Rom  forces  at  Lake  Trasimene  (217)  and  at  Cannae 
(216),  and  set  about  trying  to  recover  Illyria. 
After  some  years  of  desultory  and  indecisive  war- 
fare, peace  was  concluded  in  205,  Philip  binding 
himself  to  abstain  from  attacking  the  Rom  pos- 
sessions on  the  E.  of  the  Adriatic.  The  Second 
Macedonian  War,  caused  by  a  combined  attack  of 
Antiochus  III  of  Syria  and  Philip  of  Macedon  on 
Egypt,  broke  out  in  200  and  ended  3  years  later  in 
the  crushing  defeat  of  Philip's  forces  by  T.  Quinctius 
Elamininus  at  Cynoscephalae  in  Thessaly  (cf  1 
Mace  8  5).  By  the  treaty  which  followed  this 
battle,  Philip  surrendered  his  conquests  in  Greece, 
Illyria,  Thrace,  Asia  Minor  and  the  Aegean,  gave 


up  his  fleet,  reduced  his  army  to  5,000  men,  and 
undertook  to  declare  no  war  and  conclude  no  alli- 
ance without  Rom  consent. 

In  179  Philip  was  succeeded  by  his  son  Perseus,  who 
at  once  renewed  the  Rom  alliance,  but  sot  to  work  to  con- 
solidate  and  extend    his   power.     In    172 

3.  Roman  war  again  broke  out,  and  after  several  Rom 
pnn  t  reverses  the  consul  Lucius  Aemilius  Pau- 
vuuuue&i        ius   decisively  defeated   the    Macedonians 

at  Pydna  in  168  BC  (cf  1  Mace  8  5, 
where  Perseus  is  called  "king  of  Chittim").  The  king- 
ship was  abolished  and  Perseus  was  banished  to  Italy. 
The  Macedonians  were  declared  free  and  autonomous; 
their  land  was  divided  into  four  regions,  with  their  capi- 
tals at  Amphipolis,  Thessalonica,  Pella  and  Pelagonia 
respectively,  and  each  of  them  was  governed  by  its  own 
council;  commercium  and  connubium  were  forbidden 
between  them  and  the  gold  and  silver  mines  were  closed. 
A  tribute  was  to  be  paid  annually  to  the  Rom  treasury, 
amounting  to  half  the  land  tax  hitherto  exacted  by  the 
Macedonian  kings. 

But  this  compromise  between  freedom  and  subjection 
could  not  be  of  long  duration,  and  after  the  revolt  of 

Andriscus,  the  pseudo-Philip,  was  quelled 

4.  Mace-  (148  BC),  M.  was  constituted  a  Bom 
donia  a  province  and  enlarged  by  the  addition  of 
•p  parts  of  Illyria,  Epirus,  the  Ionian  islands 
^um,n  and  Thessaly.  Each  year  a  governor  was 
Province  dispatched  from  Borne  witli  supreme  mili- 
tary and  judicial  powers;   the  partition  fell 

into  abeyance  and  communication  within  the  province 
was  improved  by  the  const  ruction  of  the  Via  Egnatia  from 
Dyrrhachium  to  Thessalonica,  whence  it  was  afterward 
continued  eastward  to  the  Nestus  and  the  Hellespont. 
In  14(5  the  Achaeans,  who  had  declared  war  on  Borne, 
were  crushed  by  Q.  Caecilius  Metellus  and  B.  Mummius, 
Corinth  was  sacked  and  destroyed,  the  Achaean  league 
wras  dissolved,  and  Greece,  under  the  name  of  Achaea, 
was  made  a  province  and  placed  under  the  control  of  the 
governor  of  M.  In  27  BC,  when  the;  administration  of 
the  provinces  was  divided  between  Augustus  and  the  Sen- 
ate, M.  and  Achaea  fell  to  the  share  of  the  latter  (Strabo, 
p.  840;  Dio  Cassias  liii.12)  and  were  governed  separately 
by  ex-praetors  sent  out  annually  with  the  title  of  pro- 
consul. In  15  AD,  however,  senatorial  mismanagement 
had  brought  the  provinces  to  the  verge  of  ruin,  and  they 
were  transferred  to  Tiberius  (Tacitus,  Annal.s,  i.76), 
who  united  them  under  the  government  of  a  Irgatun 
Augusti  pro  praetore  until,  in  44  AD,  Claudius  restored 
them  to  the  Senate  (Suetonius,  Claudius  25;  Dio  Cassius 
lx.24).  It  is  owing  to  this  close  historical  and  geographical 
connection  that  we  find  M.  and  Achaea  frequently  men- 
tioned together  in  the  NT,  M.  being  always  placed  first 
(Acts  19  21;  Bom  15  26;  2  Cor  9  2;  1  Thess  1  7.8). 
Diocletian  (284-305  AD)  detached  from  M.  Thessaly 
and  the  Illyrian  coast  lands  and  formed  them  into  two 
provinces,  the  latter  under  the  name  of 
5     Later  Epirus  Nova.     Toward  the  end  of  the  4th 

ji.  cent,   what  remained   of   M.   was   broken 

.History  up  into  two  provinces,    Macedonia   prima 

and  Macedonia  seeunda  or  salutaris,  and 
when  in  395  the  Bom  world  was  divided  into  the  western 
and  eastern  empires,  M.  was  included  in  the  latter. 
During  the  next  few  years  it  was  overrun  and  plundered 
by  the  Goths  under  Alaric,  and  later,  in  the  latter  half  of 
the  6th  cent.,  immense  numbers  of  Slavonians  settled 
there.  In  the  10th  cent,  a  large  part  of  it  was  under 
Bulgarian  rule,  and  afterward  colonies  of  various  Asiatic 
tribes  were  settled  there  by  the  Byzantine  emperors. 
In  1204  it  became  a  Lat  kingdom  under  Boniface,  mar- 
quis of  Monferrat,  but  20  y^ears  later  Theodore,  the  Gr 
despot  of  Epirus,  founded  a  Gr  empire  of  Thessalonica. 
During  the  2d  half  of  the  14th  cent,  the  greater  part  of 
it  was  part  of  the  Servian  dominions,  but  in  1430  Thessa- 
lonica fell  before  the  Ottoman  Turks,  and  from  that  time 
down  to  the  year  1913  M.  has  formed  part  of  the  Turk- 
ish empire.  Its  history  tints  accounts  for  the  very  mixed 
character  of  its  population,  which  consists  chieily  of 
Turks,  Albanians,  Greeks  and  Bulgarians,  but  has  in  it 
a  considerable  element  of  Jews,  Gypsies,  Vlachs,  Servians 
and  other  races. 

///.  Paul  and  Macedonia. — In  the  narrative  of 
Paul's  journeys  as  given  us  in  Acts  13-28  anil  in 
the  Pauline  Epp.,  M.  plays  a  prominent  part.  The 
apostle's  relations  with  the  churches  of  Philippi, 
Thessalonica,  and  Beroea  will  be  found  discussed 
under  those  several  headings;  here  we  will  merely 
recount  in  outline  his  visits  to  the  province. 

On  his  2d  missionary  journey  Paul  came  to  Troas, 
and  from  there  sailed  with  Silas,  Timothy  and  Luke 
to  Neapolis,  the  nearest  Macedonian 
1.  Paul's  seaport,  in  obedience  to  the  vision  of  a 
First  Visit  Macedonian  (whom  Ramsay  identifies 
with  Luke:  see  s.v.  "Philippi")  urging 
him  to  cross  to  M.  and  preach  the  gospel  there 


Macedonia 
Machpelah 


TIIIO  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1958 


(Acts  16  9).  From  Noapolis  ho  journeyed  inland 
to  Philippi,  which  is  described  as  "a  city  of  M.,  the 
first  of  the  district"  (ver  12).  Thence  Paul  and 
his  two  companions  (for  Luke  appears  to  have 
remained  in  Philippi  for  the  next  5  years)  traveled 
along  the  Egn at ian  road,  passing  through  Amphip- 
olis  and  Apollonia,  to  Thessalonica,  which,  though 
a  "free  city,"  and  therefore  technically  exempt 
from  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Rom  governor,  was 
practically  the  provincial  capital.  Driven  thence 
by  the  hostility  of  the  Jews,  the  evangelists  preached 
in  Beroea,  where  Silas  and  Timothy  remained  for  a 
short  time  after  a  renewed  outbreak  of  Jewish  ani- 
mosity had  forced  Paul  to  leave  M.  for  the  neigh- 
boring province  of  Achaia  (Acts  17  14).  Although 
he  sent  a  message  to  his  companions  to  join  him 
with  all  speed  at  Athens  (ver  15),  yet  so  great  was 
his  anxiety  for  the  welfare  of  the  newly  founded 
Macedonian  churches  that  he  sent  Timothy  back 
to  Thessalonica  almost  immediately  (1  Thess  3 
1.2),  and  perhaps  Silas  to  some  other  part  of  M., 
nor  did  they  again  join  him  until  after  he  had  settled 
for  some  time  in  Corinth  (Acts  18  5;  1  Thess  3 
6).  The  rapid  extension  of  the  Christian  faith  in 
M.  at  this  time  may  be  judged  from  the  phrases 
used  by  Paul  in  his  1st  Ep.  to  the  Thess.,  the  ear- 
liest of  his  extant  letters,  written  during  this  visit 
to  Corinth.  He  there  speaks  of  the  Thessalonian 
converts  as  being  an  example  "to  all  that  believe 
in  M.  and  in  Achaia"  (1  7),  and  he  commends  their 
love  "toward  all  the  brethren  that  are  in  all  M." 
(4  10).  Still  more  striking  are  the  words,  "From 
you  hath  sounded  forth  the  word  of  the  Lord,  not 
only  in  M.  and  Achaia,  but  in  every  place  your 
faith  to  God-ward  is  gone  forth"  (1  8). 

On  his  3d  missionary  journey,  the  apostle  paid 
two  further  visits  to  M.     During  the  course  of  a 

long  stay  at  Ephesus  he  laid  plans  for 
2.  Paul's  a  2d  journey  through  M.  and  Achaia, 
Second  and   dispatched    two   of    his   helpers, 

Visit  Timothy  and  Erastus,  to  M.  to  prepare 

for  his  visit  (Acts  19  21.22).  Some 
time  later,  after  the  uproar  at  Ephesus  raised  by 
Demetrius  and  his  fellow-silversmiths  (vs  23-41), 
Paul  himself  set  out  for  M.  (20  1).  Of  this  visit 
Luke  gives  us  a  very  summary  account,  telling  us 
merely  that  Paul,  "when  he  had  gone  through  those 
parts,  and  had  given  them  much  exhortation, 
.  .  .  .  came  into  Greece"  (ver  2);  but  from  2  Cor, 
written  from  M.  (probably  from  Philippi)  during 
the  course  of  this  visit,  we  learn  more  of  the  apos- 
tle's movements  and  feelings.  While  at  Ephesus, 
Paul  had  changed  his  plans.  His  intention  at  first 
had  been  to  travel  across  the  Aegean  Sea  to  Corinth, 
to  pay  a  visit  from  there  to  M.  and  to  return  to 
Corinth,  so  as  to  sail  direct  to  Syria  (2  Cor  1  15. 
16).  But  by  the  time  at  which  he  wrote  the  1st 
Ep.  to  the  Cor,  probably  near  the  end  of  his  stay 
at  Ephesus,  he  had  made  up  his  mind  to  go  to 
Corinth  by  way  of  M.,  as  we  have  seen  that  he 
actually  did  (1  Cor  16  5.6).  From  2  Cor  2  13 
we  learn  that  he  traveled  from  Ephesus  to  Troas, 
where  he  expected  to  find  Titus.  Titus,  however, 
did  not  yet  arrive,  and  Paul,  who  "had  no  relief 
for  [his]  spirit,"  left  Troas  and  sailed  to  M.  Even 
here  the  same  restlessness  pursued  him:  "fightings 
without,  fears  within"  oppressed  him,  till  the 
presence  of  Titus  brought  some  relief  (2  Cor  7 
5.6).  The  apostle  was  also  cheered  by  "the  grace 
of  God  which  had  been  given  in  the  churches  of 
M."  (8  1);  in  the  midst  of  severe  persecution, 
they  bore  their  trials  with  abounding  joy,  and  their 
deep  poverty  did  not  prevent  them  begging  to  be 
allowed  to  raise  a  contribution  to  send  to  the  Chris- 
tians in  Jerus  (Pom  15  26;  2  Cor  8  2-4).  Liber- 
ality was,  indeed,  from  the  very  outset  one  of  the 
characteristic  virtues  of  the  Macedonian  churches. 


The  Philippians  had  sent  money  to  Paul  on  two 
occasions  during  his  first  visit  to  Thessalonica  (Phil 
4  16),  and  again  when  he  had  left  M.  and  was  stav- 
ing at  Corinth  (2  Cor  11  9;  Phil  4  15).  On  the 
present  occasion,  however,  the  Corinthians  seem  to 
have  taken  the  lead  and  to  have  prepared  their 
bounty  in  the  previous  year,  on  account  of  which 
the  apostle  boasts  of  them  to  the  Macedonian 
Christians  (2  Cor  9  2).  lie  suggests  that  on  his 
approaching  visit  to  Achaia  he  may  be  accompanied 
by  souk;  of  these  Macedonians  (ver  4),  but  whether 
this  was  actually  the  case  we  are  not  told. 

The  3d  visit  of  Paul  to  M.  took  place  some  3 

months  later  and  was  occasioned  by  a  plot  against. 

his  life  laid  by  the  Jews  of  Corinth, 

3.  Paul's        which  led  him  to  alter  his  plan  of  sail- 
Third  Visit    ing  from  Cenchreae,  the  eastern  sea- 
port   of    Corinth,    to    Syria    (2  Cor  1 

16;  Acts  20  3).  He  returned  to  M.  accompanied 
as  far  as  Asia  by  3  Macedonian  Christians — So- 
pat  er,  Aristarchus  and  Sccundus — and  by  4  from 
Asia  Minor.  Probably  Paul  took  the  familiar 
route  by  the  Via  Egnatia,  and  reached  Philippi 
immediately  before  the  days  of  unleavened  bread; 
his  companions  preceded  him  to  Troas  (Acts  20  5), 
while  he  himself  remained  at  Philippi  until  after 
the  Passover  (Thursday,  April  7,  57  AD,  according 
to  Ramsay's  chronology),  when  he  sailed  from 
Neapolis  together  with  Luke,  and  joined  his  friends 
in  Troas  (ver  6). 

Toward  t  he  close  of  his  1st  imprisonment  at  Rome 

Paul  planned  a  fresh  visit  to  M.  as  soon  as  he  should 

be   released    (Phil  1  26;     2  24 j,    and 

4.  Paul's  even  before  that  he  intended  to  send 
Later  Visits  Timothy  to  visit  the  Philippian  church 

and  doubtless  those  of  Beroea  and 
Thessalonica  also.  Whether  Timothy  actually 
went  on  this  mission  we  cannot  say;  that  Paid 
himself  went  back  to  M.  once  more  we  learn  from 
1  Tim  1  3,  and  we  may  infer  a  5th  visit  from  the 
reference  to  the  apostle's  stay  at  Troas,  which  in  all 
probability  belongs  to  a  later  occasion  (2  Tim  4  13). 
IV.  The  Macedonian  Church. — Of  the  churches 
of  Macedonia  in  general,  little  need  be  said  here. 

A  striking  fact  is  the  prominence  in 

1.  Promi-  them  of  women,  which  is  probably 
nence  of  due  to  the  higher  social  position  held 
Women  by  women  in  this  province  than   in 

Asia  Minor  (Lightfoot,  Philippians*, 
55  ff).  We  find  only  two  references  to  women  in 
connection  with  Paul's  previous  missionary  work ; 
the  women  proselytes  of  high  social  standing  take 
a  share  in  driving  him  from  Pisidian  Antioch  (Acts 
13  50),  and  Timothy's  mother  is  mentioned  as  a 
Jewess  who  believed  (16  1).  But  in  M.  all  is 
changed.  To  women  the  gospel  was  first  preached 
at  Philippi  (ver  13) ;  a  woman  was  the  first  convert 
and  the  hostess  of  the  evangelists  (vs  14.15);  a 
slave  girl  was  restored  to  soundness  of  mind  by  the 
apostle  (ver  18),  and  long  afterward  Paid  mentions 
two  women  as  having  "labored  with  [him]  in  the 
gospel"  and  as  endangering  the  peace  of  the  church 
by  their  rivalry  (Phil  4  2.3).  At  Thessalonica 
a  considerable  number  of  women  of  the  first  rank 
appear  among  the  earliest  converts  (Acts  17  4), 
while  at  Beroea  also  the  church  included  from  the 
outset  numerous  ( '.r  women  of  high  position  (ver  12) . 
The  bond  uniting  Paul  and  the  Macedonian 
Christians  seems  to  have  been  a  peculiarly  close 
and  affectionate  one.     Their  liberality 

2.  Marked  and  open-heartedness,  their  joyous- 
Character-  ness  and  patience  in  trial  and  perso- 
istics  cut  ion,  their  activity  in  spreading  the 

Christian  faith,  their  love  of  the 
brethren — these;  are  a  few  of  the  characteristics 
which  Paul  specially  commends  in  them  (1  and  2 
Thess;    Phil;    2  Cor  8  1-8),  while  they  also  seem 


1959 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Macedonia 
Machpelah 


to  have  been  much  freer  than  the  churches  of  Asia 
Minor  from  Judaizing  tendencies  and  from  the 
allurements  of  "philosophy  and  vain  deceit." 

We  know  the  names  of  a  few  of  the  early  members 
of  the  Macedonian  churches — Sopater  (Acts  20  4) 

or  Sosipater  (Rom  16  21:  the  iden- 
3.  Its  tification  is  a  probable,  though  not  a 

Members      certain,  one)  of  Beroea;    Aristarchus 

(Acts  19  29;  20  4;  27  2;  Col  4  10; 
Philem  ver  24),  Jason  (Acts  17  5-9;  Rom  16 
21?)  and  Secundus  (Acts  20  4)  of  Thessalonica; 
Clement  (Phil  4  3),  Epaphroditus  (Phil  2  25; 
4  18),  Euodia  (Phil  4  2;  this,  not  Euodias  [AV], 
is  the  true  form),  Syntyche  (ib),  Lydia  (Acts  16 
14.40;  a  native  of  Thyatira),  and  possibly  Luke 
(Ramsay,  St.  Paul  the  Traveller,  201  ff)  of  Philippi. 
Gaius  is  also  mentioned  as  a  Macedonian  in  Acts 
19  29,  but  perhaps  the  reading  of  a  few  MSS 
MaKedova  is  to  be  preferred  to  the  Tit  MaKeddvas, 
in  which  case  Aristarchus  alone  would  be  a  Mace- 
donian, and  this  Gaius  would  probably  be  identical 
with  the  Gaius  of  Derbe  mentioned  in  Acts  20  4 
as  a  companion  of  Paul  (Ramsay,  op.  cit.,  2S0). 
The  later  history  of  the  Macedonian  churches, 
together  with  lists  of  all  their  known  bishops,  will 
be  found  in  Le  Quien,  Oriens  Christianas,  II,  Iff; 
III,  1089  ff,  1045  f. 

Literature. — General:  C.  Nicolaidcs,  Macedonian, 
Berlin,  1899;  Berard,  La  Macedoine,  Paris,  1897; 
"Odysseus,"  Turkey  in  Europe,  London,  1900.  Secular 
History:  Hogarth,  Philip  and  Al-.ru/tdir  of  Macedon, 
London,  1897,  and  the  histories  of  the  Hellenistic  period 
by  Holm,  Niese,  Droysen  and  Kaerst.  Ethnography 
and  Language:  O.  Hoffmann,  Die  Makedonen,  ihre 
Sprache  und  ihr  Volkstum,  Gottingen,  1906.  Topog- 
raphy and  Antiquities:  Heuzey  and  Daumct,  Mission 
archeologique  de  Mace'doine,  Paris,  1870;  Cousinery, 
Voyage  dansla  Macedoine,  Paris,  1831;  Clarke,  Travels*, 
VII,  VIII,  London,  1818;  Leake,  Travels  in  Northern 
Greece,  111,  London,  1835;  Duchesne  and  Bayet,  Memoire 
sur  line  mission  en  Macedoine  et  au  Mont  Athos,  Paris, 
1870;  Hahn,  Reise  von  Belgrad  nach  Saloniki,  Vienna, 
1801.  Coins:  Head,  Historia  Nummorum,  193  f;  British 
Museum  Catalogue  of  Coins:  Macedonia,  etc,  London, 
1879.  Inscriptions:  CIG,  nos.  1951-2010:  CIL,  III, 
1  and  III,  Suppi.;  Dimitsas,  H  MaxeSoWa,  Athens, 
1890. 

M.  N.  Tod 
MACHAERUS,  ma-ko'rus  fMaXaipovS,  Ma- 
chairous):  Not  mentioned  in  Scripture,  canonical 
or  apocryphal,  but  its  importance  in  Jewish  history 
justifies  its  inclusion  here.  Pliny  (Nil,  v.  16.72) 
speaks  of  it  as,  after  Jerus,  the  strongest  of  Jewish 
fortresses.  It  was  fortified  by  Alexander  Jannaeus 
(BJ,  VII,  vi,  2).  It  was  taken  and  destroyed  by 
Gabinius  (ib,  I,  viii,  5;  Ant,  NIV,  v,  4).  Herod 
the  Great  restored  it  and,  building  a  city  here,  made 
it  one  of  his  residences  (BJ,  VII,  vi,  1,  2).  It  lay 
within  the  tetrarchy  assigned  to  Antipas  at  the 
death  of  Herod.  The  wife  of  Antipas,  daughter 
of  Aretas,  privately  aware  of  his  infidelity,  asked  to 
be  sent  hither  (Ant,  XVIII,  v,  1).  Here  Jos  has 
fallen  into  confusion  if  he  meant  by  the  phrase  "a 
place  in  the  borders  of  the  dominions  of  Aretas  and 
Herod"  that  it  was  still  in  Herod's  hands,  since 
immediately  he  tells  us  that  it  was  "subject  to  her 
father."  It  was  natural  enough,  however,  that  a 
border  fortress  should  be  held  now  by  one  and  now 
by  the  other.  It  may  have  passed  to  Aretas  by 
some  agreement  of  which  we  have  no  record;  and 
Herod,  unaware  that  his  wife  knew  of  _  his  guilt, 
would  have  no  suspicion  of  her  design  in  wishing 
to  visit  her  father.  If  this  is  true,  then  the  Bap- 
tist could  not  have  been  imprisoned  and  beheaded 
at  Machaerus  (ib,  2).  The  feast  given  to  the  lords 
of  Galilee  would  most  probably  be  held  at  Tiberias; 
and  there  is  nothing  in  the  Gospel  story  to  hint  that 
the  prisoner  was  some  days'  journey  distant  (Mk 
6  14  ff).  The  citadel  was  held  by  a  Rom  garrison 
until  66  AD,  which  then  evacuated  it  to  escape  a 
siege    (BJ,    II,    xviii,    6).     Later   by   means  of   a 


stratagem   it   was    recovered    for   the   Romans   by 
Bassus,  c  72  AD  (BJ,  VII,  vi,  4). 

The  place  is  identified  with  the  modern  Mkaur, 
a  position  of  great  strength  on  a  prominent  height 
between  Wady  Zerkd  MaHn  and  Wady  el-Mdjib, 
overlooking  the  Dead  Sea.  There  are  extensive 
ruins.  \V.  Ewixo 

MACHBANNAI,  mak'ba-nl,  -ba-na'I  (",33D'a , 
makhbannay;  AV  Machbanai):  A  Gadite  who  at- 
tached himself  to  David  in  Ziklag  (1  Ch  12  13). 

MACHBENA,  mak-be'na  (^Z^'Q ,  makhbenah;  B, 
Maxapiivd,  Machabend,  A,  Maxaiinvd,  Machamend; 
AV  Machbenah):  A  name  which  occurs  in  the  gen- 
ealogical list  of  Judah  (1  Ch  2  49),  apparently  the 
name  of  a  place,  which  may  be  the  same  as  "Cabbon" 
(Josh  15  40),  probably  to  be  identified  with  el- 
Kubeibch,  about  3  miles  S.  of  Beit  Jibrln. 

MACHI,  ma'kl  ("Ott,  maklxl;  Pesh  and  some 
MSS  of  LXX  read  "Machir"):  A  Gadite,  father 
of  Geuel,  one  of  the  12  spies  (Nu  13  15). 

MACHIR,  ma'kir  CV?Tp,  makhlr;  MaX6iP, 
Macheir),  MACHIRITE,  nnVkir-it: 

(1)  The  eldest  son  of  Manasseh  (Gen  50  23). 
In  Nu  26  29  it  is  recorded  t  hat  Machir  begat  Gilead, 
but  another  narrative  informs  us  that  the  children 
of  Machir  "went  to  Gilead,  and  took  it,  and  dis- 
possessed the  Amorites  that  were  therein.  And 
Moses  gave  Gilead  unto  Machir  the  son  of  Manas- 
seh; and  he  dwelt  therein"  (Nu  32  39.40;  Josh 
17  1.3;  cf  also  1  Ch  2  21.25;  7  14-17;  Dt  3  15; 
Josh  13  31).  In  the  song  of  Deborah,  Machir  is 
used  as  equivalent  to  Manasseh  (Jgs  5  14). 

(2)  Son  of  Ammiel,  dwelling  in  Lo-debar  (2  S 
9  4.5),  a  wealthy  landowner  who  protected 
Mephibosheth  (Meribbaal),  son  of  Jonathan,  until 
assured  of  the  friendly  intentions  of  David  (cf  Ant, 
VII,  ix,  8).  Afterward,  during  the  rebellion  of 
Absalom,  Machir  with  others  came  to  David's 
assistance  at  Mahanaim,  bringing  supplies  for  the 
king  and  his  men  (2  S  17  27  tf).    John  A.  Lees 

MACHMAS,  mak'mas.    See  Michmash. 

MACHNADEBAI,  mak-nad'S-bi,  mak-na-de'bl 
C1^™!?"? ,  makhnadd'bhay) :  Son  of  Bani,  one  of 
those  who  married  foreign  wives  (Ezr  10  40). 

MACHPELAH,  mak-pe'la  (nbs^n,  ha-makh- 
peldh,  "the  Machpelah";  to  SerrX-oiiv,  to  diploun, 
"the  double"):  The  name  of  a  piece  of  ground  and 
of  a  cave  purchased  by  Abraham  as  a  place  of 
sepulcher.  The  word  is  supposed  to  mean  "double" 
and  refers  to  the  condition  of  the  cave.  It  is  trd 
"double  cave"  (to  5lit\ovi>  o-n-rj\awv,  to  diploun 
sptiaion)  in  the  LNX  in  Gen  23  17.  The  name  is 
applied  to  the  ground  in  Gen  23  19;  49  30;  50 
13,  and  to  the  cave  in  Gen  23  9;  25  9.  In  Gen 
23  17  we  have  the  phrase  "the  field  of  Ephron, 
which  was  in  [the]  Machpelah." 

The  cave  belonged  to  Ephron  the  Hittite,  the 
son  of  Zohar,  from  whom  Abraham  purchased  it 
for  400  shekels  of  silver  (Gen  23  8-16). 
1.  Scrip-  It  is  described  as  "before,"  i.e.  "to  the 
tural  Data  E.  of"  Mamre  (ver  17)  which  (ver  19) 
is  described  as  the  same  as  Hebron 
(see,  too,  25  9;  49  30;  50  13).  Here  were  buried 
Abraham  and  Sarah,  Isaac  and  Rebecca,  Jacob  and 
Leah.  (Cf  however  the  evirious  variant  tradition  in 
Acts  7  16,  "Shechem"  instead  of  "Hebron.") 

Jos  (BJ,  IV,  ix,  7)  speaks  of  the  monuments 
(mnemeia)  of  Abraham  and  his  posterity  which  "are 
shown  to  this  very  time  in  that  small  city  [i.e.  in 


Machpelah 
Magadan 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1960 


Hebron];  the  fabric  of  which  monuments  are  of  the 
most  excellent  marble  and  wrought  after  the  most 
excellent  manner";  and  in  another 
2.  Tradition  place  he  writes  of  Isaac  being  buried 
Regarding  by  his  sons  with  his  wife  in  Hebron 
the  Site  where  they  had  a  monument  belonging 

to  them  from  their  forefathers  (Ant,  I, 
xxii,  1).  The  references  of  early  Christian  writers 
to  the  site  of  the  tombs  of  the  patriarchs  only 
very  doubtfully  apply  to  the  present  buildings 
ami  may  possibly  refer  to  Ramet  el-KhalU  (see 
Mamre).  Thus  the  Bordeaux  Pilgrim  (333  AD) 
mentions  a  square  enclosure  built  of  stones  of  great 
beauty  in  which  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob  were 
buried  with  their  wives.  Antonius  Martyr  (c  GOO) 
and  Arculf  (69X)  also  mention  this  monument. 
Mukaddasi  speaks  (c  985)  of  the  strong  fortress 
around  the  tombs  of  the  patriarchs  built  of  great 
squared  stones,  the  work  of  Jinns,  i.e.  of  super- 
natural beings.  From  this  onward  the  references 
are  surely  to  the  present  site,  and  it  is  difficult 
to  believe,  if,  as  good  authorities  maintain,  the 
great  buttressed  square  wall  enclosing  the  siteis 
work -at  least  as  early  as  Herod,  that  the  earlier 
references  can  be  to  any  other  site.  It  is  certain 
that  the  existing  buildings  are  very  largely  those 
which  the  Crusaders  occupied;  there  are  many  full 
references  to  this  place  in  mediaeval  Moslem  writers. 

The  Haram  at  Hebron,  which  present-day  tradi- 
tion, Christian,  Jewish  and  Moslem,  recognizes  as 
built  over  the  cave  of  Machpelah,  is 
3.  The  one  of  the  most  jealously  guarded  sanc- 

Haram  at       tuaries  in   the  world.     Only   on  rare 
Hebron  occasions  and  through  the  exercise  of 

much  political  pressure  have  a  few 
honored  Christians  been  allowed  to  visit  the  spot. 
The  late  King  Edward  VII  in  1862  and  the  present 
King  George  V,  in  1882,  with  certain  distinguished 
scholars  in  their  parties,  made  visits  which  have 
been  chiefly  important  through  the  writings  of  their 
companions — Stanley  in  1S02  and  Wilson  and 
Conder  in  1882.  One  of  the  latest  to  be  accorded 
the  privilege  was  C.  W.  Fairbanks,  late  vice-presi- 
dent of  the  United  States  of  America.  What  such 
visitors  have  been  permitted  to  see  has  not  been  of 
any  great  antiquity  nor  has  it  thrown  any  certain 
light  on  the  question  of  the  genuineness  of  the  site. 

The  space  containing  the  traditional  tombs  is  a 
great  quadrangle  197  ft.  in  length  (N.W.  to  S.E.) 
and  111  ft.  in  breadth  (X.E.  to  S.W.).  It  is  enclosed 
by  a  massive  wall  of  great  blocks  of  limestone, 
very  hard  and  akin  to  marble.  The  walls  which 
are  between  8  and  9  ft  thick  are  of  solid  masonry 
throughout.  At  the  height  of  15  ft.  from  the  ground, 
at  indeed  the  level  of  the  floor  within,  the  wall  is 
set  back  about  10  in.  at  intervals,  so  as  to  leave 
pilasters  3  ft.  9  in.  wide,  with  space  between  each 
of  7  ft.  all  round.  On  the  longer  sides  there  arc  16 
and  on  the  shorter  sides  8  such  pilasters,  and  there 
are  also  buttresses  9  ft.  wide  on  each  face  at  each 
angle.  This  pilastered  wall  runs  up  for  25  ft., 
giving  the  total  average  height  from  the  ground 
of  40  ft.  The  whole  character  of  the  masonry  is  so 
similar  to  the  wall  of  the  Jerus  Haram  near  the 
"wailing  place"  that  Conder  and  Warren  considered 
that  it  must  belong  to  that  period  and  be  Herodian 
work. 

The  southern  end  of  the  great  enclosure  is  occu- 
pied by  a  church — probably  a  building  entirely  of 
the  crusading  period — with  a  nave  and  two  aisles. 
The  rest  is  a  courtyard  open  to  the  air.  The 
cenotaphs  of  Isaac  and  Rebecca  are  within  the 
church;  those  of  Abraham  and  Sarah  occupy 
octagonal  chapels  in  the  double  porch  before  the 
church  doors;  those  of  Jacob  and  Leah  are  placed 
in  chambers  near  the  north  end  of  the  Haram. 
The  six  monuments  are  placed  at  equal  distances 


along  the  length  of  the  enclosure,  and  it  is  probable 
that  their  positions  there  have  no  relation  to  the 
sarcophagi  which  are  described  as  existing  in  the 
cave  itself. 

It  is  over  this  cave  that  the  chief  mystery  hangs. 
It  is  not  known  whether  it  has  been  entered  by 

any  man  at  present  alive,  Moslem  or 
4.  The  Cave  otherwise.     While  the  cave  was  in  the 

hands  of  the  Crusaders,  pilgrims  and 
others  were  allowed  to  visit  this  spot.  Thus  Rabbi 
Benjamin  of  Tudela,  writing  in  1163  AD,  says  that 
''if  a  Jew  comes,  who  gives  an  additional  fee  to  the 
keeper  of  the  cave,  an  iron  door  is  opened,  which 
dates  from  the  times  of  our  forefathers  who  rest 
in  peace,  and  with  a  burning  candle  in  his  hand 
the  visitor  descends  into  a  first  cave  which  is  empty, 
traverses  a  second  in  the  same  state  and  at  last 
reaches  a  third  which  contains  six  sepulchres — ■ 
those  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob,  and  of  Sarah, 

Rebecca  and  Leah,  one  opposite  the  other 

A  lamp  burns  in  the  cave  and  upon  the  sepulchre 
continually,  both  night  and  day."  The  account 
reminds  us  of  the  condition  of  many  Christian  tomb- 
shrines  in  Pal  today. 

It  would  appear  from  the  description  of  modern 
observers  that  all  entrance  to  the  cave  is  now  closed; 
the  oidy  known  approaches  are  never  now  opened 
and  can  only  be  reached  by  breaking  up  the  flags  of 
the  flooring.  Through  one  of  the  openings — which 
had  a  stone  over  it  pierced  by  a  circular  hole  1  ft. 
in  diameter — near  the  northern  wall  of  the  old 
church,  Conder  was  able  by  lowering  a  lantern  to 
see  into  a  chamber  some  15  ft.  under  the  church. 
He  estimated  it  to  be  some  12  ft.  square;  it  had 
plastered  walls,  and  in  the  wrall  toward  the  S.E. 
there  was  a  door  which  appeared  like  the  entrance 
to  a  rock-cut  tomb.  On  the  outside  of  the  Haram 
wall,  close  to  the  steps  of  the  southern  entrance 
gateway  is  a  hole  in  the  lowest  course  of  masonry, 
which  may  possibly  communicate  with  the  western 
cave.  Into  this  the  Jews  of  Hebron  are  accustomed 
to  thrust  many  written  prayers  and  vows  to  the 
patriarchs. 

The  evidence,  historical  and  archaeological  seems 
to  show  that  the  cave  occupies  only  the  south  end 
of  the  great  quadrilateral  enclosure  under  part  only 
of  the  area  covered  by  the  church.     See  Hebron. 

Literature.— PEF,  III.  333-46;  PEFS,  1882,  197; 
1897,  53;  1912,  145-150;  HDB,  III,  art.  "Machpelah," 
by  Warren;  Stanley,  SP  and  Lects  on  the  Jewish  Church; 
"Pal  under  the  Moslems,"  PEF;  Pilgrim  TextSoc.  pub- 
lications. 

E.  W.  G.  Masterman 
MACONAH,  ma-ko'na:   AV  Mekonah  (q.v.). 

MACRON,  ma'kron  (Mcbcpcov,  Mdkron) :  Ptolemy 
Macron  who  had  been  appointed  by  Ptolemy 
Philometor  VI  governor  of  Cyprus  and  deserted  to 
Antiochus  Epiphanes,  king  of  Syria  (2  Mace  10 
12  ft).  Under  Antiochus  he  was  governor  of  Code- 
Syria  and  Phoenicia  (8  8).  In  1  Mace  3  38  and 
2  Mace  4  45  he  is  called  "Ptolemy  the  son  of 
Dorymencs."  At  first  he  was  a  fierce  and  cruel 
enemy  of  the  Jews  and  was  one  of  those  chosen  by 
Lysias  to  destroy  Israel  and  reduce  Judas  Maccabee 
(ib).  Later  he  apparently  relented  toward  the 
Jews  (2  Mace  10  12),  fell  into  disfavor  with  An- 
tiochus Eupator,  before  whom  he  was  accused  by  the 
king'sfriends,  and  was  so  galled  by  being  constantly 
called  traitor  that  he  ended  his  life  with  poison  (2 
Mace  10  13).  S.  Angus 

MAD,  MADNESS  (bbn,  halal,  3ot>,  shagha%; 
p,av(a,  mania):  These  words,  and  derivatives  from 
the  same  roots  are  used  to  express  various  condi- 
tions of  mental  derangement.  Though  usually  trd 
"mad,"  or  "madness,"  they  are  often  used  for 
temporary  conditions  to  which  one  would  scarcely 


CENOTAPH  OVER  TOMB  OF  SARAH  IN  MOSQUE  OF  HEBRON  ABOWL 
CAVE   OF   MACHPELAH 


19G1 


THE  INTER  NATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Machpelah 
Magadan 


apply  them  today  except  as  common  colloquial 
inaccuracies.  The  madness  coupled  with  folly  in 
Eccl  is  rather  the  excessive  frivolity 
1.  In  the  and  dissipation  on  the  part  of  the  idle 
OT  rich  (so  in  1  17;  2  2-12;  7  25;  9  3;  10 

13).  The  insensate  fury  of  the  wicked 
against  the  good  is  called  by  this  name  in  Ps  102  8. 
In  Dt  28  28-34  it  is  used  to  characterize  the  state 
of  panic  produced  by  the  oppression  of  tyrannical 
conquerors,  or  (as  in  Zee  12  4)  by  the  judgment  of 
God  on  sinners.  This  condition  of  mind  is  meta- 
phorically called  a  drunkenness  with  the  wine  of 
Cod's  wrath  (Jer  25  16;  51  7).  The  same  mental 
condition  due  to  terror-striking  idols  is  called 
"madness"  in  Jer  50  38.  The  madman  of  Prov 
26  18  is  a  malicious  person  who  carries  his  frivolous 
jest  to  an  unreasonable  length,  for  he  is  responsible 
for  the  mischief  he  causes.  The  ecstatic  condition 
of  one  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Divine  or  of  evil 
spirits,  such  as  that  described  bv  Balaam  (Nu  24 
3f),  or  that  which  Saul  experienced  (1  S  10  10), 
is  compared  to  madness;  and  conversely  in  the 
Near  East  at  the  present  day  the  insane  are  supposed 
to  be  Divinely  inspired  and  to  be  peculiarly  under 
the  Divine  protection.  This  was  the  motive  which 
led  David,  when  at  the  court  of  Achish,  to  feign 
madness  (1  S  21  13-15).  It  is  only  within  the  last 
few  years  that  any  provision  has  been  made  in  Pal 
for  the  restraint  even  of  dangerous  lunatics,  and  there 
arc  many  insane  persons  wandering  at  large  there. 

This  association  of  madness  with  inspiration  is 
expressed  in  the  name  "this  mad  fellow"  given  to 
the  prophet  who  came  to  anoint  Jehu,  which  did 
not  necessarily  convey  a  disrespectful  meaning  (2  K 
9  11).  The  true  prophetic  spirit  was,  however,  dif- 
ferentiated from  the  ravings  of  the  false  prophets  by 
Isaiah  (44  25),  these  latter  being  called  mad  by 
Jeremiah  (29  2G)  and  Hosea  (9  7). 

The  most  interesting  case  of  real  insanity  recorded 
in  the  OT  is  that  of  Saul,  who,  from  being  a  shy, 
self-conscious  young  man,  became,  on  his  exaltation 
to  the  kingship,  puffed  up  with  a  megalomania, 
alternating  with  fits  of  black  depression  with  homi- 
cidal impulses,  finally  dying  by  suicide.  The  cause 
of  his  madness  is  said  to  have  been  an  evil  spirit 
from  Cod  (1  S  18  10),  and  when,  under  the  influ- 
ence of  the  ecstatic  mood  which  alternated  with 
his  depression,  he  conducted  himself  like  a  lunatic 
(19  23  f),  his  mutterings  are  called  "prophesy ings." 
The  use  of  music  in  his  case  as  a  remedy  (1  S 
16  10)  may  be  compared  with  Elisha's  use  of  the 
same  means  to  produce  the  prophetic  ecstasy  (2  K 
3  15). 

The  story  of  Nebuchadnezzar  is  another  history 
of  a  sudden  accession  of  insanity  in  one  puffed  up 
by  self-conceit  and  excessive  prosperity.  His  de- 
lusion that  he  had  become  as  an  ox  is  of  the  same 
nature  as  that  of  the  daughters  of  Procyus  recorded 
in  the  Song  of  Silenus  by  Virgil  (Eel.  vi.48). 

In  the  NT  the  word  "lunatic"  (sdeniazdmenoi) 
(AV  Mt  4  24;  17  15)  is  correctly  rendered  in 
RV  "epileptic."  Undoubtedly  many 
2.  In  the  of  the  demoniacs  were  persons  suffer- 
NT  ing  from  insanity.     The  words  "mad" 

or  "madness"  occur  8  t,  but  usually 
in  the  sense  of  paroxysms  of  passion,  excitement 
and  foolishness.  Thus  in  Acts  26  11  Paul  says 
that  before  his  conversion  he  was  "exceedingly 
mad"  (i'mmainomenos)  against  the  Christians.  In 
1  Cor  14  23,  those  who  "speak  with  tongues"  in 
Christian  assemblies  are  said  to  appear  mad  to  the 
outsider.  Ilhoda  was  called  "mad"  when  she  an- 
nounced that  Peter  was  at  the  door  (Acts  12  15). 
The  madness  with  which  the  Jews  were  filled  when 
Our  Lord  healed  the  man  with  the  withered  hand 
is  called  dnoia,  which  is  literally  senselessness  (Lk 
6  11),  and  the  madness  of  Balaam  is  called  para- 


phrenia, "being  beside  himself"  (2  Pet  2  16).  Paul 
is  accused  by  Festus  of  having  become  deranged 
by  overstudy  (Acts  26  24).  It  is  still  the  belief 
among  the  fellahin  that  lunatics  are  people  inspired 
by  spirits,  good  or  evil,  and  it  is  probable  that  all 
persons  showing  mental  derangement  would  natur- 
ally be  described  as  "possessed,"  so  that,  without 
entering  into  the  vexed  question  of  demoniacal 
possession,  any  eases  of  insanity  cured  by  Our 
Lord  or  the  apostles  would  naturally  be  classed  in 
the  same  category.     See  also  Lunatic. 

Alex.  Macalister 
MADAI,   mad'a-i,    ma'di   OTQ,    mddhay).     See 
Medes. 

MADIABUN,  ma-dfa-bun  (Ma8ia|3ovv,  Madia- 
boiin,  AV).     See  Emadabun. 

MADIAN,  ma'di-an  (AV  Jth  2  26;  Acts  7  29 
AV).    See  Midi  an. 

MADMANNAH,  mad-man'a  (^"CTra,  viadh- 
mannah;  B,  Maxaptu,  Macharim,  A,  BeSsp^d, 
Bedebend  [Josh  15  31];  B,  Ma-p^vd,  Marmend, 
A,  MaS^vd,  Madmcnd  [1  Ch  2  49]):  This  town 
lay  in  the  Negeb  of  Judah  and  is  mentioned  with 
Hormah  and  Ziklag.  It  is  represented  in  Josh  19 
5, _  etc.  by  Beth-marcaboth.  Umm  Deim?ieh,  12 
miles  N.  of  Beersheba,  has  been  proposed  on  etv- 
mological  grounds  (PEF,  III,  392,  399,  Sh  XXIV). 

MADMEN,  mad'men  CCO*]^,  madhmen;  ko.1 
•n-avo-iv  iravo-eTcu,  kai  pausin  pausetai):  An  un- 
identified town  in  Moab  against  which  Jer  prophe- 
sied (48  2).  The  play  upon  the  words  here  suggests 
a  possible  error  in  transcription:  gam  madhmen 
tiddoml,  "Also,  Madmen,  thou  shalt  be  silenced." 
The  initial  M  of  "Madmen"  may  have  arisen  by 
dittography  from  the  last  letter  of  gam.  We  should 
then  point  Dimon,  which  of  course  is  Dibon. 

MADMENAH,  mad-me'na  (T\yC~^l,  madhmendh; 
MaSep-riva,  Madebend):  A  place  mentioned  only  in 
Isaiah's  description  of  the  Assyr  advance  upon 
Jerus  (10  31).     It  is  not  identified. 

MADNESS,  mad'nes.    See  Mad,  Madness. 

MADON,  ma/don  (flTO,  madhon;  B,  Ma^pcGv, 
Marrhon,  A,  MaSwv,  Madon  [Josh  11  1],  B,  Map- 
|uo6,  Marmoth,  A,  Mapwv,  Maron  [Josh  12  19]): 
A  royal  city  of  the  Canaanites  named  along  with 
Hazor  of  Galilee.  El-Medlneh,  "the  city,"  on  the 
heights  V\\  of  the  Sea  of  Galilee,  with  which  it 
might  possibly  be  identified,  probably  dates  only 
from  Moslem  times.  It  seems  likely  that  the 
common  confusion  of  the  Heb  T  for  "1  has  occurred, 
and  that  we  should  read  "Maron."  The  place 
may  be  then  identified  with  Meiron,  a  village  with 
ancient  ruins  and  rock  tombs  at  the  foot  of  Jebel 
Jermulc,  a  little  to  the  N.W.  of  Safed.    W.  Ewing 

MAELUS,  mfi-e'lus  (A,  Md^Xos,  Mdelos,  B, 
MC\t]\os,  Mllelos):  One  of  those  who  at  Esdras' 
request  put  away  his  foreign  wife  (1  Esd  9  26  = 
"Mijamin"  in  the  ||  Ezr  10  25). 

MAGADAN,  mag'a-dan,  ma-ga'dan  (Ma-yaSdv, 
Magadan;  the  reading  of  TR,  Ma-y8a\d  [AV], 
Magdald,  is  unsupported):  This  name  appears 
only  in  Mt  15  39.  In  the  ||  passage,  Mk  8  10, 
its  place  is  taken  by  Dalmanutha.  From  these 
two  passages  it  is  reasonable  to  infer  that  "the 
borders  of  Magadan"  and  "the  parts  of  Dalma- 
nutha" were  contiguous.  We  may  perhaps  gather 
from  the  narrative  that  they  lay  on  the  western 


Magbish 
Magic,  Magician 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1962 


shore  of  I  lie  Sea  of  Galileo.  After  (lie  feeding  of 
the  4,000,  Jesus  and  His  disciples  came  to  these 
parts.  Thence  they  departed  to  "the  other  side" 
(Mk  8  13),  arriving  at  Bethsaida.  This  is  gen- 
erally believed  to  have  been  Bethsaida  Julias,  N.E. 
of  the  sea,  whence  He  set  out  on  His  visit  to  Caes- 
area  Philippi.  In  this  ease  we  might  look  for  Dal- 
manutha  and  Magadan  somewhere  S.  of  the  Plain 
of  Gennosarot,  at  the  foot  of  the  western  hills. 
Stanley  (SI',  383)  quotes  Schwarz  to  the  effect 
that  a  cave  in  the  face  of  these  precipitous  slopes 
bears  the  name  of  Teliman  or  Talmanutha.  If  this 
is  true,  it  points  to  a  site  for  Dalmanutha  near  KAin 
el-Fuliyeh.  .Magadan  might  then  be  represented 
by  el-Mejdel,  a  village  at  the  S.W.  corner  of  the 
Plain  of  Gennesaret.  It  is  commonly  identified 
with  Magdala,  the  home  of  Mary  Magdalene,  but 
without  any  evidence.  The  name  suggests  that 
this  was  the  site  of  an  old  Heb  mighddl,  "tower"  or 
"fortress."     The  village  with  its  ruins  is  now  the 


ber  of  that  tribe.  It  was  one  of  them,  Bardiya, 
who  pretended  to  be  Smerdis  and  raised  the  rebel- 
lion against  Cambyses.  Itabh  Magh  in 
1.  Origi-  Jer  39  3  does  not  mean  "Chief  Magus," 
nally  a  but   is  in  Assyr  Rob  mugi  (apparently 

Median  "commander";  ef  rah  mugi  sa  narkabti, 

Tribe  "commander  of  chariots"),  having  no 

connection  with  "Magus"  (unless  per- 
haps Magians  were  employed  as  charioteers,  Media 
being  famous  for  its  Nisaean  steeds).  The  invest- 
ment of  the  Magi  with  priestly  functions,  possibly 
under  Cyrus  (Xen.  Cyrop.  viii),  but  probably  much 
later,  was  perhaps  due  to  the  fact  that  Zoroaster 
(Zarathustra)  belonged,  it  is  said,  to  that  tribe. 
They  guarded  the  sacred  fire,  recited  hymns  at  dawn 
and  offered  sacrifices  of  /laoma-juice,  etc.  Herodotus 
(i.132)  says  they  also  buried  the  dead  (perhaps 
temporary  burial  is  meant  as  in  Vendiddd,  Farg. 
viii).  They  were  granted  extensive  estates  in  Media 
for  their  maintenance,  and  the  athravans  and  other 


Magdala  (Lookini 


THE    N.E.). 


property  of  the  German  Roman  Catholics.  The 
land  in  the  plain  has  been  purchased  by  a  colony  of 
Jews,  and  is  once  more  being  brought  under  culti- 
vation. 

The  identification  with  Magdala  is  made  more 
probable  by  the  frequent  interchange  of  I  for  u, 
e.g.  Nathan  (Heb),  Nethel  (Aram.).      W.  Ewing 

MAGBISH,  mag'bish  (UP^S,  maghbish;  B, 
MavePws,  Magebos,  A,  MaaBets,  Maabeis):  An 
unidentified  town  in  Benjamin,  156  of  the  inhabit- 
ants of  which  are  said  to  have  returned  from  exile 
with  Zerubbabel  (Ezr  2  30).  It  does  not  appear 
in  Nehemiah's  list  (7  33).  LXX  (B),  however,  has 
Magebos.  The  name  is  probably  identical  with 
Magpiash,  "one  who  sealed  the  covenant"  (Neh 
10  20). 

MAGDALA,  mag'da-la.     See  Magadan. 

MAGDALENE,  mag'da-len,  mag-da-le'nP.  See 
Mary,  III. 

MAGDIEL,  mag'di-el  (bx^2,  maghdl'el;  Gen 
36  43,  A,  M«to8vt)X,  Metodutl;  1  Ch  1  54,  A,  Mavt- 
5v^X.,  MagedvM,  B,  Mth^X,  Meduil):  One  of  the 
"dukes"  of  Edom. 

MAGED,  maged.     See  Maked. 

MAGI,  ma'JT,  THE  (MdYoi,  Mdgoi  [Mt  2  1.7.16, 
"Wise-men,"  RV  and  AY,  "Magi"  RVm]):  Were 
originally  a  Median  tribe  (Herod,  i.101);  and  in 
Darius'   Inscriptions  Magush  means  only  a  mem- 


priests  mentioned  in  the  A  vesta  may  have  been  of 
their  number,  though  only  once  does  the  word 
"Magus"  occur  in  the  book  (in  the  compound 
Mdghu-thbish,  "Magus-hater,"  Yasna,  lxv.7,  Geld- 
ner's  ed).  The  Magi  even  in  Herodotus'  time  had 
gained  a  reputation  for  "magic"  arts  (cf  Acts  13 
6.S).  They  also  studied  astrology  and  astronomy 
(rationes  mundani  mot  us  et  siderum  [Amm.  Marc, 
xxiii.6,  32]),  partly  learned  from  Babylon. 

These  latter  studies  explain  why  a  star  was  used  to 
lead  them  to  Christ  at  Bethlehem,  when  Our  Lord 

was  less  than  two  years  old  (Mt  2  lfij. 
2.  The  Magi  No  reliable  tradition  deals  with  the 
at  Beth-  country  whence  these  particular  magi 
lehem  came.     Justin  Martyr,  Tertullian  and 

Epiphanius  fancied  that  they  came 
from  Arabia,  founding  their  opinion  on  the  fact 
that  "gold,  frankincense  and  myrrh"  abounded  in 
Yemen.  But  the  text  says  they  came  not  from 
the  S.  but  from  the  E.  Origen  held  that  they 
came  from  Chaldaea,  which  is  possible.  But 
Clement  of  Alexandria,  Diodorus  of  Tarsus,  Chry- 
sostom,  Cyril  of  Alexandria,  Juvencus,  Prudentius 
and  others  are  probably  right  in  bringing  them  from 
Persia.  Sargon's  settlement  of  Israelites  in  Media 
(c  730-72S  BC  [2  K  17  6])  accounts  for  the  large 
Heb  (dement  of  thought  which  Darmestetor  recog- 
nizes in  the  Avesta  (SBE,  IV,  Intro,  ch  vi).  Me- 
dian astronomers  would  thus  know  Balaam's 
prophecy  of  the  star  out  of  Jacob  (Nu  24  17). 
That  the  Jews  expected  a  star  as  a  sign  of  the  birth 
of  the  Messiah  is  clear  from  the  tractate  Zohar  of 
the  Gemara  and  also  from  the  title  "Son  of  the 
Star"  (Bar  Kokhebha)   given  to  a  pseudo-Messiah 


1963 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Magbish 
Magic,  Magician 


(130-35  AD).  Tucitus  (Hist.  v. 13)  and  .Suetonius 
(Vesp.  iv)  tell  us  how  widespread  in  the  East  at 
the  time  of  Christ's  coming  was  the  expectation 
that  "at  that  time  men  starting  from  Judaea  would 
make  themselves  masters  of  tilings"  (cf  Virgil, 
Eel.  iv).  All  this  would  naturally  prepare  the 
Magi  to  follow  the  star  when  it  appeared.  See  also 
Astrology;  Astronomy;  Divination;  Magic; 
Wise  Men;  Zoroastrianism. 

Literature. — Herodotus;  Xenophon;  Amm.  Mar- 
cellinus;  Strabo;  Spiegel,  Altpersische  Keilinschriften; 
Oeldner,  Avesta;  Muss-Arnolt.  Assyr  Diet.;  HUB; 
RE. 

W.  St.  Clair  Tisdall 

MAGI,  STAR  OF.     See  Star  of  the  Magi. 

MAGIC,  maj'ik,  MAGICIAN,  ma-jish'an: 

I.     Definition 
II.     Division  of  the  Subject 

1.  Magic  as  Impersonal 

2.  Magic  as  Personal 

III.  Magic  and  Religion 

IV.  Magic  in"  the  Bible 

1.  Hostility  to  Magic 

2.  Potency  of  Magical  Words 

3.  Influence  of  Charms 

V.     Magical  Terms  Used  in  the  Bible 
1.   Divination 
'1.   Sorcery 
'.i.  Enchantment 

4.  Amulets 

5.  Incantation 

(i.    Repeated  Utterances 

7.  Impostors 

8.  Witchcraft 
Litf.katuke 

The  word  comes  from  a  Or  adj.  (/j-ayiKr],  ma- 
glke)  with  which  the  noun  r^xvV,  techne,  "art,"  is 
understood.  The  full  phrase  is  "magical  art" 
(Wisd  17  10).  But  the  Or  word  is  derived  from 
the  magi  or  Zarathustran  (Zoroastrian)  priests. 
Magic  is  therefore  historically  the  art  practised  in 
Persia  by  the  recognized  priests  of  the  country. 
It  is  impossible  in  the  present  article,  owing  to  exi- 
gencies of  space,  to  give  a  ftdl  account  of  this  im- 
portant subject  and  of  the  leading  views  of  it  which 
have  been  put  forth.  The  main  purpose  of  the 
following  treatment  will  be  to  consider  the  subject 
from  the  Bib.  standpoint. 

/.  Definition. — In  its  modern  accepted  sense 
magic  may  be  described  as  the  art  of  bringing  about 
results  beyond  man's  own  power  by  superhuman 
agencies.  In  the  wide  sense  of  this  definition 
divination  is  but  a  species  of  magic,  i.e.  magic  used 
as  a  means  of  securing  secret  knowledge,  esp.  a 
knowledge  of  the  future.  Divination  and  magic 
bear  a  similar  relation  to  prophecy  and  miracle 
respectively,  the  first  and  third  implying  special 
knowledge,  the  second  and  fourth  special  power. 
But  divination  has  to  do  generally  with  omens,  and 
it  is  better  for  this  and  other  reasons  to  notice  the 
two  subjects — magic  and  divination — apart,  as  is 
done  in  the  present  work. 

//.  Division  of  the  Subject. — There  are  two  kinds 
of  magic:  (1)  impersonal;  (2)  personal.  In  the 
first,  magic  is  a  species  of  crude  science, 
1.  Magic  as  for  the  underlying  hypothesis  is  that 
Impersonal  there  are  forces  in  the  world  which 
can  be  utilized  on  certain  conditions, 
incantations,  magical  acts,  drugs,  etc.  The  magi- 
cian in  this  case  connects  what  on  a  very  slender 
induction  he  considers  to  be  causes  and  effects, 
mainly  on  the  principle  of  post  hoc  ergo  propter  hoc. 
He  may  not  know  much  of  the  causal  agency;  it 
is  enough  for  him  to  know  that  by  performing  some 
act  or  reciting  some  formula  (see  Charm)  or  carry- 
ing some  object  (see  Amulet)  he  can  secure  some 
desired  end.  Frazer  (Golden  Bough2,  I,  61)  says: 
"Magic  is  a  kind  of  savage  logic,  an  elementary 
species  of  reasoning  based  on  similarity,  contiguity 
and  contrast."  But  why  does  the  savage  draw 
conclusions  from  association  of  ideas?     There  must 


be  an  implied  belief  in  the  uniformity  of  Nature  or 
in  the  controlling  power  of  intelligent  beings. 

In  personal  magic,  living,  intelligent,  spiritual 
beings  are  made  the  real  agents  which  men  by  in- 
cantations, etc,  influence  and  even 
2.  Magic  control.  The  magical  acts  may  in  an 
as  Personal  advanced  stage  include  sacrifice,  the 
incantations  become  prayer. 

Impersonal  magic  is  regarded  by  most  anthro- 
pologists, including  E.  B.  Tylor  and  J.  Frazer,  as 
more  primitive  than  the  second  and  as  a  lower  form 
of  it.  This  conclusion  rests  on  an  assumption  that 
human  culture  is  always  progressive,  that  the 
movement  is  uniformly  onward  and  upward.  But 
this  law  does  not  always  hold.  The  religion  of 
Israel  as  taught  in  the  8th  cent.  BC  stands  on  a 
higher  level  ethically  and  intellectually  than  that 
taught  in  the  writings  of  Haggai,  Zcchariah  and 
Ecclesiastes  centuries  later.  Among  the  ancient  In- 
dians, the  Rig  Veda  occupies  much  loftier  ground 
than  the  much  later  Atharva  Veda. 

///.  Magic  and  Religion. — Personal  magic  in  its 
higher  forms  shades  off  into  religion,  and  very 
commonly  the  two  exist  together.  It  is  the  practice 
to  speak  of  sacrifice  and  prayer  as  constituting  ele- 
ments of  the  ancient  and  modern  religions  of  India. 
But  it  is  doubtful  whether  either  of  these  has  the 
same  connotation  that  it  bears  in  the  Jewish  and 
Christian  Scriptures.  J.  Frazer  (Golden  Bough2, 
I,  67  ff)  says  that  where  the  operation  of  spirits  is 
assumed  (and  "these  cases  are  exceptional"),  magic 
is  "tinged  and  alloyed  with  religion."  Such  an 
assumption  is,  he  admits,  often  made  and  the 
present  writer  thinks  it  is  generally  made,  for  even 
the  operation  of  the  laws  of  association  implies  it. 
But  Frazer  concludes  from  various  considerations 
that  "though  magic  is  ...  .  found  to  fuse  and 
amalgamate  with  religion  in  many  ages  and  in 
many  hinds,  there  are  some  grounds  for  thinking 
that  this  fusion  is  not  primitive."  It  is  of  course 
personal  magic  to  which  religion  stands  in  closest 
relations.  As  soon  as  man  comes  to  see  in  the 
beings  by  whoso  power  marvels  are  wrought,  per- 
sonalities capable  of  emotions  like  himself  and 
susceptible  to  persuasion,  his  magical  art  becomes 
an  intelligent  effort  to  propitiate  these  superior 
beings  and  his  incantations  become  hymns  and 
prayers.  In  all  religions,  Jewish,  Moslem,  Chris- 
tian or  pagan,  when  the  act  or  prayer  as  such  is 
held  to  produce  certain  results  or  to  secure  certain 
desired  boons,  we  have  to  do  with  a  species  of  magic. 
The  word  "religion"  is  inapplicable,  unless  it  includes 
the  idea  of  personal  faith  in  a  Ood  or  gods  whose 
favor  depends  on  moral  acts  and  on  ritual  acts  only 
in  so  far  as  they  have  a  voluntary  and  ethi- 
cal character.  If  it  be  granted  that  magic,  the 
lower,  precedes  religion,  the  higher,  this  does  not 
necessarily  negative  the  validity  of  the  religious 
concept.  Mature  knowledge  is  preceded  by  ele- 
mentary impressions  and  beliefs  which  are  sub- 
jective without  objective  correspondences.  But 
this  higher  knowledge  is  none  the  less  valid  for  its 
antecedents.  If  it  can  be  proved  that  the  Chris- 
tian or  any  other  religion  has  become  what  it  is  by 
gradual  ascent  from  animism,  magic,  etc,  its  valid- 
ity is  not  by  this  destroyed  or  even  impaired. 
Religion  must  be  judged  according  to  its  own  proper 
evidence'.     But  see  II,  end. 

IV.  Magic  in  the  Bible. — The  general  remarks 
made  on  the  Bible  and  divination  in  Divination, 
V,  have  an  equal  application  to  the 
1.  Hostility  attitude  of  the  Bible  toward  magic. 
to  Magic  This  attitude  is  distinctly  hostile,  as 
it  could  not  but  be  in  documents  pro- 
fessing to  inculcate  the  teaching  of  the  ethical  and 
spiritual  religion  of  Israel  (see  Dt  18  10  f;  2  K 
21  6;  2  Ch  33  6,  etc).     Yet  it  is  equally  clear  that 


Magic,  Magician 
Mahalath 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1964 


the  actual  power  of  magic  is  acknowledged  as 
clearly  aw  its  illegitimacy  is  pointed  out.  In  l"s 
account  of  the  plagues  (Ex  7-11)  it  is  assumed 
that  the  magicians  of  Egypt  had  real  power  to  per- 
form superhuman  feats.  They  throw  their  rods 
and  they  become  serpents;  they  turn  the  waters  of 
the  Nile  into  blood.  It  is  only  when  they  try  to 
produce  gnats  that  they  fail,  though  Aaron  had 
succeeded  by  Yahweh's  power  in  doing  this  and 
thus  showed  that  Yahweh's  power  was  greatest. 
But  that  the  magicians  had  power  that  was  real 
and  great  is  not  so  much  as  called  in  question. 

Among  the  ancient  Semites   (Arabs,   Assyrians, 
Hebrews,  etc)  there  was  a  strong  belief  in  the  po- 
tency of  the  magical  words  of  blessing 

2.  Potency  and  of  curse.  The  mere  utterance  of 
of  Magical  such  words  was  regarded  as  enough 
Words  to  secure  their  realization.     That  the 

narrator  of  Nu  22-24  (J)  ascribed 
to  Balaam  magical  power  is  clear  from  the  narra- 
tive, else  why  should  Yahweh  be  represented  as 
transferring  Balaam's  service  to  the  cause  of  Israel? 
We  have  other  Bib.  references  to  the  power  of  the 
spoken  word  of  blessing  in  Gen  12  3;  Ex  12  32; 
Jgs  17  2;  2  S  21  3,  and  of  curse  in  Gen  27  29; 
Jgs  5  23;  Job  3  8  (cf  the  so-called  Imprecatory 
Psalms,  and  see  Century  Bible,  "Ps,"  vol  II,  216). 
On  the  prevalence  of  the  belief  among  the  Arabs, 
see  the  important  work  of  Goldziher,  Abhand- 
lungen  zur  arabischen  Philologie,  Theil  I,  23  ff. 

In  Gen  30  14  (J)  we  have  an  example  of  the  be- 
lief in  the  power  of  plants  (here  mandrakes)  to  stir 

up   and   strengthen   sexual   love,   and 

3.  Influence  we  read  in  Arab.  lit.  of  the  very  same 
of  Charms     superstition  in  connection  with  what  is 

called  Yabruh,  almost  certainly  the1 
same  plant.  Indeed  one  of  the  commonest  forms  in 
which  magic  appears  is  as  a  love-charm,  and  as  this 
kind  of  magic  was  often  exercised  by  women,  magic 
and  adultery  are  frequently  named  together  in  the 
OT  (see  2  K  9  22;  Nah  3  4;  Mai  3  5;  and  cf 
Ex  22  18  [17],  where  the  sorceress  [AV  "witch"] 
is  to  be  condemned  to  death).  We  have  an  in- 
stance of  what  is  called  sympathetic  magic  (for  a 
description  of  which  see  Jevons,  Intro  to  Hist  of 
Religion,  28  ff,  and  Frazer,  Golden  Bough2,  I,  49  ff) 
in  Gen  30  37  ff.  Jacob  placed  before  the  sheep  and 
goats  that  came  to  drink  water  peeled  rods,  so 
that  the  pregnant  ones  might  bring  forth  young 
that  were  spotted  and  striped.  The  teraphim 
mentioned  in  Gen  31  19  ff  and  put  away  with 
wizards  during  the  drastic  reforms  of  Josiah  (2  K 
23  24;  cf  Zee  10  2)  were  household  objects  sup- 
posed capable  of  warding  off  evil  of  every  kind. 
The  Babylonians  and  Assyrians  had  a  similar  cus- 
tom. We  read  of  an  Assyr  magician  that  he  had 
statues  of  the  gods  Lugalgira  and  Alamu  put  on 
each  side  of  the  main  entrance  to  his  house,  and  in 
consequence  he  felt  perfectly  impregnable  against 
evil  spirits  (see  Tallquist,  Assyr.  Besch,  22). 

In  Isa  3  2  the  kosem  ("magician"  or  "diviner") 
is  named  along  with  the  knight  warrior,  the  judge, 
prophet  and  elder,  among  the  stays  and  supports 
of  the  nation;  no  disapproval  is  expressed  or  im- 
plied with  regard  to  any  of  them.  Yet  it  is  not 
to  be  denied  that  in  its  essential  features  pure 
Yahwism,  which  enforced  personal  faith  in  a  pure 
spiritual  being,  was  radically  opposed  to  all  magical 
beliefs  and  practices.  The  fact  that  the  Hebrews 
stood  apart  as  believers  in  an  ethical  and  spiritual 
religion  from  the  Sem  and  other  peoples  by  which 
they  were  surrounded  suggests  that  they  were  Di- 
vinely guided,  for  in  other  respects — art,  philoso- 
phy, etc — this  same  Heb  nation  held  a  lower  place 
than  many  contemporary  nations. 

V.  Magical  Terms  Used  in  the  Bible. — Many 
terms  employed  in  the  OT  in  reference  to  divina- 


tion have  also  a  magical  import.  See  Divination, 
VII.  For  a  fuller  discussion  of  Bib.  terms  con- 
nected with  both  subjects,  reference  may  be  made 
to  T.  Wit  ton  Davies,  Magic,  Divination  and  Demon- 
ology  among  Die  Hebrews  and  'Their  Neighbours,  44  ff, 
7<sff;  see  also  arts.  "Divination"  and  "Magic"  in 
EB,  by  the  present  writer. 

Here  a  few  brief  statements  are  all  that  can  be 
attempted.    Kesem  (uCfJ),  usually  rendered  "div- 
ination"    (see    Nu  23  23),     has    pri- 

1.  Divina-  marily  a  magical  reference  (Fleischer), 
tion  though    both    Wellhausen    (Reste    des 

arabischen  Heidenthums2,  133,  n.5)  and 
W.  Robertson  Smith  {Jour.  Phil,  XIII,  278)  hold 
that  its  first  use  was  in  connection  with  divination. 
The  Arab.  vb.  ("to  exorcise")  and  noun  ("an  oath") 
have  magical  meanings.  But  it  must  be  admitted 
that  the  secondary  meaning  ("divination")  has 
almost  driven  out  the  other.  See  under  I,  where  it 
is  held  that  at  bottom  magic  and  divination  are 
one. 

The  vb.  kashaph  (CTlpS),  RV  "to  practise  sorcery," 
comes,  as  Fleischer  held,  from  a  root  denoting  "to 

have    a    dark    appearance,"    to    look 

2.  Sorcery     gloomy,   to  be  distressed,  then  as  a 

suppliant  to  seek  relief  by  magical 
means.  The  corresponding  nouns  kasftshaph  and 
?nekashsheph  are  rendered  "sorcerer"  in  EV. 

Lahash  C&Jnb),  EV  "enchantment,"  etc  (see  Isa 
3  3,  nebhon  lahash,  RV  "the  skilful  enchanter"),  is 

connected  etymologically  with  nahash, 

3.  Enchant-  "a  serpent,"  the  n  and  I  often  inter- 
ment changing  in  Sem.     Lahash  is,  therefore, 

as  might  have  been  expected  from  this 
etymology,  used  specifically  of  serpent  charming 
(see  Jer  8  17;  Eccl  10  11;  cf  melahesh  [tJfl^?] 
in  Ps  58  5  [6],  EV  "charmer"). 

Hebher  O^f)  °f,('urs  in  the  plural  only  (Isa  47 
9.12,  EV  "enchantments").     It  comes  from  a  root 

meaning    "to   bind,"    and    it   denotes 

4.  Amulets    probably  amulets  of  some  kind  carried 

on  the  person  to  ward  off  evil.  It 
seems  therefore  to  be  the  Bib.  equivalent  of  the 
Talmudic  kemiax  (IP'CpJ),  lit.  =  "something  bound," 
from  kamar  (^IS]?),  "to  bind." 

Shihar  (*inp)  (Isa  47  11)  seems  to  have  an 
etymological  connection  with  the  principal  Arab. 

word  for  "magic"  (sihrun),  and  is  ex- 

5.  Incan-  plained  by  the  great  majority  of  recent 
tation  commentators  following  J.  H .  Michaelis 

(Hitzig,  Ewald,  Dillmann,  Whitehouse 
in  Century  Bible,  etc)  as  meaning  "to  charm  away" 
(by  incantations).  So  also  Tg,  Rashi,  JH  and  JD, 
Michaelis,  Eichhorn,  etc. 

The  vb.  battologeo  ((3aTTo\oyiu)  in  Mt  6  7  (  = 
"say  not  the  same  thing  over  and  over  again")  re- 
fers to  thesuperstitionthatthe  repeated 

6.  Utter-  utterance  of  a  word  will  secure  one's 
ances  Re-  wish.  In  India  today  it  is  thought 
peated  that  if  an  ascetic  says  in  one  month  the 

name  of  Radha,  Krishna  or  Rom  100,- 
000  times,  he  cannot  fail  to  obtain  what  he  wants 
(see  1  K  18  26).     See  Repetition. 

The  term  goetes  (yo^res),  RV  "impostors,"  AV 
"seducers,"  is  used  of  a  class  of  magicians  who 

uttered   certain   magical   formulae  in 

7.  Impos-  a  deep,  low  voice  (cf  the  vb.  goad 
tors  [Y°^w],  which  =  "to  sigh,"    "to  utter 

low  moaning  tones").  Herodotus 
(ii.33)  says  that  there  were  persons  of  the  kind  in 
Egypt,  and  they  are  mentioned  also  by  Euripides 
and  Plato. 

Paul  in  Gal  5  20  classes  with  uncleanness, 
idolatry,  etc,  what  he  calls  pharmakeia  ((pap/xaKeia), 
AV   "witchcraft,"   RV  "sorcery."     The  word  has 


1965 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Magic,  Magician 
Mahalath 


reference  first  of  all  to  drugs  used  in  exercising  the 
magical  art.     Note  the  name  Simon  Magus,  which 

=  Simon  the  magician  (Acts  8  9f), 
8.  Witch-  and  Bar-Jesus,  whom  Luke  calls  a 
craft  magician  (fidyos,  mdgos,  EV  ''sorcerer") 

and  to  whom  he  gives  also  the 
proper  name  Elymas,  which  is  really  the  Arab. 
Kalim  =  "learned,  and  so  one  skilful  in  the  magical 
art.  See  also  under  Amulet;  Charm;  Demon- 
ology;  Witchcraft. 

Literature. — A  very  full  bibliography  of  the  subject 
will  be  found  in  T.  Witton  Davies,  Magic,  Divination 
and  Demonology  among  the  Hebrews  and  Their  Neighbours, 
xi-xvi.  Sec  also  the  lit.  under  Divination  and  in 
addition  to  the  lit.  cited  in  the  course  of  the  foregoing 
art.,  note  the  following:  A.  Lehmann,  Aberglaube  und 
Zauberei2,  1908;  A.  C.  Haddon,  Magic,  and  Fetishism, 
1906;  Blau,  Das  altjiidische  Zauberwesen,  1898;  Smith, 
"Witchcraft  in  the  OT,"  Bib.  Soc,  1902,  23-35;  W  R. 
Halliday,  Gr  Divination;  A  Study  of  Its  Mi  thuds  and 
Principles,  London,  Macmillan  (important)  and  the 
valuable  art.  on  "Magic"  by  N.  AV.  Thomas  in  the  Enc 
Brit,  and  also  the  relevant  arts,  in  the  Bible  dictionaries. 

T.  Witton  Davies 

MAGISTRATE,  maj'is-trat  (ttBlp,  shephat,  cor- 
responding to  I3Sip,  shdphat,  "to  judge,"  "to  pro- 
nounce sentence"  [Jgs  18  7]):  Among  the  ancients, 
the  terms  corresponding  to  our  "magistrate"  had 
a  much  wider  signification.  "Magistrates  and 
judges"  (3"1^~>1  C^uEO,  shophHim  iV-dhayydnim) 
should  be  trd  "judges  and  rulers"  (Ezr  7  25). 
D"1?^,  .fghdiam,  "rulers"  or  "nobles,"  were  Bab 
magistrates  or  prefects  of  provinces  (Jer  51  23.28. 
57;  Ezk  23  6).  In  the  time  of  Ezra  and  Nehe- 
miah,  the  Jewish  magistrates  bore  the  same  title 
(Ezr  9  2;  Neh  2  1G;  4  14;  13  11).  The  Gr 
dpxuv,  drchon,  "magistrate"  (Lk  12  58;  Tit  3  1 
AY),  signifies  the  chief  in  power  (1  Cor  2  6.8)  and 
"ruler"  (Acts  4  2G;    Rom  13  3). 

The  Messiah  is  designated  as  the  "prince  [archon]  of 
the  kin^s  of  the  earth"  (Rev  1  5  AV),  and  by  the  same 
term  Moses  is  designated  the  judge  and  leader  of  the 
Hebrews  (Acts  7  27.35).  Tiie  wide  application  of  this 
term  is  manifest  from  the  fact  that  it  is  used  of  magis- 
trates of  any  kind,  e.g.  the  high  priest  (Acts  23  5); 
civil  judges  (Lk  12  58;  Acts  16  19);  ruler  of  the 
synagogue  (Lk  8  41;  Mt  9  18.23;  Mk  5  22);  per- 
sons of  standing  and  authority  among  the  Pharisees  and 
other  sects  that  appear  in  the  Sanhedrin  (Lk  14  1;  Jn 
3  1;  Acts  3  17).  The  term  also  designates  Satan,  the 
prince  or  chief  of  the  fallen  angels  (Mt  9  34;   Eph  2  2). 

In  the  NT  we  also  find  o-rpar-nybs,  strategos,  em- 
ployed to  designate  the  Rom  praetors  or  magis- 
trate's of  Philippi,  a  Rom  colony  (Acts  16  20. 
22.35.36.38).  A  collective  term  for  those  clothed 
with  power  (Eng.  "the  powers"),  i^ovaiai,  exou- 
siai,  is  found  in  Lk  12  11  AV;  Rom  13  2.3;  Tit 
3  1.  The  "higher  powers"  (Rom  13  1)  are  all 
those  who  are  placed  in  positions  of  civil  authority 
from  the  emperor  down. 

In  early  Heb  history,  the  magisterial  office  was 
limited  to  the  hereditary  chiefs,  but  Moses  made 
the  judicial  office  elective.  In  his  time  the  "heads 
of  families"  were  59  in  number,  and  these,  together 
with  the  12  princes  of  the  tribes,  composed  the 
Sanhedrin  or  Council  of  71.  Some  of  the  scribes 
were  intrusted  with  the  business  of  keeping  the 
genealogies  and  in  this  capacity  were  also  regarded 
as    magistrates.  Frank  E.  Hirsch 

MAGNIFICAL,  mag-nif'i-kal  (V"l|,  gddhal,  in 
Iliph.  "to  make  great"):  Old  form  retained  from 
Genevan  VS  in  1  Ch  22  5;  in  ARV  "magnificent." 

MAGNIFICAT,  mag-nif'i-kat:  The  name  given 
to  the  hymn  of  Mary  in  Lk  1  46-55,  commencing 
"My  soul  doth  magnify  the  Lord."  Three  old 
Lat  MSS  substitute  the  name  "Elisabeth"  for 
"Mary"  in  ver  46,  but  against  this  is  the  authority 
of  all  Gr  MSS  and  other  Lat  VSS._  The  hymn, 
modeled  in  part  on  that  of  Hannah  in  1  S  2  1  If, 


is  peculiarly  suitable  to  the  circumstances  of  Mary, 
and  plainly  could  not  have  been  composed  after 
the  actual  appearance  and  resurrection  of  Christ. 
Its  early  date  is  thus  manifest. 

MAGNIFY,  mag'ni-fi  (Iliph.  of  b"T|,  gddhal; 
H€-ya\vv&>,  megaMno,  "to  make  great,"  "extol," 
"celebrate  in  praise"):  Used  esp.  of  exaltation  of 
the  name,  mercy,  and  other  attributes  of  God  (Gen 
19  19;  2  S  7  26,  Ps  35  27;  40  16;  70  4;  Lk 
1  46;  Acts  10  46);  of  God's  "word"  (Ps  138  2); 
or  of  Christ  (Acts  19  17;  Phil  1  20).  Men  also 
can  be  "magnified"  (Josh  4  14;  1  Ch  29  25,  etc). 
In  Rom  11  13,  "magnify  mine  office,"  the  word 
(Gr  doxdzo)  is  changed  in  RV  to  "glorify." 

MAGOG,  ma'gog  (3i13tt,  mdghogh;  Ma-yto-y, 
Magog):  Named  among  the  sons  of  Japheth  (Gen 
10  2;  1  Ch  1  5).  Ezekiel  uses  the  word  as  equiva- 
lent to  "land  of  Gog"  (Ezk  38  2;  39  6).  Jos 
identifies  the  Magogites  with  the  Scythians  (Ant, 
I,  vi,  1).  From  a  resemblance  between  the  names 
Gog  and  Gyges  (Gugu),  king  of  Lydia,  some  have 
suggested  that  Magog  is  Lydia;  others,  however, 
urge  that  Magog  is  probably  only  a  variant  of  Gog 
(Sayce  in  HDB).  In  the  Apocalypse  of  John, 
Gog  and  Magog  represent  all  the  heathen  oppo- 
nents of  Messiah  (Rev  20  8),  and  in  this  sense 
these  names  frequently  recur  in  Jewish  apocalyptic 
literature.  jOHN  A.  Lees 

MAGOR-MISSABIB,  ma'gor-mis'a-bib  p^E 
I'OS'D ,  mdghor  viissdbhihh,  "terror  on  every  side") : 
A  name  given  by  Jeremiah  to  Pashhur  ben  Immer, 
the  governor  of  the  temple,  who  had  caused  the 
prophet  to  be  beaten  and  set  in  the  stocks  (Jer  20 
3).  The  same  expression  is  used  (not  as  a  proper 
name)  in  several  other  passages  (Ps  31  13;  Jer  6 
25;  20  10;   46  5;  49  29;  Lam  2  22). 

MAGPIASH,  mag'pi-ash.     See  Magbish. 

MAGUS,  ma'gus,  SIMON.  See  Simon  Magus; 
Magi;  Magic. 

MAHALAH,  ma-ha'la,  ma'ha-la  (nbrTC,  mahlah; 

RV  has  the  correct  form  MAHLAH) :  A  descendant 
of  Manasseh  (1  Ch  7  18). 

MAHALALEL, ma-ha'la-lel  (b^bbrm,mahdlal'el; 
AV  Mahalaleel,  ma-ha'la-le-el,  ma-hal'a-lel) : 

(1)  Son  of  Cainan,  the  grandson  of  Seth  (Gen  5 
12  IT;   1  Ch  1  2). 

(2)  The  ancestor  of  Athaiah,  one  of  the  children 
of  Judah  who  dwelt  in  Jems  after  the  return  from 
exile  (Neh  11  4). 

MAHALATH,  ma'ha-lath  (r.3!T2,  mahalath): 

(1)  In  Gen  28  9  the  name  of  a  wife  of  Esau, 
daughter  of  Ishmael,  and  sister  of  Nebaioth,  called 
in  36  3,  Basemath  (q.v.).  The  Sam,  however, 
throughout  ch  36  retains  "Mahalath."  On  the 
other  hand,  in  26  34  Basemath  is  said  to  be  "the 
daughter  of  Elon  the  Hittite,"  probably  a  con- 
fusion with  Adah,  as  given  in  36  2,  or  corruption 
may  exist  in  the  lists  otherwise. 

(2)  One  of  the  18  wives  of  Rehoboam,  a  grand- 
daughter of  David  (2  Ch  11  18). 

(3)  The  word  is  found  in  the  titles  of  Ps  53  (RV 
"set  to  Mahalath")  and  Ps  88  (RV  "set  to  Maha- 
lath Leannoth,"  m  "for  singing").  Probably  some 
song  or  tune  is  meant,  though  the  word  is  taken  by 
many  to  denote  a  musical  instrument.  Heng- 
stenberg  and  others  interpret  it  as  indicating  the 
subject  of  the  Pss.     See  Psalms.         James  Orr 


Mahali 
Maimed 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1966 


MAHALI,  ma'ha-li.     See  Mahli. 

MAHANAIM,  ma-ha-na'im  (D^rTQ  ,  mahdnayim ; 
the  Gr  is  different  in  every  case  where  the  name 
occurs,  B  and  A  also  giving  variant  forms;  the  dual 
form  may  he  taken  as  having  arisen  from  an  old 
locative  ending,  as,  e.g.  in  D^CIT],  yrrushdla[y]i?n, 
from  an  original  0?tJT"P,  y'rushdlem.  In  den  32 
21  mahaneh  is  evidently  a  ||  form  and  should  be 
rendered  as  a  proper  name,  Mahaneh,  i.e.  Maha- 
naim) :  The  city  must  have  been  one  of  great  strengt  h. 
It  lay  E.  of  the  Jordan,  and  is  first  mentioned  in 
the  history  of  Jacob.  Here  he  halted  after  parting 
from  Lalian,  before  the  passage  of  the  Jabbok  (Gen 
32  2),  ''and  the  angels  of  God  met  him."  Possibly 
it  was  the  site  of  an  ancient  sanctuary.  It  is  next 
noticed  in  defining  the  boundaries  of  tribal  territory 
E.  of  the  Jordan.  It  lav  on  the  border  of  Gad  and 
Manasseh  (Josh  13  26.30).  It  belonged  to  the 
lot  of  Gad,  and  was  assigned  along  with  Ramoth 
in  Gilead  to  the  Merarite  Levites  (21  38;  1  Ch  6 
80 — the  former  of  these  passages  affords  no  justi- 
fication to  Cheyne  in  saying  [EB,  s.v.]  that  it  is 
mentioned  as  a  "city  of  refuge").  The  strength 
of  the  place  doubtless  attracted  Abner,  who  fixed 
here  the  capital  of  Ishbosheth's  kingdom.  Saul's 
chivalrous  rescue  of  Jabesh-gilead  was  remembered 
to  the  credit  of  his  house  in  these  dark  days,  and 
the  loyalty  of  M.  could  be  reckoned  on  (2  S  2  8, 
etc).  To  this  same  fortress  David  fled  when  en- 
dangered by  the  rebellion  of  Absalom;  and  in  the 
"forest"  hard  by,  that  prince  met  his  fate  (2  S  17 
24,  etc).  It  was  made  the  center  of  one  of  Solo- 
mon's administrative  districts,  and  here  Abinadab 
the  son  of  Iddo  was  stationed  (1  K  4  14).  There 
seems  to  be  a  reference  to  M.  in  Cant  6  13  RV. 
If  this  is  so,  here  alone  it  appears  with  the  article. 
By  emending  the  text  Cheyne  would  read:  "What 
do  you  see  in  the  Shulammite  ?  A  narcissus  of  the 
valleys." 

It  is  quite  clear  from  the  narrative  that  Jacob, 
going  to  meet  his  brother,  who  was  advancing  from 
the  S.,  crossed  the  Jabbok  after  leaving  M.  It  is 
therefore  vain  to  search  for  the  site  of  this  city  S. 
of  the  Jabbok,  and  Conder's  suggested  identifica- 
tion with  some  place  near  el-Bnkei^a,  E.  of  es-Salt, 
must  be  given  up. 

On  the  N.  of  the  Jabbok  several  positions  have 
been  thought  of.  Merrill  (East  of  the  Jordan,  433 
ff)  argues  in  favor  of  Khirbet  Saleikhat,  a  ruined 
site  in  the  mouth  of  Wddy  Saleikhat,  on  the  north- 
ern bank,  3  miles  E.  of  Jordan,  and  4  miles  N.  of 
Wddy  KAjlun.  From  its  height,  300  ft.  above  the 
plain,  it  commands  a  wide  view  to  the  W.  and  S.  One 
running  "by  the  way  of  the  Plain"  could  be  seen  a 
great  way  off  (2  S  18  23).  This  would  place  the 
battle  in  the  hills  to  the  S.  near  the  Jordan  valley. 
Ahimaaz  then  preferred  to  make  a  detour,  thus 
securing  a  level  road,  while  the  Cushite  took  the 
rough  track  across  the  heights.  Others,  among 
them  Buhl  {GAP,  257),  would  place  M.  at  Mihneh, 
a  partly  overgrown  ruin  9  miles  E.  of  Jordan,  and 
4  miles  N.  of  KAjlun  on  the  north  bank  of  Wddy 
Mahneh.  This  is  the  only  trace  of  the  ancient 
name  yet  found  in  the  district.  It  may  be  assumed 
that  M.  is  to  be  sought  in  this  neighborhood. 
Cheyne  would  locate  it  at  %Ajlun,  near  which  rises 
the  great  fortress  KaVater-Rabad.  He  supposes 
that  the  "wood  of  Mahanaim"  extended  as  far  as 
Mihneh,  and  that  "the  name  of  Mihneh  is  really  an 
abbreviation  of  the  ancient  phrase."  Others  would 
identify  M.  with  Jerash,  where,  however,  there  are 
no  remains  older  than  Gr-Rom  times. 

Objections  to  either  K  Ajlun  or  Mihneh,  are:  (1) 
The  reference  to  "this  Jordan"  in  Gen  32  10, 
which  seems  to  show  that  the  city  was  near  the 


river.  It  may  indeed  be  said  that  the  great  hollow 
of  the  Jordan  valley  seems  close  at  hand  for  many 
miles  on  eit  her  side,  but- this,  perhaps,  hardly  meets 
the  objection.  (2)  The  word  kikkdr,  used  for 
"Plain"  in  2  S  18  23,  seems  always  elsewhere  to 
apply  to  the  "circle"  of  the  Jordan.  Buhl,  who 
identifies  M.  with  Mihneh,  yet  cites  this  verse 
(G  A  P,  112)  as  a  case  in  which  kikkdr  applies  to  the 
plain  of  the  Jordan.  He  thus  prescribes  for 
Ahimaaz  a  very  long  race.  Cheyne  sees  the  diffi- 
culty. The  battle  was  obviously  in  the  vicinity 
of  M.,  and  the  nearest  way  from  the  "wood"  was 
by  the  "122,  kikkdr,  "or,  since  no  satisfactory  ex- 
planation of  this  reading  has  been  offered  by  the  *n;  ( 
nahal,  that  is  to  say,  the  eager  Ahimaaz  ran  along 
in  the  wddy  in  which,  at  some  little  distance,  M. 
lay"  (Eli,  s.v.).  The  site  for  the  present  remains 
in  doubt.  W.  Ewing 

MAHANEH-DAN,  ma'ha-ne-dan  OTTCrT^ ,  ma- 
h&neh-dhan;  irapi\}.$io\r]  Adv,  paremboli  Ddn) :  This 
place  is  mentioned  twice:  in  Jgs  13  2")  (AV  "the 
camp  of  Dan"),  and  Jgs  18  12.  In  Mahaneh-dan, 
between  Zorah  and  Eshtaol,  the  spirit  of  the  Lord 
began  to  move  Samson.  Here  the  600  marauders 
of  Dan,  coming  from  Zorah  and  Eshtaol,  encamped 
behind  Kiriath-jearim.  It  has  been  thought  that 
these  two  statements  contradict  each  other;  or  at 
least  that  they  cannot  both  apply  to  the  same  place. 
But  if  we  accept  the  identification  of  Zorah  with 
Surah,  and  of  Eshtaol  with  Eshu\  which  there  seems 
no  reason  to  question;  and  if,  further,  we  identify 
Kiriath-jearim  with  Khirbet  Erma,  which  is  at 
least  possible,  the  two  passages  may  be  quite  recon- 
ciled. Behind  Kiriath-jearim,  that  is  W.  of  Khir- 
bet Erma,  runs  the  Vale  of  Sorek,  on  the  north  bank 
of  which,  about  2  miles  apart,  stand  Zorah  and 
Eshtaol;  the  former  3|  miles,  the  latter  2\  miles 
fron  Khirbet  Erma.  No  name  resembling  Mahaneh- 
dan  has  yet  been  recovered;  but  the  place  may  have 
lain  within  the  area  thus  indicated,  so  meeting  the 
conditions  of  both  passages,  whether  it  was  a  per- 
manent settlement,  or  derived  its  name  only  from 
the  incident  mentioned  in  18  12.  W.  Ewing 

MAHARAI,  ma-har'a-I,  ma'ha-rl  C1"!"'?,  ma- 
hdray,  "impetuous"):  One  of  David's  "braves" 
(2  S  23  28;  1  Ch  11  30;  27  13).  He  was  one 
of  the  12  monthly  captains  of  David's  administra- 
tion, and  took  the  10th  month  in  rotation.  He 
was  of  the  family  of  Zerah,  and  dwelt  in  Netophah 
in  Judah. 

MAHATH,  ma/hath  (Wni2,  mahath,  "snatch- 
ing"; MM,Meth): 

(1)  One  of  the  Kohathites  having  charge  of  the 
"service  of  song"  in  David's  time,  son  of  Amasai 
(1  Ch  6  35).  Possibly  the  same  as  Ahimoth 
(vcr  25).  He  seems  also  to  be  the  same  as  the  per- 
son named  in  2  Ch  29  12  during  Hezekiah's  time, 
though  it  is  probable  there  is  some  confusion  in  the 
narrative.  He  is  there  represented  as  taking  part 
in  the  new  covenant  of  Hezekiah  and  the  cleansing 
of  the  Lord's  house. 

(2)  One  of  the  overseers  of  the  temple  under 
Conaniah  and  Shimei  (2  Ch  31  13);  three  pas- 
sages of  Scripture  give  the  name,  but  it  is  difficult 
to  individuate  these  because  the  genealogy  identi- 
fies the  two  first  named  (1  Ch  6  35;  2  Ch  29  12), 
while  the  chronology  seems  to  divide  them — one 
in  David's  day,  the  other  in  Hezekiah's.  It  is  not, 
however,  impossible  to  identify  the  man  of  2  Ch 
29  12  with  him  of  2  Ch  31  13.  Possibly  the 
genealogy  has  been  mistakenly  repeated  in  2  Ch 
29  12.  Henuy  Wallace 


1967 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Mahali 
Maimed 


MAHAVITE,  ma'ha-vit  (D^lTg,  mahdwlm,  "vil- 
lagers"): The  description  given  to  Eliel,  one  of 
David's  warrior  guard  (1  Ch  11  46),  perhaps  to 
distinguish  him  from  the  Eliel  in  the  next  verse. 
AIT  is  very  obscure  here. 

MAHAZIOTH,  ma-ha'zi-oth,  ma-ha'zi-oth 
(niX"1Tn'a,  mahdztoth,  "visions"):  One  of  the 
14  sons  of  Heman  the  Kohathite  in  the  temple 
choir.  "He  was  leader  of  the  23d  course  of  musi- 
cians whose  function  was  to  blow  the  horns"  (1  Ch 
25  4.30). 

MAHER-SHALAL-HASH-BAZ,  ma'her-shal'al- 
hash'baz  (T3  TTn  bhtO  "\r\i2  ,  maker  shalal  hash  baz, 
"the  spoil  speedeth,  the  prey  hasteth"):  A  svmbolic 
name  given  to  Isaiah's  son  to  signifv  the  sharp 
destruction  of  Rezin  and  Pekah  by  the  Assvr  power 
(Isa  8  1.3).     Cf  the  Gr  idea  of  Nemesis. 

MAHLAH,  ma'la  (nbnp,  mahlah,  "sickness"  or 
"song,"  etymology  doubtful): 

(1)  Eldest  of  Zelophehad's  5  daughters  (Nu  26 
33;  27  1).  As  Zelophehad,  grandson  of  Manasseh, 
had  no  sons,  the  daughters  successfully  claimed  their 
father's  inheritance.  The  law  was  altered  in  their 
favor  on  condition  that  they  married  into  their 
father's  tribe.  They  agreed*  and  married  their 
cousins  (Nu  36  11).  The  whole  chapter  should 
be  read  and  compared  with  Josh  17  3  ff,  because 
the  decision  became  a  precedent. 

(2)  Another  (AV  "Mahalah"),  same  Heb  name 
as  above,  daughter  of  Hammoleketh,  grand- 
daughter of  Manasseh  (1  Ch  7  IS). 

Henry  Wallace 
MAHLI,  ma'li  C1'"^,   mahll,    "a  sick  or  weak 
one") : 

(1)  A  son  of  Merari  (Ex  6  19.  AV  Mahali;  Nu 
3  20),  grandson  of  Levi  and  founder  of  the  Leviti- 
cal  family  of  Mahlites  (q.v.). 

(2)  A  son  of  Mushi,  Mahli's  brother,  bears  the 
same  name  (1  Ch  6  47;  23  23;  24  30).  Cf  Ezr  8 
18  and  1  Esd  8  47. 

MAHLITES,  maTits  (^TVQ ,  mahll) :  Descendants 
of  Mahli,  son  of  Merari  (Nu  3  33;  26  58).  These 
Mahlites  appear  to  have  followed  the  exampleof  the 
daughters  of  Zelophehad,  mutatis  mutandis.  (See 
Mahlah;  had  the  name  become  the  description  of  a 
practice?)  They  married  the  daughters  of  their 
uncle  Eleazar  (1  Ch  23  21.22). 

MAHLON,  ma'lon  (pntt,  mahlon,  "invalid"): 
Ruth's  first  husband  (Ruth  1  2.5;  4  9.10).  In 
the  latter  passage  is  further  evidence  of  the  un- 
willingness to  allow  a  family  connection  or  inher- 
itance to  drop  (see  Mahlah;  Mahli).  Note  that 
David's  descent  and  that  of  his  "Greater  Son" 
come  through  Ruth  and  Boaz  (Ruth  4  22). 

MAHOL,  ma'hol  (VirTa,  mahol,  "dance";  cf 
5Vjp~",;2)  fritc-mahol,  "sons  of  dance"):  The 
father  of  the  4  sages  reputed  next  in  wisdom  to 
Solomon  (1  K  4  31).  Their  names  were  Ethan, 
Heman,  Chalcol,  Darda. 

MAHSEIAH,  ma-se'ya,  ma-sl'a  (PPpflg ,  mah- 
seyah,  "Jeh  a  refuge"):  Grandfather 'of'  Baruch 
(Jer  32  12)  and  of  Seraiah  (Jer  51  59).  The 
name  (not  to  be  confused  with  Maaseiah  [q.v.]  as 
AV  has  done  even  in  the  above  passages)  is  spelt 
"Maaseas"  (q.v.)  in  Bar  1  1. 

MAIANNAS,  mi-an'as  (Maidwas,  Maidnnas; 
AV  JVIaianeas):    One  of  the   Levites  who  taught 


the  law  for  Esdras  (1  Esd  9  48)  =  M  \\sei\h  (a  v) 
in  Neh  8  7. 

MAID,  mad,  MAIDEN,  mad"n:   Used  in  AV  in 
the  sense  of  a  girl  or  young  female;  of  an  unmarried 
woman  or  virgin,  and  of  a  female  servant  or  hand- 
maul.      Thus    it    translates    several    Heb    words: 
(1)  The  more  generic  word  is  fny?,  na'drdh,  "girl," 
fern,  form  of  the  common  "173*,  'na'ar,  "boy"  (1  S 
9  11;     2  K  5  2.4;     Est  2  4.7  ff;     Job  41  5;    Am 
2  7).     In  several   places  masc.   form    "l^Z,   na'ar, 
with    fem.  form    of    vb.  rendered   "damsel"   (Gen 
24  14.16.28.55;    34  3.12;    Dt  22  15);     cf  y   Vaii, 
he  pats  (Lk  8  01.54);    see  also  TrcuSur™    paidlske 
diminutive     (Sir  41  22;    Mk  14  66.69;    Lk  12  4.5; 
Kopdawv,   kordsion,    LXX   for  nd'ardh,    "maid  "   in 
Mt  9  24  f  with  Job  6  12f;  Sus  vs  15.19).     (2)  The 
Heb  "Tab? ,  \dmah,  also  rendered  "maid,"  refers  to  a 
woman  of  marriageable  age  (Ex  2  8;  Prov  30  19), 
whether  married  or  not,  whether  a  virgin  or  not! 
Hie  same  word  is  trd  "virgin"  in  several    places 
(Gen  24  43  AV;       Cant  13;     6  8;        Isa  7  14). 
(3)  The  word  ?Vin3,  bHhulah,  a  common  Heb  word 
for    "virgin,"    a    chaste    woman    (LXX    TrapOivo* 
parthenos),    is    frequently    rendered    "maid"    and 
"maiden"      (Ex  22  16;     Jgs  19  24;     2  Ch  36  17 
Ps  78  63;    148  12;    Jer  51  22;    Lam  5  11;    Ezk 
9  6;    44  22;    Zee  9  17;    cf   Dt  22  14.17,   having 
"the  marks  [tokens]  of  virginity");  D^mS,  b'thu- 
llm,  rendered  "maid."     See  Virgin.     (4)  Two  Heb 
words  covering  the  idea  of  service,  handmaid,  hand- 
maiden, and   in    numerous  passages   so  rendered' 
(a)  npX,  'amah,  trd  "maid"  (Gen  30  3;    Ex  2  5- 
21^20.26;    Lev  25  6;   Ezr  2  65;   Job  19  15;    Nah 
2  7);    (/;)  <~in?t),  shiphhdh,  "a  family  servant,"  "a 
handmaid,"    so    rendered    in    numerous    passages 
("maid,"  "maiden,"  Gen  16  2ff;  29  24  29*  30  7  () 
10.12.18;  Isa  24  2;   Ps  123  2;  Eccl  2  7).    In  AV 
they  are  variously  trd  "maid,"   "handmaid,"  etc. 
(.))    The  rather  rare    word   appa,  hdbra,   "favorite 
slave,"  is  rendered  "maid"  in  Jth  10  2.5;   13  9-  16 
23;  Ad  Est  15  2.7.    (6)  8ou\v,  doule,  "female  slave  " 
in  AV  Jth  12  49  (RV  "servant"). 

Maidservant  means  simply  a  female  slave  in  the 
different  positions  which  such  a  woman  naturally 
occupies.  They  were  the  property  of  their  masters; 
sometimes  held  the  position  of  concubines  (Gen  31 
33);  daughters  might  be  sold  by  their  fathers  into 
this  condition  (Ex  21  7).  It  is  regrettable  that 
no  uniform  tr  was  adopted  in  AV.  And  in  RV  cf 
Tob  3  7;  Jth  10  10;   Sir  41  22. 

"Maidservants"  replaces  "maidens"  of  AV  in 
Lk  12  45.     Cf  Job  31  13. 

Edward  Bagby  Pollard 
MAIL,  mal.     See  Armor. 

MAIMED,     mam'd     (Tnn,      haruc;     kv\\6s, 

kullos,  dvdir^pos,  andperos):  The  condition  of 
being  mutilated  or  rendered  imperfect  as  the  result 
of  accident,  in  contrast  to  congenital  malforma- 
tion. An  animal  thus  affected  was  declared  to  be 
unfit  to  be  offered  in  sacrifice  as  a  peace  offering 
(Lev  22  22);  although  under  certain  conditions 
a  congemtally  deformed  animal  might  be  accepted 
as  a  free-will  offering,  apparently  the  offering  of  a 
maimed  animal  was  always  prohibited  (vs  23.24). 
The  use  of  such  animals  in  sacrifice  was  one  of  the 
charges  brought  against  the  Jews  of  his  time  by 
Malachi  (1  8-14).  The  word  is  also  used  to  denote 
those  who  were  so  mutilated.  Among  those  made 
whole  by  Our  Lord  in  Galilee  were  the  maimed  as 
well  as  the  halt  (Mt  15  30). 

Figuratively  the  casting  off  of  any  evil  habit  or 
distracting  condition  which  interferes  with  the 
spiritual  life  is  called  "maiming"  (Mt  18  8;    Mk  9 


Mainsail 
Malachi 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1968 


43);  with  this  may  be  taken  the  lesson  in  Ml  19 
12.  In  these  passages  "maimed"  (kullos)  is  used  of 
injuries  of  the  upper  limb,  and  cholosoi  those  affect- 
ing the  feet,  rendering  one  halt.  Hippocrates, 
however,  uses  kullos  for  a  deformation  of  the  legs 
in  which  the  knees  are  bent  so  far  outward  as  to 
render  the  patient  lame;  while  he  applies  the  term 
cholos  as  a  generic  name  for  any  distortion,  and  in 
one  place  uses  it  to  describe  a  mutilation  of  the 
head  ( Prorrhetica,  83).  The  maimed  and  the  halt 
are  among  the  outcasts  who  are  to  be  brought  into 
the  gospel  feast  according  to  the  parable  (Lk  14 
13-21).  Alex.  Macalister 

MAINSAIL,  man'sal.     See  Ships  and  Boats. 

MAKAZ,  ma'kaz  (T'p.V ,  mdkag):  One  of  the 
cities  of  the  2d  of  the  12  districts  or  prefectures 
which  supplied  victuals  for  Solomon  (1  K  4  9). 
It  is  associated  with  Shaalbim,  Beth-shemesh  and 
Elon-beth-hanan,  all  three  probably  identical 
with  cities  mentioned  (Josh  19  41.42)  as  on  the 
border  of  Dan.  Cheyne  {EB,  II,  col.  2900)  sug- 
gests that  Makaz  may  be  identical  with  Mejargon 
(q.v.)  in  the  latter  list. 

MAKE,    mak,  .MAKER,   mak'er   (Tito?,   \Jsdh, 
"Pi,    nathan,    WW,    sum;     irou'w,    poied,     t£0tuai, 
tithemi,  Ka6lcrrr\\t.i,  kathistemi) :  "Make" 
1.  As  Used   is   a   frequently   used   word,   meaning 
in  the  OT      "to     create,"     "construct,"     "cause," 
"constitute,"  etc,  and  represents  dif- 
ferent Heb  words.     It  is  very  often  in  AV  (1)  the 
tr    of    Kdsah,    "to    do,"    "make,"   etc,    usually    in 
the    sense    of    constructing,    effecting.     In    Gen  1 
7.10.25.31,  etc,  it  is  used  of  the  creation;    of  the 
creation  of  man  in  the  likeness  of  God  (5  1);    of 
the  ark  (6  14);  of  a  feast  (21  8);  of  the  tabernacle 
and  all  the  things  belonging  to  it  (Ex  25  8,  etc); 
of  idols  (Lsa  2  8;_  Jer  2  28,  etc);    (2)  of  nathan 
(lit.  "to  give"),  chiefly  in  the  sense  of  constituting, 
appointing,    causing;     of   a   covenant    (Gen  9  12; 
17  2);   of  Abraham  as  the  father  of  many  nations, 
etc  (17  5.6);  of  Ishmael  as  a  great  nation  (17  20); 
of  Moses  as  a  god  to  Pharaoh  (Ex  7  1);   of  judges 
and  officers  (Dt  16  18);  of  laws  (Lev  26  40,  etc); 
it  has  the  meaning  of  "to  cause"   (Ex  18  16;    23 
27;    Nu  5  21;    1  S  9  22;    Ps  106  46);    (3)    sum, 
"to  set,"  "put,"  "lay,"  has  a  similar  significance: 
of   Abraham's  seed   (Gen  13  10;    32  12);    Joseph 
lord  of  all  Egypt   (45  9;    cf  Ex  2  14;    Dt  1  13; 
10  22);    (4)  shith,  with  same  meaning,  occurs  (2  S 
22   12,  "He  made  darkness  pavilions  round  about 
him";   1  K  11  34;  Ps  18  11;  21  6).     Other  words 
are  *dbhadh  (Aram.);  "to  make,"  "do,"  (Jer  10  11; 
Dnl  3  1);    Kamadh,  "to  set  up"  (2  Ch  11  22;    25 
5;   Neh  10  32);   'dgabh,  "to  labor,"  etc  (Job  10  8, 
AVm"took  pains  about  me");  bandh,  "to  build  up 
(Gen  2  22;     1  K  22  39);     bard',    "to    prepare," 
"create"    (Nu  16  30;    Ps  89  47);    ydgagh,  "to  set 
up"    (Job  17  6;     Jer  51  34);     ydgar,    "to   form," 
"constitute"  (Ps  74  17;  104  26);  pd'al,  "to work," 
"make"  (Ex  15  17;  Ps  7  15);  words  with  special 
meanings  are:  pakadh,  "to  give  a  charge"  (1  K  11 
28;    2  K  25  23);    kdrath,  "to  cut,"  or  "prepare," 
"to  make  a  covenant  or  league"  (Gen  15  18;    Ex 
24  8;     Josh  9  16);     kdshar,    "to    bind   together," 
"to    make    a    conspiracy"    (2  K  12  20;     14  19); 
pdrag,  "to  break  forth,"  "to  make  a  breach"  (2  S 
6  S;      1  Ch  13  11;     15  13);     labhen,    "to    make 
brick"  (Gen  11  3);  labhabh  (denom.  of  lebhtbhdh), 
"to  make  cakes"  (2  S  13  0.8);  malakh,  "to  make 
a  kin^"    (1  S  8  22;    12  1);    among  obsolete  and 
archaic   words   and   phrases    may    be    mentioned, 
"What   makest   thou   in    this   place?"  (Jgs  18  3), 
RV  "doest";  "made"  for  "pretend"  (2  S  13  5.6), 


RV  "feign,"  "feigned";  "made  as  if"  (Josh  8  15; 
9  4),  so  RV;  "make  for  him"  (Ezk  17  17),  RV 
"help  him";  "make  mention"  (Jer  4  16);  "make 
mention  of"  (Gen  40  14;  Ps  87  4);  "make  ac- 
count" (Ps  144  3);  "make  an  end"  (Jgs  3  18; 
15  17);  "make  an  end"  is  also  "to  bring  to  nought," 
"to  destroy"  (lsa  38  12);  "make  riddance"  (Lev 
23  22),  RV  "wholly  reap."  In  1  Mace  16  22, 
we  have  "to  make  him  away"  as  tr  of  apolesai 
uu ton,  RV  "destroy." 

Maker  is  the  tr  of  Kasah  (Job  4  17;  Ps  95  6),  of 
yagar  (lsa  45  9.11;  Hab  2  IS  bis),  of  harash,  "grav- 
er" (lsa  45  16),  of  pa'al  (Job  36  3;  lsa  1  31, 
or  pdlal). 

In  the  NT  the  chief  word  for  "make"  is  poied, 
"to  do,"  "make,"  etc  (Alt  3  3;  Jn  2  10;  5  15); 
of  kathistemi,  "to  set  down,"  "to  ap- 
2.  As  Used  point"  (Mt  24  45.47;  Rom  5  19);  of 
in  the  NT  tithemi,  "to set,"  "lay"  (Mt  22  44;  Mk 
12  36);  of  diatithemi,  "to  set  or  lay 
throughout"  (Acts  3  25;  He  8  10;  10  10);  of 
didomi,  "to  give"  (2  Thess  3  9;  Rev  3  9);  of 
eimi,  "to  be"  (Mk  12  42;;  of  epiteleo,  "to  com- 
plete" (He  8  5;^  Gal  3  3,  "make  perfect,"  RVm 
"make  an  end");  of  kataskeudzo,  "to  prepare 
thoroughly"  (He  9  2,  RV  "prepared");  of  ktizo, 
"to  make,"  "found"  (Eph  2  15);  of  plerophoreo, 
"to  bear  on  fully"  (2  Tim  4  5,  "make  full  proof 
of  thy  ministry,"  RV  "fulfil");  doxdzo,  "to  make 
honorable  or  glorious"  (2  Cor  3  10);  of  peritrepo 
(eis  manian),  "to  turn  round  to  raving"  (Acts  26 
24,  "doth  make  thee  mad,"  RV  "is  turning  thee 
mad,"  m  "Gr  turneth  thee  to  madness");  of  em- 
poreuomai,  "to  traffic,"  "cheat"  (2  Pet  2  3,  "make 
merchandise  of  you");  of  eirenopoied,  "to  make 
peace"  (Col  1  20);  of  sumbdllo,  "to  throw  together" 
(Lk  14  31;  "to  make  war,"  RV  "goeth  to  en- 
counter"); "made"  is  frequently  the  tr  of  gino- 
mai,  "to  become,"  "begin  to  be"  (Mt  4  3;  9  16; 
Mk  2  21.27;  Jn  1  3  [thrice].  10,  "The  world  was 
made  through  him,"  ver  14,  "The  word  was  made 
flesh,"  RV  "became  flesh";  2  9,  water  "made 
wine,"  RV  "now  become  wine,"  m  "that  it  had 
become";  8  33,  "made  free";  Rom  1  3,  RV 
"born";  Gal  3  13,  RV  "having  become  a  curse  for 
us";  4  4,  RV  "born  of  a  woman,"  etc;  Phil  2  7, 
"was  made  in  the  likeness  of  men,"  RVm  "Gr  be- 
coming in";  1  Pet  2  7,  etc). 

In  addition  to  the  changes  in  RV  already  noted  may 
be  mentioned,  for  "maketh  collops"  (Job  15  27) 
"gathered  fat";  for  "set  us  in  the  way  of  his  steps" 
(Ps  85  13),  "make  his  footsteps  a  way  to  walk  in";  for 
"did  more  grievously  afflict  her"  (lsa  9  1),  "hath  made 
it  glorious";  for  "shall  make  him  of  quick  understand- 
ing" (lsa  ll  3),  "his  delight  shall  be  in";  for  "make 
sluices  and  ponds  for  fish"  (lsa  19  10),  "they  that  work 
for  hire,"  m  "or  make  dams";  for  "ye  that  make  men- 
tion of  the  Lord"  (lsa  62  6),  "ye  that  are  Jeh's  remem- 
brancers"; for  "he  shall  confirm  the  covenant"  (Dnl 
9  27),  "he  shall  make  a  firm  covenant";  for  "maketh 
my  way  perfect"  (2  S  22  33),  "guideth  the  perfect  in 
his  way"  (see  margin);  for  "the  desire  of  a  man  is  his 
kindness"  (Prov  19  22),  "that  which  maketh  a  man  to 
be  desired";  for  "maketh  intercession"  (Rom  11  2), 
"pleadeth";  for  "hath  made  us  accepted "  (Eph  1  6), 
"freely  bestowed  on  us,"  m  "wherewith  he  endued  us"; 
for  "made  himself  of  no  reputation"  (Phil  2  7),  "emp- 
tied himself";  for  "spoil  you"  (Col  2  8),  "maketh 
spoil  of  you";  for  "is  the  enemy  of  God"  (Jas  4  4), 
"maketh  himself";  for  "worketh  abomination  or 
[maketh]  a  lie"  (Rev  21  27),  "maketh  [m  "doeth"]  an 
abomination  and  a  lie";  we  have  "become"  for  "made" 
(Mt  4  3;  Lk  3  5;  4  3),  "became"  (Rom  10  20;  1 
Cor  15  45,  bis);  "becoming  in"  for  "being  made" 
(Phil  2  7m). 

W.  L.  Walker 

MAKEBATES,  mak'bats:  This  is  the  pi.  of  the 
word  makebate,  which  means  "one  who  stirs  up 
strife."  It  occurs  only  in  AVm  of  2  Tim  3  3  and 
Tit  2  3  as  an  alternative  tr  of  5td/3o\cu,  didboloi, 
which  AV  renders  "false  accusers,"  and  RV  "slan- 
derers." 


1969 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Mainsail 
Malachi 


MAKED,  ma'ked  (Mcoa'S,  Mahal,  MaK€(3,  Makeb) : 
A  strong  city  E.  of  the  Jordan,  not  yet  identified. 
It  is  named  along  with  Bosor,  Alema  and  Casphor 
(1   Mace  5  26).    In  ver  36,  AV  reads  "Maged." 

MAKER,  ma'ker.     Sec  Make. 

MAKHELOTH,  mak-he'loth,  mak-he'ldth 
(ri^np^,  makheloth,  "assemblies"):  A  desert  camp 
of  the  Israelites  between  Haradah  and  Tahath  (Nu 
33  25.26).     See  Wanderings  of  Israel. 

MAKKEDAH,  ma-ke'da  ("^."Q,  makkedhah; 
Maicn6d,  Makedd):  A  Canaanite  royal  city  which 
Joshua  captured,  utterly  destroying  the  inhab- 
itants, and  doing  to  the  king  as  he  had  done  unto 
the  king  of  Jericho  (Josh  10  28;  12  16).  It  lay 
in  the  Shephelah  of  Judah  (15  41).  It  was  brought 
into  prominence  by  the  flight  thither  of  the  5  kings 
of  the  Amorites  who,  having  united  their  forces  for 
the  destruction  of  Gibeon,  were  themselves  defeated 
and  pursued  by  Joshua  (ch  10).  Seeing  their 
danger,  the  men  of  Gibeon  sent  to  the  camp  at  Gil- 
gal  l)eseeching  Joshua  to  save  and  help  them.  That 
energetic  commander  marched  all  night  with  his 
full  strength,  fell  upon  the  allies  at  Gibeon,  slew 
them  with  a  great  slaughter,  chased  the  fugitives 
down  the  valley  by  way  of  Beth-horon,  and  smote 
them  unto  Azekah  and  unto  Makkedah.  It  was 
during  this  memorable  pursuit  that  in  response  to 
Joshua's  appeal: 

"Sun,  stand  thou  still  upon  Gibeon; 
And  thou,  Moon,  in  the  valley  of  Aijalon," 

the  sun  stayed  in  the  midst  of  heaven,  and  hasted 
not  to  go  down  a  whole  day,  until  the  nation  had 
avenged  themselves  of  their  enemies. 

The  5  kings  sought  refuge  in  the  cave  at  Makke- 
dah, where,  by  Joshua's  orders,  they  were  blocked 
in  with  great  stones,  until  the  slaughter  of  the  fugi- 
tives should  be  completed.  Then  the  royal  prison- 
ers were  brought  out,  and,  after  the  chiefs  of  Israel 
had  set  their  feet  upon  their  necks,  Joshua  slew 
them  and  hanged  them  on  live  trees  until  sunset. 
This  is  an  illustration  of  the  old  practice  of  impaling 
enemies  after  death.  The  bodies  were  then  cast 
into  the  cave  where  they  had  sought  to  hide,  and 
great  stones  were  rolled  against  the  entrance. 

The  flight  of  the  allies  was  past  Beth-horon  and 
Azekah  to  Makkedah.  Azekah  is  not  identified, 
but  it  is  named  with  Gederoth,  Beth-dagon  and 
Naamah  (Josh  15  41).  These  are  probably  rep- 
resented by  Katrah,  DajCm  and  A'a'aneh,  so  that 
in  this  district  Makkedah  may  be  sought.  The 
officers  of  the  Pal  Exploration  Fund  agree  in  sug- 
gesting el-Mughar,  "the  cave,"  on  the  northern 
bank  of  Wady  es-Surar,  about  4  miles  from  the  sand 
dunes  on  the  shore.  There  are  traces  of  old  quarry- 
ing and  many  rock-cut  tombs  with  loculi.  "The 
village  stands  on  a  sort  of  promontory  stretching 
into  the  valley  ....  divided  into  three  plateaus; 
on  the  lower  of  these  to  the  S.  is  the  modern  village, 
el-Mughar.  built  in  front  of  the  caves  which  are 
cut  out  of  the  sandstone"  (Warren).  In  no  other 
place  in  the  neighborhood  are  caves  found.  The 
narrative,  however,  speaks  not  of  caves,  but  of 
"the  cave,"  as  of  one  which  was  notable.  On  the 
other  hand  the  events  narrated  may  have  lent  dis- 
tinction to  some  particular  cave  among  the  many. 
"The  cave"  would  therefore  be  that  associated 
with  the  fate  of  the  5  kings.  No  certainty  is 
possible.  W.  Ewing 

MAKTESH,  mak'tesh,  THE  (TTP^n,  ha-makh- 
tesh,  "the  mortar";  cf  Jgs  15  19,  "the  mortar," 
EV  "hollow  place  that  is  in  Lehi"):  A  quarter  of 
Jerus  so  named,  it  is  supposed,  on  account  of  the 


configuration  of  the  ground  and  associated  (Zeph 
1  10.11)  with  the  "fish  gate"  and  Mishneh  (q.v.) 
or  "second  quarter."  Most  authorities  think  it 
was  in  the  northern  part  of  the  city,  and  many  con- 
sider that  the  name  was  derived  from  the  hollowed- 
out  form  of  that  part  of  the  Tyropceon  just  N.  of 
the  walls,  where  foreign  merchants  congregated; 
others  have  suggested  a  hollow  farther  W.,  now 
occupied  by  the  muristan  and  the  three  long 
bazaars.  E.  W.  G.  Masterman 

MALACHI,  mal'a-ki: 

1.  Xame  of  the  Prophet 

2.  The  Prophet's  Times 

3.  Contents 

4.  Style 

5.  Message 
Literature 

The  last  book  of  the  OT.     Nothing  is  known  of 
the  person  of  Malachi.     Because  his  name  does  not 

occur  elsewhere,  some  scholars  indeed 
1.  Name  of  doubt  whether  "Malachi"  is  intended 
the  Prophet  to  be  the  personal  name  of  the  prophet. 

But  none  of  the  other  prophetic  books 
of  the  OT  is  anonymous.  The  form  "CSbl2 ,  mal- 
'dkhl,  signifies  "my  messenger" ;  it  occurs  again  in 
3  1;  cf  2  7.  But  this  form  of  itself  would  hardly 
be  appropriate  as  a  proper  name  without  some 
additional  syllable  such  as  FT,  Yah,  whence  mal- 
'akhiah,  i.e.  "messenger  of  Yahweh."  Haggai,  in 
fact,  is  expressly  designated  "messenger  of  Yahweh" 
(Hag  1  13).  Besides,  the  superscriptions  pre- 
fixed to  the  book,  in  both  the  LXX  and  the  Vulg, 
warrant  the  supposition  that  Malachi's  full  name 
ended  with  the  syllable  eT .  At  the  same  time  the 
LXX  tr9  the  last  clause  of  1  1,  "by  the  hand  of  his 
messenger,"  and  the  Tg  reads,  "by  the  hand  of  my 
angel,  whose  name  is  called  Ezra  the  scribe." 
Jerome  likewise  testifies  that  the  Jews  of  his  day 
ascribed  this  last  book  of  prophecy  to  Ezra  ( V. 
Praef.  in  duodecim  Prophetas).  But  if  Ezra's  name 
was  originally  associated  with  the  book,  it  would 
hardly  have  been  dropped  by  the  collectors  of  the 
prophetic  Canon  who  lived  only  a  century  or  two 
subsequent  to  Ezra's  time.  Certain  traditions 
ascribe  the  book  to  Zerubbabel  and  Nehemiah; 
others,  still,  to  Malachi,  whom  they  designate  as  a 
Levite  and  a  member  of  the  "Great  Synagogue." 
Certain  modern  scholars,  however,  on  the  basis  of 
the  similarity  of  the  title  (1  1)  to  Zee  9  1;  12  1, 
declare  it  to  be  anonymous;  but  this  is  a  rash  con- 
clusion without  any  substantial  proof  other  than 
supposition.  The  best  explanation  is  that  of  Pro- 
fessor G.  G.  Cameron,  who  suggests  that  the  ter- 
mination of  the  word  "Malachi"  is  adjectival,  and 
equivalent  to  the  Lat  angelicus,  signifying  "one 
charged  with  a  message  or  mission"  (a  missionary). 
The  term  would  thus  be  an  official  title;  and  the 
thought  would  not  be  unsuitable  to  one  whose 
message  closed  the  prophetical  Canon  of  the  OT, 
and  whose  mission  in  behalf  of  the  church  was  so 
sacred  in  character  (1-vol  HDH). 

Opinions  vary  as  to  the  prophet's  exact  date, 
but   nearly   all  scholars  are   agreed   that   Malachi 

prophesied  during  the  Pers  period, 
2.  The  and  after  the  reconstruction  and  dedi- 

Prophet's       cation   of   the   second   temple  in   516 
Times  BC     (cf     Mai  1  10;      3  1.10).     The 

prophet  speaks  of  the  people's  "gov- 
ernor" (Heb  pehdh,  Mai  1  8),  as  do  Haggai  and 
Nehemiah  (Hag  1  1;  Neh  5  14;  12  26).  The 
social  conditions  portrayed  are  unquestionably 
those  also  of  the  period  of  the  Restoration.  More 
specifically,  Malachi  probably  lived  and  labored 
during  the  times  of  Ezra  and  Nehemiah.  Serious 
abuses  had  crept  into  Jewish  life;  the  priests  had 
become  lax  and  degenerate,  defective  and  inferior 


Malachi 
Male 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1970 


sacrifices  were  allowed  to  be  offered  upon  the 
temple  altar,  the  people  were  neglecting  their 
tithes,  divorce  was  common  and  God's  covenant 
was  forgotten  and  ignored;  just  such  abuses  as 
we  know  from  the  Book  of  Neh  were  common  in  bis 
day  (cf  Neb  3  5;  5  1-13).  Yet,  it  is  doubtful 
whether  Malachi  preached  during  Nehcmiah's 
active  governorship;  for  in  Mai  1  <S  it  is  implied 
that  gifts  might  be  offered  to  the  "governor," 
whereas  Nehemiah  tells  us  that  he  declined  all  such 
(Neh  5  15.18).  On  the  other  hand,  the  abuses 
which  Malachi  attacked  correspond  so  exactly 
with  those  which  Nehemiah  found  on  his  2d  visit 
to  Jerus  in  432  BC  (Neh  13  7  IT)  that  it  seems 
reasonably  certain  that  he  prophesied  shortly  before 
that  date,  i.e.  between  445  and  432  BC.  As  Dr. 
J.  M.  P.  Smith  says,  "The  Book  of  Mai  fits  the 
situation  amid  which  Nehemiah  worked  as  snugly 
as  a  bone  fits  its  socket"  {ICC,  7).  That  the 
prophet  should  exhort  the  people  to  remember  the 
law  of  Moses,  which  was  publicly  read  by  Ezra  in 
the  year  444  BC,  is  in  perfect  agreement  with  this 
conclusion,  despite  the  fact  that  Stade,  Cornill  and 
Kautzsch  argue  for  a  date  prior  to  the  time  of  Ezra. 
On  the  other  hand,  Nagelsbach,  Kohler,  Orelli, 
Reuss  and  Yolek  rightly  place  the  book  in  the 
period  between  the  two  visits  of  Nehemiah  (445- 
432  BC). 

The  book,  in  the  main,  is  composed  of  two  ex- 
tended polemics  against  the  priests  (1  6 — 2  9)  and 

the  people  (2  10 — 4  3),  opening  with 
3.  Contents  a     clear,     sharp     statement     of     the 

prophet's  chief  thesis  that  Jeh  still 
loves  Israel  (1  2-5),  and  closing  with  an  exhorta- 
tion to  remember  the  Law  of  Moses  (4  4-6).  After 
the  title  or  superscription  (1  1)  the  prophecy  falls 
naturally  into  seven  divisions: 

(1)  1  2-5,  in  which  Malachi  showrs  that  Jeh  still 
loves  Israel  because  their  lot  stands  in  such  marked 
contrast  to  Edom's.  They  were  temporarily  dis- 
ciplined;  Edom  was  forever  punished. 

(2)  1  6 — 2  9,  a  denunciation  of  the  priests,  the 
Levites,  who  have  become  neglectful  of  their  sacer- 
dotal office,  indifferent  to  the  Law,  and  unmindful 
of  their  covenant  relationship  to  Jeh. 

(3)  2  10-16,  against  idolatry  and  divorce.  Some 
interpret  this  section  metaphorically  of  Judah  as 
having  abandoned  the  religion  of  Ins  youth  (ver  11). 
But  idolatry  and  divorce  were  closely  related.  The 
people  are  obviously  rebuked  for  literally  putting 
away  their  own  Jewish  wives  in  order  to  contract 
marriage  with  foreigners  (ver  15).  Such  marriages, 
the  prophet  declares,  are  not  only  a  form  of  idolatry 
(ver  11),  but  a  violation  of  Jeh's  intention  to  pre- 
serve to  Himself  a  "godly  seed"  (ver  15). 

(4)  2  17 — 3  6,  an  announcement  of  coming 
judgment.  Men  are  beginning  to  doubt  whether 
there  is  longer  a  God  of  justice  (ver  17).  Malachi 
replies  that  the  Lord  whom  the  people  seek  will 
suddenly  come,  both  to  purify  the  sons  of  Levi  and 
to  purge  the  land  of  sinners  in  general.  The  na- 
tion, however,  will  not  be  utterly  consumed  (3  6). 

(5)  3  7-12,  in  which  the  prophet  pauses  to  give 
another  concrete  example  of  the  people's  sins: 
they  have  failed  to  pay  their  tithes  and  other  dues. 
Accordingly,  drought,  locusts,  and  famine  have 
ensued.  Let  these  be  paid  and  the  nation  will 
again  prosper,  and  their  land  will  become  "a  delight- 
some land." 

(6)  3  13 — 4  3,  a  second  section  addressed  to  the 
doubters  of  the  prophet's  age.  In  2  17,  they  had 
said,  "Where  is  the  God  of  justice?"  They  now 
murmur:  "It  is  vain  to  serve  God;  and  what 
profit  is  it  that  we  have  kept  his  charge?"  The 
wicked  and  the  good  alike  prosper  (3  14.15).  But, 
the  prophet  replies,  Jeh  knows  them  that  are  His, 
and  a  book  of  remembrance  is  being  kept;    for  a 


day  of  judgment  is  coming  when  the  good  and  the 
evil  will  be  distinguished;  those  who  work  iniquity 
will  be  exterminated,  while  those  who  do  righteously 
will  triumph. 

(7)  4  4-6,  a  concluding  exhortation  to  obey  the 
Mosaic  Law;  with  a  promise  that  Elijah  the  prophet 
will  first  come  to  avert,  if  possible,  the  threatened 
judgment  by  reconciling  the  hearts  of  the  nation 
to  one  another,  i.e.  to  reconcile  the  ideals  of  the  old 
to  those  of  the  young,  and  vice  versa. 

Malachi  was  content  to  write  prose.     His  Hebrew 

is  clear  and  forceful  and  direct;   sometimes  almost 

rhythmical.     His   figures    are    as    nu- 

4.  Style  merous  as   should  be  expected  in  the 

brief  remnants  of  his  sermons  which 
have  come  down  to  vis,  and  in  every  case  they  arc 
chaste  and  beautiful  (1  6;  3  2.3.17";  4  1-3)."  His 
statements  are  bold  and  correspondingly  effective. 
The  most  original  feature  in  his  style  is  the  lecture- 
like method  which  characterizes  his  book  through- 
out; more  particularly  that  of  question  and  answer. 
His  style  is  that  of  the  scribes.  It  is  known  as  the 
didactic-dialectic  method,  consisting  first  of  an 
assertion  or  charge,  then  a  fancied  objection  raised 
by  his  hearers,  and  finally  the  prophet's  refutation 
of  their  objection.  Eight  distinct  examples  of  this 
peculiarity  are  to  be  found  in  his  book,  each  one 
containing  the  same  clause  in  Heb,  "Yet  ye  say" 
(1  2.6.7;  2  14.17;  3  7.8.13).  This  debating  style 
is  esp.  characteristic  of  Malachi.  Ewald  called 
it  "the  dialogistic"  method.  Malachi  shows  the 
influence  of  the  schools  (cf  his  use;  of  "also"  and 
"again"  in  1  13;  2  13,  which  is  equivalent  to  our 
"firstly,"  "secondly,"  etc). 

Malachi's  message  has  a  permanent  value  for  us 
as  well  as  an  immediate  value  for  his  own  time.     He 

was   an  intense   patriot,    and   accord- 

5.  Message  ingly  his  message  was  clean-cut  and 

severe.  His  primary  aim  was  to 
encourage  a  disheartened  people  who  were  still 
looking  for  Haggai's  and  Zeehariah's  optimistic 
predictions  to  be  fulfilled.  Among  the  lessons  of 
abiding  value  are  the  following:  (1)  That  ritual 
is  an  important  element  in  religion,  but  not  as  an 
end  in  itself.  Tithes  and  offerings  are  necessary, 
but  only  as  the  expression  of  sincere  moral  and 
deeply  spiritual  life  (1  11).  (2)  That  a  cheap 
religion  avails  nothing,  and  that  sacrifices  given 
grudgingly  are  displeasing  to  God.  Better  a  temple 
closed  than  filled  with  such  worshippers  (1  8-10). 
(3)  That  divorce  and  intermarriage  with  heathen 
idolaters  thwarts  the  purpose  of  God  in  securing 
to  Himself  a  peculiar  people,  whose  family  life  is 
sacred  because  it  is  the  nursery  of  a  "godly  seed" 
(2  15).  (4)  That  there  is  eternal  discipline  in  the 
Law.  Malachi  places  the  greatest  emphasis  upon 
the  necessity  of  keeping  the  Mosaic  Law.  The 
priests,  he  says,  are  the  custodians  and  expounders 
of  the  Law.  At  their  mouth  the  people  should 
seek  knowledge.  "To  undervalue  the  Law  is  easy; 
to  appraise  it  is  a  much  harder  task"  (Welch). 
With  Malachi,  no  less  than  with  Christ  Himself, 
not  one  jot  or  tittle  should  ever  pass  away  or 
become  obsolete. 

Literature. — Driver,  "Minor  Prophets,"  II,  New- 
Century  Bible  (1906);  G.  A.  Smith,  "The  Book  of  the 
Twelve  Prophets,"  Expositor's  Bible  (1898);  Dods,  Post- 
Exilian  Prophets:  "Hag,"  "Zee,"  "Mai";  "Handbooks for 
Bible  Classes";  J.  M.  P.  Smith,  ICC  (1912).  Among  the 
numerous  other  comms.  on  Mai  maybe  mentioned:  Ei- 
selen  (1907),  Marti  (1903),  Xowack  (1903),  Orelli  (1908), 
AVellhausen  (1898),  Van  Hoonacker  (1908)  and  Isopeocul 
(1908)  The  various  Intros  to  the  OT  should  also  be 
consulted,  notablvthose  by  Driver  (1910),  Ktrack  (1906), 
Wildeboer  (1903),  Gautior  (1906),  Cornill  (1907),  Kdmg 
(1893);  and  the  arts,  entitled  "Malachi"  in  the  various 
Diets,  and  Bible  Encs:  e.g.  in  EB  (1902),  by  C.  C. 
Torrey;  in  HDB  (1901),  by  A.  C.  Welch;  m  1-vol  I1DB 
(1909),  by  G.  G.  Cameron;  and  RE  (1905),  by  Volck. 

Geokoe  L.  Robinson 


1971 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Malachi 
Male 


MALACHY,  mal'a-ki:  Another  form  of  the  name 
of  the  prophet  "Malachi"  (q.v.),  found  in  RV  and 
AV  of  2  Esd  1  40. 

MALCAM,  mal'kam  (335'D ,  malkam,  "their 
king";  AY  Malcham) : 

(1)  A  chief  of  the  Benjamites,  son  of  Shaharaim 
(1  Ch  8  9). 

(2)  The  name  of  an  idol  as  well  as  the  possessive 
pronominal  form  of  ifblfl  ,  melekh,  "king"  (2  S  12 
30  RVm;  Jer  49  1.3  '[LXX  Melchol];  Zeph  1  5). 
In  Am  1  15  it  appears  to  be  best  trd  "their  king," 
as  in  both  AV  and  RV.  Only  a  careful  examinat  ion 
of  the  context  can  determine  whether  the  word  is 
the  proper  name  of  the  idol  (Moloch)  or  the  3d 
personal  possessive  pronoun  for  king.  The  idol  is 
also  spelt  "Milcom"  and  "Molech." 

MALCHIAH,  mal-ki'a.     See  Malchijah. 

MALCHIEL,  mal'ki-el  (biTSblQ ,  malkl'el,  "God 
is  king"):  Grandson  of  Asher  (Gen  46  17;  Nu 
26  45;    1  Ch  7  31). 

MALCHIELITES,  mal'ki-el-Its  ("OSr'SVo,  mal- 
kl'ell):    Descendants  of  Malchiel  (Nu  26  45). 

MALCHIJAH,  mal-ki'ja  (n*3btt  ,  malkiyah,  "Jeh 
is  king";  M«\xe'as>  Melchelas,  with  variants): 

(\)  A  Levite,  descendant  of  Gershom,  of  those 
whom  David  set  over  the  "service  of  song"  in  the 
worship  (1  Ch  6  40). 

(2)  The  head  of  the  5th  course  of  priests  (1  Ch 
24  9). 

(3)  One  of  the  laymen  who  had  taken  "strange 
wives"  during  the  exile  (Ezr  10  25);  the  "Mcl- 
chias"  of  1  Esd  9  20. 

(4)  Another  of  the  same  name  (Ezr  10  25;  two 
in  same  verse).     Called  "Asibias"  in  1  Esd  9  20. 

(5)  Another  under  the  same  offence,  son  of  Harim 
(Ezr  10  31).     "Melchias"  in  1  Esd  9  32. 

(0)  One  of  the  "repairers"  who  helped  with  the 
"tower  of  the  furnaces"  (Neh  3  11). 

(7)  Son  of  Rechab  ruler  of  Beth-haccerem,  re- 
pairer of  the  dung  gate  (Neh  3  14). 

(S)  A  goldsmith  who  helped  in  building  the  walls 
of  Jerus  (Neh  3  31). 

(9)  One  of  those  at  Ezra's  left  hand  when  lie  read 
the    law  (though   possibly  one   of  the   above  [Neh 

8  4]).     In  1  Esd  9  44  "Melchias." 

(10)  One  of  the  covenant  signatories  (Neh  10  3). 

(11)  The  father  of  Pashhur  (Neh  11  12;  Jer  21 
1;  38  1). 

(12)  A  priest,  a  singer  at  the  dedication  of  the 
walls  of  Jerus  under  Ezra  and  Nehemiah  (Neh  12 
42). 

(13)  (irPS^'E,  malklyahu,  as  above  with  u  end- 
ing): Son  o'f  Ham-melech  (or,  as  1  K  22  20;  2  Ch 
28  7  translate  it,  "king's  son").  Jeremiah  was  cast 
into  his  dungeon  or  pit  (Jer  38  6). 

AV  spells  "Malchiah"  or  "Malchijah"  indiffer- 
ently with  "Melchiah"  in  Jer  21  1 ;  ERV  has  "Mal- 
chiah" in  Jer  21  1  ;  38  1.0,  elsewhere  "Malchijah"; 
ARV  has  "Malchijah"  throughout. 

Henry  Wallace 

MALCHIRAM,  mal-kl'ram  (DT^bia  ,  malklram,, 
"uplifted  king"):  Son  of  Jeconiah,  descendant  of 
David  (1  Ch  3  IS). 

MALCHI-SHUA,  mal-kl-shoo'a  (SWSbl? ,  mal- 
kislnl"\  "my  king  saves"):  One  of  the  sons  of  Saul 
(1  S  14  49;  31  2,  AV  "Melchishua";   1  Ch  8  33; 

9  39).     He  was  slain  bv  the  Philis  with  his  brothers 
at  the  battle  of  Gilboa  (1  Ch  10  2;  1  S  31  2). 


MALCHUS,  mal'kus  (MdXxos,  Mdlchos,  from 
:|^3,  melekh,  i.e.  "counsellor"  or  "king"):  The 
name  of  the  servant  of  the  high  priest  Caiaphas 
whose  right  ear  was  smitten  off  by  Simon  Peter  at 
the  arrest  of  Jesus  in  the  Garden  of  Gethsemane 
(cf  Mt  26  51;  Mk  14  47;  Lk  22  50;  Jn  18  10). 
It  is  noteworthy  that  Luke  "the  physician"  alone 
gives  an  account  of  the  healing  of  the  wound  (Lk 
22  51).  As  Jesus  ''touched  his  ear,  and  healed  him," 
the  ear  was  not  entirely  severed  from  the  head. 
The  words  of  Jesus,  "Suffer  ye  thus  far,"  may  have 
been  addressed  either  to  the  disciples,  i.e.  "Suffer  ye 
that  I  thus  far  show  kindness  to  my  captors,"  or  to 
those  about  to  bind  him,  i.e.  asking  a  short  respite  to 
heal  Malchus.  They  were  not  addressed  directlyto 
Peter,  as  the  Gr  form  is  pi.,  whereas  in  Mt  26  52; 
Jn  18  11,  where,  immediately  after  the  smiting 
of  Malchus,  Jesus  does  address  Peter,  the  sing,  form 
is  used;  nor  do  the  words  of  Jesus  there  refer  to  the 
healing  but  to  the  action  of  his  disciple.  A  kins- 
man of  Malchus,  also  a  servant  of  the  high  priest, 
was  one  of  those  who  put  the  questions  which  made 
Peter  deny  Jesus  (Jn  18  20).  C.  M.  Kerr 

MALE,mfd  ([1]  "IDT,  zakhar,  IDT,  zakhar,  ^2lr  , 
zakhur  [\'  meaning  "to  stand  out,"  "to  be  promi- 
nent," here  a  physiological  differentiation  of  the  sex, 
as  rDpJ ,  n'kebhah,  "female,"  q.v.];  [2]  TITX ,  'ish, 
lit.  "man";  [3]  by  circumlocution,  only  in  the  books 
of  S  and  K,  "V'pSl  V^"C<',2 ,  mashtin  bklr;  ovptov 
irpos  t<hx.ov,  ourdii  [/ros  toichon,  which  RV  euphem- 
istically renders  "man-child"  [1  S  25  22.34;  1  1\ 
14  10]):  Gesenius  has  rightly  pointed  out  that  this 
phrase  designates  young  boys,  who  do  not  as  yet 
wear  clothes,  of  whom  the  above  description  is 
accurate',  while  it  does  not  apply  in  the  case  of 
adults,  even  in  the  modern  Orient.  We  know  this 
from  the  statement  of  Herod,  ii.35,  relating  to  Egypt, 
and  from  Jgs  3  24;  1  S  24  3.  The  Gr  tra  these 
words  with  dpa-rju,  drsen,  &pf>yv,(irrhen,  while  1  Mace 
5  28.51  has  the  adj.  &p<reviK6s,  arsenikos. 

The  above  words  (the  phrase  mashtin  bekir  ex- 
cepted) are  used  promiscuously  of  animals  and  men, 
e.g.  "Of  every  clean  beast  thou  shalt  take  to  thee 
seven  and  seven,  the  male  ['Ish]  and  his  female, 
of  the  birds  also  of  the  heavens,  seven  and  seven, 
male  [zakhar]  and  female"  (Gen  7  2.3).  A  careful 
distinction  was  made  in  the  use  of  male  and  female 
animals  in  the  rules  concerning  sacrifice;  in  some 
offerings  none  but  males  were  allowed,  in  others 
females  were  permitted  along  with  the  males  (Lev 
3  0).  The  same  distinction  was  made  in  the  val- 
uation of  the  different  sexes  (Gen  32  14.15;  Lev 
27  5).  Certain  priestly  portions  were  permitted 
to  the  Levites  or  the  male  descendants  of  Aaron  for 
food,  while  women  were  not  permitted  to  partake 
of  the  same  (Nu  18  10.11). 

As  a  rule  Jewish  parents  (as  is  now  common  in 
the  Orient)  preferred  male  children  to  daughters. 
This  is  seen  from  the  desire  for  male  progeny  (1  S 
1  8-18)  and  from  the  ransom  paid  for  firstborn  sons 
to  Jeh  (Ex  13  12;  Lk  2  23).  It  was  reserved  to 
the  NT  to  proclaim  the  equality  of  the  sexes,  as  it 
does  of  races  and  conditions  of  men:  "There  can 
be  neither  Jew  nor  Greek,  there  can  be  neither 
bond  nor  free,  there  can  be  no  male  and  female;  for 
ye  all  are  one  man  in  Christ  Jesus"  (Gal  3  28). 
See  Woman. 

Among  the  prominent  sins  of  oriental  peoples,  "the 
abominations  of  the  nations  which  .Jeh  drove  out  before 
the  children  of  Israel"  was  one  of  the  most- heinous  char- 
acter, that  of  sodomy,  against  which  God's  people  are 
repeatedly  warned.  The  Gr  expression  for  the  devotee 
of  this  vice  is  a  compound  noun,  ap<rei>oi<oiTr)<; ,  arseno- 
koltes,  lit.  "he  who  lies  with  man,"  the  abuser  of  him- 
self with  mankind,  the  sodomite  (1  Cor  6  9),  while  the 
Heb  125 "!p  ,  kddhesh,  lit.  means  the  (male)  devotee  of  las- 


Malefactor 
Mamre 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1972 


civious  and  licentious  idolatry   (I)t    23    17;    1   K  14  24; 
15   12;   22  46;   2  K  23  7;   Job  36    L4). 

II.    L.    E.    LUERING 

MALEFACTOR,  mal-e"-fak'ter  (KaKowoi6s,  kako- 
poios,  "a  bad  door,"  i.e.  "evildoer,"  "criminal"; 
KOKovp-yos,  kakoilrgos,  "a  wrongdoer"):  The  former 
occurs  in  Jn  18  30  AV,  the  latter,  which  is  the 
stronger  term,  in  Lk  23  32.39.  The  former  describes 
the  subject  as  doing  or  making  evil,  the  latter  as 
creating  or  originating  the  bad,  and  hence  desig- 
nates the  more  energetic,  aggressive,  initiating 
type  of  criminality. 

MALELEEL,  ma-le'lS-el,  mal'S-lel  (MaXeX^X, 
Maleletl,AV):  Or  form  of  "Mahalalcl"  (Lk  3  37); 
RV  "Mahalaleel." 

MALICE,  mal'is,  MALIGNITY,  ma-lig'ni-ti 
(koikCo,,  kakia,  irov-ripos,  ponerds,  KaKof|0«ia, 
kakottheia) :  "Malice,"  now  used  in  the  sense  of 
deliberate  ill-will,  by  its  derivation  means  badness, 
or  ivickedncss  generally,  and  was  so  used  in  Older 
Eng.  In  the  Apoc  it  is  the  tr  of  kakia,  "evil," 
"badness"  (Wisd  12  10.20;  16  14;  2  Mace  4  50, 
RV  "wickedness");  in  Ecclus  27  30;  28  7,  we 
have  "malice"  in  the  more  restricted  sense  as  the  tr 
of  mtnis,  "confirmed  anger."  In  the  NT  "malice" 
and  "maliciousness"  are  the  tr  of  kakia  (Rom  1 
29a;  1  Cor  5  8;  14  20;  Col  3  8);  malicious  is  the 
tr  of  poncros,  "evil"  (3  Jn  ver  10,  RV  "wicked");  it 
also  occurs  in  Ad  Est  13  4.7,  ver  4,  "malignant"; 
Wisd  1  4,  RV  "that  deviseth  evil";  2  Mace  5  23; 
malignity  occurs  in  Rom  1  296  as  the  tr  of  kakoe- 
theia,  "evil  disposition";  "maliciously,"  Sus  vs 
43.02;  2  Mace  14  11,  RV  "having  ill  will." 

W.  L.  Walker 

MALLOS,  mal'os.     See  Mallus. 

MALLOTHI,  mal'6-thi,  ma-lo'thi  (T^'STO,  mallo- 
thi,  "my  discourse"):  Son  of  Heman,  a  Kohathite 
singer  (1  Ch  6  33;  25  4).  The  song  service  in 
the  house  of  the  Lord  was  apportioned  by  David 
and  the  captains  of  the  host  to  the  3  families  of 
Asaph,  Heman,  and  Jeduthun  (1  Ch  26  1).  Their 
place  in  the  "courses"  was,  however,  settled  by 
"lot"  (1  Ch  25  8.9).  Mallothi  was  one  of  He- 
man's  17  children — 14  sons  and  3  daughters  (1  Ch 
25  5) — and  was  chief  of  the  19th  course  of  twelve 
singers  into  which  the  temple  choir  was  divided 
(1  Ch  25  26).  Henry  Wallace 

MALLOWS,  mal'5z.     See  Salt- wort. 

MALLUCH,  mal'uk  (tpVa,  mallukh,  "coun- 
sellor"): 

(1)  A  Levite  of  the  sons  of  Merari,  ancestor  of 
Ethan  the  singer  (1  Ch  6  44;  cf  ver  29). 

(2)  Son  of  Bani,  among  those  who  had  foreign 
wives  (Ezr  10  29).  He  is  a  descendant  of  Judah 
(1  Ch  9  4)  and  is  the  Mamuchus  of  1  Esd  9  30. 

(3)  A  descendant  of  Harim,  who  married  a 
foreign  wife  (Ezr  10  32). 

(4)  (5)  Two  who  sealed  the  covenant  with  Ne- 
hemiah  (Neh  10  4.27). 

(6)  Possibly  the  same  as  (4).  One  of  the  priests 
who  returned  with  Zerubbabel  (Neh  12  2).  Doubt- 
less the  Melicu  of  ver  14  m.       Henry  Wallace 

MALLUCHI,  mal'u-kl  CO'&O,  mallukhi,  "my 
counsellor"):  A  family  of  priests  that  came  over 
with  Zerubbabel  (Neh  10  4;  12  14).  May  be 
the  patronymic  Malluch,  (4)  (q.v.). 

MALLUS,  mal'us  (MaXX6s,  Mallos;  AV  Mal- 
los):  A  city  in  Cilicia,  the  inhabitants  of  which 
along   with   those  of   Tarsus,   revolted   from   An- 


tiochus  Epiphanes  in  protest  against  his  action  in 
giving  them  to  his  concubine,  Antiochis  (2  Mace 
4  30).  The  ancient  name  was  Marios.  The  river 
Pyramos  divides  about  10  miles  from  the  sea,  one 
branch  flowing  to  the  W.,  the  other  to  the  E.  of  the 
low  range  of  hills  along  the  coast  on  which  stands 
Kara-Tash.  Mallus  stood  on  a  height  (Strabo, 
675)  to  the  E.  of  the  western  arm,  a  short  distance 
from  the  shore.  The  site  is  a  little  W.  of  Kara- 
Tash,  where  inscriptions  of  Antiocheia  and  Mallus 
have  been  found.  Tarsus  lay  about  35  miles  to  the 
N.W.  The  two  cities  were  rivals  in  trade.  The 
position  of  Mallus  with  her  harbor  on  the  shore 
gave  her  really  no  advantage  over  Tarsus,  with  her 
river  navigable  to  the  city  walls.  The  fine  wagon 
road  over  the  mountain  by  way  of  the  Cilician 
Gates  opened  for  her  easy  access  to  the  interior, 
compared  with  that  furnished  for  Mallus  by  the 
old  caravan  track  to  the  N.  by  way  of  Adana. 
This  sufficiently  explains  the  greater  prosperity 
of  the  former  city.  W.  Ewing 

MALOBATHRON,  mal-o:bath'ron:  RVm  sug- 
gests that  this  tr  may  be  right  instead  of  Bet  her 
in  the  phrase  "ir3  "HD>  hare  bether  (Cant  2  17). 
But  this  spice  never  grew  wild  in  Pal,  and  so  could 
hardly  have  given  its  name  to  a  mountain,  or 
mountain  range.  The  name  Bether  ought  there- 
fore to  be  retained,  notwithstanding  Wellhausen 
(Prol.2,  41.5).  The  spice  is  the  leaf  of  the  Cassia 
lignea  tree. 

MALTANNEUS,  mal-ta-ne'us  (MaXTawaios, 
Maltannalos,  BandSwete;  'AXTawalos,  Altannaios, 
A  and  Eritzsche — the  M  being  perhaps  dropped 
because  of  the  final  M  in  the  preceding  word;  AV 
Altaneus) :  One  of  the  sons  of  Asom  who  put  away 
his  "strange  wife"  (1  Esd  9  33)  =  "Mattenai"  in 
Ezr  10  33. 

MAMAIAS,  ma-ma'yas.     See  Samaias,  (3). 

MAMDAI,  mam'dji-I,  mam'dl  (B,  MajiSat, 
Mamdai,  A,  Mav8a(,  Mandai) :  One  of  those  who 
consented  to  put  away  their  "strange  wives"  at 
Esdras'  order  (1  Esd  9  34)  =  AV  "Mabdai"  =  "Be- 
naiah"  in  Ezr  10  35. 

MAMMON,  mam'un  (Mafuovas,  Mamonds):  A 
common  Aram,  word  (]T50p  ,  mamori)  for  riches,  used 
in  Mt  6  24  and  in  Lk  16  9.11.13.  In  these  pas- 
sages mammon  merely  means  wealth,  and  is  called 
"unrighteous,"  because  the  abuse  of  riches  is  more 
frequent  than  their  right  use.  In  Lk  16  13  there 
is  doubtless  personification,  but  there  is  no  proof 
that  there  was  in  NT  times  a  Syrian  deity  called 
Mammon.  The  application  of  the  term  in  Mt  is 
apparent  and  requires  no  comment.  In  Lk, 
however,  since  the  statement,  "Make  to  yourselves 
friends  out  of  the  mammon  of  unrighteousness," 
follows  as  a  comment  on  the  parable  of  the  Unjust 
Steward,  there  is  danger  of  the  inference  that 
Jesus  approved  the  dishonest  conduct  of  the  steward 
and  advised  His  disciples  to  imitate  his  example. 
On  the  contrary,  the  statement  is  added  more  as 
a  corrective  against  this  inference  than  as  an  appli- 
cation. 'Do  not  infer,'  He  says,  'that  honesty  in 
the  use  of  money  is  a  matter  of  indifference.  He 
that  is  unfaithful  in  little  is  unfaithful  in  much. 
So  if  you  are  not  wise  in  the  use  of  earthly  treasure 
how  can  you  hope  to  be  intrusted  with  heavenly 
treasure?'  The  commendation  is  in  the  matter 
of  foresight,  not  in  the  method.  The  steward 
tried  to  serve  two  masters,  his  lord  and  his  lord's 
creditors,  but  the  thing  could  not  be  done,  as  the 
sequel  shows.     Neither  can  men  serve  both  God 


1973 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Malefactor 
Mamre 


and  riches  exalted  as  an  object  of  slavish  servitude. 
Wealth,  Jesus  teaches,  does  not  really  belong  to 
men,  but  as  stewards  they  may  use  wealth  pru- 
dently unto  their  eternal  advantage.  Instead  of 
serving  God  and  mammon  alike  we  may  serve  God 
by  the  use  of  wealth,  and  thus  lay  up  treasures 
for  ourselves  in  heaven.  Again,  the  parable  is  not 
to  be  interpreted  as  teaching  that  the  wrong  of  dis- 
honest gain  may  be  atoned  for  by  charity.  Jesus 
is  not  dealing  with  the  question  of  reparation.  The 
object  is  to  point  out  how  one  may  best  use  wealth, 
tainted  or  otherwise,  with  a  view  to  the  future. 

Russell  Benjamin  Miller 
MAMNITANEMUS,  mam-ni-ta-ne'mus  (Ma^-vi.- 
t&vcu|j.os,  Mamnitdnaimos,  B,  ManTi/ravcunos,  Mam- 
titdnaimos,  AV  Mamnitanaimus) :  1  Esd  9  34, 
where  it  represents  the  two  names  Mattaniah  and 
Mattenai  in  the  ||  Ezr  10  37,  which  probably  rep- 
resent only  one  person.  It  must  be  a  corruption 
of  these  names.  The  Aldine  gives  a  still  more 
corrupt  form,  Ma/j.vi/j.aTavalfj.os,  Mamnimatajialmos. 

MAMRE,  mam're  (&"\'Q'Q ,  mamre';  LXX 
Map.ppT|,  Mambri): 

(1)  In  Gen  14  24  Mamre  is  mentioned   as  the 

name  of  one  of  Abraham's  allies,  who  in  ver  13  is 

described  as  the  Amorite,  brother  of 

1.  Biblical  Eshcol  and  Aner.  The  name  of  the 
Data  grove  of  trees  is  evidently  considered 

as  derived  from  this  sheikh  or  chief- 
tain. The  "oaks"  ("terebinths")  of  Mamre  where 
Abram  pitched  his  tent  (Gen  14  13;  18  1)  are  de- 
scribed (13  IS)  as  "in  Hebron."  Later  on  Mach- 
pelah  (q.v.)  is  described  as  "before,"  i.e.  "to  the  E. 
of  Mamre"  (Gen  23  17;  25  9;  43  30;  50  13),  and 
Mamre  is  identified  with  Hebron  itself  (23  1(.)). 

While  Mamre  has  always  been  looked  for  in  the 

vicinity    of    Hebron,    the    traditions    have    varied 

greatly,  determined  apparently  by  the 

2.  Tradi-  presence  of  a  suitable  tree.  The  one 
tional  site  which  has  a  claim  on  grounds  other 
Sites  than  tradition  is  that  called   Kh.  and 

lAin  Nimreh  (lit.  the  "ruin"  and 
"spring"  of  "the  leopard"),  about  §  mile  N.N.W.  of 
modern  Hebron.  The  word  Nimreh  may  be  a  sur- 
vival of  the  ancient  Mamre,  the  name,  as  often 
happens,  being  assimilated  by  a  familiar  word. 
The  site  is  a  possibleone,  but,  beyond  this,  the  name 
has  not  much  to  commend  it. 

Tradition  has  centered  round  three  different  sites 
at  various  periods:  (1)  The  modern  tradition  points 
to  a  magnificent  oak  {Quercus  ilex,  Arab.  Sindian), 
1|-  miles  W.N.W.  of  the  modern  city,  as  the  tere- 
binth of  Abraham;  its  trunk  has  a  girth  of  32  ft. 
It  is  now  in  a  dving  condition,  but  when  Robinson 
visited  it  (BR,  II,  72,  81)  it  was  in  fine  condition; 
he  mentions  a  Mohammedan  tradition  that  this  was 
"Abraham's  oak."  Since  then  the  site  had  been 
bought  by  the  Russians,  a  hospice  and  church  have 
been  erected,  and  the  tradition,  though  of  no  an- 
tiquity, has  become  crystallized.  (2)  The  second 
tradition,  which  flourished  from  the  16th  cent,  down 
to  the  commencement  of  the  19th  cent.,  pointed  to 
the  hill  of  Deir  el  ArbaHn  (see  Hebron)  as  that  of 
Mamre,  relying  esp.,  no  doubt,  in  its  inception  on  the 
identity  of  Mamre  and  Hebron  (Gen  23  19).  A 
magnificent  terebinth  which  stood  there  was  pointed 
out  as  that  of  Abraham.  The  site  agrees  well  with 
the  statement  that  the  cave  of  Machpelah  was  "be- 
fore," i.e.  to  the  E.  of  Mamre  (Gen  23  17,  etc).  (3) 
The  third  and  much  older  tradition,  mentioned  in 
several  Christian  writers,  refers  to  a  great  terebinth 
which  once  stood  in  an  inclosure  some  2  miles  N. 
of  Hebron,  near  the  road  to  Jerus.  It  is  practically 
certain  that  the  site  of  this  inclosure  is  the  strange 
Ramet  el-Khalil.  This  is  an  inclosure  some  214 
ft.  long  and  162  ft.  wide.      The  inclosing  walls  are 


made  of  extremely  fine  and  massive  masonry  and 
are  6  ft.  thick;  the  stones  are  very  well  laid  and 
the  jointing  is  very  fine,  but  the  building  was  evi- 
dently never  completed.  In  one  corner  is  a  well — - 
Bir  el-  Khalil — lined  with  beaut  iful  ashlar  masonry, 
cut  to  the  curve  of  the  circumference. 

It  is  probable  that  this  in  closure  surrounded  a  mag- 
nificent terebinth;   if  so,  it  was  at  this  spot  that 


HJtts  PZ.?  nuf, 


Scale  about  1  inch  to  a  m 


Sketch  Map  of  the  Environs  of  Hebron  to  Show  the 
Various  Proposed  Sites  of  Mamre. 

before  the  days  of  Constantino  a  great  annual  fair 
was  held,  attended  by  Jews,  Christians  and  heathen 
who  united  to  pay  honor  to  the  sacred  tree,  while 
the  well  was  on  the  same  occasion  illuminated,  and 
offerings  were  made  to  it.  Similar  customs  sur- 
vive today  at  several  shrines  in  Pal.  Constantino 
suppressed  these  "superstitions,"  and  built  a  church 
in  the  neighborhood,  probably  the  so-called  "Abra- 
ham's house,"  Beit  Ibrahim  of  today.  The  tree 
which  stood  here  is  apparently  that  mentioned  by 
Jos  (BJ,  IV,  ix,  7)  as  having  continued  "since 
the  creation  of  the  world."  At  this  inclosure,  too, 
Jewish  women  and  children  were  sold  at  auction 
after  the  suppression  of  the  revolt  of  Bar  Cochba. 
Whatever  the  origin  of  the  veneration  paid  to  this 
terebinth — now  long  centuries  dead  _  and  gone — 
early  Christian  tradition  associated  it  with  Abra- 
ham and  located  Mamre  here.  This  tradition  is 
mentioned  by  Jerome  (4th  cent.),  by  Eucherius 
(6th  cent,),  by  Areulphus  (700  AD)  and  by  Benja- 
min of  Tudela  (1163  AD).  Among  the  modern 
Jews  it  is  looked  upon  as  the  site  of  "Abraham's 
oak."  It  is  probable  that  the  view  that  Abraham 
was  connected  with  this  tree  is  one  attached  to  it 
much  later  than  its  original  sanctity;  it  was  origi- 
nally one  of  the  many  "holy  trees"  of  the  land 
venerated  by  primitive  Sem  religious  feeling,  and 
the  nearness  of  Hebron  caused  the  Bible  story  to 
be  attached  to  it.  Judging  from  the  Bible  data,  it 
appears  to  be  too  far  from  Hebron  and  Machpelah 
to  suit  the  conditions;  the  site  of  Mamre  must 
have  been  nearer  to  Deir  el  ArbaKin,  but  it  has 
probably  been  entirely  lost  since  very  early  times. 
For  a  very  good  discussion  about  Mamre  see 


Mamuchus 
Man  of  Sin 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1974 


Mambre  by  Le  R.  P.  Abel  des  Ereres  Precheurs  in 
the   Conferences  de  Saint  Etienne,   1909-10  (Paris). 

(2)  An  Amorite  chief,  owner  of  the  "oaks"  men- 
tioned above  (Gen  14  13.24). 

E.  W.  G.  Masterman 

MAMUCHUS,  ma-mu'kus  (Mdfiovxos,  Mdmou- 
chm):  One  of  those  who  pul  away  their  "strange 
wives"  (1  Esd  9  30);  identical  with  "Malluch"  in 
Ezr  10  29. 

MAN.    See  Anthropology. 

MAN,  NATURAL,  nat'u-ral,  nach'u-ral  (»)a)x>k6s 
avOpojiros,  psuchikos  dnthropos)'.  Man  as  he  is  by 
nature,  contrasted  with  man  as  he  becomes  by  grace. 
This  phrase  is  exclusively  Pauline. 

/.  Biblical  Meaning. — The  classical  passage  in 
which  it  occurs  is  1  Cor  2  11AV:  "But  the  natural 
man  recciveth  not  the  things  of  the  Spirit  of  God: 
for  they  are  foolishness  unto  him:  neither  can  he 
know  them,  because  they  are  spiritually  discerned." 
In  his  anthropology  Paul  uses  four  groups  of  de- 
scriptive adjs.  in  contrasted  pairs:  (1)  the  old  man 
and  the  new  man  (Rom  6  0;  Eph  4  22;  Col  3  !); 
Eph  2  15;  4  24;  Col  3  10);  (2)  the  outward 
man  and  the  inward  man  (2  Cor  4  16;  Rom  7  22; 
Eph  3  l(i);  (3)  the  carnal  man  and  the  spiritual 
man  (Rom  8  1-14;  1  Cor  3  1.3.4);  (4)  the  nat- 
ural man  and  the  spiritual  man  (2  Cor  2  14; 
3  3.4;  Eph  2  3;  1  Cor  2  15;  3  1 ;  14  37;  15  4(>; 
Gal  6  1).  A  study  of  these  passages,  will  show 
that  the  adjs.  "old,"  "outward,"  "carnal,"  and 
"natural"  describe  man,  from  different  points  of 
view,  prior  to  his  conversion;  while  the  adjs.  "new," 
"inward"  and  "spiritual"  describe  him,  from  differ- 
ent points  of  view,  after  his  conversion.  To  elu- 
cidate the  meaning,  the  expositor  must  respect  these 
antitheses  and  let  the  contrasted  words  throw  light 
and  meaning  upon  each  other. 

The  "old  man"  is  the  "natural  man"  considered 

chronologically — prior  to  that  operation  of  the  Holy 

Spirit  by  which  he  is  renovated  into 

1.  The  Old    the  "new  man." 

•Man  The  old   house  is  the  house  as  it  was 

before  it  was  remodeled;  an  old  garment 
is  the  garment  as  it  was  before  it  was  re-fashioned; 
and  the  "old  man"  is  man  as  he  was  before  he  was 
regenerated  and  sanctified  by  the  grace  of  the  Spirit. 
"Our  old  man  is  crucified  with  him,  that  the  body  of 
sin  might  be  destroyed,  that  henceforth  we  should  not 
serve  sin"  (Rom  6  6  AV).  Here  the  "  old  man  "  is  called 
the  "body  of  sin,"  as  the  physical  organism  is  called 
the  body  of  the  soul  or  spirit,  and  is  to  be  "crucified" 
and  "destroyed."  in  order  that  man  may  no  longer  be 
the  "servant  of  sin."      "Put  off  concerning  the  former 

conversation  the  old  man,  which  is  corrupt Put 

on  the  new  man,  which  after  God  is  created  in  right- 
eousness and  true  holiness"  (Eph  4  22.24  AV).  Here 
the  "old  man"  is  said  to  be  "corrupt,"  and  we  are 
called  upon  to  "put  it  off."  The  figure  is  that  of 
putting  off  old  clothes  which  are  unclean,  and  putting 
on  those  garments  which  have  come  from  the  wash 
clean  and  snowy  white.  We  have  the  same  idea,  in 
different  language  and  with  a  slightly  different  im- 
agery, in  Col  3  9.10. 

When  Paul  calls  the  "natural  man"  the  "old  man," 
and  describes  it  as  the  "body  of  sin"  which  is  "corrupt" 
in  its  nature,  and  "deeds,"  and  tells  us  that  it  must  bo 
"crucified"  and  "destroyed"  and  "put  off"  in  order 
that  we  may  "not  serve  sin,"  but  may  have  "righteous- 
ness" and  "true  holiness"  and  "knowledge"  and  the 
"image"  of  God,  we  get  some  conception  of  the  moral 
meaning  which  he  is  endeavoring  to  convey  by  these 
contrasts  (Gal  5  19-24).  He  has  reference  to  that  sin- 
ful nature  in  man  which  is  as  old  as  the  individual,  as 
old  as  the  race  of  which  he  is  a  member,  which  must  be 
graciously  renovated  according  to  that  gospel  which  he 
preached  to  Corinthians,  Colossians,  Ephesians,  Romans 
and  all  the  world.      See  Old  Man;   Man,  New,  I,  3. 

The  apostle  also  establishes  a  contrast  between 

"the    inward     man"    and     "the    outward    man." 

"Though  our  outward  man  is  decaying, 

2.  The  Out- yet  our  inward  man  is  renewed  day 
ward  Man     by    day"    (2  Cor  4  1G).     Now    what 

sort  of  man  is  the  "outward  man"  as 
contrasted  with  the  "inward  man"?     In  Gr,  the 


exo-anthropos  is  set  over  against  the  eso-anthropos. 
See  Outward  Man. 

"The  contrast  hen;  drawn  between  the  'outward' 
and  the  'inward  man,'  though  illustrated  by  the  con- 
trast in  Rom  7  22  between  the  'law  in  the  members' 
and  '  the  inner  man,' and  in  Eph  4  22;  Col  3  9  between 
'the  old  man'  and  'the  new  man'  is  not  precisely  the 
same.  Those  contrasts  relate  to  the  difference  between 
the  sensual  and  the  moral  nature,  'the  flesh'  and  'the 
spirit';  this  to  the  difference  between  the  material  and 
the  spiritual  nature"  (Stanley,  in  loc). 

"The  outward  man"  is  the  body,  and  "the  in- 
ward man"  is  the  soul,  or  immaterial  principle  in 
the  human  make-up.  As  the  body  is  wasted  by  the 
afflictions  of  life,  the  soul  is  renewed;  what  is  death 
to  the  body  is  life  to  the  soul;  as  a  mictions  depot on- 
tiate  man's  physical  organism,  they  impotent iate 
man's  spiritual  principle.  That  is,  the  afflictions  of 
life,  culminating  in  death  itself,  have  diametrically 
opposite  effects  upon  the;  body  and  upon  the  soul. 
They  kill  the  one;    they  quicken  the  other. 

"The  inward  man"  is  the  whole  human  nature 
as  renewed  and  indwelt  and  dominated  by  the  Spirit 
of  God  as  interpenetrated  by  the  spirit  of  grace.  As 
the  one  is  broken  down  by  the  adverse  dispensations 
of  life,  the  other  is  upbuilt  by  the  sanctifying  dis- 
cipline of  the  Spirit. 

There  is  another  Pauline  antithesis  which  it  is 

necessary  for  us  to  interpret  in  order  to  understand 

what  he  means  by  the  "natural  man." 

3.  The  It  is  the  distinction  which  he  draws 
Carnal            between  the  "carnal    mind"    and    the 
Man  "spiritual  mind."     The  critical  refer- 
ence   is   Rom  8  1-14.     In    this   place 

the  "carnal  mind"  is  identified  with  the  "law  of 
death,"  and  the  "spiritual  mind"  is  identified  with 
the  "law  of  the  Spirit."  These  two  "laws"  are  two 
principles  and  codes:  the  one  makes  man  to  be  at 
"enmity  against  God"  and  leads  to  "death";  the 
other  makes  him  the  friend  of  God,  and  conducts  to 
"life  and  peace."  The  word  "carnal"  connotes 
all  that  is  fallen  and  sinful  and  unregenerate  in 
man's  nature.  In  its  gross  sense  the  "carnal"  sig- 
nifies that  which  is  contrary  to  nature,  or  nature 
expressing  itself  in  low  and  bestial  forms  of  sin. 

The  "natural  man"  is  the  "old  man,"  the  "out- 
ward man,"  the  "carnal  man" — man  as  he  is  by 
nature,    as    he,     is    firstborn,    contra- 

4.  The  distinguished  to  man  as  he  is  changed 
Natural  by  the  Spirit,  as  he  is  second-born  or 
Man  regenerated.     There  is  an   "old"   life, 

an  "outward"  life,  a  "carnal"  life,  a 
"natural"  life,  as  contrasted  with  the  "new"  life,  the 
"inward"  life,  the  "spiritual"  life,  the  "gracious" 
life.  The  "natural  man"  is  a  bold  and  vivid  per- 
sonification of  that  depraved  nature  which  we  in- 
herit from  Adam  fallen,  the  source  and  seat  of  all 
actual  and  personal  transgressions. 

//.  Theological  Meaning. — We  know  what  we 
mean  by  the  nature  of  the  lion,  by  the  nature  of  the 
lamb.  We  are  using  perfectly  comprehensible 
language  wmen  we  speak  of  the  lion  as  naturally 
fierce,  and  of  the  lamb  when  we  say  he  is  naturally 
gentle.  We  have  reference  to  the  dominant  dis- 
positions of  these  animals,  that  resultant  of  their 
qualities  which  defines  their  character  and  spon- 
taneity. So  we  are  perfectly  plain  when  we  say 
that  man  is  naturally  sinful.  We  are  but  saying 
that  sinfulness  is  to  man  what  fierceness  is  to  the 
lion,  what  gentleness  is  to  the  lamb.  The  "natu- 
ral man"  is  a  figure  of  speech  for  that  sinful  human 
nature1,  common  to  us  all.  It  is  equivalent  to  the 
theological  phrases:  the  "sinful  inclination,"  the 
"evil  disposition,"  the  "apostate  will,"  "original 
sin,"  "native  depravity."  It  manifests  itself  in 
the  understanding  as  blindness,  in  the  heart  as 
hardness,  in  the  will  as  obstinacy.  See  Man,  New. 
Robert  Alexander  Webb 


197", 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Mamuchus 
Man  of  Sin 


MAN,  NEW  (v€os  or  kcuvos  avGpwn-os,  neos  or 
kainos  dnthrdpos):  Generally  described,  the  "new 
man"  is  man  as  lie  becomes  under  the  transforming 
power  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  contrasted  with  man  as 
he  is  by  nature.  The  phrase  has  (1)  its  Bib.,  and 
(2)  its  theological,  meanings. 

/.  Biblical  Meaning. — There  are  four  Bib.  con- 
trasts which  must  be  considered  as  opposites:  (1) 
the  "old  man"  (palaios  anthropos)  and  the  "new 
man"  {neos  or  kainos  anthropos);  (2)  the  "outward 
man"  (exo-anthropos)  and  the  "inward  man"  (eso- 
anthropos);  (3)  the  "carnal  man"  (sarkikos  anthropos) 
and  the  "spiritual  man"  (pneumatikds  anthropos); 
(4)  the  "natural  man"  (psuchikds  anthropos)  and 
the  "spiritual  man"  (pneumatikds  anthropos). 
These  are  not  four  different  sorts  of  men,  but  four 
different  sorts  of  man.  Take  up  these  antitheses 
in  their  reverse  order,  so  as  to  arrive;  at  some  clear 
and  impressive  conception  of  what  the  Bib.  writer 
means  by  the  "new  man." 

The    "spiritual    man"    is    a    designation    given 

in  opposition   to   the   "carnal   man"   and    to    the 

"natural  man"   (Rom  8  1-14;    1  Cor 

1.  The  2  15;  3  1.3.4;  2  14;  3  11;  14  37;  15 
Spiritual  4G;  Gal  6  1;  Eph  2  3).  All  three 
Man  of  these  terms  are  personifications  of 

human  nature.  The  "carnal  man"  is 
human  nature  viewed  as  ruled  and  dominated  by 
sensual  appetites  and  fleshly  desires — as  ener- 
gized by  those  impulses  which  have  close  association 
with  the  bodily  affections.  The  "natural  man"  is 
human  nature  ruled  and  dominated  by  unsanctificd 
reason — those  higher  powers  of  the  soul  not  yet 
influenced  by  Divine  grace.  The  "spiritual  man" 
is  this  same  human  nature  after  it  has  been  seized 
upon  and  interpenetrated  and  determined  by  the 
Holy  Spirit.  The  word  "spiritual"  is  sometimes 
used  in  a  poetic  and  idealistic  sense,  as  when  we 
speak  of  the  spirituality  of  beauty;  sometimes  in  a 
metaphysical  sense,  as  when  we  speak  of  the  spirit- 
uality of  the  soul;  but  in  its  prevalent  Bib.  and 
evangelical  sense  it  is  an  adj.  with  the  Holy  Spirit 
as  its  noun-form.  The  spiritual  life  is  that  life  of 
which  the  Holy  Spirit,  is  the  author  and  preserver; 
and  the  "spiritual  man"  is  that  nature  or  character 
in  man  which  the  Holy  Spirit  originates,  preserves, 
determines,  disciplines,  sanctifies  and  glorifies. 

The   "inward  man"   is  a  designation  of  human 
nature   viewed   as  internally  and   centrally  regen- 
erated,   as  contrasted  with  the   "out- 

2.  The  ward  man"  (2  Cor  4  16;  Rom  7  22; 
Inward  Eph  3  16).  See  Man,  Outward. 
Man                This  phrase  indicates  the  whole  human 

nature  conceived  as  affected  from 
within — in  the  secret,  inside,  and  true  springs  of 
activity — by  the  Holy  Spirit  of  God.  Such  a 
change — regeneration — is  not  superficial,  but  a 
change  in  the  inner  central  self;  not  a  mere  external 
reformation,  but  an  internal  transformation.  Grace 
operates  not  from  the  circumference  toward  the 
center,  but  from  the  center  toward  the  circum- 
ference, of  life.  The  product  is  a  man  renovated  in 
his  "inward  parts,"  changed  in  the  dynamic  center 
of  his  heart. 

The  "new  man"  is  an  appellation  yielded  by  the 
contrasted  idea  of  the  "old  man"  (Rom  6  6;    Eph 

4  22;  Col  3  9;  Eph  2  15;  4  24;  Col  3 

3.  The  New  10).  The  "old"  is  "corrupt"  and  ex- 
Man  presses  itself  in  evil  "deeds";  the  "new" 

possesses  the  "image  of  God"  and  is 
marked  by  "knowledge,"  "righteousness,"  and 
"holiness."  There  are  two  Gr  words  for  "new" — 
neos  and  kainos.  The  former  means  new  in  tin; 
sense  of  young,  as  the  new-born  child  is  a  young 
thing;  the  latter  means  "new"  in  the  sense  of 
renovated,  as  when  the  house  which  has  been  rebuilt 
is  called  a  new  house;.   The  converted  man  is  "new" 


(neo-anthrdpos)  in  the  sense  that  he  is  a  "babe  in 
Christ,"  and  "new"  (kaino-anthrdpos)  in  the  sense 
that  his  moral  nature  is  renovated  and  built  over 
again. 

In  the  NT  there  are  .r>  different  vbs.  used  to  ex- 
press the  action  put  forth  in  making  the  "old  man" 
a  "new  man."  (1)  In  Eph  2  10  and  4  24,  he  is 
said  to  be  "created"  (klizo),  and  in  2  Cor  5  17  the 
product  is  called  a  "new  creature"  (kaine  kisis), 
a  renovated  creature.  Out  of  the  "old  man"  the 
Holy  Spirit  has  created  the  "new  man."  (2)  In 
1  Pet  1  3.23  and  elsewhere,  he  is  said  to  be  "begotten 
again"  (anagenndd),  and  the  product  is  a  "babe  in 
Christ"  (1  Cor  3  1).  The  "old  man"  thus  becomes 
the  "new  man"  by  a  spiritual  begetting:  his  pater- 
nity is  assigned  to  the  Holy  Ghost.  (3)  In  Eph  2  5 
and  elsewhere,  Ik;  is  said  to  be  'quickened'  (zdopoieo), 
and  tin;  product  is  represented  as  a  creature  which 
has  been  made  "alive  from  the  dead"  (Rom  6  13). 
The  "old  man,"  being  'dead  in  trespasses  and  sins' 
(Eph  2  1),  is  brought  forth  from  his  sin-grave  by 
a  spiritual  resurrection.  (4)  In  Eph  4  23  he  is 
represented  as  being  made  "young"  (ananedd),  and 
the  product  is  a  child  of  the  Spirit  at  the  commence- 
ment of  his  religious  experience.  The  "old  man," 
dating  his  history  back  to  the  fall  in  Eden,  has 
become,  through  the  Spirit,  a  young  man  in  Christ 
.Jesus.  (,'))  In  2  Cor  4  16  and  in  Rom  12  2,  he 
is  said  to  be  'renovated'  (anakainod).  The  "old 
man"  is  renovated  into  the  "new  man."  Sinful 
human  nature  is  taken  by  the  Spirit  and  morally 
recast . 

//.  Theological  Meaning. — The  "new  man"  is 
the  converted,  regenerated  man.  The  phrase1  has 
its  significance'  for  the  great  theological  doctrine  of 
re>ge>neM'atie)n  as  it  expands  into  the  bn>ael  work  of 
sanctification.  Is  the  sinner  dead?  Regeneration 
is  a  new  life.  Is  holiness  nem-existent  in  him?  Re- 
generatiem  is  a  newr  creation.  Is  he  be>rn  in  sin? 
Regeneration  is  a  new  birth.  Is  he  determined  by 
his  falle;n,  dc^praved  nature?  Regeneration  is  a 
spiritual  determination.  Is  he;  the  subject  of  carnal 
appetites?  Reigeneratie>n  is  a  holy  appetency. 
Is  he  thought  of  as  the;  e>ld  sinful  man?  Regenera- 
tion is  a  new  man.  Is  the;  sinful  mind  blind?  Re»- 
generatiem  is  a  new  understanding.  Is  the  heart 
stony?  Regeneration  is  a  heart  of  fiVsh.  Is  the> 
conscience  seared?  Regeueratiem  is  a  good  (;em- 
sciemce.  Is  the  will  impotent?  Regeneration  is 
a  new  impotentiatiem.  The  regenerated  man  is  a 
man  with  a  new  governing  disposition — a  "new 
man,"  an  "inwarel  man,"  a  "spiritual  man." 

(1)  The  "ne>w  man" — the  regenerate  man — is 
not  a  thee>logical  transubstantiation:  a  being  whose 
substane-e  has  been  supernaturally  converted  into 
some  other  sort  e>f  substance. 

(2)  He;  is  not  a  scientific  transmutation :  a  species 
of  one  kind  which  has  been  naturally  evolved  into 
a  species  e>f  ane>theT  kind. 

(3)  He;  is  not  a  metaphysical  reconstruction:  a 
being  with  a  new  mental  equipment. 

(4)  He;  is  an  evangelie-al  convert:  an  "old  man" 
with  a  nenv  regnant  moral  elispe>sition,  an  "outward 
man"  with  a  new  inwarel  fons  et  origo  of  moral  life; 
a  "natural  man"  with  a  new  renovated  spiritual 
heart.     See  Man,  Natural;    Regeneration. 

Robert  Alexander  Webb 
MAN    OF    SIN    (6    avGptoiros    ttjs    d^apxias,    ho 
dnthrdpos  tes  hamartias;    many  ancient  authorities 
read,    "man   of   lawlessness,"  dvojifas, 
1.  The  anomias):    The  name  occurs  in  Paul's 

Pauline  remarkable  announce;ment  in  2  The-ss 

Description  2  3-10  of  the  manifestation  of  a  colos- 
sal anti-Christian  power  prior  to  the 
advent,  which  some  of  the  Thessalonians  had  been 
misled  into  thinking  of  as  iunne'eliate'ly  impending 
(ver  2).     That  "day  e>f  the  Lord,"  the  apostle  de- 


Man  of  Sin 
Manasseh 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  HI  RLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1976 


dares,  will  not  conic  till,  as  he  had  previously 
taught  them  (vcr  5),  there  has  first  been  a  great 
apostasy  and  the  revelation  of  "the  man  of  sin" 
(or  "of  lawlessness"  ;  cf  ver  8),  named  also  "I  he  son 
of  perdition"  (ver  3).  This  "lawless  one"  (ver  8) 
would  exalt  himself  above  all  that  is  called  God, 
or  is  an  object  of  worship;  he  would  sit  in  the 
temple  of  God,  setting  himself  forth  as  ( lod  (ver  4). 
Lor  the  time  another  power  restrained  his  manifes- 
tation; when  that  was  removed,  lie  would  be  re- 
vealed (vsG.7).  Then  "the  mystery  of  lawlessness," 
which  was  already  working,  would  attaints  full 
development  (vs  7.8).  The  coming  of  this  "man 
of  sin,"  in  the  power  of  Satan,  would  be  with  lying 
wonders  and  all  deceit  of  unrighteousness,  whereby 
many  would  be  deceived  to  their  destruction  (vs 
9.10).  But  only  for  a  season  (ver  6).  Jesus  would 
slay  (or  consume)  him  with  the  breath  of  His 
mouth  (cf  Isa  11  4),  and  bring  him  to  nought  by 
the  manifestation  of  II is  coming  (ver  8). 

Innumerable  are  the  theories  and  speculations 
to   which   this   Pauline   passage   has   given  rise   (a 

very  full  account  of  these  may  be  seen 
2.  The  in   the  essay  on   "The   Man  of  Sin" 

Varying  In-  appended  to  Dr.  J.  Eadie's  posthu- 
terpreta-  mous  Coram,  on  Thess,  and  in  Liine- 
tions  mann's     Comm.,     222  ff,     ET).      (1) 

There  is  the  view,  favored  by  "mod- 
erns," that  the  passage  contains  no  genuine  pre- 
diction (Paul  "could  not  know"  the  future),  but 
represents  a  speculation  of  the  apostle's  own,  based 
on  Dnl  8  23  f'f;  11  3G  ff,  and  on  current  ideas  of 
Antichrist  (see  Antichrist;  Belial;  cf  Bousset, 
Der  Antichrist,  93  ff,  etc).  This  view  will  not  sat- 
isfy those  who  believe  in  the  reality  of  Paul's 
apostleship  and  inspiration.  (2)  Some  connect  the 
description  with  Caligula,  Nero,  or  other  of  the 
Rom  emperors.  Caligula,  indeed,  ordered  suppli- 
cation to  be  made  to  himself  as  the  supreme  god 
and  wished  to  set  up  his  statue  in  the  temple  of 
Jerus  (Suet.  Calig.  xxii.33;  Jos,  Ant,  XVIII, 
viii).  But  this  was  long  before  Paul's  visit  to 
Thessalonica,  and  the  acts  of  such  a  madman  could 
not  furnish  the  basis  of  a  prediction  so  elaborate 
and  important  as  the  present  (cf  Liinemann  and 
Bousset).  (3)  The  favorite  Protestant  interpre- 
tation refers  the  prediction  to  the  papacy,  in  whom, 
it  is  contended,  many  of  the  blasphemous  features 
of  Paul's  representation  are  unmistakably  realized. 
The  "temple  of  God"  is  here  understood  to  be  the 
church;  the  restraining  power  the  Rom  empire; 
"the  man  of  sin"  not  an  individual,  but  the  per- 
sonification of  an  institution  or  system.  It  is  diffi- 
cult, however,  to  resist  the  impression  that  the 
apostle  regards  "the  mystery  of  lawlessness"  as 
culminating  in  an  individual — a  personal  Anti- 
christ— and  in  any  case  the  representation  out- 
strips everything  that  can  be  conceived  of  as  even 
nominally  Christian.  (4)  There  remains  the  view 
held  by  most  of  the  Fathers,  and  in  recent  times 
widely  adopted,  that  "the  man  of  sin"  of  this  pas- 
sage is  an  individual  in  whom,  previous  to  the  ad- 
vent, sin  will  embody  itself  in  its  most  lawless  and 
God-denying  form.  The  attempts  to  identify  this 
individual  with  historical  characters  may  be  set 
aside;  but  the  idea  is  not  thereby  invalidated. 
4 Tie  difficulty  is  that  the  apostle  evidently  con- 
ceives of  the  manifestation  of  the  "man  of  sin"  as 
taking  place,  certainly  not  immediately,  but  at  no 
very  remote  period — not  2,000  years  later — and 
as  connected  directly  with  the  final  advent  of  Christ, 
and  the  judgment  on  the  wicked  (cf  1  7-9),  with- 
out apparently  any  reference  to  a  "millennial" 
period,  either  before  or  after. 

It  seems  safest,  in  view  of  the  difficulties  of  the 
passage,  to  confine  one's  self  to  the  general  idea  it 
embodies,  leaving  details  to  be  interpreted  by  the 


actual  fulfilment.  There  is  much  support  in  Scrip- 
ture—not  least  in  Christ's  own  teaching  (cf  Mt   i3 

30.37-43;  24  11-14;  Lk  18  8)  for 
3.  The  the  belief  that  before  the  final  triumph 

Essential  of  Christ's  kingdom  there  will  be  a 
Idea  period  of  great  tribulation,  of  decay  of 

faith,  of  apostasy,  of  culmination  of 
bot h  good  and  evil  ("Let  both  grow  t oget  her  tint  il  the 
harvest,"  Mt  13  30),  with  the  seeming  triumph  for 
the  time  of  the  evil  over  the  good.  There  will  be 
a  crisis-time — sharp,  severe,  and  terminated  by  a 
decisive  interposition  of  the  Son  of  Man  ("the 
manifestation  of  his  coming,"  RVm  "Gr  presence"), 
in  what  precise  form  may  be  left  undetermined. 
Civil  law  and  government — the  existing  bulwark 
against  anarchy  (in  Paul's  time  represented  by  the 
Rom  power) — will  be  swept  away  by  the  rising 
tide  of  evil,  and  lawlessness  will  prevail.  It  may 
be  that  impiety  will  concentrate  itself,  as  the  pas- 
sage says,  in  some  individual  head;  or  this  may 
belong  to  the  form  of  the  apostle's  apprehension 
in  a  case  where  "times  and  seasons"  were  not  yet 
fully  revealed:  an  apprehension  to  be  enlarged  by 
subsequent  revelations  (see  Revelation,  Book  of), 
or  left  to  be  corrected  by  the  actual  course  of  God's 
providence.  The  kernel  of  the  prediction  is  not, 
any  more  than  in  the  OT  prophecies,  dependent 
on  its  literal  realization  in  every  detail.  Neither 
does  the  final  manifestation  of  evil  exclude  partial 
and  anticipatory  realizations,  embodying  many 
of  the  features  of  the  prophecy.  See  Thessalo- 
nians,  Second  Epistle  to,  III.  James  Oku 

MAN  OF  WAR.     See  War. 

MAN,  OLD.     See  Max,  New;  Old  Man. 

MAN,  OUTWARD.  See  Man,  Natural;  Out- 
ward AIan. 

MAN,  SON  OF.     Sec  Son  of  Man. 

MANAEN,  man'a-en  (Mavar|v,  Manaen,  Gr  form 
of  Ileb  name  "Menahem,"  meaning  "consoler"): 
Manaen  is  mentioned,  with  Barnabas,  Saul  and 
others,  in  Acts  13  1,  as  one  of  the  "prophets  and 
teachers"  in  the  recently  founded  gentile  church 
at  Antioch,  at  the  time  when  Barnabas  and  Saul 
were  "separated"  by  Divine  call  for  their  mission- 
ary service.  He  is  further  described  as  "the  foster- 
brother  [suntrophos]  of  Herod  the  tetrarch"  (i.e. 
Herod  Antipas  [q.v.]).  He  was  probably  brought 
up  and  educated  with  this  Herod  and  his  brother 
Archelaus.  An  earlier  glimpse  of  Christian  influ- 
ence in  Herod's  court  is  afforded  by  Joanna,  the 
wife  of  Herod's  steward  Chuzas,  among  the  holy 
women  who  ministered  to  Jesus  (Lk  8  3).  Manaen 
may  have  been  related  to  the  older  Manaen,  the 
Essene,  who,  Jos  tells  us,  foretold  the  greatness  of 
Herod  the  Great,  and  was  afterward  treated  by 
Herod  as  his  friend  (Ant,  XV,  x,  5).  His  position 
in  the  church  at  Antioch  was  evidently  an  influ- 
ential one,  whether  he  himself  ranked  among  the 
"prophets,"  or  perhaps  only  among  the  "teachers." 

James  Orr 

MANAHATH,  man'a-hath  (MHSjO,  manahath; 
MaxavaGC,  Machanathi) : 

(1)  A  place  to  which  certain  Benjamites,  victims, 
apparently,  of  intra-tribal  jealousy,  were  carried 
captive  (1  Ch  8  0).  Of  this  town  the  Mana- 
hathites  were  probably  natives.  It  is  possibly 
denoted  by  Manocho  which  LXX  adds  to  the  list 
of  towns  in  Judah  (Josh  15  59).  This  place  is 
named  along  with  Bether  ( Bitllr) .  The  name  seems 
to  be  preserved  in  that  of  Maltha,  a  large  village  not 
far  from  Bittlr,  S.W.  of  Jerus.  The  change  of  I  to 
n,  and  vice  versa,  is  not  uncommon.  The  same 
place  may  be  intended  by    Menuhah    (Jgs  20  43 


1977 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Man  of  Sin 
Manasseh 


RVm),  where  AV  reads  "with  ease,"  and  RV  "at 
their  resting-place." 

(2)  One  of  the  sons  of  Shobal,  the  son  of  Seir 
the  Horite  (Gen  36  23;  1  Ch  1  40),  the  "name- 
father"  of  one  of  the  ancient  tribes  in  Alt.  Seir, 
afterward  subdued  and  incorporated  in  Edom. 

W.  Ewixg 

MANAHATHITES,  man'a-hath-Its  (ffiiTDTp , 
menuhoth  [1  Ch  2  52],  "^nrp ,  mdnahtl  [ver  54]; 
B,  Mwvauo,  Monaio,  A,  'A^aviO,  AnnntinUh  [ver 
52],  B,  MaXaOtC,  Malathei,  A,  Mava9,  Mandth, 
[ver  54];  AV  Manahethites) :  These  men  were  the 
inhabitants  of  Manahath.  They  were  descendants 
of  Caleb,  one-half  being  the  progeny  of  Shobal,  and 
the  other  of  Salma.  In  ver  52  RV  transliterates 
"Menuhoth,"  but  Manahathites  is  preferable. 

MANAHETHITES,  man-a-he'thits,  ma-na'heth- 
its.     See  Manahathites. 

MANASSEAS,  man-a-se'as  (Mavao-o-T|as,  Ma- 
nasstas):  One  of  those  who  had  married  "strange 
wives"  (1  Esd  9  31 J ;  "Manasseh"  of  Ezr  10  30. 

MANASSEH,  ma-nas'e  (Tito,  m'nashsheh, 
"causing  to  forget";  cf  Gen  41  51;  Mav[v]ao-o-r|, 
Man[ii\asst) : 

(1)  The  firstborn  of  Joseph  by  Asenath,  daughter 
of  Poti-phera,  priest  of  On.     See  next  article. 

(2)  The  tribe  named  from  Manasseh,  half  of 
which,  with  Gad  and  Reuben,  occupied  the  E.  of 
Jordan  (Nu  27  1,  etc).     See  next  article. 

(3)  The  "Manasseh"  of  Jgs  18  30.31  AV  is 
really  an  intentional  mistake  for  the  name  Moses. 
A  small  nun  (n)  has  been  inserted  over  and  between 
the  first  and  second  Heb  letters  in  the  word  Moses, 
thus  rnr-72  for  fltha  .  The  reason  for  this  is  that 
the  individual  in  question  is  mentioned  as  priest 
of  a  brazen  image  at  Dan.  His  proper  name  was 
Moses.  It  was  felt  to  be  a  disgrace  that  such  a 
one  bearing  that  honored  name  should  keep  it  intact. 
The  insertion  of  the  nun  hides  the  disgrace  and, 
moreover,  gives  to  the  person  a  name  already  too 
familiar  with  idolatrous  practices;  for  King  Manas- 
seh's  55  years  of  sovereignty  were  thus  disgraced. 

(4)  King  of  Judah.     See  separate  article. 

(5)  Son  of  Pahath-moab  (q.v.),  who  had  mar- 
ried a  foreign  wife  (Ezr  10  30).  Manaseas  in 
1  Esd  9  31. 

(6)  The  Manasses  of  1  Esd  9  33.  A  layman  of 
the  family  ot  llashum,  who  put  away  his  foreign 
wife  at  Ezra's  order  (Ezr  10  33). 

In  RV  of  Mt  1  10  and  Rev  7  6  the  spelling 
"Manasseh"  is  given  for  AV  "Manasses."  The 
latter  is  the  spelling  of  the  husband  of  Judith  (Jth 
8  2.7;  10  3;  16  22.23.24);  of  a  person  named  in  the 
last  words  of  Tobit  and  otherwise  unknown  (Tob 
14  10),  and  also  the  name  given  to  a  remarkable 
prayer  probably  referred  to  in  2  Ch  33  18,  which 
Manasseh  (4)  is  said  to  have  uttered  at  the  end 
of  his  long,  unsatisfactory  life.  See  Manasses, 
Thayer  of.  In  Jgs  12  4,  RV  reads  "Manasseh" 
for  AV  "Manassites."  Henry  Wallace 

MANASSEH:     Following   the   Bib.    account  of 
Manasseh  (patriarch,  tribe,  and  territory)  we  find 
that  he  was  the  elder  of  Joseph's  two 
1.  Son  of       sons    by    Asenath,    the    daughter    of 
Joseph  Poti-phera,  priest  of  On  (Gen  41  51). 

The  birth  of  a  son  marked  the  climax 
of  Joseph's  happiness  after  the  long  bitterness  of  his 
experience.  In  the  joy  of  the  moment,  the  dark 
years  past  could  be  forgot  t  en ;  therefore  he  called  the 
name  of  the  firstborn  Manasseh  ("causing  to  for- 
get"), for,  said  he,  God  hath  made  me  to  forget  all 
my  toil.     When  Jacob  was  near  his  end,  Joseph 


brought  his  two  sons  to  his  father  who  blessed 
them.  Himself  the  younger  son  who  had  received 
the  blessing  of  the  firstborn,  Jacob  preferred  Eph- 
raim,  the  second  son  of  Joseph,  to  M.  his  elder 
brother,  thus  indicating  the  relative  positions  of 
their  descendants  (Gen  48).  Before  Joseph  died 
he  saw  the  children  of  Machir  the  son  of  M.  (50 
23).  Machir  was  born  to  M.  by  his  concubine,  an 
Aramitess  (1  Ch  7  14).  Whether  he  married 
Maacah  before  leaving  for  Egypt  is  not  said.  She 
was  the  sister  of  Huppim  and  Shuppim.  Of  M.'s 
personal  life  no  details  are  recorded  in  Scripture. 
Acccording  to  Jewish  tradition  he  became  steward 
of  his  father's  house,  and  acted  as  interpreter  be- 
tween Joseph  and  his  brethren. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  desert  march  the  number 
of  M.'s  men  of  war  is  given  at  32,200  (Nu  1  34  f). 
At  the  2d  census  they  had  increased 
2.  The  to  52,700  (26  34).     Their  position  in 

Tribes  in  the  wilderness  was  with  the  tribe  of 
the  Wilder-  Benjamin,  by  the  standard  of  the  tribe 
ness  and  of  Ephraim,  on  the  W.  of  the  taber- 
Portion  in  nacle.  According  to  Tg  Pseudojon, 
Palestine  the  standard  was  the  figure  of  a  boy, 
with  the  inscription  "The  cloud  of 
Jeh  rested  on  them  until  they  went  forth  out  of  the 
camp."  At  Sinai  the  prince  of  the  tribe  was 
Gamaliel,  son  of  Pedahzur  (Nu  2  20).  The  tribe 
was  represented  among  the  spies  by  Gaddi,  son  of 
Susi  (13  11,  where  the  name  "tribe  of  Joseph" 
seems  to  be  used  as  an  alternative).  At  the  census 
in  the  plains  of  Moab,  M.  is  named  before  Ephraim, 
and  appears  as  much  the  stronger  tribe  (26  28  ff). 
The  main  military  exploits  in  the  conquest  of  East- 
ern Pal  were  performed  by  Manassites.  Machir, 
son  of  M.,  conquered  the  Amorites  and  Gilead  (32 
39).  Jair,  son  of  M.,  took  all  the  region  of  Argob, 
containing  three  score  cities;  these  he  called  by  his 
own  name,  "Havvoth-jair"  (32  41;  Dt  3  4.14). 
Nobah  captured  Kenath  and  the  villages  thereof 
(Nu  32  42;  Josh  17  1.5).  Land  for  half  the  tribe 
was  thus  provided,  their  territory  stretching  from 
the  northern  boundary  of  Gad  to  an  undetermined 
frontier  in  the  N.,  marching  with  Geshur  and 
Maacah  on  the  W.,  and  with  the  desert  on  the  E. 
The  warriors  of  this  half-tribe  passed  over  with 
those  of  Reuben  and  Gad  before  the  host  of  Israel, 
and  took  their  share  in  the  conquest  of  Western 
Pal  (Josh  22).  They  helped  to  raise  the  great 
altar  in  the  Jordan  valley,  which  so  nearly  led  to 
disastrous  consequences  (22  10  ff).  Golan,  the 
city  of  refuge,  lay  within  their  territory. 

The  possession  of  Ephraim  and  Manasseh  W.  of 
the  Jordan  appears  to  have  been  undivided  at  first 
(Josh  17  16  ff).  The  portion  which  ultimately  fell 
to  M.  marched  with  Ephraim  on  the  S.,  with  Asher 
and  Issachar  on  the  N.,  running  out  to  the  sea  on 
the  W.,  and  falling  into  the  Jordan  valley  on  the 
E.  (17  7  ff).  The  long  dwindling  slopes  to  west- 
ward and  the  flat  reaches  of  the  plain  included 
much  excellent  soil.  Within  the  territory  of  Issa- 
char and  Asher,  Beth-shean,  Ibleam,  Dor,  Endor, 
Taanach  and  Megiddo,  with  their  villages,  were 
assigned  to  M.  Perhaps  the  men  of  the  West 
lacked  the  energy  and  enterprise  of  their  eastern 
brethren.  They  failed,  in  any  case,  to  expel  the 
Canaanites  from  these  cities,  and  for  long  this  grim 
chain  of  fortresses  seemed  to  mock  the  strength 
of  Israel  (Josh  17  11  ff) 

Ten  cities  W.  of  the  Jordan,  in  the  portion  of  M., 
were  given  to  the  Levites,  and  13  in  the  eastern 
portion   (Josh  21  5.6). 

M.  took  part  in  the  glorious  conflict  with  the  host 
of  Sisera  (Jgs  5  14).  Two  famous  judges,  Gideon 
and  Jephthah,  belonged  to  this  tribe.  The  men  of 
the  half-tribe  E.  of  Jordan  were  noted  for  skill  and 
valor  as  warriors    (1  Ch  5  18.23  f).     Some  men  of 


Manasseh 
Manasses,  Prayer 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BUM,]-;  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1978 


M.  had  joined  David  before  the  battle  of  Gilboa 
(1  Ch  12  19).  Others,  all  mighty  men  of  valor, 
and  ca|)tains  in  the  host,  fell  to  him 
3.  Its  on  the  way  to  Ziklag,  and  helped  him 

Place  in  against    the  band  of  rovers  (vs  20ff). 

Later  From  the  half-tribe  W.  of  the  Jordan 

History  IS. 000  men,  expressed  by  name,  came 

to  David  at  Hebron  to  make  him  king 
(ver  31);  while  those  who  came  from  the  E.  num- 
bered, along  with  the  men  of  Reuben  and  Gad, 
120,000  (ver  37).  David  organized  the  eastern 
tribes  under  2,700  overseers  for  every  matter  per- 
taining to  Cod  and  for  the  affairs  of  the  king  (26 
32).  The  rulers  of  M.  were,  in  the  YV\,  Joel,  son  of 
Pedaiah,  and  in  the  E.,  Iddo,  son  of  Zechariah 
(27  20.21).  Divers  of  M.  humbled  themselves 
and  came  to  Jerus  at  the  invitation  of  Hezekiah 
to  celebrate  the  Passover  (2  Ch  30  11).  _  Although 
not  cleansed  according  to  the  purification  of  the 
sanctuary,  they  ate  the  Passover.  Pardon  was 
successfully  sought  for  them  by  the  king,  because 
they  set  their  hearts  to  seek  God  (vs  18  ff). 

Of  the  eastern  half-tribe  it  is  said  that  they  went 
a-whoring  after  the  gods  of  the  land,  and  in  conse- 
quence they  were  overwhelmed  and  expatriated  by 
Pul  and  Tiglath-pileser,  kings  of  Assyria  (1  Ch  5 
25  f).  Reference  to  the  idolatries  of  the  western 
half-tribe  are  also  found  in  2  Ch  31  1;    34  6. 

There  is  a  portion  for  M.  in  Ezekiel's  ideal  picture 
(48  4),  and  the  tribe  appears  in  the  list  in  Rev 
(7  6). 

The  genealogies  in  Josh  17  1  ff;  Nu  26  28-34; 

1  Ch  2  21-23;  7  14-19  have  fallen  into  confu- 
sion. As  they  stand,  they  are  mutually  contra- 
dictory, and  it  is  impossible  to  harmonize  them. 

The  theories  of  certain  modern  scholars  who  reject 
the  Bib.  account  arc  themselves  beset  with  difficulties: 
e.g.  the  name  is  derived  from  the  Arab,  nana,  "to  injure 
a  tendon  of  the  leg."  M.,  the  Piel  part.,  would  thus  be 
the  name  of  a  supernatural  being,  of  whom  the  infliction 
of  such  an  injury  was  characteristic.  It  is  not  clear 
which  of  the  wrestlers  at  the  Jabbok  suffered  the  injury. 
As  Jacob  is  said  to  have  prevailed  with  gods  and  men, 
the  suggestion  is  that  it  was  his  antagonist  who  was 
lamed.  "It  would  appear  therefore  that  in  the  original 
story  the  epithet  Manasseh  was  a  fitting  title  of  Jacob 
himself,  which  might  be  borne  by  his  worshippers,  as  in 
the  case  of  Cad"  (EB,  s.v.,  par.  4). 

It  is  assumed  that  the  mention  of  Machir  in  Jgs  5  14 
deflnitelv  locates  the  Manassites  at  that  time  on  the  W. 
of  the  Jordan.  The  raids  by  members  of  the  tribe  on 
Eastern  Pal  must  therefore  have  taken  place  long  after 
the  davs  of  Moses.  The  reasoning  is  precarious.  After 
the  mention  of  Reuben  (vs  15.10),  Gilead  (ver  17)  may 
refer  to  Gad.  It  would  be  strange  if  this  warlike  tribe 
were  passed  over  (Gut he).  Machir,  then  probably  the 
strongest,  clan,  stands  for  the  whole  tribe,  and  may  be 
supposed  to  indicate  particularly  the  noted  fighters  of 
the  eastern  half. 

In  dealing  with  the  genealogies,  "the  difficult  name" 
Zelophehad  must  be  got-  rid  of.  Among  the  suggestions 
made  is  one  by  Dr.  Cheyne,  which  first  supposes  the 
existence  of  a  name  Salhad,  and  then  makes  Zelophehad 
a  corruption  of  this. 

The  genealogies  certainly  present  difficulties,  but  other- 
wise the  narrative  is  intelligible  and  self-consistent  with- 
out resort  to  such  questionable  expedients  as  those 
referred  to  above. 

W.   EwiNG 

MANASSEH:  A  king  of  Judah,  son  and  suc- 
cessor of  Hezekiah;  reigned  55  years   (2  K  21  1; 

2  Ch  33  1),  from  c  0X5  onward.  His  was  one  of 
the  few  royal  names  not  compounded  with  the  name 
of  Jeh  (his  son  Anion's  was  the  only  other  if,  as  an 
Assyr  inscription  gives  it,  the  full  name  of  Ahaz 
was  Jehoahaz  or  Ahaziah);  but  it  was  no  heathen 
name  like  Anion,  but  identical  with  that  of  the  elder 
son  of  Joseph.  Born  within  Hezekiah's  added  15 
years,  years  of  trembling  faith  and  tender  hope  (cf 
Isa  38  15  f),  his  name  may  perhaps  memorialize 
the  father's  sacred  feelings;  the  name  of  his  mother 
Hephzibah  too  was  used  long  afterward  as  the 
symbol  of  the  happy  union  of  the  land  with  its 
loyal  sons  (Isa  62  4).     All  this,  however,  was  long 


forgotten  in  the  memory  of  Manasseh's  apostate 
career. 

/.  Sources  of  His  Life.  -The  history  (2  K  21 
1-18)  refers  for  "the  rest  of  his  acts"  to  "the  book  of 
the  chronicles  of  the  kings  of  Judah,"  but  the  body 
of  the  account,  instead  of  reading  like  state  annals, 
is  almost  entirely  a  censure  of  his  idolatrous  reign 
in  the  spirit  of  the  prophets  and  of  the  Deutero- 
nomic  strain  of  literature.  The  parallel  history 
(2  Ch  33  1-20)  puts  "the  rest  of  his  acts"  ''among 
the  acts  of  the  kings  of  Israel,"  and  mentions  his 
prayer  (a  prayer  ascribed  to  him  is  in  the  Apocrypha) 
and  "the  words  of  the  seers  that  spoke  to  him  in  the 
name  of  Jeh."  This  history  of  Ch  mentions  his 
captive  journey  to  Babylon  and  his  repentance 
(2  Ch  33  10-13),  also  his  building  operations  in 
Jerus  and  his  resumption  of  Jeh-worship  (vs  14-17), 
which  the  earlier  source  lacks.  From  these  sources, 
which  it  is  not  the  business  of  this  article  either  to 
verify  or  question,  the  estimate  of  his  reign  is  to  be 
deduced. 

//.    Character  of  His  Reign. — During  his  reign, 

Assyria,  principally  under  Esar-haddon  and  Assur- 

banipal,  was  at  the  height  of  its  arro- 

1.  Political  gance  and  power;  and  his  long  reign 
Situation       was  the  peaceful  and  uneventful  life 

of  a  willing  vassal,  contented  to  count 
as  tributary  king  in  an  illustrious  world-empire, 
hospitable  to  all  its  religious  and  cultural  ideas,  and 
ready  to  take  his  part  in  its  military  and  other 
enterprises.  The  two  mentions  of  his  name  in 
Assyr  inscriptions  (see  G.  A.  Smith,  Jerusalem,  II, 
182)  both  represent  him  in  this  tributary  light. 
His  journey  to  Babylon  mentioned  in  2  Ch  33  1 1 
need  not  have  been  the  penalty  of  rebellion;  more 
likely  it  was  such  an  enforced  act  of  allegiance  as 
was  perhaps  imposed  on  all  provincial  rulers  who 
had  incurred  or  would  avert  suspicion  of  disloyalty. 
Nor  was  his  fortification  of  Jerus  after  his  return 
less  necessary  against  domestic  than  foreign  aggres- 
sion; the  more  so,  indeed,  as  in  so  long  and  undis- 
turbed a  reign  his  capital,  which  was  now  pract  ically 
synonymous  with  his  realm  (Esar-haddon  calls  him 
"king  of  the  city  of  Judah"),  became  increasingly 
an  important  center  of  wealth  and  commercial 
prosperity.  Of  the  specific  events_  of  his  reign, 
however,  other  than  religious,  less  is  known  than 
of  almost  any  other. 

That  the  wholesale  idolatry  by  which  his  reign 

is  mainly  distinguished  was  of  a  reactionary  and 

indeed    conservative    nature   may    be 

2.  Reaction-  understood  alike  from  what  it  sought 
ary  Idolatry  to  maintain  and  from  what  it  had  to 

react  against.  On  the  one  side  was 
the  tremendous  wTave  of  ritual  and  mechanical 
heathen  cultus  which,  proceeding  from  the  world- 
centers  of  culture  and  civilization  (cf  Isa  2  6-8), 
was  drawing  all  the  tributary  lands,  Judah  with 
the  rest,  into  its  almost  irresistible  sweep.  M., 
it  would  seem,  met  this  not  in  the  temper  of  an  ama- 
teur, as  had  his  grandfather  Ahaz,  but  in  the 
temper  of  a  fanatic.  Everything  old  and  new  that 
came  to  his  purview  was  of  momentous  religious 
value — except  only  the  simple  and  austere  demands 
of  prophetic  insight.  He  restored  the  debasing 
cultus  of  the  aboriginal  Nature-worship  which  his 
father  had  suppressed,  thus  making  Judah  revert 
to  the  sterile  Baal-cultus  of  Ahab;  but  his  blind 
credence  in  the  black  arts  so  prevalent  in  all  the 
surrounding  nations,  imported  the  elaborate  wor- 
ship of  the  heavenly  bodies  from  Babylon,  invading 
even  the  temple-courts  with  its  numerous  rites  and 
altars;  even  went  to  the  horrid  extreme  of  human 
sacrifice,  making  an  institution  of  what  Ahaz  had 
tried  as  a  desperate  expedient.  All  this,  which  to 
the  matured  prophetic  sense  was  headlong  wicked- 
ness, was  the  mark  of  a  desperately  earnest  soul, 


1979 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Manasseh 
Manasses,  Prayer 


seeking  blindly  in  this  wholesale  way  to  propitiate 
the  mysterious  Divine  powers,  his  nation's  God 
among  them,  who  seemed  so  to  have;  the  world's 
affairs  in  their  inscrutable  control.  On  the  other 
side,  there  confronted  him  the  prophetic  voice  of  a 
religion  which  decried  all  insincere  ritual  ('wicked- 
ness and  worship,'  Isa  1  13),  made  straight  de- 
mands on  heart  and  conscience,  and  had  already 
vindicated  itself  in  the  faith  which  had  wrought 
the  deliverance  of  701.  It  was  the  fight  of  the 
decadent  formal  against  the  uprising  spiritual;  and, 
as  in  all  such  struggles,  it  would  grasp  at  any  expe- 
dient save  the  one  plain  duty  of  yielding  the  heart 
to  repentance  and  trust. 

Meanwhile,  the  saving  intelligence  and  integrity  of 
Israel,  though  still  the  secret  of  the  lowly,  was  mak- 
ing itself  felt  in  the  spiritual  movement 

3.  Perse-  that  Isaiah  had  labored  to  promote; 
cution  through  the  permeating  influence  of 

literature  and  education  the  ''rem- 
nant" was  becoming  a  power  to  be  reckoned  with. 
It  is  in  the  nature  of  things  that  such  an  inno- 
vating movement  must  encounter  persecution; 
the  significant  tiling  is  that  already  there  was  so 
much  to  persecute.  Persecution  is  as  truly  the 
offspring  of  fear  as  of  fanaticism.  M.'s  persecution 
of  the  prophets  and  their  adherents  (tradition  has 
it  that  the  aged  Isaiah  was  one  of  his  victims)  was 
from  their  point  of  view  an  enormity  of  wickedness. 
To  us  the  analysis  is  not  quite  so  simple;  it  looks 
also  like  the  antipathy  of  an  inveterate  formal  order 
to  a  vital  movement  that  it  cannot  understand. 
The  vested  interests  of  almost  universal  heathenism 
must  needs  die  hard,  and  "much  innocent  blood" 
was  its  desperate  price  before  it  would  yield  the 
upper  hand.  To  say  this  of  M.'s  murderous  zeal 
is  not  to  justify  it;  it  is  merely  to  concede  its 
sadly  mistaken  sincerity.  It  may  well  have;  seemed 
to  him  that  a  nation's  piety  was  at  stake, as  if  a 
world's  religious  culture  were  in  peril. 

The  Chronicler,  less  austere  in  tone  than  the 

earlier  historian,  preserves  for  us  the  story  that, 

like  Saul  of  Tarsus  after  him,  M.  got 

4.  Return  his  eyes  open  to  the  truer  meaning  of 
to  Better  things;  that  after  his  humiliation  and 
Mind  repentance  in  Babylon  he  ''knew  that 

Jeh  he  was  God"  (2  Ch  33  10-13). 
He  had  the  opportunity  to  see  a  despotic  idolatry, 
its  evils  with  its  splendors,  in  its  own  home';  a  first- 
fruit  of  the  thing  that  the  Heb  exiles  were  afterward 
to  realize.  On  his  return,  accordingly,  he  removed 
the  altars  that  had  encroached  upon  the  sacred  pre- 
cincts of  the  temple,  and  restored  the  ritual  of  the 
Jeh-service,  without,  however,  removing  the  high 
places.  It  would  seem  to  have  been  merely  the 
concession  of  Jeh's  right  to  a  specific  cult  us  of  His 
own,  with  perhaps  a  mitigation  of  the  more  offen- 
sive extremes  of  exotic  worship,  while  the  tolera- 
tion of  the  various  fashionable  forms  remained 
much  as  before.  But  this  in  itself  was  something, 
was  much ;  it  gave  Jeh  His  chance,  so  to  say,  among 
rivals;  and  the  growing  spiritual  fiber  of  the  heart 
of  Israel  could  be  trusted  to  do  the  rest.  _  It  helps 
us  also  the  better  to  understand  the  situation  when, 
only  two  years  after  M.'s  death,  Josiah  came  to 
the  throne,  and  to  understand  why  he  and  his  people; 
were  so  ready  to  accept  the  religious  sanity  of  the 
Deuteronomic  law.  He  did  not  succeed,  after  all, 
in  committing  his  nation  to  the  wholesale  sway  of 
heathenism.  M.'s  reactionary  reign  was  indeed 
not  without  its  good  fruits;  the  crisis  of  religious 
syncretism  and  externalism  was  met  and  passed. 
John  Franklin  Genung 

MANASSES,   ma-nas'ez   (Mavao-o-iis,   Manasses, 
B,  Manasse) : 

(1)  One  who  had  married  a  "strange  wife"    (1 
Esd  9  33)  =  "Manasseh"  of  Ezr  10  33. 


(2)  The  wealthy  husband  of  Judith;  died  of  sun- 
stroke when  employed  at  the  barley  harvest  (Jth 
8  2f.7;    10  3;    16  22  ff). 

(3)  A  person  mentioned  in  Tob  14  10,  who 
"gave  alms,  and  escaped  the  snare  of  death."  It 
must  be  admitted  that  Manasses  here  is  an  awk- 
ward reading  and  apparently  interrupts  the  sense, 
which  would  run  more  smoothly  if  Manasses  were 
omitted  or  Achiacharus  read.  There  is  great  va- 
riety of  text  in  this  verse.  K  (followed  by  Fritzsche, 
Libri apoc:vet.  Test  dr.,  1871)  reads  en  to  poiesai  me 
eleemosunen  extithen,  where  Manasses  is  omitted 
and  Achiacharus  is  understood  as  the  subject. 
Itala  and  Syr  go  a  step  further  and  read  Achia- 
charus as  subject.  But  B  (followed  by  Swete,  AV 
and  RV)  reads  Manasses,  which  must  be  the  correct 
reading  on  the  principle  of  being  the  most  difficult. 
Explanations  have  been  offered  (1)  that  Manasses 
is  simply  the  Heb  name  for  Achiacharus,  it  not 
being  uncommon  for  a  Jew  to  have  a  Gr  and  a 
Heb  name;  (2)  that  on  reading  'A/uabv,  Anion, 
Manasses  was  inserted  for  Achiacharus  according 
to  2  Ch  33  22  ff;  (3)  that  M.  here  is  an  incorrect 
reading  for  Nasbas  (Tob  11  18),  identified  by  Grotius 
with  Achiacharus.  "It  seems  impossible  at  present 
to  arrive  at  a  satisfactory  explanation"  (Fuller, 
Speaker's  Comni.).  There  is  as  great  uncertainty 
as  to  the  person  who  conspired  against  Manasses: 
'A/m?,  Amein,  in  A,  followed  by  AV  and  RV,  who  is 
by  some  identified  with  the  Hainan  of  Est  and 
Achiacharus  with  Mordecai;  ' AddfjL,  Adam,  in  B, 
followed  by  Swete;  Itala  Nadab;  Syr  Ahab  (Acab). 

(4)  A  king  of  Judah  (Mt  1  10  AV,  Gr  form, 
RV  "Manasseh"),  whose  prayer  forms  one  of  the 
apocryphal  books.     See  Manasses,  Prayer  of. 

(5)  The  elder  son  of  Joseph  (Rev  7  6,  AV  Gr 
form,  RV  "Manasseh").  S.  Angus 

MANASSES,  THE  PRAYER  OF: 

1.  Name 

2.  Canonicity  and  Position 

3.  Contents 

4.  Original  Language 

5.  Authenticity 

6.  Author  and  Motive 

7.  Date 

8.  Text  and  Versions 

(1)  Greek 

(2)  Latin 
Literature 

The  Prayer  of  Manasses  purports  to  be,  and  may 
in  reality  be,  the  prayer  of  that  king  mentioned  in 
2  Ch  33  13.18  f. 

In  Cod.  A  it  is  called  simply  "A  Prayer  of  Manas- 
ses," in  the  London  Polyglot  "A  Prayer  of  Man- 
asses,   King  of   the   Jews."     Its   title 

1.  Name        in  the  Vulg  is  "A  Prayer  of  Manasses, 

King  of  Judah,  when  He  Was  Held 
Captive  in  Babylon."  In  Baxter's  Apoc,  Gr  and 
Eng.  this  Prayer  appears  at  the  end  with  the  head- 
ing "A  Prayer  of  Manasses,  son  of  Ezekias" 
(  =  Hezekiah). 

The  Greek  church  is  the  only  one  which  has  con- 
sistently reckoned  this  Prayer  as  a  part  of  its  Bible. 
Up  to  the  time  of  the  Council  of  Trent 

2.  Canon-  (1545-63  AD),  it  formed  a  part  of  the 
icity  and  Vulg,  but  by  that  council  it  was  rel- 
Position         egated  with  3  and  4  (1  and  2)  Esd  to 

the  appendix  (which  included  uncanon- 
ical  scriptures),  "lest  they  should  become  wholly  lost, 
since  they  are  occasionally  cited  by  the  Fathers  and 
are  found  in  printed  copies."  Yet  it  is  wholly  absent 
from  the  Vulg  of  Sixtus  V,  though  it  is  in  the  Ap- 
pendix of  the  Vulg  of  Clement  VIII.  _  Its  position 
varies  in  MSS,  VSS  and  printed  editions  of  the 
LXX.  It  is  most  frequently  found  among  the  odes 
or  canticles  following  the  Psalter,  as  in  Codd.  A,  T 
(the  Zurich  Psalter)  and  in  Ludolf's  Ethiopic 
Psalter.     In  Swete's  LXX  the  Ps  Sol  followed  by 


Manasses,  Prayer 
Manifold 


T1IK  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


19S0 


the  odes  ('ilSal,  Odai),  of  which  IV  Man  is  the  8th, 
appear  us  an  Appendix  after  t  Mace  in  vol  III.  It 
was  placed  alter  2  Ch  in  the  original  Vulg,  but  in 
the  Romanist  Vulg  it  stands  first,  followed  by  3  and 
4  (1  and  2)  Esd  in  the  apocryphal  Appendix.  It  is 
found  in  all  MSS  of  the  Armenian  Bible,  where,  as 
in  Swete's  LXX,  it  is  one  of  many  odes.  Though 
not  included  in  Coverdale's  Bible  or  the  ( ieneva  VS, 
it  was  retained  (at  the  close  of  the  Apoc)  in 
Luther's  tr,  in  Mathew's  Bible;  and  in  the  Bishops' 
Bible,  whence  it  passed  into  our  EV. 

According   to    2  Ch  33    (cf   2  K  21)    Manasseh 
was  exiled  by  the  Assyrians  to   Babylon  as  a  pun- 
ishment for  his  sins.     There  he  became 

3.  Contents  penitent  and  earnestly  prayed  to  God 

for  pardon  and  deliverance.  God 
answered  his  prayer  and  restored  him  to  Jerus  and 
to  the  throne.  Though  the  prayer  is  mentioned  in 
2  Ch  33  13.18  f,  it  is  not  given,  but  this  lack  has 
been  supplied  in  the  Pr  Man  of  the  Apoc.  After  an 
opening  invocation  to  the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac, 
Judah  and  their  righteous  seed,  the  Creator  of  all 
things,  most  high,  yet  compassionate,  who  has 
ordained  repentance,  not  for  perfect  ones  like  the 
patriarchs  who  did  not  need  it,  but  for  the  like  of 
the  person  praying,  there  follows  a  confession  of  sin 
couched  for  the  most  part  in  general  terms,  a  prayer 
for  pardon  and  a  vow  to  praise  God  forever  if  this 
prayer  is  answered. 

The  bulk  of  scholars  (Fritzsche,  Reuss,  Schurer, 
Ryssel,  etc)  agree  that  this  Prayer  was  composed 

in   Gr.     The   Gr  recension   is  written 

4.  Original  in  a  free,  flowing  and  somewhat 
Language       rhetorical  style,   and   it   reads  like  an 

original  work,  not,  like  a  tr.  Though 
there  are  some  Hebraisms,  they  are  not  more  numer- 
ous or  striking  than  usually  meet  us  in  Hellenistic 
Gr.  It  is  of  some  importance  also  that,  although 
Jewish  tradition  adds  largely  to  the  legends  about 
Manasseh,  it  has  never  supplied  a  Heb  VS  of  the 
Braver  (see  Text  and  Versions,  VIII).  On  the 
other  hand,  Ewald  ( Hist.  Isr,  I,  186;  IV,  217,  n.5, 
Ger.  ed,  IV,  217  f),  Burst  (Gesch.  der  bibl.  Lit.,  II, 
399),  Budde  (ZAW,  1892,  39  IT),  Ball  (Speaker's 
Apoc)  and  others  argue  for  a  Heb  original,  per- 
haps existing  in  the  source  named  of  2  Ch  33 
18  f  (see  Ryssel  in  Kautzsch,  Die  Apoc  des  A  T, 
167). 

Have  wo  here  the  authentic  prayer  of  Manasseh  offered 

under  the  circumstances  described  in  2  Ch  33?     Ewald 

and  the  other  scholars  named    (see  fore- 

5.  Authen-  going  section),  who  think  the  Prayer  was 
ticitv  composed    in     Heb,    say    that    we    have 

J  probably  here  a  Gr  rendering  of  the  Heb 

original  which  the  Chronicler  saw  in  his  source.  Ball, 
on  tin;  other  hand,  though  not  greatly  opposed  to  this 
view,  is  more  convinced  that  the  Ileb  original  is  to  be 
sought  in  a  haggadic  narrative  concerning  Manasseh. 
Even  if  we,  accept  the  view  of  Ewald  or  of  Ball,  we  still 
desiderate  evidence  that  this  Heb  original  is  the  very 
prayer  offered  by  the,  king  in  Babylon.  But  the,  argu- 
ments for  a  Gr  original  are  fairly  conclusive.  Many 
OT  scholars  regard  the  narrative  of  the  captivity,  prayer 
and  penitence  of  Manasseh  as  a  Action  of  the  Chronicler's 
imagination,  to  whom  it  seemed  highly  improper  that  this 
wicked  king  should  escape  the  punishment  (exile)  which 
he  richlv  deserved.  So  De  Wette  (Einleitung),  Graf 
(Stud.  u.  Krit..  1859,  4(>7-94.  and  Gesch.  Bilcher  des  AT, 
174)  and  Noldeke  (Schenkel's  Bibelwerk,  "Manasse"). 
Nothing  corresponding  to  it,  occurs  in  the  more  literal 
narrative  of  2  K  21,  an  argument  which,  however,  has 
but  little  weight.  Recent  discoveries  of  cuneiform 
inscriptions  have  taken  off  the  edge  of  the  most  impor- 
tant objections  to  the  historicity  of  this  part  of  Ch.  See 
Hall  (op.  cit.,  361  fT)  and  Bissell  (Lange's  Apoc,  4G8). 
The  likeliest  supposition  is  that  tin;  author  of  the  Prayer 
was  an  Alexandrian  Jew  who,  with  2  Ch  33  before  him, 
desired  to  compose;  such  a  prayer  as  Manasseh  was  likely 
to  offer  under  the  supposed  circumstances.  This  prayer, 
written  in  excellent  Alexandrian  Gr,  is,  as  Fritzsche 
points  out.  an  addition  to  2  Oh  33,  corresponding  to  the 
prayers  of  Mordecai  and  Esther  added  to  the  canonical 
Est  (Ad  Est  13  8 — 14  19),  and  also  to  the  prayer 
of  Azarias  (Three  1  2-22)  and  the  Song  of  the  Three 
Young  Men  (Three  1  29-US)  appended  to  the  canonical 
Book  of  Dnl. 


That  the  author  was  an  Alexandrian  .lew  is  made 

probable  by  the  (Gr)  language  he  employs  and  by 

the    sentiments    he    expresses.      It     is 

6.  The  strange  to  find  Swete  ( Expos  7',II,3Sf) 
Author  and  defending  the  Christian  authorship  of 
His  Motive   this  Prayer.     What  purpose  could  the 

writer  seek  to  realize!  in  the  composi- 
tion and  publication  of  the  penitential  psalm?  In 
the  absence  of  definite  knowledge,  one  may  with 
Reuss  [Das  AT,  VI,  436  f)  suppose  that  the  .Jew- 
ish nation  was  at  the  time  given  up  to  great  un- 
faithfulness to  God  and  to  gross  moral  corruption. 
The  lesson  of  the  Prayer  is  that  God  will  accept  the 
penitent,  whatever  his  sins,  and  remove  from  the 
nation  its  load  of  sufferings,  if  only  it  turns  to 
God. 

Ewald  and  Furst  (op.  cit.)  hold  that,  the  prayer 

is  at  least  as  old  as  the  Book  of  Ch  (300  BC),  since 

it  is  distinctly  mentioned,  they  say,  in 

7.  Date  2Ch33  13.18f.    But  the  original  form 

was,  as  seen  (cf  4  above),  Gr,  not  Heb. 
Moreover,  the  teaching  of  the  Prayer  is  post-Bib. 
The  patriarchs  are  idealized  to  the  extent  that  they 
are  thought  perfect  and  therefore  not  needing  for- 
giveness (ver  8);  their  merits  avail  for  the  sinful 
and  undeserving  (ver  1)  (see  Weber,  Jud.  Theologie, 
292).  The  expressions  "God  of  the  Just"  (ver  8), 
"God  of  those  who  repent"  (ver  13),  belong  to  com- 
paratively late, Judaism.  A  period  about  the  begin- 
ning of  the  Christian  era  or  (Fritzsche)  slightly 
earlier  would  suit  the  character  (language  and  teach- 
ing) of  the  Prayer.  The  similarity  between  the 
doctrines  implied  in  Pr  Man  and  those  taught  in 
apocryphal  writings  of  the  time  confirms  this  con- 
clusion. There  is  no  need  with  Bertholdt  to  bring 
down  the  writing  to  the  2d  or  3d  cent.  AD.  Fa- 
bricius  (Liber  Tobit,  etc,  20S)  dates  the  Prayer  in 
the  4th  or  5th  cent.  AD,  because,  in  his  opinion, 
its  author  is  the  same  as  that  of  the  Apos  Const 
which  has  that  date.  But  the  source  of  this  part 
of  the  Apos  Const  is  the  Didaskalia  (3d  cent.),  and 
moreover  both  these  treatises  are  of  Christ  ian  origin, 
the  Prayer  being  the  work  of  an  Alexandrian 
Jew. 

(1)  The  Greek  text  occurs  in  Codd.  A,  T  (Psal- 
terium  Turicence  2(>2,  Parsons).    Swete  (OT  in  Gr, 

III,  802-4)  gives  the  text  of  A  with 

8.  Text  and  the  variations  of  T.  It  is  omitted 
Versions        from  the  bulk  of  ancient  MSS  and  edd 

of  the  LXX,  as  also  from  several  mod- 
ern editions  (Tischendorf,  etc).  Nestle  (Septua- 
ginta  Studien,  1S99,  3)  holds  that  the  Gr  text  of 
Codd.  A,  T,  etc,  has  been  taken  from  the  Apos 
Const  or  from  the  Didaskalia.  The  common  view 
is  that  it  was  extracted  by  the  latter  from  the  LXX. 

(2)  The  Latin  text  in  Sabatier  (Bib.  Sac.  Lot,  III, 
1038)  is  not  by  Jerome,  nor  is  it,  in  the  manner  of  the 
Old  Lat;  its  date  is  later. 

Literature. — The  outstanding  literature  has  been 
cited  in  the  foregoing  art.  Reference  may  he  made  to 
Howorth  ("Some  Unconventional  Views  on  the  Text  of 
theBible,"  PSBA,  XXXI,  89  fl:  he  argues  that  the  narra- 
tive concerning  Manasseh,  including  the  Prayer  in  the 
Apos  Const,  represents  a  portion  of  the  true  LXX  of 
2  Ch  33).  ^ 

T.   V\  ITTON   Da  VIES 

MANASSITES,  ma-nas'its  PVgft,  menashshl; 
6  Mavacro-r},  ho  Manasst) :  Members  of  the  tribe  of 
Manasseh   (Dt  4  43;    Jgs  12  4  AV;    2  K  10  33). 

MAN-CHILD,  man'chlld  (ARV;  "man  child," 
ERV;  not  in  AV;  Tp3  "pl?1pia  ,  mashtln  b'klr) :  The 
expression  is  used  with  the  meaning  of  "male,"  but 
is  found  only  in  the  description  of  the  extermination 
of  a  whole  family,  where  it  is  employed  to  express 
every  male  descendant  of  any  age.  It  occurs  in  1 
S  25  22.34;    1  K  14  10;   16  11;   21  21;  2  K  9  8. 


1981 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Manasses,  Prayer 
Manifold 


MANDRAKES,  man'draks  (D^TH,  dudha'lm; 
(AavSpa^opas,  mandragoras  [Gen  30  1  1  f;  Cant  7 
13];  the  marginal  reading  "love  apples"  is  due  to 
the  supposed  connection  of  dudha'lm  withD'HYl, 
dodhlm,  "love"):  Mandrake's  are  the  fruit  of  the 
Mandragora  officinarum,  a  member  of  the  Solanaceae 
or  potato  order,  closely  allied  to  the  Atropa  bella- 


Mandrake  {Mandragora   officinarum) 


donna.  It  is  a  common  plant  all  over  Pal,  flourish- 
ing particularly  in  the  spring  and  ripening  about 
the  time  of  the  wheat  harvest  (Gen  30  14).  The 
plant  lias  a  rosette  of  handsome  dark  leaves,  dark 
purple  flowers  and  orange,  tomato-like  fruit.  The 
root  is  long  and  branched;  to  pull  it  up  is  still  con- 
sidered unlucky  (cf  Jos,  BJ,  VII,  vi,  3).  The 
fruit  is  called  in  Arab,  baid  el-jinn,  tin;  "eggs  of  the 
jinn";  they  have  a  narcotic  smell  and  sweetish 
taste,  but  are  too  poisonous  to  be  used  as  food. 
They  are  still  used  in  folklore  medicine  in  Pal.  The 
plant  was  well  known  as  an  aphrodisiac  by  the  an- 
cients (Cant  7  13).  E.  W.  O.  Masterman 

MANEH,  man'e,  or  MINA,  mi'na  (T\'J)2,  maneh; 
(j.vd,  mud,  "pound"  [EV]):  A  weight  containing  50 
shekels,  according  to  Heb  usage,  but  which  varied 
according  to  the  standard  adopted.  Estimated  on 
the  Phoen,  or  commercial,  standard,  it  was  equal 
to  11,200  grains,  or  about  2  lbs.  troy,  or  about 
1.6  lbs.  avoirdupois.  This  is  probably  the  weight, 
intended  in  1  K  10  17;  Ezr  2  69  and  Neh  7 
71  f  (see  Weights  and  Measures).  When  used 
in  a  monetary  sense,  the  munch  of  silver  was  worth 
about  £6  17.s'.  or  $34;  the  gold  maneh  was  equal  to 
about  £102  10s.  or  $510.  H.  Pouter 

MANES,  ma'nez  (Mdv^s,  Manes) :  One  of  those 
who  put  away  their  "strange  wives"  (1  Esd  9  21). 
It  represents  the  two  names  Maaseiah  and  Elijah 
of  the  ||  Ezr  10  21.  The  real  equivalent  is  prob- 
ably Maaseiah,  Elijah  being  dropped.  RVm  and 
AVm  give  Harim  of  Ezr  10  21  as  identical — ap- 
parently incorrectly,  for  the  words  "and  of  the  sons 
of  Harim"  (Ezr  10  21)  are  simply  omitted.  AV 
blunders  strangely  here  in  reading  Eanes  after  a 
misprint  Hdi^s,  Ednes  (for  Md^s,  Manes)  in  the 
Aldine  edition. 


MANGER,  man'jer  (cjxxTvn,  phdlne):  Properly 
the  place  in  a  stall  or  stable  where  the  food  of  cattle 
is  placed  (in  the  OT  "crib"  [Job  39  0;  Prov  14  4; 
Isa  1  3]);  thus  also,  apparently,  in  the  narrative 
of  the  nativity  in  Lk  2  7.12.1(>."  In  LXX,  the  Gr 
word,  representing  different  11(4)  words,  has  also 
the  extended  meaning  of  "stall"  (2  Ch  32  28; 
Hah  3  17);  thus  also  in  Lk  13  15,  where  RVm  has 
"manger."  Old  tradition  says  that  Jesus  was 
born  m  a  cave  in  the  neighborhood  of  Bethlehem; 
even  so,  a  place  for  food  for  cattle  may  have  been 
cut  in  the  side  of  the  rock.  James  Orr 

MANI,  ma'nl  (Mavi,  Mani):  Head  of  a  family 
(1  Esd  9  30)  =  "Hani"  in  Ezr  10  29,  the  form 
which  appears  in  1  Esd  5  12. 

MANIFEST,  man'i-fest,  MANIFESTATION, 
man-i-fes-ta'shun  (4>avep6co,  phaneroo,  <j>avepos,  pha- 
neros):  "To  manifest"  is  generally  the  tr  of  pha- 
neroo,  "to  make  apparent"    (Mk  4  22;    Jn  17  6; 

Rom  3  21;  1  Tim  3  16,  "Cod  was  manifest  in  the 
flesh,"  RV  "manifested";  1  Jn  1  2  bis,  etc);  also 
of  phaneros,  "manifest"  (Acts  4  10;  Rom  1  19; 
1  Cor  3  13;  1  Jn  3  10,  etc);  "to  make  manifest" 
{phaneroo)  (Jn  1  31;  Rom  16  20);  of  emphanizo, 
"to  make  fully  manifest"  (Jn  14  21  f);  oiemphanes, 
"fully  manifest"  (Rom  10  20);  of  dtlos,  "evident  " 
tr'1  "manifest"  (1  Cor  15  27,  RV  "evident"); 
of  ekdelos,  "very  evident"  (2  Tim  3  9,  RV  "evi- 
dent"); of  prodelos,  "evident  beforehand"  (1  Tim 
5  25,  RV  "evident");  of  aphants,  is  "not  manifest" 
(He  4  13,  "There  is  no  creature  that  is  not  mani- 
fest in  his  sight");  "manifest,"  occurs  once  in  the 
OT  as  the  tr  of  barar,  "to  clear,"  "to  purify"  (Eccl 
3  18,  RV  "prove");  of  pJiaucros  (2  Mace  3  28 
RV  "manifestly"). 

Manifestation  is  the  tr  of  apokdlupsis,  "uncover- 
ing" (Rom  8  19,  "the  manifestation  of  the  sons  of 
Cod,"  RV  "revealing");  of  phanerosis,  "mani- 
festation" (1  Cor  12  7;    2  Cor  4  2). 

RV  has  "  manifest "  for  " shew "  (Jn  7  4);  "was  mani- 
fested" for  "appeared"  (Mk  16  12.14);  "was  mani- 
fested to  the,"  for  "shewed  himself  to  his"  (Jn  21  14)' 
"be  made  manifest"  for  "appear"  (2  ('or  5  10;  7  12; 
Rev  3  18);  "  became  manifest "  for  "  was  made  known  "' 
(Acts  7  13);  "gave  him  to  be  made  manifest"  for 
"shewed  him  openly"  (Acts  10  40);  "lie  who  was 
manifested"  for  "God  was  manifest"  (1  Tim  3  16) 
(m  "The  word  God,  in  place  of  He  who,  rests  on  no 
sufficient  ancient  evidence.  Some  ancient  authorities 
read  which");  "is  not  yet  made  manifest"  for  "doth 
not  yet  appear"  (1  Jn  3  2);  "by  the  manifestation" 
for  "with  the  brightness"  (2  Thess  2  8)  "be  mani- 
fested" for  "appear"  (Col  3  4  bis;  1  Ret  5  4);  "if 
he  shall  be  manifested"  for  "when  he  shall  appear" 
(1  Jn  2  28;   3  2),  etc. 

W.  L.  Walker 

MANIFESTLY,  man'i-fest-li  (Tlintt,  mar' eh,  "[in] 
personal  presence"):  Has  the  meaning  of  "by  di- 
rect vision,"  as  in  1  Cor  13  12,  "face  to  face," 
stating  positively  (Nu  12  8)  what  the  next  clause 
states  negatively,  viz.  "not  in  dark  speeches." 
"Apparently"  of  AV  is  ambiguous. 

MANIFOLD,  man'i-fold  pT,  rabh;  itoikCXos, 
poik'dos):  "Manifold,"  which  occurs  only  a  few 
times,  is  in  the  OT  the  tr  of  rabh,  "man}',"  "abun- 
dant" (Neh  9  19.27;  Am  5  12,  where  it  is  equiva- 
lent to  "many"),  and  of  rdbhabh,  "to  multiply," 
"to  increase"  (Ps  104  24,  "O  Jeh,  how  manifold 
are  thy  works") ;  poikilos,  properly,  "many  colored," 
"spotted,"  "variegated,"  is  tr'1  "manifold":  1  Pet 
1  0  m,  "manifold  temptations";  4  10,  "manifold 
grace,"  suggests  variety,  diverseness;  pal u poikilos 
has  this  meaning  more  intensely  (Eph  3  10,  "the 
manifold  wisdom  of  God").  With  this  maybe  com- 
pared, a  fine  passage  in  Wisd  7  22,  where  it  is  said 
that  in  Wisdom  there  is  "an  understanding  spirit, 
holy,  one  only  [RV  "alone  in  kind,"  in   "Gr  sole- 


Manius,  Titus 
Manslayer 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


19S2 


born"],  manifold  [polumcrts]."  In  like  manner, 
pollaplast on,  "manifold  more"  (Lk  18  30),  indicates 
the  varied  elements  of  the  reward  of  him  who  is 
faithful  to  Christ.  In  Ecclus  51  3,  we  have  ''mani- 
fold afflictions"  {pleion).  W.  L.  Walker 

MANIUS,  ma'ni-us,  TITUS,  ti'tus  (TCtos  Mdvios, 
Titos  Mdnios,  A,  V  and  Syr;  MdvXios,  Mdnlios, 
Swete  following  A;  Manilius,  Itala  and  Vulg,  AV 
Manlius):  Titus  Manius  and  Quint  us  Memmius 
were  the  legates  of  the  Romans  who  carried  a  letter 
unto  the  Jewish  people  consenting  to  the  favorable 
terms  which  Lysias,  the  captain  of  Antiochus, 
granted  to  the  Jews  after  his  defeat,  163  BO  (2 
Mace.  11  34).  That  the  letter  is  spurious  appears 
from  the  facts  (1)  that  it  is  dated  in  the  148th  year 
of  the  Seleucidian  era  adopted  by  the  Jews  and  not , 
after  the  Rom  fashion,  according  to  consulates; 
(2)  that  it  is  also  dated  the  same  day  as  that  of 
Eupator— the  loth  of  tin;  month  Xanthicus;  (3) 
that  the  Jews  had  as  vet  no  dealings  with  the 
Romans;  Judas  first  heard  of  the  fame  of  the 
Romans  a  year  or  two  years  later  (1  Mace  8  1  it), 
after  the  death  of  Nicanor  (7  47);  (4)  that  no  such 
names  are  found  among  the  Rom  legati  mentioned 
by  Polybius  as  sent  to  the  East.  If  Manius  is  not 
altogether  a  fabrication,  it  is  difficult  to  decade 
exactly  who  he  is.  The  reading  fluctuates  between 
"Manius"  and  "Manlius."  About  the  same  time 
a  T.  Manlius  Torquatus  was  sent  by  the  Romans 
on  an  embassy  to  Egypt  to  settle  a  quarrel  between 
Philometor  and  Euergetes  II  Physcon  (Polyb. 
xxxi.18;  Livy  xliii.ll),  but  not  to  Syria,  and  his 
colleague  was  Cn.  Merula.  Perhaps  Manias 
Sergius  is  intended,  who  with  C.  Sulpicius  was  sent 
to  investigate  the  state  of  Greece  and  to  see  what 
Antiochus  Epiphanes  and  Eumanes  were  doing 
(1G5  BC)  (Polyb.  xxxi.9).  But  no  such  name  as 
Titus  Manius  or  Manlius  is  otherwise  found  as 
legate  to  Asia  with  a  colleague  Quintus  Memmius. 
See  also  Memmius.  S.  Angus 

MANKIND,  man-kind':  In  Lev  18  22;  20  13, 
the  term  is  applied  to  men,  as  distinguished  from 
women;  in  Job  12  10,  to  the  human  race;  in  Jaa 
3  7,  to  the  human  nature. 

MANLIUS,  man'li-us,  TITUS.  See  MANIUS, 
TITUS. 

MANNA,  man'a  0]P ,  man;  (i.avva,  manna): 
The;  Heb  man  is  probably  derived,  as  Ebers  sug- 
gests, from  the  Egyp  mennu,  "food."  In  Ex  16  15, 
we  have  a  suggested  source  of  the  name,  "They 
said  one  to  another,  What  is  it?"  i.e.  manhu,  which 
also  means,  "It  is  manna"  (see  m). 

This  substance  is  described  as  occurring  in  flakes 
or  small  round  grains,  lit. '  'hoar  frost" ;  it  fell  with  t  he 

dew  (Nu  11  9)  and  appeared  when 
1.  OT  the  dew  left  the  ground  (Ex  16  14) ;  "It 

References    was  like  coriander  seed,  white;    and 

the  taste  of  it  was  like  wafers  made 
with  honey"  (ver  31).  In  Nu  11  8,  its  taste  is 
described  "as  the  taste  of  fresh  oil,"  m  "cakes  baked 
with  oil."  "And  the  children  of  Israel  did  eat  the 
manna  forty  years,  until  they  came  ....  unto 
the  borders  of  the  land  of  Canaan"  (Ex  16  35). 
It  ceased  the  day  after  they  ate  the  produce  of  the 
land,  unleavened  cakes  and  parched  grain,  in  the 
plains  of  Jericho  (Josh  5  10-12).  Although  an 
important  article  of  diet,  it  was  by  no  means  the 
sole  one  as  seems  implied  in  Nu  21  5;  there  are- 
plenty  of  references  (e.g.  Ex  17  3;  24  5;  34  3; 
Lev  8  2.26.31;  9  4;  10  12;  24  5;  Nu  7  13.19  f, 
etc)  which  show  that  they  had  other  food  besides. 
The  food  was  gathered  every  morning,  "every  man 
according  to  his  eating:   and  when  the  sun  waxed 


hot,  if  melted"  (Ex  16  21);  a  portion  of  the 
previous  day's  gathering  bred  worms  and  stank  if 
kept  (ver  20);  on  the  6th  day  a  double  amount  was 
gathered,  the  Sabbath  portion  being  miraculously 
preserved  (vs  22-27).  A  pot — a  golden  one  (He 
9  4) — with  an  omer  of  manna  was  "laid  up  before 
Jeh"  in  the  tabernacle  (Ex  16  33).  Manna  is  re- 
ferred to  in  Neh  9  20.  It  is  described  poetically  as 
"food  from  heaven"  and  "bread  of  the  mighty" 
(Ps  78  24  f);  as  "bread  of  heaven"  (Ps  105  40); 
and  as  "angels'  bread"  (2  Esd  1  19;  Wisd  16 
20). 

In  Jn  6  31-63,  Our  Lord  frequently  refers  to 
"the  manna"   or  "bread  from  heaven"  as  typical 

of  Himself.  St.  Paul  (1  Cor  10  3) 
2.   NT  refers  to  it  as  "spiritual  food,"  and  in 

References    Rev  2   17    we    read,    "To    him    that 

overcometh,  to  him  will  I  give  of  the 
hidden  manna." 

Manna,  as  might  be  expected,  figures  largely  in 
rabbinical  lit.  It  was,  it  is  said,  adapted  to  the 
taste  of  each  individual  who  could  by  wishing  taste 
in  the  manna  anything  he  desired  (cf  Wisd  16  21). 
Manna  is  reserved  as  the  future  food  of  the  right- 
eous (cf  Rev  2  17),  for  which  purpose  it  is  ground 
in  a  mill  situated  in  the  third  heaven  (Hag  126; 
Tan.  Beshallah  22). 

No  substance  is  known  which  in  any  degree  satisfies 
all   the,  requirements  of   the   Scriptural  references,    but 
several    travelers  in    the   wilderness    have 
3     Natural      reported  phenomena  which  suggest  some 
'     .  of  the  features  of  the  miraculous  manna. 

-kxpiana-  (1)  In  the  Peninsula  of   Sinai,   on   the 

tions  route  of  the  children  of  Israel,  a  species 

of  tamarisk,  named  in  consequence  by 
Ebers  Tammaris  mannifera,  is  found  to  exude  a  swoet, 
honey-like  substance  where  its  bark  is  pierced  by  an 
insect,  Gossyyaria  mannifera.  It  collects  upon  the  twigs 
and  falls  to  the  ground.  The  Arabs  who  gather  it  to 
sell  to  pilgrims  call  it  mann-es-sama,  "heavenly  manna  ' ; 
it  is  white  at  first  but  turns  yellow;  in  the  early  morn- 
ing it  is  of  the  consistency  of  wax  but  when  the  sun  is 
hot  it  disappears.  This  substance  occurs  only  after  mid- 
summer and  for  a  month  or  two  at  most. 

(2)  A  second  proposal  is  to  identify  manna  with  a 
lichen — Lecanora  exculenta  and  allied  species — which 
grows  in  the  Arabian  and  other  deserts  upon  the  lime- 
stone. The  older  masses  become  detached  and  are 
rolled  about  by  the  wind.  When  swept  together  by 
sudden  rain  storms  in  the  rainy  season  they  may  collect 
in  large  heaps.  This  lichen  has  been  used  by  the  Arabs 
in  time  of  need  for  making  bread.  It  is  a  quite  reason- 
able form  of  nourishment  in  the  desert,  esp.  when  eaten 
with  the  sugary  manna  from  the  trees. 

E.  W.  G.  Marterman 
MANNER,  man'er,  MANNERS,  man'erz  ("O^ , 
dabhar,  !J"Y1 ,  derekh,  uETpTQ,  mishpat;  e9os,  6thos, 
ovtw,  houlo):  "Manner"  (probably 
1.  As  Used  from  manus,  "the  hand,"  mode  of 
in  the  OT  handling  things,  or  acting)  is  in  the 
Bible  in  general  equivalent  (1)  to 
ivay,  custom,  habit,  etc,  (2)  to  kind  or  sort.  There 
are  some  special  senses,  however,  and  archaic 
usages.  It  is  frequently  the  tr  of  dabhar,  "speak- 
ing," "word,"  "thing"  (Gen  18  25,  "That  be  far 
from  thee  to  do  after  this  manner"  [i.e.  in  this  way] ; 
32  19,  "On  this  manner  shall  ye  speak  unto  Esau" 
[in  this  way];  39  19,  "After  this  manner  [in  this 
way]  did  thy  servant  to  me";  Ex  22  9,  "every 
manner  of  trespass"  [every  kind,  sort,  or  way] ;  Dt 
15  2;  IS  17  27.30  bis);  also  of  derekh,  "way" 
(Gen  19  31,  "after  the  manner  of  all  the  earth" 
[way];  1  S  21  5  AV  "[the  bread]  is  in  a  manner 
common";  "manner"  here  might  betaken  as  equiv- 
alent to  "way"  or  "measure,"  but  the  passage  is  a 
difficult  one  and  the  text  uncertain;  RV  omits 
"manner,"  and  in  the  text  makes  the  reference  to 
be  to  the  journey,  not  to  the  bread,  but  in  m  it  has 
"common  [bread]";  Isa  10  24.26,  "after  the  manner 
of  Egypt"  [after  the  way  or  fate  of  Egypt];  so  also 
Am  4  10;  8  14,  "the  manner  of  Beer-sheba 
liveth,"  RV  "the  way,"  m  "manner,"  the  reference 
here  being  to  the  religious  way,  or  manner  of  wor- 


1983 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Manius,  Titus 
Manslayer 


ship);  of  mishpat,  "judgment,"  "ordinance,"  hence 
also  "manner"  or  "custom"  (Gen  40  13;  Ex  21  9; 
2  K  1  7,  "what  manner  of  man"  [sort  or  kind]; 
17  26  AV;  1  Ch  24  19;  Ezk  11  12,  "after  the 
manners  [RV  "ordinances"]  of  the  nations"); 
torah,  "instruction,"  "law,"  is  also  trd  "manner" 
(2  S  7  19,  "[is]  this  the  manner  [m  "law"]  of 
man,  0  Lord  God?"  RV  "and  this  [too]  after  the 
manner  of  men,  O  Lord  Jeh,"  m  "and  is  this  the 
law  of  man,  O  Lord  Jeh?").  Other  words  are: 
'orah,  "path,"  "custom"  (Gen  18  11);  dobher, 
"leading,"  "pasture"  (cf  "sheep-walk,"  "sheep- 
fold");  Isa  6  17,  "Then  shall  the  lambs  feed  after 
their  manner,"  RV  "as  in  their  pasture"  (in  Mic 
2  12,  the  same  word  is  tr'1  AV  "fold,"  RV  "pas- 
ture"); demuth,  "likeness"  (Ezk  23  15);  d&h, 
"law,"  "sentence"  (Est  2  12);  hukkah,  "statute," 
"custom"  (Lev  20  23)  in  AV.  In  Nu  5  13  "with 
the  maimer"  is  supplied  to  "taken"  (in  adultery). 
"Manner"  here  is  an  old  law-French  phrase,  "a 
thief  taken  with  the  mainour" — that  is,  with  the1 
thing  stolen  uponhiminmara  (in  his  hand)  (Black- 
stone,  Comm.,  IV,  xxiii),  RV  "in  the  act"  (cf  Jn 
8  4,  "in  the  very  act");  gam,  "also"  is  trd  (1  S  19 
24)  "in  like  manner,"  RV  "also." 

In  Apoc,  2  Mace  4  13  AV,  we  have  "increase  of 

heathenish    manners,"    RV    "an    extreme    of    Gr 

fashions";    6  9,  the  "manners  of  the 

2.  As  Used  Gentiles/'  RV  "the  Gr  rites";  in  2 
in  the  Apoc-  Esd  9  19,  AV  and  RV,  "manners" 
rypha  appears  in  the  sense  of  "morals";    cf 

1  Cor  15  33,  RV  "Evil  companion- 
ships corrupt  good  morals." 

In  the  NT  various  words  and  phrases  are  rendered 
by  "manner";    we  have  ethos,  "custom,"  "usage," 

"manner"      (Jn   19   40;      Acts   15   1, 

3.  As  Used  RV  "custom");  katd  to  eidthos  (Lk  4 
In  the  NT      1G,  RV  "as  his  custom  was");   tropos, 

a  "turning,"  "manner,"  "way"  (Jude 
ver7);  Mn  trdpon,  "in  which  manner"  (Acts  1  11); 
houlos,  "thus,"  "so,"  "accordingly,"  is  "after  this 
manner,"  "in  like  manner"  (Mt  6  9;  Mk  13  29  AV); 
in  Acts  15  23,  "after  this  manner"  stands  in  AV 
for  "by  their  hands,"  RV  "thus";  pds  (Acts  20  18), 
"after  what  maimer";  agogt,  "course  of  life"  (2 
Tim  3  10,  RV  "conduct");  biosis,  "mode  of  life" 
(Acts  26  4);  in  1  Cor  15  33,  we  have  manners 
in  the  moral  sense,  "Evil  communications  corrupt 
good  manners,"  ARV  "Evil  companionships  cor- 
rupt good  morals."  Acts  13  18  is  interesting 
because  of  diversities  of  rendering;  AV  has  "suffered 
he  their  manners  in  the  wilderness,"  m  "etropophdre- 
sen,  perhaps  for  etrophophoresen,  bore,  or  fed  them 
as  a  nurse  beareth  or  feedeth  her  child,  Dt  1  31 
(2  Mace  7  27)  according  to  LNN,  and  so  Chrysos- 
tom";  ERV  text,  same  as  AV,  m  "Many  ancient 
authorities  read  'bear  he  them  as  a  nursing  father 
in  the  wilderness.'  See  Dt  1  31";  ARV  (text) 
"as  a  nursing-father  bare  he  them  in  the  wilder- 
ness," m  "Many  ancient  authorities  read  'Suffered 
he  their  manners  in  the  wilderness.'  See  Dt  9  7." 
The  Gr  words  differ  only  by  a  single  letter,  and 
authorities  are  pretty  equally  divided. 

Among  other  changes  RV  has  frequently  "ordinance" 
for  "  manner  "  (Lev  5  10,  etc)  and  "custom"  (Ruth  4  7; 
Jn  19  40;  He  10  25,  etc);  "manner  of"  is  introduced 
(1  S  4  H,  etc);  "manner  of"  and  "manner"  omitted 
(Gen  25  2:5;  Ex  35  20,  etc);  "  what  manner  of  house" 
for  "where  is  the  house"  (Isa  66  1);  "manner  of  life" 
for  "conversation"  (Gal  1  13;  Eph  4  22);  "after  the 
manner  of  men"  for  "as  a  man"  (Rom  3  5;  1  Cor  9  8); 
"how  to  inquire  concerning  these  things"  (Acts  25  20) 
for  "of  such  manner  of  questions";  "in  an  unworthy 
manner,"  ARV,  for  "unworthily  "  (1  Cor  11  27);  "who" 
for  "what  manner  of  man"  (Mk  4  41;  Lk  8  25,  "who 
then  is  this?");  in  Lk  9  55,  "Ye  know  not  what  man- 
ner of  spirit  ye  are  of"  is  omitted,  with  the  m  "Some 
ancient  authorities  add  and  said,  Ye  know  not  what 
manner  of  spirit  ye  are  of." 

W.  L.  Walker 


MANOAH,  ma-no'a  (ITCE,  manoah,  "rest"):  A 
man  of  Zorah  and  of  the  family  of  the  Danites. 
M.  was  the  father  of  Samson,  and  his  life-story 
is  but  imperfectly  told  in  the  history  of  the  concep- 
tion, birth  and  early  life  of  his  son.  No  children 
had  been  born  to  M.  and  his  wife,  and  the  latter 
was  considered  barren  (Jgs  13  2).  Finally  it  was 
revealed  to  her  by  an  angel  of  the  Lord  that  she 
would  conceive  and  bear  a  child.  She  was  cau- 
tioned against  strong  drink  and  "unclean"  food,  for 
her  child  was  to  be  born  and  reared  a  Nazirite  to  the 
end  that  he  might  save;  Israel  out  of  the  hands  of  the 
Phil  is  (13  3-5).  That  M.  was  a  devout  man 
seems  certain  in  view  of  the  fact  that,  upon  hear- 
ing of  the  angel's  visit,  he  offered  a  prayer  for  the 
angel's  return,  in  order  that  he  and  his  wife  might 
be  instructed  as  to  the  proper  care  of  the  child  to 
be  born  (13  8).  The  request  was  granted  and  the 
angel  repeated  the  visit  and  the  instructions  (13 
9-13).  M.  with  true  hospitality  would  have  the 
guest  remain  and  partake  of  food.  The  angel 
refused,  but  commanded  a  sacrifice  unto  Jeh. 
When  M.  had  prepared  the  sacrifice  and  lit  it  on  the 
the  altar,  the  angel  ascended  in  the  flame  from  the 
altar  and  appeared  no  more  (13  15-21).  The  child 
was  born  according  to  the  promise  and  was  named 
Samson.  M.  and  his  wife  appear  twice  in  the 
narrative  of  Samson's  early  life — once  as  they  pro- 
test ingly  accompanied  him  to  sue  for  the  hand  of  a 
Phili  woman  of  Timnah  in  marriage,  and  again 
when  they  went  with  him  to  Timnah  for  the 
wedding. 

Jos  richly  embellishes  this  Scriptural  narrative 
concerning  M.,  but  offers  no  further  light  upon  the 
occupation  or  character  of  M.  At  the  death  of 
Samson,  his  brothers  went  down  to  Gaza  and 
brought  back  the  body  and  buried  it  by  the  side  of 
M.  in  the  family  tomb  near  Zorah  (16  31).  In 
Samson  Agonistcs  Milton  gains  dramatic  effect  by 
having  M.  survive  Samson  and  in  deep  sorrow 
assist  at  his  burial.  C.  E.  Schenk 

MANSERVANT,  man'sur-vant  ("117,  *ebhedh): 
A  male  slave;  usually  coupled  with  maidservant 
or  female  slave  (Gen  12  16;  Ex  20  10;  1  S  8  16; 
Job  31  13;   Lk  12  45).     Sec  Servant;  Slave. 

MANSION,  man'shun  (|*ovtj,  mone,  "abode"): 
In  Jn  14  2,  the  word  is  used  in  the  pi.:  "In  my 
Father's  house  are  many  mansions,"  RVm  "abid- 
ing places."  The  ideas  conveyed  are  those  of  abun- 
dance of  room,  and  permanence  of  habitation,  in 
the  heavenly  world. 

MANSLAYER,  man'sla-er  {T\T\"Q ,  meragge"h,  from 
n^"l ,  raqah  [Nu  35  6.12];  &v8po<j>6vos,  androphd- 
nos  [1  Tim  1  9]):  A  term  employed  with  reference 
to  both  premeditated  and  accidental  or  justifiable 
killing.  In  the  latter  case,  an  asylum  was  granted 
(Nu  35  6.12)  until  the  death  of  the  high  priest, 
after  which  the  slayer  was  allowed  to  "return  into 
the  land  of  his  possession"  (ver  28).  The  cases  in 
which  the  manslayer  was  to  be  held  clearly  immune 
from  the  punishment  imposed  on  wilful  killing  were: 

(1)  death  by  a  blow  in  a  sudden  quarrel  (Nu  35  22) ; 

(2)  death  by  anything  thrown  at  random  (Nu  35 
22.23) ;  (3)  death  by  the  blade  of  an  axe  flying  from 
the  handle  (Dt  19  5).  Among  the  cases  in  which 
one  would  be  held  responsible  for  the  death  of  an- 
other, is  to  be  counted  the  neglectful  act  of  building 
a  house  without  a  parapet  (Dt  22  8). 

Manslaughter,  as  a  modern  legal  term,  is  em- 
ployed to  distinguish  unpremeditated  killing  from 
coldblooded  murder,  but  formerly  (2  Esd  1  26) 
it  was  used  in  a  more  general  sense.     See  Murder. 

Frank  E.  IIirsch 


Manstealing 
Mark 


UIH 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1984 


See     Crime, 


MANSTEALING,     man'stel-ing. 
icier  "Kidnapping";    BrNi.sn.MEXT. 

MANTELET,  man'tel-et,  man't'1-et,  mant'let 
(Nah  2  5).     See  Siege,  4,  (d). 

MANTLE,  man't'l:  Used  5  I  of  Elijah's  mantle 
(Pi-HX,  'adderelh,  1  K  19  18.19;  2  K  2  8.13.14), 
wliich  was  ])robably  of  hair.  Bound  in  pi.  once 
(Lsa  3  22),  where;  it.  (maKatdphoth)  is  an  upper  wide 
tunic  with  sleeves  (k'tfionetli).  See  Dress;  Ker- 
chief. 

MANUSCRIPTS,  man'u-skripts:  In  the  broad- 
est sense  manuscri])ts  include  all  handwritten  records 
as  distinguished  from  printed  records.  In  a  nar- 
rower sense  they  are  handwritten  codices,  rolls 
and  folded  documents,  as  distinguished  from  printed 
books  on  the  one  hand  and  inscriptions,  or  engraved 
documents,  on  the  other.  More  loosely,  but 
commonly,  the  term  is  used  as  synonym  of  the  codex. 

The  Heb  and  Gr  manuscripts  of  the  OT  and  NT, 
respectively,  form  the  primary  sources  for  estab- 
lishing the  text  or  true  original  words  of  the  respec- 
tive authors.  The  subordinate  sources,  VSS  and 
quotations  have  also  their  text  problem,  and  manu- 
scripts of  the  VSS  and  of  the  church  Bathers,  and 
other  ancient  writers  who  refer  to  Bib.  matters, 
play  the  same  part  in  establishing  the  true  words  of 
the  VS  or  the  writer  that  the  Heb  and  Gr  manu- 
scripts play  in  establishing  the  original  of  Scripture. 
Eor  discussion  of  the  textual  aspects,  see  arts,  on 
Text  and  MSS  of  the  NT,  Text  of  the  OT,  on  Ver- 
sions, and  esp.  the  Septuagint.  For  the  material, 
writing  instruments,  form  of  manuscripts,  etc,  see 
Book;   and  esp.  the  lit.  under  Writixg. 

E.  C.  Richardson 

MANUSCRIPTS  OF  THE  OT.  See  Laxguages 
and  Text  of  the  OT. 


MANUSCRIPTS    OF    THE    NT. 

AND  MANUSCRIPTS  OF  THE   NT. 


See    Text 


MAOCH,  ma'ok  tfWQ ,  md'okh,  "oppressed," 
"bruised"):  The  same  as  Maacah  (1  K  2  39). 
The  father  of  that  Achish,  king  of  Gath,  with  whom 
David  and  his  GOO  sojourned  under  fear  of  Saul's 
treachery  (1  S  27  2).' 

MAON,  ma'on,  MAONITES,  ma'on-its,  ma- 
d'nits  ("pyp  ,  ma'on;  B,  Mcuop,  Maor,  Ma&v,  Madn, 
A,  Mcuov,  Maori) : 

(1)  A  town  in  the  mountain  of  Judah  named  along 
with  Carmel  and  Ziph  (Josh  15  55).  It  appears 
again  as  the  home  of  Nabal,  the  great  flockmaster 
(1  S  25  2).  In  the  genealogical  list  of  1  Ch  2, 
Maon  stands  as  the  "son"  of  Shammai  and  the 
"father"  of  Beth-zur  (vs  44.45).  This  evidently 
means  that  Shammai  was  the  founder  of  Maon. 
About  a  mile  S.  of  el-Karmil,  the  ancient  Carmel, 
lies  Tell  Ma' in.  This  may  be  confidently  identified 
with  Maon,  the  radicals  of  the  names  being  the  same. 
It  suits  the  requirements  of  the  narratives  in  other 
respects,  being  near  to  Carmel,  while  the  surround- 
ing wilderness  is  still  used  as  the  wide  pasture  land 
for  multitudinous  flocks.  In  this  district,  the 
wilderness  of  Maon,  David  was  hiding  when  his 
whereabouts  was  betrayed  to  Saul  by  the  men  of 
Ziph  (1  S  23  24  f),  and  only  a  timely  raid  by  the 
Bhilis  delivered  him  out  of  that  monarch's  hands 
(vs27ff). 

(2)  (Madi&n,  Madidm):  Maon  is  named  along 
with  the  Zidonians  and  Amalek  as  having  at  some 
time,  not  mentioned,  oppressed  Israel  (Jgs  10  12). 
The  LXX  "Midian"  has  been  accepted  by  some 
scholars  as  restoring  the  original  text,  since,  other- 


wise-, the  Midianites  remain  unmentioned.  But 
the  Maonites  are  evidently  identical  with  the 
Meunim  of  1  Ch  4  41  (RV),  the  pastoral  people 
destroyed  by  Hezekiah.  In  2  Ch  20  1  AV,  in- 
stead of  "other  beside  the  Ammonites"  we  must 
read  "some  of  the  Meunim,"  as  associated  with 
the  Ammonites  in  the  battle  with  Jchoshaphat. 
Against  them  also  Uzziah  was  helped  of  God  (2  Ch 
26  7).  They  are  included  among  the  inhabitants 
of  Mt.  Seir  (20  10.23),  so  that  an  Edomite  tribe 
is  intended.  It  is  natural  to  connect  them  with 
Ma'dn,  a  place  on  the  great  pilgrimage  road,  and 
now  a  station  on  the  Damascus-Hejaz  Railway,  to 
the  S.I'],  of  Petra.  It  undoubtedly  represents  an 
ancient  stronghold. 

The  Maonites  appear  in  the  lists  of  those  who 
returned  from  exile  (Ezr  2  50,  AV  "Mehunim," 
RV  "Meunim";  Neh  7  52,  "Meunim").  These 
may  possibly  be  the  descendants  of  prisoners  taken 
in  the  wars  of  Jchoshaphat  and  Uzziah,  to  whom 
menial  tasks  may  have  been  appointed  in  the  temple 
services.  W.  Ewinq 

MAR,  mar:  "To  mar"  means  "to  destroy,"  "to 
disfigure,"  "to  damage."  Job  30  13,  "They  mar 
my  path"  (RVm  "they  break  up");  Nah  2  2,  "and 
destroyed  their  vine"  (AV  "and  marred  their  vine") ; 
cf  Lev  19  27;   2  K  3  19;   lsa  52  14;   Jer  13  9. 

MARA,  ma'ra,  mar'a  0"H')2,  mdrdh,  "bitter"): 
The  term  which  Naomi  applies  to  herself  on  her 
return  from  Moab  to  her  native  country  (Ruth 
1  20).  Changed  beyond  recognition,  she  creates 
astonishment  among  her  former  acquaintances,  who 
ask,  "Is  this  Naomi?"  She  replies,  "Call  me  not 
Naomi"  (i.e.  "pleasant"  or  "sweet"),  but  "call  me 
Mara"  (i.e.  "bitter").  In  the  light  of  her  bitter 
experience,  and  her  present  pitiable  plight,  the  old 
name  has  become  peculiarly  inappropriate. 

MARAH,  ma'ra,  mar'a  (""H^,  marah,  "bitter"): 
The  first  camp  of  the  Israelites  after  the  passage 
of  the  Red  Sea  (Ex  15  23;  Nu  33  8f).  The 
name  is  derived  from  the  bitterness  of  the  brackish 
water.  Moses  cast  a  tree  into  the  waters  which 
were;  thus  made  sweet  (Ex  15  23).  See  Wander- 
ings of  Israel. 

MARALAH,  mar'a-la  (!"lb:ni2 ,  mar'dlah;  B, 
Mapa-yeXSd,  Marageldd,  A,  MapiAd,  Marild) :  A 
place  on  the  western  border  of  Zebulun  (Josh  19 
11).  Pesh  renders  lidmath  taHe',  "height  of  the  fox." 
It  is  not  identified. 

MARANATHA,mar-a-nath'a,  mar-an-ii'tha  (from 
Aram,  words,  nr.K  fcSj'T'S ,  mdrana'  'dthdh,  "Our 
Lord  cometh,  or  will  come";  according  to  some, 
"has  come";  to  others,  "Come!"  an  invitation  for 
his  speedy  reappearance  [cf  Rev  22  20] ;  [Aapava0d, 
maranathd,  or  p.apdv  d9d,  mardn  athd) :  Used  in  con- 
nection with  dudde/xa,  anathema,  "accursed"  (1  Cor 
16  22),  but  has  no  necessary  connection  therewith. 
It  was  used  by  early  Christians  to  add  solemn  em- 
phasis to  previous  statement,  injunction  or  adjura- 
tion, and  seems  to  have  become  a  sort  of  watch- 
word; possibly  forming  part  of  an  early  liturgy. 

.MARBLE,  mar'b'l  (©"!©,  shayish,  WtQ ,  shesh, 
TD>1'!i!  "\2I1S5,  'abhne  shayish,  "stones  of  marble" 
[1  Ch  29  2];  ^Tlb)  TH  ffiffil  EH?  MB^I, 
rigpath  bahat  wd-shesh  W-dhar  vf-s5hdreth,  "a  pave- 
ment of  red,  and  white,  and  yellow,  and  black 
marble,"  or,  according  to  m,  "a  pavement  of  por- 
phyry, and  white  marble,  and  alabaster,  and  stone 
of  blue  color"    [Est  1  6];    UJTIJ  'vT®f ,  *ammudhe 


1985 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Manstealing 
Mark 


shesh,  ''pillars  of  marble"  [Est  1  6;  Cant  5  15]; 
cf  CO,  shesh,  AVm  "silk"  or  RV  "fine  linen" 
[Gen  41  42;  Ex  25  4,  etc];  CSttJtlD ,  shoshannim, 
"lilies"  [Cant  2  16,  etc],  apparently  from  a  root 
signifying  "white";  p.dpp.apos,  mdrmaros,  "marble" 
[Rev  18  12]):  Marble  is  properly  crystalline  lime- 
stone, usually  pure;  white  or  veined  with  black,  the 
former  being  in  demand  for  statuary,  while  the 
latter  is  used  in  architecture,  esp.  for  floors  and 
pillars.  True  marble  is  not  found  in  Pal,  but  is 
obtained  from  Greece  or  Italy.  Much  of  the  stone 
described  as  marble  is  non-crystalline  limestone 
capable  of  being  smoothed  and  polished.  Whiteor 
yellow  stone  of  this  character  is  abundant  in  Pal. 
Non-crystalline  rocks  of  other  colors  are  also  some- 
times called  marble.  In  the  passage  from  Est  cited 
above  (cf  m),  it  is  a  question  whether  the  reference 
is  to  marble  and  other  stones  or  to  marble  of  differ- 
ent colors.  In  1  Ch  29  2,  "marble  stones"  are 
mentioned  among  the  materials  brought  together 
by  David  for  the  building  of  the  temple.     In  Est 

1  6,  pillars  and  a  pavement  of  marble  are  features 
of  the  palace  of  Ahasuerus.  In  Cant  5  15,  the 
various  parts  of  the  body  of  the  "beloved"  are 
likened  to  gold,  beryl,  ivory,  sapphire,  and  marble. 
In  Rev  18  12,  marble  occurs  in  the  list  of  the 
merchandise  of  Babylon.  All  these  references  imply 
a  costly  stone,  and  therefore  probably  one  imported 
from  other  countries,  and  make  it  likely  that  true 
crystalline  marble  is  meant.      Alfred  Ely  Day 

MARCH,  march,  MARCHES,  march'iz.  See 
Army;  War. 

MARCHESHVAN,    mar-chesh'van.     See    Time. 

MARCION,  mar'shun,  GOSPEL  OF.  See  Apoc- 
ryphal Gospels. 

MARCUS,  mar'kus.     See  Mark,  John. 

MARDOCHEUS,  mar-do-ke'us  (MapSoxcuos, 
M ardochaios) : 

(1)  One  of  the  Jewish  leaders  who  accompanied 
Zerubbabel  on  the  return  from  Babylon  to  Judah 
(1   Esd  5  S,  where  it  stands  for  "Mordecai"  of  Ezr 

2  2  and  Neh  7  7). 

(2)  Another  form  of  Mordecai,  the  uncle  of 
Esther  (Ad  Est  10  4;    11  2.12;    12  1,1  ff;    16  13). 

MARE,  mar  ([1]  HC^D  ,  sii§ah,  "steed,"  AV  "com- 
pany of  horses";  LXX  t)  I'ttttos,  he  hippos,  "mare" 
[Cant  1  9];  [2]  Ccp"]"  ",:3,  brne  ha-rammakhim, 
"bred  of  the  stud,"  AV  and  RVm  "young  drome- 
daries"    [Est  8  10];     cf    Arab.     xXx\  ,    ramakat, 

"mare"):  The  word  "mare"  does  not  occur  in  EV, 
but  in  Cant  1  9  we  find  silxuh,  the  fern,  of  sils, 
"horse,"  and  in  Est  8  10,  b'ne  ha-rammakhim  is  by 
some  trd  "sons  of  mares."     Sec  Camel;  Horse. 

MARESHAH,  ma-re'sha  (ntTVES,  mareshah;  B, 
Ba0^o-dp,  Bathesdr,  A,  Map-no-a,  Marcsd):  A  town 
in  the  Shephelah  of  Judah  named  with  Keilah  and 
Achzib  (Josh  15  44).  It  occupied  such  a  position 
that  Rehoboam  thought  well  to  fortify  it  for  the 
protection  of  Jerus  (2  Ch  11  8).  In  the  valley 
of  Zephathah  at  Mareshah,  Asa  overwhelmed  Zerah 
the  Ethiopian  and  his  army,  pursuing  them  as  far 
as  Gezer  (2  Ch  14  9  ff).  From  M.  came  Eliezer 
the  prophet  who  denounced  disaster  upon  the  com- 
mercial copartnery  of  Jehoshaphat  and  Ahaziah 
(20  37).  The  place  is  mentioned  in  Mic  (1  15). 
M.  was  plundered  and  burned  by  Judas  Macca- 
baeus  (Ant,  XII,  viii,  6;  1  Mace  5  06  RVm). 
Hither  Gorgias  escaped,  having  been  rescued  from 


the  hands  of  Dositheus  by  a  Thracian  horseman 
(2  Mace  12  3")J.  It  was  taken  by  John  Hyrcanus, 
who  allowed  the  inhabitants  to  remain  on  condi- 
tion that  they  adopt  circumcision  and  submit  to 
the  Jewish  law.  This  they  did;  and  later  John 
avenged  an  injustice  done  to  M.  by  the  Samaritans. 
It  is  then  described  as  "a  colony  of  Jews"  (Ant, 
XIII,  ix,  1;  x,  2).  The  city  was  treated  with  favor 
by  Pompey  (XIV,  iv,  4).  When  the  Parthians 
invaded  Judaea  in  support  of  Antigonus  they 
demolished  M.  (xiii,  9). 

According  to  Onom,  M.  was  2  Rom  miles  from 
Eleutheropolis  (Beit  Jibriri).  Until  recently  it  was 
thought  that  Khirbct  Mir^ash,  where  the  old  name 
lingers,  not  far  S.W.  of  Beit  Jibrin,  represented 
the  ancient  city.  The  work  of  Dr.  Bliss,  however 
("Excavations  in  Pal,"  PEF),  shows  that  it  must 
be  located  at  Tell  Sandahannah,  about  a  mile  S.  of 
Beit  Jibrin.  A  series  of  remarkable  tombs  was 
discovered  here.  From  1  Ch  2  42  we  may  perhaps 
gather  that  Hebron  was  colonized  by  the  men  of 
M.  W.  Ewing 

MARIMOTH,  mar'i-moth,  mar'i-moth:  An  an- 
cestor of  Esdras  (Ezra)  (2  Esd  1  2),  identical  with 
Meraioth  (Ezr  7  3).  In  1  Esd  8  2,  it  appears 
also  as  "Memeroth"  (AV  "Meremoth"). 

MARINER,  mar'i-ner.  Sec  Ships  and  Boats,  II, 
2,  (3);  III,  2. 

MARISA,   mar'i-sa  (Mapio-d,    Marisd):    The   Gr 

form  of  Mareshah  (q.v.)  in  2  Mace  12  35. 

MARISH,  mar'ish  (XHj,  gcbhc';  &os,  helos):  An 
old  form  of  "marsh,"  found  in  AV,  ERV  Ezk  47  11 
(A  RV  "marsh")-  Some  (not  all)  eddof  the  AV  Apoc 
have  retained  this  same  spelling  in  1  Mace  9  42.45 
(RV  "marsh"). 

MARK,  mark:  In  the  AV  this  word  is  used  22  t 
as  a  noun  and  20  t  as  a  predicate.  In  the  former 
case  it  is  represented  by  5  Heb  and  3  Gr  words;  in 
the  latter  by  11  Heb  and  2  Gr  words.  As  a  noun 
it  is  purely  a  physical  term,  gaining  almost  a  tech- 
nical significance  from  tin;  "mark"  put  upon  Cain 
(Gen  4  15  AV) ;  the  stigmata  of  Christ  in  Paul's 
body  (Gal  6  17);  the  "mark  of  the  beast"  (Rev 
16  2). 

As  a  vb.  it  is  almost  exclusively  a  mental  process:  e.g. 
"to  be  attentive,"   "understand":    "P3  ,   bin  (.Job  18  2 

AV),  rightly  rendered  in  RV  "consider";  FPTi}  ,  shith, 
"Mark  ye  well  her  bulwarks"  (T's  48  13),  i.e.  turn  the 
mind  to,  notice,  regard;  T)2TE .  shdmar,  i.e.  observe, 
keep  in  view;  so  Ps  37  37,  "Mark  the  perfect  man"; 
cf  Job  22  15  AV.  This  becomes  a  unique  expression  in 
1  S  1  12,  where  Eli,  noticing  the  movement  of  Hannah's 
lips  in  prayer,  is  said  to  have  "marked  her  mouth." 
Jesus  "marked"  how  invited  guests  chose  out  (en-t^w, 
eptcho,  i.e.  "observed")  the  chief  seats  (Lk  14  7);  so 
<TK07reW,  skopid  (Rom  16  17;  Phil  3  17),  "Mark  them." 
i.e.  look  at,  signifying  keen  mental  attention,  i.e.  scru- 
tinize, observe  carefully.  The  only  exceptions  to  this 
mental  signification  of  the  vb.  are  two  vs  in  the  OT: 
Isa  44  13,  "He  marketh  it  out  with  a  pencil"  ("red 
ochre,"  AV"  "line"),  and  "with  t  lie  compasses,"  where  t  lie 
vb.  is  "1XP, ,  taar,  "to  delineate,"    "mark  out";   Jer  2 

22,   "Thine  iniquity    is    marked    [QP3 ,    kdtham,   "cut, 

(i.e.  engraved)]  before  me,"  signifying  the  deep  and  inerad- 
icable nature  of  sin.  It  may  also  be  rendered  "  written," 
as  in  indelible  hieroglyphics. 

As  a  noun  the  term  "mark"  may  signify,  accord- 
ing to  its  various  Heb  and  Gr  originals,  a  sign,  "a 
target"  an  object  of  assault,  a  brand  or  stigma  cut 
or  burnt  in  the  flesh,  a  goal  or  end  in  view,  a  stamp 
or  imprinted  or  engraved  sign. 

(1)  niX,  'oth,  "a sign":  Gen  4  15  AV,  "The Lord 
set  a  mark  upon  Cain"  (ARV  "appointed  a  sign"). 
It  is  impossible   to   tell   the   nature   of   this   sign. 


Mark 

Mark,  Gospel 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1986 


Delitzsch  thinks  that  the  rabbins  wore  mistaken 
in  regarding  it  as  a  mark  upon  Cain's  body.  He 
considers  it  rather  "a  certain  sign  which  protected 
him  from  vengeance,"  the  continuance  of  his  life 
being  necessary  for  the  preservation  of  the  race. 
It  was  thus,  as  the  Hob  indicates,  the  token  of  a 
covenant  which  God  made  with  Cain  that  his  life 
would  be  spared. 

(2)  S^I£T2  ,  mattdra',  "an  aim,"  hence  a  mark  to 
shoot  at.  Jonathan  arranged  to  shoot  arrows  as 
at  a  mark,  for  a  sign  to  David  (1  S  20  20);  Job 
felt  himself  to  be  a  target  for  the  Divine  arrows,  i.e. 
for  the  Divinely  decreed  sufferings  which  wounded 
him  and  which  he  was  called  to  endure  (Job  16  12); 
so  Jeremiah,  "He  hath  set  me  as  a  mark  for  the 
arrow"  (Lam  3  12);  closely  akin  to  this  is  2ttV  , 
miphga\  an  object  of  attack  (Job  7  20),  where  Job 
in  bitterness  of  soul  feels  that  God  has  become  his 
enemy,  and  says,  'Why  hast  thou  made  me  the 
mark  of  hostile  attack?';  "set  me  as  a  mark  for 
thee."    See  Target. 

(3)  ir\,  taw,  "mark"  (Ezk  9  4.6).  In  Ezekiel's 
vision  of  the  destruction  of  the  wicked,  the  mark  to 
be  set  upon  the  forehead  of  the  righteous,  at  Jeh's 
command,  was,  as  in  the  case  of  the  blood  sprinkled 
on  the  door-posts  of  the  Israelites  (Ex  12  22.23), 
for  their  protection.  As  the  servants  of  God  (Rev 
7  2.3) — the  elect — were  kept  from  harm  by  being 
sealed  with  the  seal  of  the  living  God  in  their  fore- 
heads, so  the  man  clothed  in  linen,  with  a  writer's 
inkhorn  by  his  side,  was  told  to  mark  upon  their 
foreheads  those  whom  God  would  save  from  judg- 
ment by  His  sheltering  grace.  Taw  also  appears 
(Job  31  35)  for  the  attesting  mark  made  to  a 
document  (RV  "signature,"  m  "mark"). 

The  letter  pi  in  the  Phoen  alphabet  and  on  the  coins 
of  the  Maccabees  had  the  form  of  a  cross  (T).  In 
oriental  synods  it  was  used  as  a  signature  by  bishops 
who  could  not  write.  The  cross,  as  a  sign  of  ownership, 
was  burnt  upon  the  necks  or  thighs  of  horses  and  camels. 
It  may  have  been  tin;  "mark"  set  upon  the  forehead  of 
the  righteous  in  Ezekiel's  vision. 

(4)  yp^p- ,  ka\7ka\  "a  stigma"  cut  or  burnt. 
The  Israelites  were  forbidden  (Lev  19  28)  to 
follow  the  custom  of  other  oriental  and  heathen 
nations  in  cutting,  disfiguring  or  branding  their 
bodies. 

The  specific  prohibition  "not  to  print  any  marks 
upon"  themselves  evidently  has  reference  to  the  custom 
of  tattooing  common  among  savage  tribes,  and  in  vogue 
among  both  men  and  women  of  the  lower  orders  in 
Arabia.  Egypt,  and  many  other  lands.  It  was  intended 
to  cultivate  reverence  for  and  a  sense  of  the  sacrcdness  of 
the  human  body,  as  God's  creation,  known  in  the  Chris- 
tian era  as  the  temple  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  See  also  Cut- 
tings in  the  Flesh. 

(5)  <tko7t6s,  skopos,  something  seen  or  observed 
in  the  distance,  hence  a  "goal."  The  Christian 
life  seemed  to  St.  Paul,  in  the  intensity  of  his  spirit- 
ual ardor,  like  the  stadium  or  race-course  of  the 
Greeks,  with  runners  stretching  every  nerve  to 
reach  the  goal  and  win  the  prize.  "I  press  on 
toward  the  goal  [AV  "mark"]  unto  the  prize"  (Phil 
3  14).  The  mark  or  goal  is  the  ideal  of  life  revealed 
in  Christ,  the  prize,  the  attainment  and  possession 
of  that  life. 

In  Wisd  5  21  "they  fly  to  the  mark"  is  from 
eijaroxoi,  eiistochoi,  "with  true  aim"  (so  RV). 

(6)  ariy/j-a,  stigma,  "a  mark  pricked  or  branded 
upon  the  body."  Slaves  and  soldiers,  in  ancient 
times,  were  stamped  or  branded  with  the  name  of 
their  master.  Paid  considered  and  called  himself 
the  bondslave  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  traces  of  his 
sufferings,  scourging,  stonings,  persecution,  wounds, 
were  visible  in  permanent  scars  on  his  body  (cf 
2  Cor  11  23-27).  These  he  termed  the  stigmata 
of  Jesus,  marks  branded  in  his  very  flesh  as  proofs 
of  his  devotion  to  his  Master  (Gal  6  17). 


This  passage  gives  no  ground  for  the  Romanist  super- 
stition that  the  very  scars  of  Christ's  crucifixion  were 
reproduced  in  Paul's  hands  and  feet  and  side.  It  is 
also  "alien  to  the  lofty  self-consciousness"  of  the  se  words 
to  find  in  them,  as  some  expositors  do,  a  contrast  in 
Paul's  thought  to  the  scar  of  circumcision. 

(~)  x^Pa7Mn,  chdragma,  "a  stamp"  or  "im- 
printed mark."  "The  mark  of  the  beast"  (pe- 
culiar to  Rev)  was  the  badge  of  the  followers  of 
Antichrist,  stamped  on  the  forehead  or  right  hand 
(Rev  13  10;  cf  Ezk  9  4.0).  It  was  symbolic;  of 
character  and  was  thus  not  a  literal  or  physical 
mark,  but  the  impress  of  paganism  on  the  moral 
and  spiritual  life.  It  was  the  sign  or  token  of  apos- 
tasy. As  a  spiritual  state  or  condition  it  subjected 
men  to  the  wrath  of  God  and  to  eternal  torment 
(Rev  14  9-11);  to  noisome  disease  (16  2);  to  the 
lake  of  fire  (19  20).  Those  who  received  not  the 
mark,  having  faithfully  endured  persecution  and 
martyrdom,  were  given  part  in  the  first  resurrection 
and  lived  and  reigned  with  Christ  a  thousand  years 
(Rev  20  4).  The  "beast"  symbolizes  the  anti- 
Christian  empires,  particularly  Rome  under  Nero, 
who  sought  to  devour  and  destroy  the  early  Chris- 
t  ians. 

(S)  fXiiXuxj/,  mdlops,  "bruise,"  Sir  23  10  (RV 
"bruise");  28  17.  Dwioht  M.  Pratt 

MARK,  mark,  JOHN:   John  ('Itodwr|s,  lodnncs) 

represents  his  Jewish,  Mark  (MdpKos,  Mdrkos)  his 

Rom  name.     Why  the  latter  was  as- 

1.  Name  sumed  we  do  not  know.  Perhaps  the 
and  Family   aorist   participle  in   Acts  12  25   may 

be  intended  to  intimate  that  it  dated 
from  the  time  when,  in  company  with  Barnabas 
and  Saul,  he  turned  to  service  in  the  great  gentile 
city  of  Antioch.  Possibly  it  was  the  badge  of  Rom 
citizenship,  as  in  the  case  of  Paul.  The  standing 
of  the  family  would  be  quite  consistent  with  such 
a  supposition. 

His  mother's  name  was  Mary  (Acts  12  12). 
The  home  is  spoken  of  as  hers.  The  father  was 
probably  dead.  The  description  of  the  house  (with 
its  large  room  and  porch)  and  the  mention  of  the 
Gr  slave,  suggest  a  family  of  wealth.  They  were 
probably  among  the  many  zealous  Jews  who, 
having  become  rich  in  the  great  world  outside, 
retired  to  Jerus,  the  center  of  their  nation  and  faith. 
M.  was  "cousin"  to  Barnabas  of  Cyprus  (Col  4  10) 
who  also  seems  to  have  been  a  man  of  means  (Acts 
4  30).     Possibly  Cyprus  was  also  M.'s  former  home. 

When  first  mentioned,  M.  and  his  mother  are 
already  Christians  (44  AD).  He  had  been  con- 
verted through  Peter's  personal  influ- 

2.  His  ence  (1  Pet  5  13)  and  had  already 
History  as  won  a  large  place  in  the  esteem  of  the 
Known  brethren,  as  is  shown  by  his  being 
from  the  chosen  to  accompanv  Barnabas  and 
NT                  Saul  to  Antioch,   a  little  later.     The 

home  was  a  resort  for  Christians,  so 
that  M.  had  every  opportunity  to  become  ac- 
quainted with  other  leaders  such  as  James  and 
John,  and  James  the  brother  of  the  Lord.  It  was 
perhaps  from  the  latter  James  that  he  learned  the 
incident  of  Mk  3  21  which  Peter  would  be  less  likely 
to  mention. 

His  kinship  with  Barnabas,  knowledge  of  Chris- 
tian history  and  teaching,  and  proved  efficiency 
account  for  his  being  taken  along  on  the  first  mis- 
sionary journey  as  "minister"  (vtttjp^ttis,  huperttes) 
to  Barnabas  and  Said  (Acts  13  5).  Just  what  that 
term  implies  is  not  clear.  Chase  (HDB)  conjectures 
the  meaning  to  be  that  he  had  been  huperetes,  "at- 
tendant" or  hazzan  in  the  synagogue  (cf  Lk  4 
20),  and  was  known  as  such  an  official.  Wright 
(ET,  February,  1010)  suggests  that  he  was  to  render 
in  newly  founded  churches  a  teaching  service  simi- 
lar to    that    of    the    synagogue  hazzan.     Hackett 


1987 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


thought  that  the  kai  of  this  verse  implies  that  he 
was  to  be  doing  the  same  kind  of  work  as  Barnabas 
and  Saul  and  so  to  be  their  "helper"  in  preaching 
and  teaching.  The  more  common  view  has  been 
(Meyer,  Swete,  et  al.)  that  he  was  to  perform  "per- 
sonal service  not  evangelistic,"  "official  service  but 
not  of  the  menial  kind" — to  be  a  sort  of  business 
agent.  The  view  that  he  was  to  be  a  teacher,  a 
catechist  for  converts,  seems  to  fit  best  all  the  facts. 

Why  did  he  turn  back  from  the  work  (Acts  13 
13)?  Not  because  of  homesickness,  or  anxiety  for 
his  mother's  safety,  or  home  duties,  or  the  desire 
to  rejoin  Peter,  or  fear  of  the  perils  incident  to  the 
journey,  but  rather  because  he  objected  to  the  offer 
of  salvation  to  the  Gentiles  on  condition  of  faith 
alone.  There  are  hints  that  M.'s family,  like  Paul's, 
were  Hebrews  of  the  Hebrews,  and  it  is  not  without 
significance  that  in  both  verses  (Acts  13  5.13)  he 
is  given  only  his  Heb  name.  The  terms  of  Paul's 
remonstrance  are  very  strong  (Acts  15  38),  and 
we  know  that  nothing  stirred  Paul's  feelings  more 
deeply  than  this  very  question.  The  explanation 
of  it  all  may  be  found  in  what  happened  at  Paphos 
when  the  Rom  Sergius  Paulus  became  a  believer. 
At  that  time  Paul  (the  change  of  name  is  here  noted 
by  Lk)  stepped  to  the  front,  and  henceforth,  with 
the  exception  of  15  12.25,  where  naturally  enough 
the  old  order  is  maintained,  Lk  speaks  of  Paul  and 
Barnabas,  not  Barnabas  and  Saul.  We  must  remem- 
ber that,  at  that  time,  Paul  stood  almost  alone  in 
his  conviction.  Barnabas,  even  later  than  that, 
had  misgivings  (Gal  2  13).  Perhaps,  too,  M.  was 
less  able  than  Barnabas  himself  to  see  the  latter  take 
second  place. 

We  hear  nothing  further  of  M.  until  the  begin- 
ning of  the  second  missionary  journey  2  years  later, 
when  Paul's  unwillingness  to  take  him  with  them 
led  to  the  rupture  between  Paul  and  Barnabas  and 
to  the  mission  of  Barnabas  and  M.  to  Cyprus 
(Acts  15  39).  He  is  here  called  .Mark,  and  in  that 
quiet  way  Luke  may  indicate  his  own  conviction 
that  Mark's  mind  had  changed  on  the  great  ques- 
tion, as  indeed  his  willingness  to  accompany  Paul 
might  suggest.  He  had  learned  from  the  discus- 
sions in  the  council  at  Jerus  and  from  subsequent 
events  at  Antioch. 

About  11  years  elapse  before  we  hear  of  him 
again  (Col  4  10  f;  Philem  ver  24).  He  is  at  Rome 
with  Paul.  The  breach  is  healed.  He  is  now  one 
of  the  faithful  few  among  Jewish  Christians  who 
stand  by  Paul.  He  is  Paul's  honored  "fellow- 
worker"  and  a  great  "comfort"  to  him. 

The  Colossian  passage  may  imply  a  contem- 
plated visit  by  M.  to  Asia  Minor.  It  may  be  that 
it  was  carried  out,  that  he  met  Peter  and  went  with 
him  to  Babylon.  In  1  Pet  5  13  the  apostle  sends 
M.'s  greeting  along  with  that  of  the  church  in 
Babylon.  Thence  M.  returns  to  Asia  Minor,  and 
in  2  Tim  4  11  Paul  asks  Timothy,  who  is  at 
Ephesus,  to  come  to  him,  pick  up  M.  by  the  way, 
and  bring  him  along.  In  that  connection  Paul 
pays  M.  his  final  tribute;  ho  is  "useful  for  min- 
istering" (eijxpva"ros  e's  SlclkovIclv,  euchrestos  cis  dia- 
konian),  so  useful  that  his  ministry  is  a  joy  to  the 
veteran's  heart. 

The  most  important  and  reliable  tradition  is  that  he 
was  the  close  attendant  and  interpreter  of  Peter,  and  lias 
given  us  in  the  Gospel  that  hears  his  name 
3.  His  an  account  of  Peter's  teaching.      For  that 

TTic+«rw  comradeship  the  NT  facts  furnish  a  basis, 

nistory  and    the    gaps    in    the    NT   ]1,story   leave 

as  Known       plenty  of  room.     An  examination  of  the 
from  tradition    will    be   found    in    Mark,    The 

ruVioi-  Gospel  according  to    (q.v.). 

J^mer  Other  traditions  add  but  little  that  is 

Sources  reliable.     It  is   said  that  M.  had  been  a 

priest,  and  that  after  becoming  a  Christian 
he  amputated  a  linger  to  disqualify  himself  for  that 
service.  Hence  the  nickname  KoXoflo&dKTvAo-;,  kolobo- 
ddktulos,   which,   however,   is  sometimes   otherwise   ex- 


Mark 

Mark,  Gospel 


I. 
11. 


III. 
IV. 


VI. 

VII. 

VI 1 1 . 

IX. 


plained.  He  is  represented  as  having  remained  in 
Cyprus  until  after  the  death  of  Barnabas  (who  was  living 
in  57  AD  according  to  1  Cor  9  5  f)  and  then  to  have 
gone  to  Alexandria,  founded  the  church  there,  become 
its  first  bishop  and  there  died  (or  was  martyred)  in  the 
8th  year  of  Nero  (U2-63).  They  add  that  in  Sir,  AD 
Venetian  soldiers  stole  his  remains  from  Alexandria  and 
placed  them  under  the  church  of  St.  Mark  at  Venice. 

Literature. — Chase,  HDB,  III,  245  ff;  Ilae,  DCG 
II,  119  f;  Harnack,  Enc  Brit;  Zahn,  Intro  to  the  NT,  11 
42/-5C>;  Lindsay,  Salmond,  Morison  and  Swete  in  their 
Comjnts. 

J.  IT.  Farmer 
MARK,  THE  GOSPEL  ACCORDING  TO: 

Our   Second   Gospel 

Contents  and  General  Characteristics 

1.  Scope 

2.  Material  Peculiar  to  Mark 

3.  Quotations 

4.  A  Book  of  Mighty  Works 

5.  The  Worker  Is  Also  a  Teacher 

6.  A  Book  of  Graphic  Details 
The  Text 
Language 

1.  General  Character 

2.  Vocabulary 

3.  Style 

4.  Original  Language 

AUTHORSHI  p 

1.  External  Evidence 

2.  Internal  Evidence 
Sources  and  Integrity 
Date  and  Place  of  Composition 
Historicity 
Purpose  and  Plan 

1.  The  Gospel  for  Romans 

2.  Plan  of  the  Gospel 
X.     Leading  Doctrines 

1.  Person  of  Christ 

2.  The  Trinity 

3.  Salvation 

4.  Eschatology 
Literature 

/.  Our  Second  Gospel. — The  order  of  the  Gospels 
in  our  NT  is  probably  due  to  the  early  conviction 
that  this  was  the  order  in  which  the  Gospels  were 
written.  It  was  not,  however,  the  invariable  order. 
The  question  of  order  only  arose  when  the  roll  was 
superseded  by  the  codex,  our  present  book-form. 
That  change  was  going  on  in  the  3d  cent.  Origen 
found  codices  with  the  order  Jn,  Mt,  Mk,  Lk — due 
probably  to  the  desire  to  give  the  apostles  the  lead- 
ing place.  That  and  the  one  common  today  may 
be  considered  the  two  main  groupings — the  one  in 
the  order  of  dignity,  the  other  in  that  of  time.  The 
former  is  Egyp  and  Lat ;  the  latter  has  the  authority 
of  most  Gr  MSS,  Catalogues  and  Fathers,  and  is 
supported  by  the  Old  Syr. 

Within  these,  however,  there  are  variations. 
The  former  is  varied  t  litis:  Jn,  Mt,  Lk,  Mk,  and  Mt, 
Jn,  Mk,  Lk,  and  Mt,  Jn,  Lk,  Mk;  the  latter  to  Mt, 
Mk,  Jn,  Lk.  Mk  is  never  first;  when  it  follows 
Lk,  the  time  consideration  has  given  place  to  that 
of  length. 

//.   Contents  and  General  Characteristics. — The 

Gospel  begins  with  the  ministry  of  John  the  Baptist 

and  ends  with   the   announcement  of 

1.  Scope        the  Resurrection,  if  the  last  12  vs  be 

not  included.  These  add  post-resur- 
rection appearances,  the  Commission,  the  Ascen- 
sion, and  a  brief  summary  of  apostolic  activity. 
Thus  its  limits  correspond  closely  with  those  indi- 
cated by  Peter  in  Acts  10  37-43.  Nothing  is  said 
of  the  early  Judaean  ministry.  The  Galilean  min- 
istry and  Passion  Week  with  the  transition  from 
the  one  to  the  other  (in  ch  10)  practically  make  up 
the  Gospel. 

Matter  peculiar  to  Mk  is  found  in  4  26-29  (the 
seed  growing  secretly);    3  21  (his   kindred's  fear); 

7  32-37    (the   deaf  and   dumb   man); 

2.  Material  8  22-26  (the  blind  man);  13  33-37 
Peculiar  to  (the  householder  and  the  exhortation 
Mark  to  watch);   14  51  (the  young  man  who 

escaped).  But,  in  addition  to  this, 
there  are  many  vivid  word-touches  with  which  the 
common  material  is  lighted  up,  and  in  not  a  few 


Mark,  Gospel 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLK  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1988 


of  the  common  incidents  Mk's  account  is  very 
much  fuller;  e.g.  6  14-29  (death  of  John  the  Bap- 
tist); 7  1-23  (on  eating  with  umvashen  hands); 
9  14-29  (the  demoniac  hoy);  12  2X-34  (the  ques- 
tioning scribe).  There  is  enough  of  this  material 
to  show  clearly  that  the  author  could  not  have  been 
wholly  dependent  on  the  other  evangelists.  Haw- 
kins reckons  the  whole  amount  of  peculiar  material 
at  about  fifty  verses  (Hor.  Syn.,  llj. 

In  striking  contrast  to  Matthew  who,  in      passages, 

calls  attention  to  the  fulfilment  of  prophecy  by  .Jesus, 

Mark     only     once     quotes    the    OT    and 

3.  Quota-  that  he  puts  in  the  very  forefront  of  his 
tions  Gospel.     The   Isa   part   of   his   composite 

quotation  appears  in  all  4  Gospels;  the 
Mai  part  in  Mk  only,  though  there  is  a  reflection  of  it  in 
Jn  3  28.  This  fact  alone  might  convey  an  erroneous 
impression  of  the  attitude  of  the  Gospel  to  the  OT. 
Though  Mark  himself  makes  only  this  one  twofold  refer- 
ence, yet  he  represents  Jesus  as  doing  so  frequently. 
Tin-  difference  in  this  respect  between  him  and  Matthew 
is  not  great.  lie  has  19  formal  quotations  as  compared 
with  40  in  Mt,  17  in  Lk  and  12  in  .In.  Three  of  the  19 
are  not  found  elsewhere.  The  total  for  the  NT  is  100, 
so  that  Mk  has  a  fair  proportion.  When  OT  references 
and  loose  citations  are  considered  the  result  is  much  the 
same.  VVH  give  Mt  100,  Mk  58,  Lk  86,  Jn  21,  Acts 
107.  Thus  the  OT  lies  back  of  Mk  also  as  the  authori- 
tative word  of  God.  Swete  (Intro  to  the  OT  in  Or,  39:5) 
points  out  that  in  those  quotations  which  are  common 
to  the  synoptists  the  LXX  is  usually  followed;  in 
others,  the  Jleb  more  frequently.  (A  good  illustration 
is  seen  in  Mk  7  7  where  the  LXX  is  followed  in  the 
phrase,  "in  vain  do  they  worship  me" — a  fair  para- 
phrase of  the  Heb;  but  "teaching  as  their  doctrines  the 
preeents  of  men"  is  a  more  correct  representation  of  the 
Heb  than  the  LXX  gives.)  Three  quotations  are  pecul- 
iar to  Mk,  viz.  9  48;   10   19;   12  32. 

Judged  by  the  space  occupied,  Mk  is  a  Gospel  of 

deeds.     Jesus    is    a    worker.     His    life    is    one    of 

strenuous  activity.     He  hastens  from 

4.  A  Book  one  task  to  another  with  energy  and 
of  Mighty  decision.  The  word  evdvs,  euthus, 
Works  i.e.    "straightway,"    is    used    42   t    as 

against  Mi's  7  and  Lk's  1.  In  14  of 
these,  as  compared  with  2  in  Mt  and  none  in  Lk, 
the  word  is  used  of  the  personal  activity  of  Jesus. 
It  is  not  strange  therefore  that  the  uneventful  early 
years  should  be  passed  over  (cf  Jn  2  11).  Nor  is 
it  strange  that  miracles  should  be  more  numerous 
than  parables.  According  to  Westcott's  classification 
{Intro  to  Study  of  the  Gospels,  480-86),  Mk  has  19 
miracles  and  only  4  parables,  whereas  the  corre- 
sponding figures  for  Mt  are  21  to  15  and  for  Lk  20 
to  19.  Of  the  miracles  2  are  peculiar  to  Mk,  of  the 
parables  only  1.  The  evangelist  clearly  records  the 
deeds  rather  than  the  words  of  Jesus.  These  facts 
furnish  another  point  of  contact  with  Peter's 
speeches  in  Acts — the  beneficent  character  of  the 
deeds  in  Acts  10  38,  and  their  evidential  signifi- 
cance in  Acts  2  22  (cf  Mk  1  27;   2  10,  etc). 

The  following  are  the  miracles  recorded  by  Mk:  the 
unclean  spirit  (1  21-2S),  the  paralytic  (2  1-12),  the 
withered  hand  (3  1-5),  the  storm  stilled  (4  35-41),  the 
Gcrasene  demoniac  (5  1-17),  Jairus'  daughter  (5  22  IT), 
the  woman  with  the  issue  (5  25-34),  feeding  the  5,000 
(6  35-44),  feeding  the  4,000  (8  1-10),  walking  on  the 
water  (6  48  ff) ;  the  Svrophoenician's  daughter  (7  24- 
30),  the  deaf  mute  (7  31-37),  the  blind  man  (8  22-26), 
the  demoniac  boy  (9  14  ff),  blind  Bartimaeus  (10  46- 
52),  the  fig  tree 'withered  (11  20  ff),  the  resurrection 
(16  1  If).  For  an  interesting  classification  of  these  see 
Westcott's  I ntro  to  Study  of  the  Gospels,  391.  Only  the 
last  three  belong  to  Judaea. 

Though  what  has  been  said  is  true,  yet  Mk  is  by 

no  means  silent  about  Jesus  as  a  teacher.     John  the 

Baptist    is    a    preacher    (1  4.7),    and 

5.  The  Jesus  also  is  introduced  as  a  preacher, 
Worker  a  taking  up  and  enlarging  the  message 
Teacher         of   John.     Very   frequent   mention   is 

made  of  Him  as  teaching  (e.g.  1  21 ; 
2  13;  6  6,  etc);  indeed  the  words  SiSaxv,  didacht, 
and  5t5d<TKw,  diddsko,  occur  more  frequently  in  Mk 
than  in  any  other  (lospel.  Striking  references  are 
made  to  His  originality,  methods,  popularity  and 


peerlessness  as  a  teacher  (1  22;  4  1  f.33;  11  27— 
12  37;  csp.  12  31).  A  miracle  is  definitely  de- 
clared to  be  for  1  Ik;  purpose  of  instruction  (2  10), 
and  the  implication  is  frequent  that  His  miracles 
were  not  only  the  dictates  of  His  compassion,  but 
also  purposed  self-revelations  (5  19  f;  11  21-23). 
Not  only  is  He  Himself  a  teacher,  but  He  is  con- 
cerned  to   prepare  others  to  be  teachers    (3  13  f; 

4  10  f).  Mk  is  just  as  explicit  as  Mt  in  calling 
attention  to  the  fact  that  at  a  certain  stage  lb; 
began  teaching  the  multitude  in  parables,  and  ex- 
pounding the  parables  to  His  disciples  (4  2-1  If). 
He  mentions,  however,  only  four  of  them — the 
Sower  (4  1-20),  the  Seed  Growing  Secretly  (4  26- 
20),  the  Mustard  Seed  (4  30-32)  and  the  Husband- 
men (12  1-12).  The  number  of  somewhat  lengthy 
discourses  and  the  total  amount  of  teaching  is  con- 
siderably greater  than  is  sometimes  recognized. 
Chs  4  and  13  approach  most  nearly  to  the  length  of 
the  discourses  in  Mt  and  correspond  to  Mt  13  and 
24  respectively.  But  in  7  1-23;  9  33-50;  10 
5-31.39-45  and  12  1-44  we  have  quite  extensive 
sayings.  If  Jesus  is  a  worker,  He  is  even  more  a 
teacher.  His  works  prepare  for  His  words  rather 
than  His  words  for  His  works.  The  teachings 
grew  naturally  out  of  the  occasion  and  the  circum- 
stances. He  did  and  taught.  Because  He  did 
what  He  did  He  could  teach  with  effectiveness. 
Both  works  and  words  reveal  Himself. 

There   is   a  multitude  of  graphic   details:     Mk 
mentions  actions  and  gestures  of  Jesus  (7  33;  9  30; 
10    16)    and    His    looks    of    inquiry 
6.  Graphic     (5  32),    in    praver    (6  41;     7  34),    of 
Details  approval   (3  34),  love   (10  21),   warn- 

ing (to  Judas  esp.  10  23),  anger  (3  5), 
and  in  judgment  (11  11).  Jesus  hungers  (11  12), 
seeks  rest  in  seclusion  (6  31)  and  sleeps  on  the  boat- 
cushion  (4  38);  He  pities  the  multitude  (6  34), 
wonders  at  men's  unbelief  (6  6),  sighs  over  their 
sorrow  and  blindness  (7  34;  8  12),  grieves  at  their 
hardening  (3  5),  and  rebukes  in  sadness  the  wrong 
thought  of  His  mother  and  brothers,  and  in  indig- 
nation the  mistaken  zeal  and  selfish  ambitions  of 
His  disciples  (8  33;  10  14).  Mk  represents  His 
miracles  of  healing  usually  as  instantaneous  (1  31; 

2  11  f;  3  5),  sometimes  as  gradual  or  difficult 
(1  26;  7  32-35;  9  26-28),  and  once  as  flatly  im- 
possible "because  of  their  unbelief"  (6  6).  With 
many  vivid  touches  we  are  told  of  the  behavior  of 
the  people  and  the  impression  made  on  them  by 
what  Jesus  said  or  did.  They  bring  their  sick  along 
the  streets  and  convert  the  market-place  into  a 
hospital  (1  32),  throng  and  jostle  Him  by  the  sea- 
side (3  10),  and  express  their  astonishment  at  His 
noteof  authority  (1  22)  and  power  (2  12).  Disciples 
are  awed  by  His  command  over  the  sea  (4  41), 
and  disciples  and  others  are  surprised  and  alarmed 
at  the  strange  look  of  dread  as  He  walks  ahead 
alone,  going  up  to  Jerus  and  the  cross  (10  32). 
Many  other  picturesque  details  are  given,  as  in 
1  13  (He  was  with  the  wild  beasts);  2  4  (digging 
through  the  roof) ;  4  38  (lying  asleep  on  the  cushion) ; 

5  4   (the  description  of  the  Gerasene  demoniac); 

6  39  (the  companies,  dressed  in  many  colors  and 
looking  like  flower  beds  on  the  green  mountain- 
side). Other  details  peculiar  to  Mk  are:  names 
(1  29;  3  6;  13  3;  15  21),  numbers  (5  13;  6  7), 
time  (1  35;    2  1 ;    11  19;    16  2),  and  place  (2  13; 

3  8;  7  31;  12  41;  13  3;  14  68  and  15  39). 
These  strongly  suggest  the  observation  of  an  eye- 
witness as  the  final  authority,  and  the  geographical 
references  suggest  that  even  the  writer  understood 
the  general  features  of  the  country,  csp.  of  Jerus  and 
its  neighborhood.  (For  complete  lists  see  Lindsay, 
St.  Mark's  Gospel,  20  ff.) 

///.    Text. — Of  the  53  select  readings  noted  by 
WII  (Intro),  only  a  few  are  of  special   interest  or 


19S9 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA        Mark,  Gospel 


importance.  The  following  are  to  bo  accepted: 
iv  t$     licrala   Tip  Trpo(pr\TQ  (1   2) ;    afJ.apTrifj.aTOS  (3   29) J 

tr\r)py)s  (indeclinable,  4  28);  6  t^ktuv  (6  3;  Jesus 
is  here  called  "the  carpenter");  avrou  (6  22,  Herod's 
daughter  probably  had  two  names,  Salome  and 
Herodias);  Trvyp-rj  (7  23,  "with  the  fist,"  i.e.  "thor- 
oughly," not  TrvKvd,  "oft").  \YH  are  to  be  fol- 
lowed in  rejecting  iruTTevaai  (leaving  the  graphic 
Td  Ei  dvvrj  [9  23]) ;  Kal  vrjareia  (9  29) ;  iratra  .... 
aXiaOrjcrerai  (9  49) ;  tovs  ....  xPVfJLacri-  (10  24) ; 
but  not  in  rejecting  vlov  deov  (1  1).  They  are 
probably  wrong  in  retaining  ovs  .  .  .  .  ihvbfxaaav 
(3  14;  it  was  probably  added  from  Lk  6  31); 
and  in  rejecting  Kal  kXivQiv  and  accepting  pavri- 
acxivTai  instead  of  fia-KTiawvTai  (7  4;  ignorance  of  the 
extreme  scrupulosity  of  the  Jews  led  to  these  scribal 
changes;  cf  Lk  11  3cS,  where  e^airTiadri  is  not  dis- 
puted). So  one  may  doubt  r)irbpei  (6  20),  and 
suspect  it  of  being  an  Alexandrian  correction  for 
itvoki.,  which  was  more  difficult  and  yet  is  finely 
appropriate. 

The  most  important  textual  problem  is  that  of  16 
9-  20.  Burgon  and  Miller  and  Salmon  believe  it  to  be 
genuine.  Miller  supposes  that  up  to  that  point  Mk  had 
been  giving  practically  Peter's  words,  that  for  some 
reason  those  then  failed  him  and  that  vs  9-20  are  drawn 
from  his  own  stores.  The  majority  of  scholars  regard 
them  as  non-Markan;  they  think  ver  8  is  not  the  in- 
tended conclusion;  that  if  Mark  ever  wrote  a  conclusion, 
it  has  been  lost,  and  that  vs  9-20,  embodying  traditions 
of  the  Apostolic  Age,  were  supplied  later.  Conybeare 
has  found  in  an  Armenian  MS  a  note  referring  these 
verses  to  the  presbyter  Ariston,  whom  he  identities  with 
that  Aristion,  a  disciple  of  .John,  of  whom  Papias  speaks. 
Many  therefore  would  regard  them  as  authentic,  and 
some  accept  them  as  clothed  with  John's  authority. 
They  are  certainly  very  early,  perhaps  as  early  as  100 
AD,  and  have  the  support  of  ACDXl'AZ,  all  late' uncials, 
all  cursives,  most  VSS  and  Fathers,  and  were  known  to 
the  scribes  of  X  and  B,  who,  however,  do  not  accept 
them. 

It  is  just  possible  that  the  Gospel  did  end  at  ver  8. 
The  very  abruptness  would  argue  an  early  date  when 
Christians  lived  in  the  atmosphere  of  the  Resurrection 
and  would  form  an  even  appropriate  closing  for  the 
Gospel  of  the  Servant  (see  below).  A  Servant  comes, 
fulfils  his  task,  and  departs — we  do  not  ask  about  his 
lineage,  nor  follow  his  subsequent  history. 

IV.  Language. — Mark    employs     the    common 

coloquial  Gr  of  the   day,    understood    everywhere; 

throughout    the    Cr-Rom    world.      It 

1.  General  was  emphatically  the  language;  of  the 
Character      people,  "known  and  read  of  all  men." 

His  vocabulary  is  equally  removed 
from    the   technicalities  of   the   schools  and   from 
the  slang  of   the  streets.     It   is   the   clean,   vigor- 
ous, direct  speech  of  the  sturdy  middle 

2.  Vocabu-    class- 

lary  Of  his  1,330  words,  00  are  proper  names. 

Of  the  rest  79  are  peculiar  to  Mk,  so  far 
as  the  NT  is  concerned;  203  are  found 
elsewhere  only  in  the  Synoptics,  15  only  in  John's  Gos- 
pel, 23  only  in  Paul  (including  He),  2  in  the  Catholic 
Epp.  (1  in  .las,  1  in  2  Pet),  5  in  the  Apocalypse  (see 
Swete.  Comm.  mi  Si.  Murk).  Rather  more  than  a  fourth 
of  the  79  are  non-classical  as  compared  witli  one-seventh 
for  Lk  and  a  little  more  than  one-seventh  for  Mt.  Haw- 
kins also  gives  a  list  of  33  unusual  words  or  expressions. 
The  most  interesting  of  the  single  words  are  <rx<-£°iJ-*i'°vs> 
schizomenous,  fi<t>iev,  ephien,  /cu>/xo7rdAei;,  komopbleis,  exe- 
<}>a\iui<Tav,  ekephaliosan,  n-poaiiAtor,  proaulion,  and  oti, 
hdti,  in  the  sense  of  "why"  (2  16;  9  11.28);  of  the 
expressions,  the  distributives  in  6  7.39  f  and  14  19, 
the  Hebraistic  <;£  fioOrjo-erai,  and  oto.i'  with  indie.  Of 
ordinary  constructions  the  following  are  found  with 
marked  frequency:  ko.L  (reducing  his  use  of  Se  to  half 
of  Mt's  or  Lk'sj,  historic  present  (accounting  for  the 
very  frequent  use  of  Aiyei  instead  of  el-n-ev),  the  peri- 
phrastic imperfect,  the  art.  with  infinitives  or  sentences, 
participles,  and  prepositions. 

There  are  indications  that  the  writer  in  earlier  life 
was  accustomed  to  think  in  Aramaic.  Occasionally  that 
fact  shows  itself  in  the  retention  of  Aram,  words  which 
are  proportionately  rattier  more  numerous  than  in  Mt 
and  twice  as  numerous  as  in  Lk  or  Jn.  The;  most  inter- 
esting of  these  are  Ta\ti9d  kov/j.,  taleithd  koum,  i<!>'f>a0d, 
ephphathd,  and  Boar^pyt';,  Boanerges,  each  uttered  at  a 
time  of  intense  feeling. 

Latinisms  in  Mk  are  about  half  as  numerous  as  Arama- 
isms.      They  number   11,  the  same  as  in   Mt,  as  com- 


pared with  6  in  Lk  and  7  in  Jn.  The  greater  proportion 
in  Mk  is  the  only  really  noteworthy  fact  in  these  tigures. 
It  suggests  more  of  a  Roman  outlook  and  tits  in  witli  the 
common  tradition  as  to  its  origin  and  authorship. 

For  certain  words  lie  has  great  fondness:  ei>0us,  42 1; 
o/caflapi-os,  lit;  pAtTi-io,  and  its  compounds  very  fre- 
quently; SO  e7repujTa>',  iindyeu',  t'foixxta,  evayyeAioi',  npotTKa- 
AetcrSai,  eViri/xai',  compounds  of  TTopevecrOai.,  <rvi>£r)Te'i  i\  and 
SUCh  graphic   words  as    iK0aiJ.fiii<r<iai,  kfj-fipLfi-do-Oai,   ivayKa\i- 

c,W#ai  and  </up.oOtrfla.i.     The  following  he  uses  in  an  unusual 

sense:    evelx*v,  Tivyp.fi,  direct,  emfiaAMi'. 

The  same  exact  and  vivid  representation  of  the  facts 
of  actual  experience  accounts  for  the  anacoluiha  and 
other  broken  constructions,  e.g.  4  31  f;  5  23;  6  8f; 
11  32.  Some  are  due  to  the  insertion  of  explanatory 
clauses,  as  in  7  3-5;  some  to  the  introduction  of  a  ((no- 
tation as  in  7  11  f-  These  phenomena  represent  the 
same  type  of  mind  as  we  have  already  seen  (II,  6  above). 

The    style   is   very  simple.      The  common   con- 
nective is  Kal.     The  stately  periods  of  the  classics 
are  wholly  absent.     The  narrative  is 

3.  Style  commonly     terse     and     concise.     At 

times,  however,  a  multitude  of  details 
are  crowded  in,  resulting  in  unusual  fulness  of  ex- 
pression. This  gives  rise1  to  numerous  duplicate 
expressions  as  in  1  32;  2  25;  5  19  and  the  like, 
which  become  a  marked  feature  of  the  style.  The 
descriptions  are  wonderfully  vivid.  This  is  helped 
out  by  the  remarkably  frequent  use  of  the  historic 
present,  of  which  there  arc  151  examples,  as  con- 
trasted with  78  in  Mt  and  4  in  Lk,  apart  from  its 
use  in  parables.  Mk  never  uses  it  in  parables, 
whereas  Mt  has  15  cases  and  Lk  5.  Jn  has  162,  a 
slightly  smaller  proportion  than  Mk  on  the  whole, 
but  rather  larger  in  narrative  parts.  But  Mk's 
swift  passing  from  one  tense  to  another  adds  a 
variety  and  vividness  to  the  narrative  not  found  in 
Jn. 

That  the  original  language  was  Gr  is  the  whole 
impression  made  by  patristic    references.     Trans- 
lations of  the  Gospel  are  always  from, 

4.  Original  not  into,  Gr.  It  was  the  common  Ian- 
Language       guage    of    the    Rom    world,    esp.    for 

letters.  Paul  wrote  to  the  Romans  in 
Gr.  Half  a  century  later  Clement  wrote  from  Rome 
to  Corinth  in  Gr.  The  Gr  Mk  bears  the  stamp  of 
originality  and  of  the  individuality  of  the  author. 

Some  have  thought  it  was  written  in  Lat.  The  only 
real  support  for  that  view  is  the  subscription  in  a  few 
MSS  (e.g.  1(50,  Kil,  iypd(j)r)  'Ymp-aidri  ev  Tui/j.17,  eyrdphe 
Rhoma'isti  en  Rhdme)  and  in  the  Peshitta  and  Harcloan 
Syr.  It  is  a  mistaken  deduction  from  the  belief  that  it 
was  written  in  Rome  or  due  to  the  supposition  that  "in- 
terpreter of  Peter"  meant  that  Mark  trd  Peter's  discourses 
into  Lat. 

Blass  contended  for  an  Aram,  original,  believing  that 
Lk,  in  the  first  part  of  Acts,  followed  an  Aram,  source. 
and  that  that  source  was  by  the  author  of  the  Second 
Gospel  which  also,  therefore,  was  written  in  Aramaic, 
lb-  felt,  moreover,  that  the  text  of  Mk  suggests  several 
forms  of  the  Gospel  which  are  best  explained  as  tra  of  a 
common  original.  Decisive  against  the  view  is  the  tr 
of  the  few  Aram,  words  which  are  retained. 

V.  Authorship. — The   external  evidence  for  the 
authorship  is  found  in  the  Fathers  and  the   MSS. 
The  most    important   patristic  state- 
1.  External    ments  are  the  following: 

Evidence  Papias— Asia  Minor,  c  125  AD— (quoted 

by  Eus.,  HE,  111,  39):  "And  this  also  the 
elder  said:  Mark,  having  become  the  interpreter  [ep/x./n  i<- 
tt)9,  hermeneutes]  of  Peter,  wrote  accurately  what  he  remem- 
bered (or  recorded)  of  the  things  said  or  done  by  Christ, 
but  not  in  order.  For  he  neither  heard  the  Lord  nor  fol- 
lowed Him;  but  afterward,  as  I  said  [lie  attached  himself 
to]  Peter  who  used  to  frame  his  teaching  to  meet  the  needs 
[of  his  hearers],  but  not  as  composing  an  orderly  account 
[a-u>'Tafu*,  suntaxin]  of  the  Lord's  discourses,  so  that  Mark 
committed  no  error  in  thus  writing  down  some;  flunks 
as  he  remembered  them:  for  lie  took  thought  for  one 
thing  not  to  omit  any  of  the  things  he  had  heard  nor  to 
falsify  anything  in  them." 

Justin  Martyr — Palestine  and  the  West,  c  150  AD — (In 
Dial,  with  Trypho,  cvi,  Migne  ed):  "And  when  it  is  said 
that  He  imposed  on  one  of  the  apostles  the  name  Peter, 
and  when  this  is  recorded  in  his  'Memoirs'  with  this 
other  fact  that  He  named  the  two  sons  of  Zebedee 
'Boanerges,'  which  means  '  Sons  of  Thunder,'"  etc. 

Irenaeus — Asia  Minor  and  Gaul,  c  175  AD — (Adv. 
Haer.,  iii.l,  quoted  in  part    tins.,  HE,  V,  8) :  "After  the 


Mark,  Gospel        THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1990 


apostles  wore  clothed  with  the  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
and  fully  furnished  for  the  work  of  universal  evangel- 
ization, they  went  out  ["  exierunt,"  in  Kufinus'  tr]  to 
the  ends  of  the  earth  preaching  the  gospel.  Matthew 
went  eastward  to  those  of  lleb  descent  and  preached  to 
them  in  their  own  tongue,  in  which  language  ho  also 
[had  ?]  published  a  writing  of  the  gospel,  while  Peter  and 
Paul  went  westward  and  preached  and  founded  the 
church  in  Rome.  But  after  the  departure  [e£o6ov, 
"exitum"  in  Kufinus]  of  these,  Mark,  the  disciple  and 
interpreter  [epp7j>'tui-T)s,  hcrmeneules]  of  Peter,  even  ho 
has  delivered  to  us  in  writing  the  things  which  were 
preached  by  Peter." 

Clement  of  Alexandria — C  200  AD — (Hypotyp.  in  Eus., 
HE,  VI,  14):  "The  occasion  for  writing  the  Gospel  ace. 
to  Mk  was  as  follows:  After  Peter  had  publicly  preached 
the  word  in  Rome  and  declared  the  gospel  by  the  Spirit, 
many  who  were  present  entreated  Mark,  as  one  who  had 
followed  him  for  a  long  time  and  remembered  what  ho 
said,  to  write  down  what  he  had  spoken,  and  Mk,  after 
composing  the  Gospel,  presented  it  to  his  petitioners. 
When  Peter  became  aware  of  it  ho  neither  eagerly  hin- 
dered nor  promoted  it." 

Also  (Eus.,  HE,  II,  15):  "So  charmed  were  tho 
Romans  with  the  light  that  shone  in  upon  their  minds 
from  the  discourses  of  Peter,  that,  not  contented  with  a 
single  hearing  and  tho  viva  voce  proclamation  of  the 
truth,  they  urged  with  the  utmost  solicitation  on  Mark, 
whose  Gospel  is  in  circulation  and  who  was  Peter's 
attendant,  that  he  would  leave  them  in  writing  a  record 
of  the  teaching  which  they  had  received  by  word  of 
mouth.  They  did  not  give  over  until  they  had  pre- 
vailed on  him;  and  thus  they  became  the  cause  of  the 
composition  of  the  so-called  Gospel  according  to  Mk. 
It  is  said  that  when  tho  apostlo  knew,  by  revelation  of 
the  Spirit,  what  was  done,  he  was  pleased  with  the  eager- 
ness of  the  men  and  authorized  the  writing  to  be  read 
in  the  churches." 

Tertullian — North  Africa,  c  207  AD—  (Adv.  Mare.,  iv. 
5) :  He  speaks  of  tho  authority  of  the  four  Gospels,  two 
by  apostles  and  two  by  companions  of  apostles,  "not 
excluding  that  which  was  published  by  Mark,  for  it  may 
be  ascribed  to  Peter,  whose  interpreter  Mark  was." 

Origen — Alexandria  and  tho  East,  c  240  A  D — ("Comm. 
on  Mt"  quoted  in  Phis.,  HE,  VI,  25):  "The  second  is 
that  according  to  Mk  who  composed  it,  under  tho  guid- 
ance   of     Peter     [to?     IleVpo?      v<f>riyri<TaTO     avrw,      lids     Petros 

huphegtsato  auto],  who  therefore,  in  his  Catholic  op., 
acknowledged  the  evangelist  as  his  son." 

Eusebius — Caosarea,  c  325  AD — (Dem.  Evang.,  Ill,  5): 
"Though  Peter  did  not  undertake,  through  excess  of 
diffidence,  to  write  a  Gospel,  yet  it  had  all  along  been 
currently  reported,  that  Mark,  who  had  become  his 
familiar  acquaintance  and  attendant  [y>'wpip.os  ko.1  ^oitjjtij?, 
gnorimos  kai  phoitet&s]  made  memoirs  of  [or  recorded,  a7ro- 
Hi>r)noi>tvcrat.,  apomnemoneusai]  the  discourses  of  Peter 
concerning  the  doings  of  Jesus."  "Mark  indeed  writes 
this,  but  it  is  Peter  who  so  testifies  about  himself,  for  all 
that  is  in  Mk  are  memoirs  (or  records)  of  tho  discourses 
of  Peter." 

Epiphanius — Cyprus,  C  350  AD—  (Ilaer.,  41):  "But 
immediately  after  Matthew,  Mark,  having  become  a 
follower  [a«:oAoi;0o9,  akolouthos]  of  the  holy  Peter  in 
Rome,  is  entrusted  with  the  putting  forth  of  a  gospel. 
Having  completed  his  work,  ho  was  sent  by  the  holy 
Peter  into  the  country  of  the  Egyptians." 

Jerome — East  and  West,  c  350  AD — (De  vir.  illustr., 
viii):  "Mark,  disciple  and  interpreter  of  Peter,  at  the 
request  of  tho  brethren  in  Rome,  wrote  a  brief  Gospel 
in  accordance  with  what  ho  had  heard  Peter  narrating. 
When  Peter  heard  it  ho  approved  and  authorized  it  to 
be  read  in  the  churches." 

Also  xi:  "Accordingly  he  had  Titus  as  interpreter 
just  as  the  blessed  Peter  had  Mark  whose  Gospel  was 
composed,  Peter  narrating  and  Mark  writing." 

Preface  Comm.  on  Mt:  "The  second  is  Mark,  inter- 
preter of  the  apostle  Peter,  and  first  bishop  of  the  Alex- 
andrian church;  who  did  not  himself  see  the  Lord  Jesus, 
but  accurately,  rather  than  in  order,  narrated  those  of 
His  deeds,  which  ho  had  heard  his  teacher  preaching." 

To  these  should  be  added  the  Muratorian  Fragment 
— c  170  AD — "which  gives  a  list  of  the  NT  books  with  a 
brief  account  of  the  authorship  of  each.  The  account 
of  Mt  and  most  of  that  of  Mk  are  lost,  only  these  words 
relating  to  Mark  being  left:  'quibus  tamen  intorfuit, 
et  ita  posuit'  "  (see  below). 

These  names  represent  the  churches  of  the  2d, 
3d  and  4th  cents.,  and  practically  every  quarter  of 
the  Rom  world.  Quite  clearly  the  common  opinion 
was  that  Mark  had  written  a  Gospel  and  in  it  had 
given  us  mainly  the  teaching  of  Peter. 

That  our  second  Gospel  is  the  one  referred  to  in 
these  statements  there  can  be  no  reasonable  doubt. 
Our  four  were  certainly  the  four  of  Irenaeus  and 
Tatian;  and  Salmon  {Intro)  has  shown  that  the 
same  four  must  have  been  accepted  by  Justin, 
Papias  and  their  contemporaries,  whether  orthodox 
or  Gnostics.     Justin's    reference   to    the    surname 


"Boanerges"  supports  this  so  far  as  Mark  is  con- 
cerned, for  in  the  Gospel  of  Mk  alone  is  that  fact 
mentioned  (3  17). 

A  second  point  is  equally  clear — that  the  Gospel 
of  Mk  is  substantially  Peter's.  Mark  is  called  dis- 
ciple, follower,  interpreter  of  Peter.  Origen  ex- 
pressly quotes  "Marcus,  my  son"  (1  Pet  6  13  AV) 
in  this  connection.  "Disciple"  is  self-explanatory. 
"Follower"  is  its  equivalent,  not  simply  a  traveling 
companion.  "Interpreter"  is  less  clear.  One  view 
equates  it  with  "translator,"  because  Mark  trd 
either  Peter's  Aram,  discourses  into  Gr  for  the 
Hellenistic  Christians  in  Jerus  (Adeney,  et  al.),  or 
Peter's  Gr  discourses  into  Lat  for  the  Christians  in 
Rome  (Swete,  et  al.).  The  other  view — that  of  the 
ancients  and  most  moderns  (e.g.  Zahn,  Salmon) — 
is  that  it  means  "interpreter"  simply  in  the  sense 
that  Mark  put  in  writing  what  Peter  had  taught. 
The  contention  of  Chase  (HDB,  III,  247)  that  this 
was  a  purely  metaphorical  use  has  little  weight 
because  it  may  be  so  used  here.  The  conflict  in  the 
testimony  as  to  date  and  place  will  be  considered 
below  (VII). 

There  is  no  clear  declaration  that  Mark  himself 
was  a  disciple  of  Jesus  or  an  eyewitness  of  what  he 
records.  Indeed  the  statement  of  Papias  seems  to 
affirm  the  contrary.  However,  that  statement 
may  mean  simply  that  he  was  not  a  personal  dis- 
ciple of  Jesus,  not  that  he  had  never  seen  Him  at 
all. 

The  Muratorian  Fragment  is  not  clear.  Its  broken 
sentence  has  been  differently  understood.  Zahn  com- 
pletes it  thus:  "  [ali]  quibus  tamen  intorfuit,  et  ita  posuit," 
and  understands  it  to  mean  that  "at  some  incidents  [in 
the  life  of  Jesus],  however,  ho  was  present  and  so  put 
them  down."  Chase  (HDB)  and  others  regard  "quibus 
tamen"  as  a  literal  tr  of  tho  Gr  oU  Se,  hols  de,  and 
believe  the  meaning  to  be  that  Mark,  who  had  prob- 
ably just  been  spoken  of  as  not  continuously  with 
Peter,  "was  present  at  some  of  his  discourses  and  so 
recorded  them."  Chase  feels  that  the  phrase  following 
respecting  Luke:  "  Dominum  tamen  nee  ipse  vidit  in 
carne,"  compels  the  belief  that  Mark  like  Luke  had  not 
scon  the  Lord.  But  Paul,  not  Mark,  may  be  there  in 
mind,  and  further,  this  interpretation  rather  belittles 
Mark's  association  with  Peter. 

The  patristic  testimony  may  be  regarded  as  sum- 
marized in  the  title  of  the  work  in  our  earliest 
MSS,  viz.  Kara,  MdpKov,  katd  Mdrkon.  This  phrase 
must  refer  to  the  author,  not  his  source  of  informa- 
tion, for  then  it  would  necessarily  have  been  Kara. 
TLtrpov,  katd  Petron.  This  is  important  as  throwing 
light  on  the  judgment  of  antiquity  as  to  the  author- 
ship of  the  First  Gospel,  which  the  MSS  all  entitle 
Kara  Maddahv,  katd  Matthaion. 

The   internal   evidence   offers   much  to  confirm 

the    tradition    and    practically    nothing     to     the 

contrary.     That  Peter    is    back  of  it 

2.  Internal    js  congruous  with  such  facts  as  the 

Evidence       following: 

(1)  The  many  vivid  details  referred  to  above  (III, 
6)  must  have  come  from  an  eyewitness.  The  frequent 
use  of  Aeyei,  legei,  in  Mk  and  Mt  where  Lk  uses 
eWev,  eipen,  works  in  the  same  direction. 

(2)  Certain  awkward  expressions  in  lists  of  names  can 
best  be  explained  as  Mark's  turning  of  Peter's  original, 
e.g.  1  29,  where  Peter  may  have  said,  "We  went  homo, 
James  and  John  accompanying  us."  So  in  1  36  (con- 
trasted with  Lk's  impersonal  description,  Lk  4  42  f) ; 
Mk  3  10;    13  3. 

(3)  Two  passages  (9  6  and  11  21)  describe  Peter's 
own  thought;  others  mention  incidents  which  Peter 
would  be  most  likely  to  mention:  e.g.  14  37  and  vs  66- 
72  (esp.  impf.  i^ei-To,  emeito);  16  7;  7  12-23  (in  view 
of  Acts  10  15). 

(4)  In  3  7  tho  order  of  names  suits  Peter's  Galilean 
standpoint  rather  than  that  of  Mark  in  Jerus — Galilee, 
Judaea,  Jerus,  Peraea,  Tyre,  Sidon.  The  very  artlessness 
of  these  hints  is  the  best  kind  of  proof  that  we  are  in 
touch  with  one  who  saw  with  his  own  eyes  and  speaks 
out  of  his  own  consciousness. 

(5)  Generally  Mark,  like  Matthew,  writes  from  the 
standpointof  the  Twelve  more  frequently  than  Luke;  and 
Mark,  more  frequently  than  Matthew,  from  the  stand- 
point of  the  three  most  honored  by  Jesus.  Cf  Mk  5  37 
with  Mt  9  23,  where  Mt  makes  no  reference  to  the  three; 


1991 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA        Mark,  Gospel 


the  unusual  order  of  the  names  in  Lk's  corresponding 
passage  (8  51)  suggests  that  James  was  his  ultimate 
source.  The  language  of  Mk  9  14  is  clearly  from  one 
of  the  three,  Lk's  may  be,  but  Mt's  is  not.  The  con- 
trast in  this  respect  between  the  common  synoptic 
material  and  Lk  9  51 — 18  14  lends  weight  to  this  con- 
sideration. 

(6)  The  scope  of  the  Gospel  which  corresponds  to 
that  outlined  in  Peter's  address  to  Cornelius  (Acts  10 
37-41). 

(7)  The  book  suits  Peter's  character — impressionable 
rather  than  reflective,  and  emotional  rather  than  logical. 
To  such  men  arguments  are  of  minor  importance.  It 
is  deeds  that  count  (Burton,  Short  Intro). 

It  may  seem  to  militate  against  all  this  that  the  three 
striking  incidents  in  Peter's  career  narrated  in  Mt  14 
28-33  (walking  on  the  water),  17  24-27  (tribute  money), 
and  16  16-19  (the  church  and  the  keys),  should  'be 
omitted  in  Mk.  But  this  is  just  a  touch  of  that  fine 
courtesy  and  modesty  which  companionship  with  Jesus 
bred.  We  see  John  in  his  Gospel  hiding  himself  in  a 
similar  way.  These  men  are  more  likely  to  mention  the 
things  that  reflect  discredit  on  themselves.  It  is  only 
in  Mt's  list  of  the  Twelve  that  he  himself  is  called 
"the  publican."  So  "Peter  never  appears  in  a  separate 
role  in  Mk  except  to  receive  a  rebuke"  (Bacon). 

As  to  Mark's  authorship,  the  internal  evidence 
appears  slight.  Like  the  others,  he  does  not  ob- 
trude himself.  Yet  for  that  very  reason  what 
hints  there  are  become  the  more  impressive. 

There  may  be  something  in  Zahn's  point  that  the 
description  of  John  as  brother  of  James  is  an  unconscious 
betrayal  of  the  fact  that  the  author's  own  name  was  John. 
There  are  two  other  passages,  however,  which  are  clearer 
and  which  reinforce  each  other.  The  story  of  the  youth  in 
14  51  seems  to  be  of  a  different  complexion  from  other 
Gospel  incidents.  But  if  Mark  himself  was  the  youth, 
its  presence  is  explained  and  vindicated.  In  that  case 
it  is  likely  that  the  Supper  was  celebrated  in  his  own 
home  and  that  the  upper  room  is  the  same  as  that  in 
Acts  12.  This  is  favored  by  the  fuller  description  of  it 
in  Mk,  esp.  the  word  "ready" — a  most  natural  touch, 
the  echo  of  the  housewife's  exclamation  of  satisfaction 
when  everything  was  ready  for  the  guests.  It  is  made 
almost  a  certainty  when  we  compare  14  17  with  the 
parallels  in  Mt  and  Lk.  Mt  26  20  reads:  "  Xow  when 
even  was  come,  he  was  sitting  at  meat  with  the  twelve 
disciples";  Lk  22  14:  "And  when  the  hour  was  come, 
he  sat  down,  and  the  apostles  with  him";  while  Mk  has: 
"And  when  it  was  evening  he  cometh  with  the  twelve." 
The  last  represents  exactly  the  standpoint  of  one  in  the 
home  who  sees  Jesus  and  the  Twelve  approaching. 
(And  how  admirably  the  terms  "the  twelve  disciples," 
"the  apostles"  and  "the  twelve"  suit  Mt,  Lk,  and  Mk 
respectively.)  Such  phenomena,  undesigned  (save  by 
the  inspiring  Spirit),  are  just  those  that  would  not  have 
been  invented  later,  and  become  the  strongest  attesta- 
tion of  the  reliability  of  the  tradition  and  the  historicity 
of  the  narrative.  Modern  views  opposed  to  this  are 
touched  upon  in  what  follows. 

VI.  Sources  and  Integrity. — We  have  seen  that, 
according  to  the  testimony  of  the  Fathers,  Peter's 
preaching  and  teaching  are  at  least  the  main  source, 
and  that  many  features  of  the  Gospel  support  that 
view.  We  have  seen,  also,  subtle  but  weighty 
reasons  for  believing  that  Mark  added  a  little 
himself.  Need  we  seek  further  sources,  or  does 
inquiry  resolve  itself  into  an  analysis  of  Peter's 
teaching? 

B.  Weiss  believes  that  Mark  used  a  document 
now  lost  containing  mainly  sayings  of  Jesus,  called 
Logia  (L)  in  the  earlier  discussions,  but  now  com- 
monly known  as  Q.  In  that  opinion  he  has  recently 
been  joined  by  Sanday  and  Streeter.  Harnack, 
Sir  John  Hawkins  and  Wellhausen  have  sought 
to  reconstruct  Q  on  the  basis  of  the  non-Markan 
matter  in  Mt  and  Lk.  Allen  extracts  it  from  Mt 
alone,  thinking  that  Mk  also  may  have  drawn  a  few 
sayings  from  it.  Some  assign  a  distinct  source  for 
ch  13.  Streeter  considers  it  a  document  written 
shortly  after  the  fall  of  Jerus,  incorporating  a  few 
utterances  by  Jesus  and  itself  incorporated  bodily 
by  Mark.  Other  sources,  oral  or  written,  are 
postulated  by  Bacon  for  smaller  portions  and 
grouped  under  X.  He  calls  the  final  redactor  R — 
not  Mark  but  a  Paulinist  of  a  radical  type. 

In  forming  a  judgment  much  depends  upon  one's 
conception  of  the  teaching  method  of  Jesus  and  the 
apostles.     Teaching  and  preaching  are  not  synony- 


mous terms.  Mt  sums  up  the  early  ministry  in 
Galilee  under  ''teaching,  preaching  and  healing," 
and  gives  us  the  substance  of  that  teaching  as  it 
impressed  itself  upon  him.  Mk  reports  less  of  it, 
but  speaks  of  it  more  frequently  than  either  Mt 
or  Lk.  Jesus  evidently  gave  teaching  a  very  large 
place,  and  a  large  proportion  of  the  time  thus  spent 
was  devoted  to  the  special  instruction  of  the  inner 
circle  of  disciples.  The  range  of  that  instruction 
was  not  wide.  It  was  intensive  rather  than  exten- 
sive. He  held  Himself  to  the  vital  topic  of  the 
kingdom  of  God.  He  must  have;  gone  over  it  again 
and  again.  He  would  not  hesitate  to  repeat  in- 
structions which  even  chosen  men  found  it  so  diffi- 
cult to  understand.  Teaching  by  repetition  was 
common  then  as  it  is  now  in  the  East.  The  word 
"catechize"  (/car^x^w,  katechco)  implies  that,  and 
that  word  is  used  by  Paid  of  Jewish  (Rom  2  IS) 
and  by  Luke  of  Christian  teaching  (Lk  1  4).  See 
Catechist. 

The  novelty  in  His  teaching  was  not  in  method 
so  much  as  in  content,  authority  and  accompany- 
ing miraculous  power  (Mk  1  27).  Certainly  He 
was  far  removed  from  vain  repetition.  His  supreme 
concern  was  for  the  spirit.  Just  as  cert  ainly  He  was 
not  concerned  about  a  mere  reputation  for  origi- 
nality or  for  wealth  and  variety  of  resources.  He 
was  concerned  about  teaching  them  the  truth  so 
effectively  that  they  would  be  prepared  by  intel- 
lectual clearness,  as  well  as  spiritual  sympathy,  to 
make  it  known  to  others.  And  God  by  His  Provi- 
dence, so  kind  to  all  but  so  often  thwarted  by  human 
self-will,  was  free  to  work  His  perfect  work  for  Him 
and  make  all  things  work  together  for  the  further- 
ance of  His  purpose.  Thus  incidents  occur,  sit- 
uations arise  and  persons  of  all  types  appear  on  the 
scene,  calling  forth  fresh  instruction,  furnishing 
illustration  and  securing  the  presentation  of  truth 
in  fulness  with  proper  balance  and  emphasis  and 
in  right  perspective. 

Thus  before  His  death  the  general  character  of 
that  kingdom,  its  principles  and  prospects,  were 
taught.  That  furnished  the  warp  for  the  future 
Gospels.  The  essence,  the  substance  and  general 
form  were  the  same  for  all  the  Twelve;  but  each 
from  the  standpoint  of  his  own  individuality  saw 
particular  aspects  and  was  impressed  with  special 
details.  No  one  of  them  was  large  enough  to  grasp 
it  all,  for  no  one  wTas  so  great  as  the  Master.  And 
it  would  be  strange  indeed,  though  perhaps  not  so 
strange  as  among  us,  if  none  of  them  wrote  down 
any  of  it.  Ramsay,  Salmon  and  Palmer  are  quite 
justified  in  feeling  that  it  may  have  been  put  in 
writing  before  the  death  of  Jesus.  It  may  well  be 
that  Matthew  wrote  it  as  it  lay  in  his  mind,  giving 
us  substantially  Harnack's  Q.  John  and  James 
may  have  done  the  same  and  furnished  Luke  his 
main  special  source.  But  whether  it  was  written 
down  then  or  not,  the  main  fact  to  be  noted  is  that 
it  was  lodged  in  their  minds,  and  that  the  substance 
was,  and  the  details  through  mutual  conference 
increasingly  became,  their  common  possession. 
They  did  not  understand  it  all — I  lis  rising  from  the 
dead,  for  example.  But  the  words  were  lodged  in 
memory,  and  subsequent  events  made  their  meaning 
clear. 

Then  follow  the  great  events  of  His  death  and 
resurrection,  and  for  forty  days  in  frequent  appear- 
ances He  taught  them  the  things  concerning  the 
kingdom  of  God  and  expounded  in  all  the  Scriptures 
the  things  concerning  Himself,  esp.  the  necessity 
of  His  death  and  resurrection.  These  furnished  the 
woof  of  the  future  Gospels.  But  even  yet  they  are 
not  equipped  for  their  task.  So  He  promises  them 
His  Spirit,  a  main  part  of  whose  work  will  be  to 
bring  to  their  remembrance  all  He  had  said,  to  lead 
them  into  all  the  truth,  and  show  them  things  to 


Mark,  Gospel 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1992 


conic.     When   lie  has  come  they  will  be  ready  to 
witness  in  power. 

The  apostles'  conception  of  their  task  is  indicated 
in  some  measure  by  Peter  when  he  insisted  that  an 
indispensable  qualification  in  a  successor  to  Judas 
was  that,  he  must  have  been  with  them  from  the 
beginning  to  the  end  of  Christ's  ministry,  and  so 
be  conversant  with  I  lis  words  and  deeds.  From  the 
day  of  Pentecost  onward  they  gave  themselves 
preeminently  to  teaching.  The  thousands  con- 
verted on  that  day  continued  in  the  teaching  of  the 
apostles.  When  the  trouble  broke1  out  between 
Hebrews  and  Hellenists,  the  Seven  were  appointed 
because  the  apostles  could  not  leave  the  word  of 
God  to  serve  tables.  The  urgency  of  this  business 
may  have  been  one  reason  why  they  stayed  in 
Jerus  when  persecution  scattered  so  many  of  the 
church  (Acts  8  2).  They  were  thus  in  close  touch 
for  years,  not  only  through  the  struggle  between 
Hebrews  and  Hellenists,  but  until  the  admission  of 
the;  gentile  Cornelius  and  his  friends  by  Peter  had 
been  solemnly  ratified  by  the  church  in  Jerus  and 
possibly  until  the  Council  had  declared  against  the 
contention  that,  circumcision  was  necessary  for  sal- 
vation. During  these  years  they  had  every  oppor- 
tunity for  mutual  conference,  and  the  vital  im- 
portance of  the  questions  that  arose  would  compel 
them  to  avail  themselves  of  such  opportunities. 
Their  martyr-like  devotion  to  Jesus  would  make 
them  quick  to  challenge  anything  that  might  seem 
a  misrepresentation  of  His  teaching.  The  Acts 
account  of  their  discussions  at  great  crises  proves 
that  conclusively.  To  their  success  in  training 
others  and  the  accuracy  of  the  body  of  catachetical 
instruction  Luke  pays  fine  tribute  when  he  speaks 
of  the  "certainty"  or  undoubted  truth  of  it  (Lk  1  4). 
Thus  Jesus'  post-resurrection  expositions,  the  ex- 
perience of  the  years  and  the  guidance  of  the  Spirit 
are  the  source  and  explanation  of  the  apostolic 
presentation  of  the  gospel. 

Of  that  company  Peter  was  the  recognized  leader,  and 
did  more  than  any  other  to  determine  the  mold  into 
which  at  least  the  post-resurrection  teachings  were  cast. 
Luke  tells  us  of  many  attempts  to  record  them.  He  him- 
self in  his  brief  reports  of  Peter's  addresses  sketches  their 
broad  outlines.  Mark,  at  the  request  of  Pom  Christians 
and  with  Peter's  approval,  undertook  to  give  an  adequate 
account.  Two  special  facts  influenced  the  result — one, 
the  character  of  the  people  for  whom  he  wrote;  the 
other,  the  existence  (as  we  may  assume)  of  Matthew's  Q. 
It  would  be  natural  for  him  to  supplement  rather  than 
duplicate  that  apostolic  summary.  Moreover,  since  Q 
presented  mainly  the  ethical  or  law  side  of  Christianity 
the  supplement  would  naturally  present  the  gospel  side 
of  it — and  so  become  its  complement — while  at  the  same 
time  this  presentation  and  the  needs  of  the  people  for 
whom  he  specially  writes  make  it  necessary  to  add 
something  from  the  body  of  catochetical  material,  oral 
or  written,  not  included  in  Q,  as  his  frequent  «ai 
e\€yev,  kat  ilegen,  seems  to  imply  (Buckley,  152  ff). 
So  Mk's  is  "the  beginning  of  the  Gospel."  He  intro- 
duces Jesus  in  the  act  of  symbolically  devoting  Himself 
to  that  death  for  our  sins  and  rising  again,  which  consti- 
tutes the  gospel  and  then  entering  upon  His  ministry 
by  calling  upon  the  people  to  "repent  and  believe  in  tho 
gospel."  The  book  is  written  from  the  standpoint  of 
the  resurrection,  and  gives  the  story  of  the  passion  and 
of  the  ministry  in  a  perspective  thus  determined.  About 
the  same  time  it  may  be,  Matthew,  writing  for  Jewish 
Christians,  combines  this  gospel  side  of  the  teaching  with 
his  own  Q  side  of  it,  adding  from  the  common  stock  or 
abridging  as  his  purpose  might  suggest  or  space  might 
demand.  Later  Luke  does  a  similar  service  for  Or 
Christians  (cf  Harnack,  The  Twofold  Gospel  in  the  NT). 

The  only  serious  question  about  the  integrity 
of  the  book  concerns  the  last  twelve  vs,  for  a  dis- 
cussion of  which  see  under  III  above.  Some  have 
suggested  that  1  1-13  is  akin  to  16  9-20,  and  may 
have  been  added  by  the  same  hand.  But  while 
vocabulary  and  connection  are  main  arguments 
against  the  genuineness  of  the  latter,  in  both  these 
respects  1  1-K5  is  bound  up  with  the  main  body  of 
the  book.  Nor  is  there  sufficient  reason  for  deny- 
ing ch   13   as  a  true   report  of  what  Jesus  said. 


Wcndling's  theory  of  three  strata  assignable  to  three 
different  writers — historian,  poet,  and  theologian  — 
is  quite  overdrawn.  Barring  the  closing  verses, 
there  is  nothing  which  can  possibly  demand  any- 
thing more  than  an  earlier  and  a  later  edition  by 
Mark  himself,  and  the  strongest  point  in  favor  of 
that  is  Luke's  omission  of  6  4o — 8  26.  But  Haw- 
kins gives  other  reasons  for  that. 

VII.  Date  and  Place  of  Composition. — Ancient 
testimony  is  sharply  divided.  The  Paschal  Chroni- 
cle puts  it  in  40  AD,  and  many  MSS,  both  uncial 
and  cursive  (Harnack,  Chronologie,  70, 124)  10  or  12 
years  after  the  Ascension.  These  Swete  sets  aside 
as  due  to  the  mistaken  tradition  that  Peter  began 
work  in  Pome  in  the  2d  year  of  Claudius  (42  AD). 
Similarly  he  would  set  aside  the  opinion  of  Chrysos- 
tom  (which  has  some  MSS  subscriptions  to  support 
it)  that  it  was  written  in  Alexandria,  as  an  error 
growing  out  of  the  statement  of  Eusebius  (HE,  II, 
10)  that  Mark  went  to  Egypt  and  preached  there 
the  Gospel  he  composed.  This  he  does  in  deference 
to  the  strong  body  of  evidence  that  it  was  written 
in  Rome  about  the  time  of  Peter's  death.  Still 
there  remains  a  discrepancy  between  Irenaeus,  as 
commonly  understood,  and  theother  Fathers.  For, 
so  understood,  Irenaeus  places  it  after  the  death  of 
Peter,  whereas  Jerome,  Epiphanius,  Origen  and 
Clement  of  Alexandria  clearly  place  it  within  Peter's 
lifetime.  But  it  does  not  seem  necessary  so  to 
understand  Irenaeus.  It  may  be  that  it  was  com- 
posed while  Peter  was  living,  but  only  published 
after  his  death.  Christophorson  (1">70  AD)  had 
suggested  that  and  supported  it  by  the  conjectural 
emendation  of  eKdoo-iv,  ekdosin,  "surrendering," 
"imprisonment,"  for  e^odov,  exodon,  in  Irenaeus. 
Grabe,  Mill  and  others  thought  Irenaeus  referred, 
not  to  Peter's  death,  but  to  his  departure  from 
Rome  on  further  missionary  tours.  But  if  we  take 
exodon  in  that  sense,  it  is  better  to  understand  by 
it  departure  from  Pal  or  Syria,  rather  than  from 
Rome.  Irenaeus'  statement  that  the  apostles  were 
now  fully  furnished  for  the  work  of  evangelization 
(Adv.  Haer.,  iii.l)  certainly  seems  to  imply  that  they 
were  now  ready  to  leave  Pal ;  and  his  next  statement 
is  that  Matthew  and  Mark  wrote  their  respective 
Gospels.  And  Eusebius  (HE,  III,  24)  states  ex- 
plicitly that  Matthew  committed  his  Gospel  to  writ- 
ing "when  he  was  about"  to  leave  Pal  "to  goto  other 
peoples."  The  same  may  very  possibly  be  true  of 
Mark.  If  the  fact  be  that  Romans  in  Caesarea  or 
Antioch  made  the  request  of  Mark,  we  can  easily 
understand  how,  by  the  time  of  Irenaeus,  the  whole 
incident  might  be  transferred  to  Rome. 

If  this  view  be  adopted,  the  date  would  probably 
not  be  before  the  council  at  Jerus  and  the  events 
of  Gal  2  1 1  ff .  It  is  true  the  NT  hints  are  that  the 
apostles  had  left  Jerus  before  that,  but  that  they  had 
gone  beyond  Syria  is  not  likely.  At  any  rate,  at 
the  time  of  the  clash  at  Antioch  they  had  not  be- 
come so  clear  on  the  question  touching  Jews  and 
Gentilea  in  the  church  as  to  be  "fully  furnished 
for  the  work  of  universal  evangelization."  But 
may  it  not  be  that  Paul's  strong  statement  of  the 
seriousness  of  their  error  actually  did  settle  those 
questions  in  the  minds  of  the  leaders?  If  so,  and 
if,  with  new  vision  and  ardor,  they  turn  to  the  work 
of  world-wide  evangelism,  that  would  be  a  natural 
and  worthy  occasion  for  the  composition  of  the 
Gospel.  The  place  may  be  Caesarea  or  Antioch, 
and  the  date  not  earlier  than  50  AD.  This  is  the 
simplest  synthesis  of  the  ancient  testimony.  Mod- 
ern opinion  as  to  date  has  ranged  more  widely  than 
the  ancient.  Baur  and  Strauss  were  compelled 
by  their  tendency  and  mythical  theories  to  place  it 
in  the  2d  cent.  Recent  criticism  tends  strongly  to 
a  date  in  the  sixties  of  the  1st  cent.,  and  more  com- 
monly the  later  sixties.     This  is  based  partly  on 


1993 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA        Mark,  Gospel 


hints  in  the  Gospel  itself,  partly  on  its  relation  to 
Alt  and  Lk.  The  hints  usually  adduced  are  2  26 
and  13.  The  former,  representing  the  temple  as 
still  standing,  has  force  only  if  the  relative  clause 
be  Mark's  explanatory  addition.  Ch  13  has  more 
force  because,  if  Jerus  had  already  fallen,  we  might 
expect  some  recognition  of  the  fact. 

Two  other  slight  hints  may  be  mentioned.  The  omis- 
sion by  the  synoptists  of  the  raising  of  Lazarus,  and  of 
the  name  of  Mary  in  connection  with  the  anointing  of 
Jesus  argues  an  early  date  when  mention  of  them  might 
have  been  unpleasant  for  the  family.  When  the  Fourth 
Gospel  was  published,  they  may  have  been  no  longer 
alive.  The  description  of  John  as  the  brother  of  James 
(5  37)  may  also  take  us  back  to  an  early  date  when 
James  was  the  more  honored  of  the  two  brothers — 
though  the  unusual  order  of  the  names  maybe  due,  as 
Zahn  thinks,  to  the  author's  instinctively  distinguishing 
that  John  from  himself. 

The  relation  of  Mk  to  Mt  and  Lk  is  important 
if  the  very  widespread  conviction  of  the  priority 
of  Mk  be  true.  For  the  most  likely  date  for  Acts 
is  G2  AD,  as  suggested  by  the  mention  of  Paul's 
two  years'  residence  in  Rome,  and  Luke's  Gospel 
is  earlier  than  the  Acts.  It  may  well  have  been 
written  at  Caesarea  about  GO  AD:  that  again  throws 
Mk  back  into  the  fifties. 

The  great  objection  to  so  early  a  date  is  the  amount 
Of  detail  given  of  the  destruction  of  Jerus.  Abbott  and 
others  have  marshaled  numerous  other  objections,  but 
they  have  very  little  weight — most  of  them  indeed  are 
puerile.  The  real  crux  is  that  to  accept  an  earlier  date 
than  70  AD  is  to  admit  predictive  prophecy.  Yet  to 
deny  that,  esp.  for  a  believer  in  Christ,  is  an  unwarranted 
pre-judgment,  and  even  so  far  to  reduce  it  as  to  deny 
its  presence  in  this  passage  is  to  charge  Luke — a  con- 
fessedly careful  historian — with  ascribing  to  Jesus  state- 
ments which  He  never  made. 

The  eagerness  to  date  Mt  not  earlier  than  70  is  due 
to  tho  same  feeling.  But  the  problem  here  is  compli- 
cated by  the  word  "immediately"  (24  29).  Home 
regard  that  as  proof  positive  that* it  must  have  been 
written  before  the  destruction  of  Jerus.  Others  (e.g. 
Allen  and  Plummer)  feel  that  it  absolutely  forbids  a 
date  much  later  than  70  AD,  and  consider  75  AD  as  a 
limit.  But  is  it  not  possible  that  by  ei>0ew?,  eutheos 
(not  7rapaxp)")Mi,  pararhrh/ta) ,  Christ,  speaking  as  a 
prophet,  may  have  meant  no  more;  than  that  the  next 
great  event  comparable  with  tho  epochal  overthrow  of 
Judaism  would  be  His  own  return  and  that  the  Divine 
purpose  marches  straight  on  from  the  one  to  the  other? 
The  NT  nowhere  says  that  the  second  advent  would 
take  place  within  that  generation.  See  below  under 
"  Eschatology."  There  is  therefore  no  sufficient  reason 
in  the  Olivet  discourse  for  dating  Lk  or  Mt  later  than 
00  AD,  and  if  Mk  is  earlier,  it  goes  back  into  the  fifties. 

VIII.  Historicity. — Older  rationalists,  like  Paul- 
us,  not  denying  Mark's  authorship,  regarded  the 
miraculous  elements  as  misconceptions  of  actual 
events.  Strauss,  regarding  these  as  mythical,  was 
compelled  to  postulate  a  2d-cent.  date.  When, 
however,  the  date  was  pushed  back  to  the  neighbor- 
hood of  70  AD,  the  historicity  was  felt  to  be  largely 
established.  But  recently  the  theory  of  "prag- 
matic values"  has  been  developed;  Bacon  thus  states 
it:  "The  key  to  all  genuinely  scientific  appreciation 
of  Bib.  narrative  ....  is  the  recognition  of  motive. 
The  motive  ....  is  never  strictly  historical  but 
always  aetiological  and  frequently  apologetic. 
....  The  evangelic  tradition  consists  of  so  and 
so  many  anecdotes,  told  and  retold  for  the  pur- 
pose of  explaining  or  defending  beliefs  and  practices 
of  the  contemporary  church"  {Modern  Coram.,  Be- 
ginnings of  Gospel  Story,  9).  Bacon  works  out  the 
method  with  the  result  that  Mk  is  charged  again 
and  again  with  historical  and  other  blunders.  This 
view,  like  Baur's  tendency-theory,  has  elements  of 
truth.  One  is  that  the  vocabulary  of  a  later  day 
may  be  a  sort  of  necessary  tr  of  the  original  expres- 
sion. But  tr  is  neither  invention  nor  perversion. 
The  other  is  that  each  author  has  his  purpose,  but 
that  simply  determines  his  selection  and  arrange- 
ment of  material;  it  neither  creates  nor  misrepre- 
sents it  if  the  author  be  honest  and  well  informed. 
The  word   "selection"   is  advisedly  chosen.      The 


evangelists  did  not,  lack  material.  Each  of  the 
Twelve  had  personal  knowledge  beyond  the  con- 
tent, of  Q  or  of  Mk.  These  represent  the  central 
orb— the  one  the  ethical,  the  other  the  evangelic 
side  of  it — but  there  were  rays  of  exceeding  bright- 
ness radiating  from  it  in  all  directions.  Luke's 
introduction  and  John's  explicit  declaration  at  test 
that  fact.  And  neither  John  nor  Luke  throws 
the  slightest  suspicion  on  the  reliability  of  the 
material  they  did  not,  use.  There  is  no  sufficient 
reason  for  charging  them  with  misstating  the  facts 
to  make  a  point.  Bacon  seems  to  trust  any  other 
ancient  writers  or  even  his  own  imagination  rather 
than  the  evangelists.  The  test  becomes  alto- 
gether too  subjective.  Yet  since  Christianity  is  a 
historical  revelation,  perversion  of  history  may 
become  perversion  of  most  vital  religious  teaching. 
In  the  last  analysis,  the  critic  undertakes  to  decide 
just  what  Jesus  could  or  could  not  have  done  or 
said.  The  utter  uncertainty  of  the  result  is  seen 
by  a  comparison  of  Schmiedel  and  Bacon.  The 
former  is  sure  that  the  cry  "My  God,  my  God,  why 
hast  thou  forsaken  me"  is  one  of  the  very  few  gen- 
uine sayings  of  Jesus;  Bacon  is  equally  sure  that 
Jesus  could  not  have  uttered  it.  Bacon  also  charges 
Mark  with  "immoral  crudity"  because  in  10  45 
he  reports  Jesus  as  saying  that  He  came  "to  give 
his  life  a  ransom  for  [avrt,  anti]  many."  Thus  on 
two  most  vital  matters  he  charges  the  evangelists 
with  error  because  they  run  counter  to  his  own  reli- 
gious opinions. 

^  Plummer's  remark  is  just  {Coram,  on  Mt,  xxxiii): 
"To  decide  a  priori  that  Deity  cannot  become  in- 
carnate, or  that  incarnate  Deity  must  exhibit  such 
and  such  characteristics,  is  neither  true  philosophy 
nor  scientific  criticism."  And  A.  T.  Robertson 
("Mt"  in  Bible  for  Home  and  School,  20):  "The 
closer  we  get  to  the  historic  Jesus  the  surer  we  feel 
that,  He  lived  and  wrought  as  He  is  reported  in  the 
Synoptic  Gospels."  The  evangelists  had  oppor- 
tunities to  know  the  facts  such  as  we  have  not. 
The  whole  method  of  their  training  was  such  as  to 
secure  accuracy.  They  support  each  other.  They 
have  given  us  sketches  of  unparalleled  beauty, 
vigor  and  power,  and  have  portrayed  for  us  a  Person 
moving  among  men  absolutely  without  sin — a 
standing  miracle.  If  we  cannot  trust  them  for  the 
facts,  there  is  little  hope  of  ever  getting  at  the 
facts  at  all. 

IX.  Purpose  and  Plan. — Mark's  purpose  was  to 
write  down  the  Gospel  as  Peter  had  presented  it  to 
Romans,  so  say  the  Fathers,  at  least, 
1.  The  and  internal  evidence  supports  them. 

Gospel  for  In  any  additions  made  by  himself  he 
Romans  had  the  same  persons  in  mind.     That 

the  Gospel  was  for  Gentiles  can  be 
seen  {a)  from  the  tr  of  the  Aram,  expressions  in 
3  17  (Boanerges),  5  41  (Talitha  cumi),  7  11  (Cor- 
ban),  10  46  (Bartimaeus),  14  30  (Abba),  15  22  (Gol- 
gotha); {b)  in  the  explanation  of  Jewish  customs  in 
14  12  and  15  42;  (c)  from  the  fact  that  the  Law  is 
not  mentioned  and  the  OT  is  only  once  quoted  in 
Mark's  own  narrative;  {d)  the  gentile  sections,  esp. 
in  chs  6-8. 

That  it  was  for  Romans  is  seen  in  («)  the  ex- 
planation of  a  Gr  term  by  a  Lat  in  12  42;  {b)  the 
preponderance  of  works  of  power,  the  emphasis 
on  authority  (2  10),  patience  and  heroic  endurance 
(10  17  ft);  (c)  10  12  which  forbids  a  practice  that 
was  not  Jewish  but,  Rom.  Those  who  believe  it 
was  written  at  Rome  find  further  hints  in  the  men- 
tion of  Rufus  (15  21;  cf  Rom  16  13)  and  the  re- 
semblance between  7  1-23  and  Rom  14.  The  Rom 
centurion's  remark  (15  39)  is  the  Q.E.D.  of  the 
author,  and  bears  the  same  relation  to  Mark's  pur- 
pose as  Jn  20  31  to  John's. 

But  one  cannot  escape  the  feeling  that  we  have 


Mark,  Gospel 
Market 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1994 


in  this  Gospel  the  antitype  of  the  Servant  of  Je- 
hovah. A.  B.  Davidson  (<)T  Theol,  365)  tolls  us 
that  there  are  two  great  figures  around  which  Isaiah's 
thoughts  gather — the  King  and  the  Servant.  'Hie 
former  rises  "to  the  unsurpassable  height  of  'God 
with  us,'  'mighty  Cod,'  teaching  that  in  Him  God 
shall  be  wholly  present  with  His  people."  The 
Servant  is  the  other.  The  former  is  depicted  in 
Mt,  who  also  identifies  Him  with  the  Servant  (12 
18  f);  the  latter  by  Mk  who  identifies  Him  with  the 
Messianic  King  (11  10;  14  (12).  Davidson  sum- 
marizes the  description  of  the  Servant:  "(1)  He  is 
God's  chosen;  (2)  He  has  a  mission  to  establish 
judgment  on  the  earth The  word  is  His  in- 
strument and  the  Lord  is  in  the  Word,  or  rather 
He  Himself  is  the  impersonation  of  it;  (3)  His  en- 
dowment is  tin;  Spirit,  and  an  invincible  faith;  (4) 
There  is  in  Him  a  marvelous  combination  of  great- 
ness and  lowliness;  (5)  There  are  inevitable  suffer- 
ings— bearing  the  penalty  of  others'  sins;  (6)  He 
thus  redeems  Israel  and  brings  light  to  the  Gentiles. 
(7)  Israel's  repentance  and  restoration  precede  that 
broader  blessing."  It  is  not  strange  that  this  Serv- 
ant-conception— this  remarkable  blend  of  strength 
and  submission,  achieving  victory  through  apparent 
defeat— should  appeal  to  Peter.  He  was  himself 
an  ardent,  whole-souled  man  who  knew  both  defeat 
and  victory.  Moreover,  he  himself  had  hired  serv- 
ants (Mk  1  20),  and  now  for  years  had  been  a 
servant  of  Christ  (cf  Acts  4  29).  That  it  did 
appeal  to  him  and  became  familiar  to  the  early 
Christians  can  be  seen  from  Acts  3  13  and  4  30. 
In  his  First  Ep.  he  has  17  references  to  Isaiah,  9  of 
which  belong  to  the  second  part.  Temperamentally 
Mark  seems  to  have  been  like  Peter.  And  his  ex- 
perience in  a  wealthy  home  where  servants  were 
kept  (Acts  12  13),  and  as  himself  huperetes  of 
apostles  in  Christian  service,  fitted  him  both  to 
appreciat  e  and  record  the  character  and  doings  of  the 
perfect  servant— the  Servant  of  Jeh.  For  Rom 
Christians  that  heroic  figure  would  have  a  peculiar 
fascination. 

The  plan  of  the  Gospel  seems  to  have  been  in- 
fluenced   by    this    conception.     Christ's    kingship 

was  apprehended  by  the  Twelve  at  a 
2.  Plan  of  comparatively  early  date.  It  was 
the  Gospel    not  until  after  the  resurrection,  when 

Jesus  opened  to  them  the  Scriptures, 
that  they  saw  Him  as  the  Suffering  Servant  of  Isa 
53.  That  gave  Peter  his  gospel  as  we  have  already 
seen,  and  at  the  same  time  the  general  lines  of  its 
presentation.  We  see  it  sketched  for  Romans  in 
Acts  10.  That  sketch  is  filled  in  for  us  by  Mark. 
So  we  have  the  following  analysis: 

Title:  1  1 

1.  The  Baptist  preparing  the  way:    1  2-8;  cf  Isa  40  3  f . 

2.  Devotement  of  .Jesus  to  death  for  us  and  endowment 
by  the  Spirit:    1  9-13;  cf  Isa  42  1  ff- 

3.  His  greatness — the   Galilean  Ministry:     1   14 — 8  30; 
cf  Isa  43—52  12.  ,     j 

(1)  In  the  synagogue:  period  of  popular  favor  lead- 
ing to  break  with  Pharisaic  Judaism:    1    14 — 3  6. 

(2)  Outside  the  synagogue:  parabolic  teaching  of  the 
multitude,  choice  and  training  of  the  Twelve  and 
their  Great  Confession:   3  7  tr — 8  30. 

4.  His  lowliness — mainly  beyond  Galilee:    8  31 — 15;    cf 
Isa  52   13—53  0.  „    ,       ,       „     , 

(1)  In  the  north — announcement  of  death:  8  31— 
9  29. 

(2)  On  the  way  to  Jems  and  the  cross — through  Gali- 
lee (9  30-50),  Peraea  (10  1-45),  Judaea  (10  40- 
52). 

The  triumphal  entry  into  Jerus  (11  1-11). 
In  Jerus  and  vicinity — opposed  by  the  leaders 
(11  12 — 12  44);  foretelling  their  doom  (13); 
preparing  for  death  (14  1-42);  betrayed,  con- 
demned, crucified  and  buried  in  a  rich  man's 
tomb  (14  43—15). 

His    victory — the    resurrection:     Ch   16;    cf    Isa    53 
10-12.      What  follows  in  Isa  is  taken  up  in  Acts,  for 
the  first  part  of  which  Peter  or  Mark  may  have  been 
Luke's  main  source. 
Generally  speaking  the  plan  is  chronological,  but  it  is 


(3) 
(4) 


plain  that  the  material  is  sometimes  grouped  according 
to  subject-matter. 

This  Servant -conception  may  also  be  the  real 
explanation  of  some  of  the  striking  features  of  this 
Gospel,  e.g.  the  absence  of  a  genealogy  and  any 
record  of  His  early  life;  the  frequent  use  of  the 
word  "straightway";  the  predominance  of  deeds; 
the  Son's  not  knowing  the  day  (13  32);  and  the 
abrupt  ending  at  16  8  (see  III). 

X.  Leading  Doctrines. — The  main  one,  naturally, 

is  the   Person,  of  Christ.     The  thesis  is  thai    He  is 

Messiah,  Son  of  God,  Author  (Source) 

1.  Person  ofthegospel.  The  first  half  of  the  book 
of  Christ        closes  with  the  disciples'  confession  of 

His  Messiahship;  the  second,  with  the 
supreme  demonstration  that  He  is  Son  of  God. 
Introductory  to  each  is  the  Father's  declaration  of 
Him  as  His  Beloved  Son  (1  11;  9  7).  That  the 
sonship  is  unique  is  indicated  in  12  6  and  13  32. 
At  the  same  time  He  is  the  Son  of  Man — true  man 
(4  38;  8  5;  14  34);  ideal  man  as  absolutely  obe- 
dient to  God  (10  40;  14  36),  and  Head  of  humanity 
(2  10.28),  their  rightful  Messiah  or  King  (1  1;  14 
62)— yet  Servant  of  all  (10  44  f);  David's  Son  and 
David's  Lord  (12  37).  The  unique  Sonship  is  the 
final  explanation  of  all  else,  His  power,  His  knowl- 
edge of  both  present  (2  5.8;  8  17)  and  future  (8  31; 
10  39;  14  27;  13),  superiority  to  all  men,  whether 
friends  (1  7;  9  3  ff)  or  foes  (12  34),  and  to  super- 
human beings,  whether  good  (13  32)  or  evil  (1  13. 
32;  3  27). 

The  Father  speaks  in  1  11;  9  7;  is  spoken  of  in 

13  32;    and   spoken   to   in    14  36.     The  usual  dis- 

tinction   between    His    fatherhood  in 

2.  The  relation  to  Christ  and  in  relation  to  us 
Trinity  is    seen   in    11  25;    12  6   and    13  32. 

The  Spirit  is  mentioned  in  1  8.10.12; 
3  29  and  13  11.  The  last  passage  especially  im- 
plies His  personality. 

As  to  salvation,  the  Son  is  God's  final  messenger 
(12  0) ;   He  gives  His  life  a  ransom  instead  of  many 

(10  45);  His  blood  shed  is  thus  the  blood 

3.  Salva-       of  the  covenant  (14  24);  that  involves 
tion  for  Him  death  in  the  fullest  sense,  in- 
cluding rupture  of  fellowship  with  God 

(15  34).  From  the  outset  He  knew  what  was 
before  Him — oidy  so  can  His  baptism  be  explained 
(1  5.11;  cf  2  20);  but  the  horror  of  it  was  upon 
Him,  esp.  from  the  transfiguration  onward  (10  32; 

14  33-3G);  that  was  the  Divine  provision  for  sal- 
vation: He  gave  His  life  (10  45).  The  human 
condition  is  repentance  and  faith  (1  15;  2  5; 
5  34.36;  6  5;  9  23;  16  16),  though  He  bestows 
lesser  blessings  apart  from  personal  faith  (1  23-26 
5  1-20;  6  35-43).  The  power  of  faith,  within  the 
will  of  God,  is  limitless  (11  25);  faith  loads  to  doing 
the  will  of  God,  and  only  such  as  do  His  will  are 
Christ's  true  kindred  (3  35).  Salvation  is  possible 
for  Gentile  as  well  as  Jew  (7  24-30). 

The  eschatology  of  this  Gospel  is   found  chiefly 

in  8  34 — 9  1  and  13.     In  9  1  we  have  a  prediction 

of  the  overthrow  of  Jerus  which  is  here 

4.  Escha-  given  as  a  type  and  proof  of  His  final 
tology  coming  for  judgment  and  reward  which 

He  has  had  in  mind  in  the  preceding 
verses.  Ch  13  is  a  development  of  this — the  de- 
struction of  Jerus  being  meant  in  vs  5-23  and  28- 
31,  the  final  coming  in  vs  24-27  and  32.  The  dis- 
tinction is  clearly  marked  by  the  pronouns  ravra, 
tauta,  and  iKeiv-qs,  ekeines,  in  vs  30  and  32  (cf  Mt 
24  34.36).  In  each  passage  (9  1;  13  30)  the  fall 
of  Jerus  is  definitely  fixed  as  toward  the  close  of  that 
generation;  the  time  of  the  latter  is  known  only  to 
the  Father  (13  32).  Between  Christ's  earthly 
life  and  the  Second  Coming  He  is  seated  at  the  right 
hand  of  God  (12  36;  16  19).  The  resurrection 
which  He  predicted  for  Himself  (8  31;    9  31;    10 


1995 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Mark,  Gospel 
Market 


34)  and  which  actually  took  place  (eh  16),  He  affirms 
for  others  also  (12  24-27). 

Literature. — The  works  marked  with  the  asterisk  are 
specially  commended;    for  very  full    list    see  Molfat's 

I  ntro. 

Commentaries:  Fritzsche,  1S30;  Olshausen,  tr<i  1803; 
J.  A.  Alexander,  1863;  Lange,  trd  1806;  Meyer,*  1S66, 
Amer.  ed,  1884;  Cook,  Speaker's  Comm.,  1878;  Plumptre, 
Ellicott's,  1879;  Kiddle,  Schaff's,  187!);  W.  X.  Clarke. 
Amer.  Comm.,  1881;  Lindsay,  1883;  Broadus,*  1881  and 
1905;  Morison,  *1889;  H.  G.  Iloltzmann3,  1901;  Maclean, 
Cambridge  Bible,  1893;  Gould,  ICC,  1896;  Bruce,*  Expos 
(Ir  Test.,  1897;  B.  Weiss.  Meyer,  1901;  Menzies.  The 
Earliest  Gospel.  1901  ;  Salmond,  Centura  Bible:  Wellhausen2, 
1909;  Swete,*  1908;  Bacon,  The  Beginnings  of  Gospel 
Story,  1909;  Wohlenberg,  Zahn's  Series,  Das  Evangelium 
des  Markus,  1910.     For  the  earlier  see  Swete. 

Introduction:  Eichhorn,  1827;  Credner,  18:56; 
Schleiermacher,  1845;  Do  Wette,  1860;  Bleek.  i860, 
tri   1883;    Keuss,   1874,   trd  1884;     B.    Weiss.*  2<i  ed,  trd 


above,  and  in  II DB,  II,  234  ff;  Turner.*  "Chronology  of 
NT,"  HUB,  I,  403  11';  J.  J.  Scott,*  The  Making  of  the 
Gospels,  1905;  Burkitt,*  Gospel  History  ami  Its  Trans- 
mission. 1906;  Salmon,  Human  Element  in  the  Gospels, 
1907;  Harnack,*  Gesch.  der  altchristl.  Lit.,  I,  1893;  II, 
2d  ed,  1904;  Beitrdge  zur  Einleitung  in  das  XT,  4  vols, 
trd  in  "Crown  Theol.  Lib.,"  Luke  the  Physician,  1907; 
The  Sayings  of  Jesus,  1908;  The  Acts  of  the  Apostles, 
1909;  The  Date  of  the  Acts  and  of  the  Syn.  Gospels,  1911; 
Montefiore,  The  Synoptic.  Gospels,  1909;  Hawkins,* 
Horae  Synopticae,  2d  ed,  1909;  Denney,*  Jesus  and  the 
Gospel;  Cambridge  Biblical  Essays,*  ed  by  Swete,  1909; 
Oxford  Studies  in  the  S'/n.  Problem,*  (Ml  by  Sandav,  1911; 

Salmond,*  HDB.  Ill,  248  if;  Maclean,*  DCG,  II.  120  f; 

Petrie,  Growth  of  Gospels  Shown  In/  Structural  Criticism, 
1910;   Buckley,*  Intro  to  Synoptic  Problem,  1912. 

The  Language:  Dalman,*  Words  of  Jesus,  trd  1909; 
Deissmann,*  Bible  Studies.  trd  1901;  Light  from  the 
Ancient  East,  trd  i<)i0;  Allen,  Expos,  I.  ET,  1902; 
Marshall.  Expos.  1891-94;  Wellhausen.*  Einl;  Hatch, 
Essays  in  Bib.  Gr,  1889;  Swete  and  Hawkins. 


Bazaar  at  Jaffa. 


1886;  3ded,  1897;  II.  J.  Holtzmann,*  1892;  Th.  Zahn,* 
1897,  trJ  i<H)9;  G-odet,  1899;  .Jiilieher",  1906;  von  Soden, 
1905,  tH  1906;  Wendling,  Ur-Marcus,  1905;  A.  Miillcr, 
Gesc/iichtskerue  in  den  Erang..  1905;  Wrede,  Origin  of  X  T 
Scriptures,  1907,  trd  1909;  Home,  1875;  Westcott,*  Intro 
to  Study  of  Gospels,  7th  ed,  1888,  and  The  Canon,  6th  ed, 
1889;  Salmon,*  1897;  Adenev,  1899;  Bacon,  1900; 
Burton,  1904;  Moirat.*  Historical  XT,  1901;  Intro  to 
Lit.  of  XT,  1911;  Beake,  1909;  Gregory,  Einl,  1909; 
Charteris,  Canonicity,  1881;  The  XT  Scriptures,*  1882, 
and  popular  Intros  by  Plumptre,  1883;  Lumbv,  1883; 
Kerr,  1892;  McClymont,*  1893;  Dods.*  1894;  Lightfoot, 

Essays  on  the  Work  Entitled  Supernatural  Religion,  1889; 
Sanday,*  Gospels  in  the  2d  Cent.,  1874;  Stanton,*  Gospels 
as  Historical  Documents,  I,  1903;   II,  1909. 

Mark  and  the  Synoptic  Problem:  Rushbrooke, 
Synopticon,  1880;  Wright,*  Synopsis  of  the  Gospels  in 
Grei  I;,  3d  ed,  1906;  Composition  of  the  Four  Gospels, 
1890;  Some  XT  Problems,  1898;  H.  J.  Holtzmann,  Die 
synopt.  Erang.,  1863;  Weizsacker,  Untersuch.  iiber  die 
erang.  Gesch.,  2d  ed,  1901;  Wernle,  Die  synopt.  Fragr, 
1899;  Loisy,  Les  ev.  syn.,  1908;  Wellhausen,  Einl  in 
die  drei  erstcn  Erang.,  190.5;  Blass,  Origin  anil  Char,  of 
Our  Gospels,  ET,  xviii;  Norton,  Internal  Erid.  of  the. 
Genuineness  of  the  Gospels,  1847;  F.  II.  Woods,  Stud. 
Bihl.,  II,  594;  Palmer,*  Gospel  Problems  and  Their 
Solution,  1899;  J.  A.  Robinson,*  The  Study  of  the  Gos- 
pels, 1902;  Gloag,*  Intro  to  the  Synoptic  Gospels; 
Burton,*  Some  Principles  of  Lit.  Criticism  and  Their 
Application  to  the  Synoptic  Problem,  1904;    Stanton,*  as 


Text:  WH,  Intro  to  XT  in  Gr;  Salmon,  Intro,  ch  ix; 
Gregory,  Text  and  Canon;  Morison*  and  Swete,*  in 
Comm.;    Burgon,  Last  Twelve   Verses. 

Special:  Schweizer.*  truest  of  the  Historical  Jesus, 
1910;  Sanday,  Life  of  Christ  in  Recent  Research;  Emmet, 
Esehatologica'l  Question  in  the  Gospels,  1911;  Hogg, 
Christ's  Message  of  the  Kingdom,  1911;  Forbes,  The 
Servant  of  the  Lord,  1890;    Davidson,  OT  Theology. 

J.  H.  Farmer 

MARKET,  mar'ket,  MARKETPLACE,  mar'ket- 
plas,  MART,  mart  (3"}7£1 ,  maWabh,  "1HC ,  stihar; 
ccyopa,  agord):  (1)  Ma\lrubh,  from  a  root  meaning 
"trading"  and  hence  goods  exchanged,  and  so 
"merchandise"  in  RV,  "market"  in  AV,  occurs  only 
in  Ezk  27  13.17.19.25,  and  is  trd  correctly  "mer- 
chandise" in  both  ERV  and  ARV.  (2)  Sahar 
means  a  "trading  emporium,"  hence  mart,  and  mer- 
chandise. It  occurs  only  in  Isa  23  3  (see  Mer- 
chandise). (3)  Agora,  from  root  meaning  "to 
collect,"  means  a  "town  meeting-place,"  "resort  of 
the  people,"  so  a  place  where  the  public  generally 
met  to  exchange  views  and  wares.  No  doubt,  the 
central  place;  soon  filling  up,  the  people  thronged 
the  adjoining  streets,  and  so  in  time  each  street 


Market,  Sheep 
Marriage 


THIO  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1996 


thus  used  came  to  ho  nailed  agora,  "marketplace"; 
ti"1  "marketplaces] "  in  I  Esd  2  IS;  Toh  2  3;  Ml 
11  16;  20  3;  23  7;  Mk  6  56;  7  4;  12  3S;  Lk 
7  32;  11  43;  20  46;  Ads  16  19;  17  17;  "Market 
of  Appius"  in  Acts  28  15  means,  probably,  "street" 
(see  Appii  Forum). 

The  marketplace  in  NT  times  was  the  public 
open  space,  either  simple  or  ornate,  in  town,  city 
or  country,  where  (Mk  6  56)  the  people  congre- 
gated, not  only  for  exchange  of  merchandise,  but  for 
one  or  more  of  the  following  purpose's:  (1)  a  place 
where  the  children  came  together  to  sing,  dance  and 
play,  a  "back-to-date"  municipal  recreation  center 
(Mt  11  16.17;  Lk  7  32);  (2)  a  place  for  loafers,  a 
sort  of  ancient,  irresponsible  labor  bureau  where 
the  out-of-work  idler  waited  the  coming  of  an  em- 


Going  to  Market. 

ployer  with  whom  he  might  bargain  for  his  services, 
usually  by  the  day  (Mt  20  1-16);  (3)  a  place 
where  the  proud  pretender  could  parade  in  long 
robes  and  get  public  recognition,  "salutations  in  the 
market-places,"  e.g.  the  scribes  and  Pharisees 
against  whom  Jesus  emphatically  warns  His  dis- 
ciples (Mt  23  3-7;  Mk  12  38;  Lk  11  43;  20  46); 
(4)  a  place  where  the  sick  were  brought  for  treat- 
ment, the  poor  man's  sanatorium,  a  municipal 
hospital;  Jesus  "who  went  about  doing  good"  often 
found  His  opportunity  there  (Mk  6  56);  (5)  a 
place  of  preliminary  hearing  in  trials,  where  the 
accused  might  be  brought  before  rulers  who  were 
present  at  the  time,  e.g.  Paul  and  Silas  at  Philippi 
(Acts  16  19);  (6)  a  place  for  religious  and  prob- 
ably political  or  philosophical  discussion  (gossip 
also),  a  forum,  a  free-speech  throne;  no  doubt  often 
used  by  the  early  apostles  not  only  as  a  place  of 
proclaiming  some  truth  of  the  new  religion  but  also 
a  place  of  advertisement  for  a  coming  synagogue 
service,  e.g.  Paid  in  Athens  (Acts  17  17). 

Wisd  15  12  (AV)  has  "They  counted  .  .  .  our  time 
here  a  market  for  gain,"  RV  "a  gainful  fair,"  m 
"a  keeping  of  festival,"  Gr  Travriyvpio-^s,  paneguris- 
mos,  "an  assembly  of  all."  Such  assemblies  offered 
particular  opportunities  for  business  dealings. 

William  Edward  Raffety 

MARKET,  SHEEP.     See  Sheep  Market. 

MARMOTH,  mar'moth,  mar'moth  (B,  Mapp.w0i, 
Marmothi,  A,  MapjxaOC,  Marmathl):  "The  priest 
the  son  of  Unas"  to  whom  were  committed  the 
silver  and  gold  for  the  temple  by  the  returning  exiles 
(1  Esd  8  62)  =  "Meremoth"  in  ||  Ezr  8  33. 

MAROTH,  ma'roth,  ma'roth  (niTO ,  maroth; 
[Ka-roiKovo-a]      oSvvas,      [kaf.oikoiisa]     odunas) :      An 


unknown  town  probably  in  the  I'hili  plain,  named 
by  Micah  (1  12). 

MARRIAGE,  mai'ij: 
!  ntroductory 

Scope  and  Viewpoint  of  the  Present  Article 

1.  Marriage  among  the  Hebrews 

2.  Betrothal  the  First  Formal  l'art 
■i.   Wedding  Ceremonies 

■1.  Jesus'  Sanction  of  the  Institution 
5.  His  Teaching  concerning  Divorce 
Literature 

It  would  be  interesting  to  study  marriage  biologically 
and  sociologically,  to  get  the  far  and  near  historical  and 
social  background  of  it  as  an  institution,  esp.  as  it  existed 
among  the  ancient  Jews,  and  as  it  figures  in  the  teaching 
of  Jesus  as  recorded  in  the  NT.  For,  like  all  social  in- 
stitutions, marriage,  and  the  family  which  is  the  out- 
come of  marriage,  must  be  judged,  not  by  its  status  at 
any  particular  time,  but  in  tin'  light  of  its  history.  Such 
a  study  of  it  would  raise  a  host  of  related  historic  ques- 
tions, e.g.  What  was  its  origin?  What  part  has  it 
played  in  tin;  evolution  and  civilization  of  the  race? 
What  social  functions  litis  it  performed  ?  And  then,  as 
a  sequel,  Can  the  services  it  has  rendered  to  civilization 
and  progress  be  performed  or  secured  in  any  other  way  ? 
This,  indeed,  would  call  for  us  to  go  back  even  farther — 
to  try  to  discover  the  psychology  of  the  institution  and 
its  history,  the  beliefs  from  which  it  has  sprung  and  by 
which  it  has  survived  so  long.  This  were  a  task  well 
worth  while  and  amply  justified  by  much  of  the  thinking 
of  our  time;  for,  as  one  of  the  three;  social  institutions 
that  support  the  much  challenged  form  and  fabric  of 
modern  civilization,  marriage,  private  property  and  the 
state,  its  continued  existence,  in  present  form  at  least,  is 
a  matter  of  serious  discussion  and  its  abolition,  along 
with  the  other  two,  is  confidently  prophesied.  "Mar- 
riage, as  at  present  understood,  is  an  arrangement  most 
closely  associated  with  the  existing  social  status  and 
stands  or  falls  with  it"  (Bebel,  Socialism  and  Sex,  199, 
Reeves,  London;  The  Cooperative  Commonwealth  in  Its 
Outline,  Gronlund,  224).  But  such  a  task  is  entirely 
outside  of  and  beyond  the  purpose  of  this  article. 

Neither  the  Bible  in  general,  nor  Jesus  in  par- 
ticular, treats  of  the  family  from  the  point  of  view 
of  the  historian  or  the  sociologist,  but  solely  from 
that  of  the  teacher  of  religion  and  morals.  In 
short,  their  point  of  view  is  theological,  rather  than 
sociological.  Moses  and  the  prophets,  no  less  than 
Jesus  and  His  apostles,  accepted  marriage  as  an 
existing  institution  which  gave  rise  to  certain  prac- 
tical, ethical  questions,  and  they  dealt  with  it  ac- 
cordingly. There  is  nothing  in  the  record  of  the 
teachings  of  Jesus  and  of  His  apostles  to  indicate 
that  they  gave  to  marriage  any  new  social  content, 
custom  or  sanction.  They  simply  accepted  it  as 
it  existed  in  the  conventionalized  civilization  of  the 
Jews  of  their  day  and  used  it  and  the  customs  con- 
nected with  it  for  ethical  or  illustrative  purposes. 
One  exception  is  to  be  made  to  this  general  state- 
ment, viz.  that  Jesus  granted  that  because  of  the 
exigencies  of  the  social  development  Moses  had 
modified  it  to  the  extent  of  permitting  and  regu- 
lating divorce,  clearly  indicating,  however,  at  the 
same  time,  that  He  regarded  such  modification  as 
out  of  harmony  with  the  institution  as  at  first  given 
to  mankind.  According  to  the  original  Divine 
purpose  it  was  monogamous,  and  any  form  of  polyg- 
amy, and  apparently  of  divorce,  was  excluded  by 
the  Divine  idea  and  purpose.  The  treatment  of 
the  subject  here,  therefore,  will  be  limited  as  follows: 
Marriage  among  the  Ancient  Hebrews  and  Other 
Semites;  Betrothal  as  the  Eirst  Formal  Part  of  the 
Transaction;  Wedding  Ceremonies  Connected  with 
Marriage,  esp.  as  Reflected  in  the  NT;  and  Jesus' 
Sanction  and  Use  of  the  Institution,  Teaching 
concerning  Divorce,  etc. 

With  the  Hebrews  married  life  was  the  normal 
life.  Any  exception  called  for  apology  and  ex- 
planation. "Any  Jew  who  has  not 
1.  Marriage  a  wife  is  no  man"  (Talmud).  It  was 
among  the  regarded  as  awaiting  everyone  on 
Hebrews  reaching  maturity;  and  sexual  ma- 
turity comes  much  earlier  indeed  in 
the  East  than  with  us  in  the  West — in  what  we 
call  childhood.     The  ancient  Hebrews,  in  common 


1997 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


with  all  Orientals,  regarded  the  family  as  the  social 
unit.  In  this  their  view  of  it,  coincides  with  that 
of  modern  sociologists.  Of  the  three  great,  events 
in  the  family  life,  birth,  marriage  and  death,  mar- 
riage was  regarded  as  the  most  important.  It  was 
a  step  that  led  to  the  gravest  tribal  and  family  con- 
sequences. In  case  of  a  daughter,  if  she  should 
prove  unsatisfactory  to  her  husband,  she  would 
likely  be  returned  to  the  ancestral  home,  discarded 
and  discredited,  and  there  would  be  almost  inevi- 
tably a  feeling  of  injustice'  engendered  on  one  side, 
and  a  sense  of  mutual  irritation  between  the  families 
(Jgs  14  20;  1  S  18  19).  If  she  failed  to  pass 
muster  with  her  mother-in-law  she  would  just  as 
certainly  have  to  go,  and  the  results  would  be  much 
the  same  (cf  customs  in  China).  It  was  a  matter 
affecting  the   whole   circle   of   relatives,  and   pos- 


Modorn  Arab  Marriage  Procession. 

sibiy  tribal  amity  as  well.  It  was  natural  and 
deemed  necessary,  therefore,  that  the  selection  of 
the  wife  and  the  arrangement  of  all  contractual 
and  financial  matters  connected  with  it  should  be 
decided  upon  by  the  parents  or  guardians  of  the 
couple  involved.  Though  the  consent  of  the  parties 
was  sometimes  sought  (Gen  24  8)  and  romantic; 
attachments  were  not  unknown  (Gen  29  20;  34  3; 
Jgs  14  1;  IS  18  20),  the  girl  or  woman  in  the 
case  was  not  currently  thought  of  as  having  a  per- 
sonal existence  at  her  own  disposal.  She  was  simply 
a  passive  unit  in  the;  family  under  the  protection  and 
supreme  control  of  father  or  brothers.  In  marriage, 
she  was  practically  the  chattel,  the  purchased  pos- 
session and  personal  property  of  her  husband,  who 
was  her  ba'al  or  master  (Ifos  2  10),  she  herself 
being  beXulah  (Isa  62  4).  The  control,  however, 
was  not  always  absolute  (Gen  26  34;  Ex  2  21). 
The  bargaining  instinct,  so  dominant  among 
Orientals  then  as  now,  played  a  large  part  in  the 
transaction.  In  idea  the  family  was  a  little  king- 
dom of  which  the  father  was  the  king,  or  absolute 
ruler.  There  are  many  indications,  not  only  that 
the  family  was  the  unit  from  which  national  coher- 
ence was  derived,  but  that  this  unit  was  perpetuated 
through  the  supremacy  of  the  oldest  male.  Thus 
society  became  patriarchal,  and  this  is  the  key  of 
the  ancient  history  of  the  family  and  the  nation. 
Through  the  expansion  of  the  family  group  was 
evolved  in  turn  the  clan,  the  tribe,  the  nation,  and 
the  authority  of  the  father  became  in  turn  that  of  the 
chief,  the  ruler,  and  the  king.  The  Oriental  cannot 
conceive,  indeed,  of  any  band,  or  clan,  or  company 
without  a  "father,"  even  though  there  be  no  kith 
or  kinship  involved  in  the  matter.  The  "father" 
in  their  thought,  too,  was  God's  representative,  and 
as  such  he  was  simply  carrying  out  God's  purpose, 
for  instance,  in  selecting  a  bride  for  his  son,  or  giving 
the  bride  to  be  married  to  the  son  of  another.    This 


Market,  Sheep 
Marriage 


is  as  true  ,,f  the  far  East  as  of  the  near  East  today. 
Accordingly,  as  a,  rule,  tin;  young  people  simply 
acquiesced,  without,  question  or  complaint,  in  what 
was  thus  done  for  them,  accepting  it  as  though  Cod 
had  done;  it  directly.  Accordingly,  too,  the  family 
and  tribal  loyalty  overshadowed  love-making  and 
patriotism,  in  the  larger  sense.  Out  of  this  idea 
of  the  solidarity  and  selectness  of  the  tribe  and 
family  springs  the  overmastering  desire  of  the 
Oriental  for  progeny,  and  for  the  conservation  of 
the  family  or  the  tribe  at  any  cost.  Hence  the 
feuds,  bloody  and  bitter,  that  persist  between  this 
family  or  tribe;  and  another  that  has  in  any  way 
violated  this  sacred  law. 

Traces  of  what  is  known  as  be.ena  marriage  are  found 
in  the  OT,  e.g.  that  of  Jacob,  where  Laban  claims 
Jacob  s  wives  and  children  as  his  own  (Gen  31  31.43) 
and  that  of  Moses  (Ex  2  21;  4  18).  This  is  that  form 
of  marriage  in  winch  the  husband  is  incorporated  into  the 
wife's  tribe,  the  children  belonging  to  her  tribe  and  descent, 
being  reckoned  on  her  side  (cf  \V.  Robertson  Smith,  Kin- 
shipand  Marriage  in  Early  Arabia,  94).  In  Samson's  case 
we  seem  to  have  an  instance  of  what  is  known  among 
Arabs  as  gadkat  marriage  (from  gadak,  "gift"),  the  kid 
here  being  the  customary  gadak  (Jgs'14;  15  1;  16  4). 
There  is  no  hint  that  he  meant  to  take  his  wife  home. 
It  is  differentiated  from  prostitution  in  that  no  disgrace 
is  attached  to  it  and  thechildren  are  recognized  as  legiti- 
mate by  the  tribe.  Such  marriages  make  it  easier  to  un- 
derstand the  existence  of  the  matriarchate,  or  the  custom 
of  reckoning  the  descent  of  children  and  properly  through 
the  mot  Iters.  The  influence  of  polygamy  would  work 
in  the  same  direction,  subdividing  the  family  into  smaller 
groups  connected  with  the  several  wives.  There  is,  how- 
ever, no  clear  evidence  in  the  OT  of  polyandry  (a  plural- 
ity of  li  tisbands) ,  t  hough  the  Levirate  marriage  is  regarded 
by  some  as  a  survival  of  it.  In  other  words,  polygamy 
among  the  Hebrews  seems  to  have  been  confined  to  polyg- 
yny (a  plurality  of  wives).  It  is  easy  to  trace  its  chief 
causes:  (1)  desire  for  a  numerous  offspring  ("May  his 
tribe  increase!") ;  (2)  barrenness  of  first  wife  (as  in  Abra- 
ham's case);  (3)  advantages  offered  bv  marital  alliances 
(e.g.  Solomon);  (4)  the  custom  of  making  wives  of  cap- 
tives taken  in  war  (cf  Ps  45  3.!));  (5)  slavery,  which  as 
it  existed  in  the  Orient  almost  implied  it. 

Betrothal  with  the  ancient  Hebrews  was  of  a  more 
formal  and  far  more  binding  nature  than  the  "en- 
gagement" is  with  us.     Indeed,  it  was 
2.  Be-  esteemed  a  part  of  the  transaction  of 

trothal  marriage,  and  that  the  most  binding 

part.  Among  the  Arabs  today  it  is 
the  only  legal  ceremony  connected  with  marriage. 
Gen  24  58.60  seems  to  preserve  for  us  an  example 
of  an  ancient  formula  and  blessing  for  such  an 
occasion.  Its  central  feature  was  the  dowry 
irnohar),  which  was  paid  to  the  parents,  not  to  the 
bride.  It  may  take  the  form  of  service  (Gen  29; 
1  S  18  25).  It  is  customary  in  Syria  today,  when 
the  projected  marriage  is  approved  by  bot  h  families, 
and  all  the  financial  preliminaries  have  been  settled, 
to  have  this  ceremony  of  betrothal.  It  consists  in 
the  acceptance  before  witnesses  of  the  terms  of  the 
marriage  as  contracted  for.  Then  God's  blessing 
is  solemnly  asked  on  the  union  thus  provided  for, 
but  to  take  place  probably  only  after  some  months, 
or  perhaps  some  years.  The  betrothal  effected,  all 
danger  from  any  further  financial  fencing  and  bluff- 
ing now  being  at  an  end,  happiness  and  harmony 
may  preside  over  all  the  arrangements  for  the  mar- 
riage day.  Among  the  Jews  the  betrothal  was 
so  far  regarded  as  binding  that,  if  marriage  should 
not  take  place,  owing  to  the  absconding  of  the 
bridegroom  or  the  breach  of  contract  on  his  part, 
the  young  woman  could  not  be  married  to  another 
man  until  she  was  liberated  by  a  due  process  atid  a 
paper  of  divorce.  A  similar  custom  prevails  in 
China  and  Japan,  and  in  cases  becomes  very  op- 
pressive. The  marriage  may  have  been  intended 
by  the  parents  from  the  infancy  of  the  parties,  but 
this  formality  of  b'trothal  is  not  entered  on  till  the 
marriage  is  considered  reasonably  certain  and 
measurably  near.  A  prolonged  interval  between 
betrothal  and  marriage  was  deemed  undesirable 
on  many  accounts,  though  often  an  interval  was 


Marriage 
Marsena 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


1998 


needed  that  the  groom  might  render  the  stipulated 
service  or  pay  the  price — say  a  year  or  two,  or,  as 
in  the  ease  of  Jacob,  it,  might  be  seven  years.  The 
betrothed  parties  were  legally  in  the  position  of  a 
married  couple,  and  unfaithfulness  was  "adultery" 
(Dt  22  23;  Mt  1  19). 

Polygamy  is  likely  to  become  prevalent  only  where 
conditions  are  abnormal,  as  when'  there  is  a  dispropor- 
tionate number  of  females,  as  in  tribal  life  in  a  state  of 
war.  In  settled  conditions  it  is  possible  only  to  those 
able  to  provide  "dowry  "  and  support  for  each  and  all  of 
the  wives. 

The,  fact  of  polygamy  in  OT  times  is  abundantly  wit- 
nessed in  the  cases  of  Abraham,  Jacob,  the  judges, 
David,  Solomon,  etc.  It  was  prevalent  in  Issachar 
(1  Oh  7  4);  among  the  middle  class  (18  1  If).  But 
it  is  treated,  even  in  the  OT,  as  incompatible  with  the 
Divine  ideal  (Gen  2  24),  and  its  original  is  traced  to  a 
deliberate  departure  from  that  ideal  by  Lantech,  the 
Cainite  (Gen  4  10).  Kings  are  warned  against  it 
(Dt  17  17;  cf  Gen  29  31;  30).  Noah,  Isaac  and 
Joseph  had  each  only  one  wife,  and  Bible  pictures  of 
domestic  happiness  are  always  connected  with  monog- 
amy (2  K  4;  Ps  128;  Prov  31;  cf  Sir  25  1;  26 
1.13).  .Marriage  is  applied  figuratively,  too,  to  the 
union  between  God  and  Israel,  implying  monogamy 
as  the  ideal  state.  Nevertheless,  having  the  advantage 
of  precedent,  it  was  long  before  polygamy  fell  into  dis- 
use in  Heb  society.  Herod  had  nine  wives  at  one  time 
(Jos,  Ant,  XVII,  i,  2).  Justin  Martyr  {Dial.,  134,  141) 
reproaches  Jews  of  his  day  with  having  "four  or  even 
five  wives,"  and  for  "marrying  as  many  as  they  wish" 
(cf  Talm).  It  was  not  definitely  and  formally  forbidden 
among  jews  until  c  1000  AD.  It  exists  still  among 
Jews  in  Moslem  lands.  Side  by  side  with  this  practice 
all  along  has  been  the  ideal  principle  (Gen  2  18)  re- 
buking and  modifying  it.  The  legal  theory  that  made 
the  man  "lord"  of  the  wife  (Gen  3  10;  Tenth  Com- 
mandment) was  likewise  modified  in  practice  by  the 
affection  of  the  husband  and  the  personality  of  the  wife. 

The  difference  between  a  concubine  and  a  wife  was 
largely  due  to  the  wife's  birth  and  higher  position  and 
the  fact  that  she  was  usually  backed  by  relatives  ready 
to  defend  her.  A  slave  could  not  be  made  a  concubine 
without  the  wife's  consent  (Gen  16  2). 

There  is  a  disappointing  uncertainty  as  to  the 
exact  ceremonies  or  proceedings  connected  with 
marriage  iti  Bible  times.  We  have  to 
3.  Cere-  paint  our  picture  from  passing  allu- 
monies  sions  or  descriptions,  and  from   what 

we  know  of  Jewish  and  Arab,  customs. 
In  cases  it  wotdd  seem  that  there  was  nothing  beyond 
betrothal,  or  the  festivities  following  it  (see  Gen  24 
3  ff).  Later,  in  the  case  of  a  virgin,  an  interval  of 
not  exceeding  a  year  came  to  be  observed. 

The  iirst  ceremony,  the  wedding  procession,  appar- 
ently a  relic  of  marriage  by  capture  (cf  Jgs  5  30; 
Ps  45  15),  was  the  first  part  of  the  proceedings. 
The  bridegroom's  "friends"  (Jn  3  29)  went, 
usually  by  night,  to  fetch  the  bride  and  her  attend- 
ants to  the  home  of  the  groom  (Mt  9  15;  Jn  3  29). 
The  joyousness  of  it  all  is  witnessed  by  the  prover- 
bial "voice  of  the  bridegroom"  and  the  cry,  "Behold 
the  bridegroom  cometh!"  (Jer  7  34;  Rev  18  23). 
The  procession  was  preferably  by  night,  chiefly,  we 
may  infer,  that  those  busy  in  the  day  might  attend, 
and  that,  in  accordance  with  the  oriental  love  of 
scenic  effects,  the  weird  panorama  of  lights  and 
torches  might  play  ait  engaging  and  kindling  part. 

The  marriage  supper  then  followed,  generally 
in  the  home  of  the  groom.  Today  in  Syria,  as  Dr. 
Mackie,  of  Beirut,  says,  when  both  parties  live  in 
the  same  town,  the  reception  may  take  place  in 
either  home;  but  the  older  tradition  points  to  the 
house  of  the  groom's  parents  as  the  proper  place. 
It  is  the  bringing  home  of  an  already  accredited 
bride  to  her  covenanted  husband.  She  is  escorted  by 
a  company  of  attendants  of  her  own  sex  and  by 
male  relatives  and  friends  conveying  on  mules  or  by 
porters  articles  of  furniture  ami  decoration  for  the 
new  home.  As  the  marriage  usually  takes  place  in 
the  evening,  the  house  is  given  tip  for  the  day  to  the 
women  who  are  busy  robing  the  bride  and  making 
ready  for  the  coming  hospitality.  The  bridegroom 
is  absent  at  the  house  of  a  relative  or  friend,  where 
men  congregate  in  the  evening  for  the  purpose  of 


escorting  him  home.  When  he  indicates  that  it  is 
time  to  go,  all  rise  up,  and  candles  and  torches  are 
supplied  to  those  who  are  to  form  the  procession, 
and  they  move  off.  It  is  a  very  picturesque  sight 
to  see  such  a  procession  moving  along  the  unlighted 
way  in  the  stillness  of  the  starry  night,  while,  if  it 
be  in  town  or  city,  on  each  side  of  the  narrow  street, 
from  the  fiat  housetop  or  balcony,  crowds  look 
down,  and  the  women  take  up  the  peculiar  cry  of 
wedding  joy  that  tells  those  farther  along  that  the 
pageant  has  started.  This  cry  is  taken  up  all  along 
the  route,  and  gives  warning  to  those  who  are  wait- 
ing with  the  bride  that  it  is  time  to  arise  and  light, 
up  the  approach,  and  welcome  the  bridegroom  with 
honor.  As  at  the  house  where  the  bridegroom 
receives  his  friends  before  starting  some  come  late, 
and  speeches  of  congratulation  have  to  be  made, 
and  poems  have  to  be  recited  or  sung  in  praise  of 
the  groom,  and  to  the  honor  of  his  family,  it  is  often 
near  midnight  when  the  procession  begins.  Mean- 
while, as  the  night  wears  on,  and  the  duties  of 
robing  the  bride  and  adorning  the  house  are  all 
done,  a  period  of  relaxing  and  drowsy  waiting  sets 
in,  as  when,  in  the  NT  parable,  both  the  wise  and 
the  foolish  virgins  were  overcome  with  sleep.  In 
their  case  the  distant  cry  on  the  street  brought  the 
warning  to  prepare  for  the  reception,  and  then  came 
the  discovery  of  the  exhausted  oil. 

Of  the  bridegroom's  retinue  only  a  limited  number 
would  enter,  their  chief  duty  being  that  of  escort.  They 
illicit  call  next  day  to  oifer  congratulations.  An  Arab. 
wedding  rhyme  says: 

"To  the  bridegroom's  door  went  the  torch-lit  array. 
And  then  like  goats  they  scattered  away." 

With  their  dispersion,  according  to  custom,  the  doors 
would  be  closed,  leaving  within  the  relatives  and  invited 
guests;  and  so,  when  the  belated  virgins  of  the  parable 
hastened  back,  they  too  found  themselves  inexorably 
shut  out  by  the  etiquette  of  the  occasion.  The  opport  u- 
nity  of  service  was  past,  and  they  were  no  longer  needed. 

At  the  home  all  things  would  be  "made  ready," 
if  possible  on  a  liberal  scale.  Jn  2  gives  a  picture 
of  a  wedding  feast  where  the  resources  were  strained 
to  the  breaking  point.  Hospitality  was  here  osp. 
a  sacred  duty,  and,  of  course,  greatly  ministered 
to  the  joy  of  the  occasion.  An  oriental  proverb  is 
significant  of  the  store  set  by  it : 

"He  who  does  not  invite  me  to  his  marriage 
Will  not  have  me  to  his  funeral." 

To  decline  the  invitation  to  a  marriage  was  a  gross 
insult  (Mt  22). 

It  was  unusual  in  Galilee  to  have  a  "ruler  of  the 
feast"  as  in  Judaea  (Jn  2).  There  was  no  formal 
religious  ceremony  connected  with  the  Heb  mar- 
riage as  with  us — there  is  not  a  hint  of  such  a  thing 
in  the  Bible.  The  marriage  was  consummated  by 
entrance  into  the  "chamber,"  i.e.  the  nuptial 
chamber  (Heb  hedher),  in  which  stood  the  bridal 
bed  with  a  canopy  (huppah),  being  originally  the 
wife's  tent  (Gen  24  67;  Jgs  4  17).  In  all  lands 
of  the  dispersion  the  name  is  still  applied  to  the 
embroidered  canopy  under  which  the  contracting 
parties  stand  or  sit  during  the  festivities.  _  In  Arab. 
Syr  and  Heb  the  bridegroom  is  said  to  "go  in"  to  the 
bride. 

A  general  survey  of  ancient  marriage  laws  and 
customs  shows  that  those  of  the  Hebrews  are  not  a 
peculiar  creation  apart  from  those  of  other  peoples. 
A  remarkable  afHnity  to  those  of  other  branches 
of  the  Sem  races  esp.,  may  be  noted,  and  striking 
parallels  are  found  in  the  CH,  with  regard,  e.g.,  to 
betrothal,  dowry,  adultery  and  divorce.  But 
modern  researches  have  emphasized  the  relative 
purity  of  OT  sexual  morality.  In  this,  as  in  other 
respects,  the  Jews  had  a  message  for  the  world. 
Yet  we  should  not  expect  to  find  among  them  the 
Christian  standard.     Under  the  new  dispensation 


1999 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Marriage 
Marsena 


the  keynote  is  struck  by  Our  Lord's  action.  The 
significance  of  His  attending  the  marriage  feast  at 
Cana  and  performing  His  first  miracle  there  can 
hardly  be  exaggerated.  The  act  corresponds,  too, 
with  His  teaching  on  the  subject.  He,  no  less  than 
Paid,  emphasizes  both  the  honorableness  of  the 
estate  and  the  heinousness  of  all  sins  against  it. 

The  most  characteristic  use  of  marriage  and  the 
family  by  Our  Lord  is  that  in  which  He  describes 

the  kingdom  of  God  as  a  social  order 
4.  Jesus'  in  which  the  relationship  of  men  to 
Use  of  the  God  is  like  that  of  sons  to  a  father, 
Institution     and  their  relation  to  each  other  like 

that  between  brothers.  This  social 
ideal,  which  presents  itself  vividly  and  continuously 
to  His  mind,  is  summed  up  in  this  phrase,  "King- 
dom of  God,"  which  occurs  more  than  a  hundred 
times  in  the  Synoptic  Gospels.  The  passages  in 
which  it  occurs  form  the  interior  climax  of  His 
message  to  men.  It  is  no  new  and  noble  Judaism, 
taking  the  form  of  a  political  restoration,  that  lie 
proclaims,  and  no  "far-off  Divine  event"  to  be  real- 
ized only  in  some  glorious  apocalyptic  consum- 
mation; but  a  kingdom  of  God  "within  you,"  the 
chief  element  of  it  communion  with  God,  the  loving 
relation  of  "children"  to  a  "Father,"  a  present 
possession.  Future  in  a  sense  it  may  be,  as  a  result 
to  be  fully  realized,  and  yet  present";  invisible,  and 
yet  becoming  more  and  more  visible  as  a  new  social 
order,  a  conscious  brotherhood  with  one  common, 
heavenly  Father,  proclaimed  in  every  stage  of  His 
teaching  in  spite  of  opposition  and  varying  fortunes 
with  unwavering  certainty  of  its  completion — this 
is  the  "kingdom"  that  Jesus  has  made  the  inalien- 
able possession  of  the  Christian  consciousness.  His 
entire;  theology  may  be  described  as  a  transfigura- 
tion of  the  family  (see  Peabodv,  Jesus  Christ,  and 
the  Social  Question,  149  ff;  Holtzmann,  NT  The- 
ology, I,  200;  Harnack,  History  of  Dogma,  I,  62;  B. 
Weiss,  Bib.  Theol.  of  the  NT,  I,  72,  ET,  1882). 

Beyond  this  Jesus  frequently  used  figures  drawn 
from  marriage  to  illustrate  His  teaching  concerning 
the  coming  of  the  kingdom,  as  Paul  did  concerning 
Christ  and  the  church.  There  is  no  suggestion  of 
reflection  upon  the  OT  teaching  about  marriage 
in  His  teaching  except  at  one  point,  the  modifi- 
cation of  it  so  as  to  allow  polygamy  and  divorce. 
Everywhere  He  accepts  and  deals  with  it  as  sacred 
and  of  Divine  origin  (Mt  19  9,  etc),  but  He  treats 
it  as  transient,  that  is  of  the  "flesh"  and  for  this 
life  only. 

A  question  of  profound  interest  remains  to  be  treated : 
Did  Jesus  allow  under  any  circumstances  the  remarriage 
of  a  divorced  person  during  the  lifetime 
5  Divorce  of  tho  J)artner  to  the  marriage?  Or  did 
He  allow  absolute  divorce  for  any  cause 
whatsoever  ?  Upon  the  answer  to  that 
question  in  every  age  depend  momentous  issues,  social 
and  civic,  as  well  as  religious.  The  facts  bearing  on  tho 
question  are  confessedly  enshrined  in  the  NT,  and  so 
the  inquiry  may  be  limited  to  its  records.  Accepting 
with  the  best  scholarship  the  documents  of  the  NT  as 
emanating  from  tho  disciples  of  .Jesus  in  the  second  half 
of  the  1st  cent.  AD,  the  question  is,  what  did  these 
writers  understand  Jesus  to  teach  on  this  subject?  If 
we  had  only  the  Gospels  of  Mark  and  Luke  and  the  Epp. 
of  Paul,  there  could  be  but  one  answer  given:  Christ 
did  not  allow  absolute  divorce  for  any  cause  (see  Mk  10 
2ff;  Lk  16  18;  Gal  1  12;  1  Cor  7  10).  The  OT 
permission  was  a  concession.  He  teaches,  to  a  low  moral 
state  and  standard,  and  opposed  to  the  ideal  of  marriage 
given  in  Gen   (2  23). 

"Tho  position  of  women  in  that  day  was  far  from  envi- 
able. They  could  be  divorced  on  tho  slightest  pretext,  and 
had  no  recourse  at  law.  Almost  all  the  rights  and  privi- 
leges of  men  were  withheld  from  them.  What  Jesus  said 
in  relation  to  divorce  was  more  in  defence  of  the  rights 
of  the  women  of  His  time  than  as  a  guide  for  tho  freer, 
fuller  life  of  our  day.  Jesus  certainly  did  not  mean  to 
recommend  a  hard  and  enslaving  life  for  women.  His 
whole  lifo  was  one  long  expression  of  full  understanding 
of  them  and  sympathy  for  them"  (Patterson,  The  Measure 
of  a   Man,  181  f). 

Two  sayings  attributed  to  Christ  and  recorded  by 


the  writer  or  editor  of  the  First  Gospel  (Mt  5  32; 
19  9)  seem  directly  to  contravene  His  leaching  as  re- 
corded in  Mk  and  Lk.  Hero  he  seems  to  allow  divorce 
for  "fornication"  (et  ix'r)  inl  iropveia,  ei  me  epl  porneia, 
"save  for  fornication"),  an  exception  which  finds  no 
place  in  the  parallels  (cf  1  Cor  7  15,  which  allows 
remarriage  where  a  Christian  partner  is  deserted  by  a 
heathen).  The  sense  here  demands  that  "fornication" 
be  taken  in  its  wider  sense  (Hos  2  5;  Am  7  17;  1  Cor 
5  1).  Divorce  to  a  Jew  carried  with  it  the  right  of 
remarriage,  and  the  words  'causeth  her  to  commit 
adultery'  (Mt  5  32)  show  that  Jesus  assumed  that  the 
divorced  woman  would  marry  again.  Hence  if  He 
allowed  divorce,  He  also  allowed  remarriage.  A  criti- 
cal examination  of  the  whole  passage  in  Mt  has  led 
niany  scholars  to  conclude  that  the  exceptive  clause  is  an 
interpolation  due  to  the  Jewish-Christian  compiler  or 
editor  through  whose  hands  the  materials  passed. 
Others  think  it  betrays  traces  of  having  been  rewritten 
from  Mk  or  from  a  source  common  to  both  Mt  and  Mk, 
and  combined  with  a  semi-Jewish  tradition,  in  short, 
that  it  is  due  to  literary  revision  and  compilation.  Tho 
writer  or  compiler  attempted  to  combine  the  original 
sayings  of  Jesus  and  His  own  interpretation.  Believing 
that  Our  Lord  had  not  come  to  set  aside  the  authority  of 
Moses,  but  only  certain  Pharisaic  exegesis,  and  sup- 
ported, as  doubtless  ho  was,  by  a  Jewish-Christian  tra- 
dition of  Pal,  he  simply  interpreted  Mk's  narrative  by 
inserting  what  he  regarded  as  the  integral  part  of  an 
eternal  enactment  of  Jeh.  In  doing  this  he  was  uncon- 
sciously inconsistent,  not  onlv  with  Mk  and  Lk,  but  also 
with  the  context  of  the  First  Gospel  itself,  owing  to  his 
sincere  but  mistaken  belief  that  the  Law  of  Moses  must 
not  be  broken.  The  view  implied  by  the  exception,  of 
course,  is  that  adultery  ipso  facto  dissolves  the  union, 
and  so  opens  the  way  to  remarriage.  But  remarriage 
closes  the  door  to  reconciliation,  which  on  Christian 
principles  ought  always  to  be  possible  (cf  Hosea;  Jer 
3;  Hernias,  Mandiv.l).  Certainly  much  is  to  be  said 
for  the  view  which  is  steadily  gaining  ground,  that  the 
exception  in  Mt  is  an  editorial  addition  made  under  tho 
pressure  of  local  conditions  and  practical  necessity,  tho 
absolute  rule  being  found  too  hard  (see  II DB,  extra  vol, 
276,  and  The  Teaching  of  Our  Lord  as  to  the  Indissolu- 
bility of  Marriage,  by  Stuart  Lawrence  Tyson,  M.A.  Oxon., 
University  of  the  South,  1912). 

The  general  principle  expanded  in  the  NT  and  the 
ideal  held  up  before  the  Christians  is  high  and  clear. 
How  far  that  ideal  can  be  embodied  in  legislation  and 
applied  to  the  community  as  a  whole  all  are  agreed 
must  depend  upon  social  conditions  and  the  general 
moral  development  and  environment.  See  further 
Divokce. 

Literature. — Material  from  Mish  in  Selden,  Uxor 
Heb,  London,  1546;  Hamberger,  Real.  Enc  f.  Bibel  und 
Talm,  Breslau,  1870;  Bonzinger,  Hebraische  Archaologie; 
Nowaek,  Lehrbuch  der  hebrdischen  Archaologie;  McLen- 
nan, Primitive  Marriage;  Westermarck,  History  of  Human 
Marriage,  London,  1891;  W.  R.  Smith,  Kinship  and  Mar- 
riage in  Early  Arabia.,  Cambridge,  1895;  Tristram, 
Eastern  Customs,  London,  1894;  Mackie,  Bible  Manners 
and  Customs,  London,  1898;  Peabody,  Jesus  Christ  and 
the  Social  Question,  III,  concerning  the  family. 

Geo.  B.  Eager 
MARROW,  mar'o  (lib,  moah,  ibn,  helebh, 
""IpiP,  shikkuy,  nnp ,  mahah,  "to  make  fat,"  "to 
grease";  fiveXos,  muelos) :  Marrow  is  the  nourisher 
and  strengthener  of  the  bones;  it  is  said  to  moisten 
the  bones:  "The  marrow  [mo"h\  of  his  bones  is 
moistened"  (Job  21  24).  The  fear  of  Jeh  "will  be 
health  to  thy  navel,  and  marrow  [shikkuy,  m  "re- 
freshing, Heb  moistening"]  to  thy  bones"  (Prov  3 
8).  Thus  the  expression  is  used  figuratively  of  the 
things  which  alone  can  satisfy  the  soul:  "My  soul 
shall  be  satisfied  as  with  marrow  [helebh,  "fat"]  and 
fatness"  (Ps  63  5);  "In  this  mountain  will  Jeh 
of  hosts  make  unto  all  peoples  a  feast  of  fat  things, 
a  feast  of  wines  on  the  lees,  of  fat  things  full  of 
marrow  [D^H'^'Sp,  m'muhayim,  part,  pi.,  Pual  of 
mahah],  of  wines  on  the  lees  well  refined"  (Isa  25  6). 
In  the  Ep.  to  the  He  the  writer  speaks  of  the  word 
of  God,  which  is  "living,  and  active,  and  sharper 
than  any  two-edged  sword,  and  piercing  even  to  the 
dividing  of  soul  and  spirit,  of  both  joints  and  mar- 
row"  (He  4  12).  H.  L.  E.  Luerinq 

MARSENA,  mar-se'na,  mar'sft-na  (SIplM,  mar- 
sena" ;  derivation  unknown  but  probably  of  Pers 
origin  [Est  1  14]):  One  of  "the  seven  princes  of 
Persia  and  Media,  who  saw  the  king's  face,  and  sat 
first  in  the  kingdom." 


Marsh 
Mary 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  HI  RLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2000 


MARSH,  marsh  ([1]  K15,  gebhe',  ARV  "marsh," 
AY  and  ERV  "marish"  '[Ezk  47  11];  AV  "pit," 
RV  "cistern"  [Isa 30  14];  cf  Aral).  L^  ,jaba',  "res- 
ervoir," "watering-trough";  [2]  f2,  bog,  "mire"; 
PlSp,  biggdh,  "mire,"  "fen";  cf  Arab.  (jdJ ,  baiia, 

to  "trickle,"  (jc^oj  ,  hailntl,  "a  little  water";  [3] 
C-,  /7/,  "mire,"  "clay";  [1]  "TOIl,  homer,  "mire," 
"clay,"  "mortar";  [5]  "^"Xn  PO""!? ,  maKabhch  hd- 
'atlhamah[l  K  7  40],  and  n^-tfn  i?" ,  Vfcfci  fta- 
'odhamah  [2  Ch  4  17],  "clay  ground"):  In  the 
vision  of  Ezekiel  the  saltness  of  the  Dead  Sea  is 
"healed"  by  the  stream  issuing  from  under  the 
threshold  <if  the  temple,  "Hut  the  miry  places 
[biggdh]  thereof,  and  the  marshes  [gebhe'}  thereof, 
shall  not  be  healed"  (Ezk  47  11).  Gebhe'  occurs 
elsewhere  only  in  Isa  30  14,  where  AVhas  "pit"  and 
RV  "cistern."  Bog,  "mire,"  is  found  only  in  Jer 
38  22.      Biggdh  is  found  also  in  Job  8  11, 

"Can  the  rush  grow  up  without  mire  [bicsah] '( 
Can  the  flag  grow  without  water?" 

and  in  Job  40  21  (of  the  behemoth), 

"He  Moth  under  the  lotus-trees, 
In  the  covert  of  the  reed,  and  the  fen  [biss&h]." 

In  1  Mace  9  42.45  e'Xos,  helos,  but  in  ver  42  B 
reads  6pos,  oros,  "mount." 

Marshes  are  found  near  the  mouths  of  some  of  the 
rivers,  as  the  Kishon,  about  the  Ilideh  (?  waters  of 
Merom),  at  various  places  in  the  course  of  the  Jor- 
dan and  about  the  Dead  Sea,  esp.  at  its  south  end. 
For  the  most  part  Pal  is  rocky  and  dry. 

Alfred  Ely  Day 

MARS',  marz,  HILL.    See  Areopagus. 

MARSHAL,  mar'shal:  Not  found  in  AV,  but  in 
RV  the  word  represents  two  Heb  words:  (1)  "IDD, 
sopher  (Jgs  5  14),  trd  "they  that  handle  the  mar- 
shal's staff."  A  difficulty  arises  because  the  usual 
meaning  of  sopher  is  "scribe"  or  "writer"  (so  AV). 
The  revisers  follow  LXX  and  Or  authority  which 
favor  "marshal"  as  against  "scribe."  The  office 
of  marshal  was  to  help  the  general  to  maintain 
discipline  (cf  1  Mace  5  42).  (2)  "IDSTP,  tiphsar 
(Jer  51  27),  a  loan-word  whose  meaning  is  not 
clear.  Lenormant  thinks  it  akin  to  a  Rab-Assyr 
word  meaning  "tablet -writer"  (cf  Delitzsch). 
Accordingly,  RVm  renders  Nah  3  17  "thy  scribes," 
though  the  Syr  has  "thy  warriors."  as  does  the  Tg 
in  .Jer.     We  must  await  further  light  on  both  words. 

Geo.  B.  Eager 

MART,  mart.    See  Market. 

MARTHA,  mar'tha  (MapOa,  Martha,  "mistress," 
being  a  transliteration  of  the  fern,  form  of  *TQ  ,  mar, 
"Lord"):  Martha  belonged  to  Bethany,  and  was 
the  sister  of  Lazarus  and  Mary  (Jn  11  If).  From 
the  fact  that  the  house  into  which  Jesus  was  re- 
ceived belonged  to  Martha,  and  that  she  generally 
took  the  lead  in  act  ion,  it  is  inferred  that  she  was  the 
elder  sister.  Martha  was  one  of  those  who  gave 
hospitality  to  Jesus  during  His  public  ministry. 
Thus,  in  the  course  of  those  wanderings  which  began 
when  "he  stedfastly  set  his  face  to  go  to  Jerus" 
(Lk  9  51),  he  "entered  into  a  certain  village" — 
its  name  is  not  stated — and  "a  certain  woman 
named  Martha  received  him  into  her  house"  (Lk 
10  38).  Martha,  whose  sense  of  responsibility 
as  hostess  weighed  heavily  upon  her,  was  "cum- 
bered about  much  serving,"  and  her  indignation  was 
aroused  at  the  lack  of  assistance  given  to  her  by 
her  sister.  Her  words,  "Lord,  dost  thou  not  care?" 
implied  a  certain  reproach  to  Jesus  also,  in  that  she 
felt  He  showed  a  want  of  sympathy  with  her  efforts 
and    was    the    cause   of    Mary's    remissness.     But 


Jesus,  in  tones  of  gentle  reproof,  reminded  her  that 
for  Him  not  the  preparation  of  an  elaborate  meal 
but  the  hearing  of  His  Word  in  the  spirit  of  Mary 
was  the  "one  thing  needful"  (Lk  10  39-42). 

Martha  is  first  mentioned  by  St.  John — the  only 
other  Gospel  writer  who  refers  to  Martha — in  his 
account  of  the  raising  of  Lazarus  from  the  de.ad  at 
Bethany  (Jn  11  1-44).  The  narrative  indicates, 
however,  that  Jesus  was  already  on  terms  of  the 
closest  friendship  with  her  and  her  household  (cf 
vs  3.5).  In  the  incident  which  St.  John  hen;  records, 
Martha  again  displayed  her  more  practical  nature 
by  going  out  to  meet  Jesus,  while  Mary  sat  in  the 
house  (ver  20).  But  she  was  not  behind  her  sister 
in  her  love  for  her  brother  (ver  19),  in  her  faith  in 
Jesus  (vs  21  f)  and  in  her  belief  in  the  final  resur- 
rection (ver  24).  The  power  of  Him,  whom  she 
termed  the  "Teacher,"  to  restore  Lazarus  to  life 
even  upon  earth  was  beyond  her  understanding. 
To  the  words  of  Jesus  concerning  this  she  gave, 
however,  a  verbal  assent,  and  went  and  informed 
Mary,  "The  Teacher  is  here,  and  calleth  thee"  (vs 
27  f).  Yet  she  remained  inwardly  unconvinced, 
and  remonstrated  when  Jesus  ordered  the  stone 
before  the  grave  to  be  removed  (ver  39).  Jesus 
then  recalled  His  previous  words  to  her  remem- 
brance (ver  40),  and  vindicated  them  by  restoring 
her  brother  to  life  (vs  41-44).  After  the  raising  of 
Lazarus,  Jesus  then  made  His  departure,  but  after 
a  short  stay  in  Ephraim  (ver  54)  He  returned  to 
Bethany  (Jn  12  1).  While  He  supped  there, 
Martha  once  more  served,  and  Lazarus  was  also 
present  (Jn  12  2).  It  was  on  this  occasion  that 
Mary  anointed  the  feet  of  Jesus  (Jn  12  3-8). 
According  to  Mt  26  6-13;  Mk  14  3-9,  the  anoint- 
ing took  place  in  the  house  of  Simon  the  leper,  and 
it  has  hence  been  concluded  by  some  that  Martha 
was  the  wife  or  widow  of  Simon.  The  anointing 
described  in  Lk  7  36-50  happened  in  the  house  of 
Simon  a  Pharisee.  But  in  none  of  the  synoptist 
accounts  is  Martha  mentioned.  For  the  relation- 
ship of  these  anointings  with  each  other,  see  Mary, 
IV.  As,  according  to  St.  John,  the  abode  of  the 
sisters  was  in  Bethany,  a  further  difficulty  of  a 
topographical  nature  is  raised  by  those  who  hold 
that  St.  Luke  implies,  from  the  Galilean  setting  of 
Lk  10  38-41,  that  the  sisters  lived  in  Galilee.  But 
the  information  supplied  by  St.  Luke,  upon  which 
this  inference  is  based,  is  of  the  vaguest  (cf  Lk  10 
38),  and  the  great  division  of  St.  Luke's  Gospel 
(9  51 — 18  31)  has  within  it  no  organic  cohesion  of 
parts.  In  it  is  mentioned  that  on  two  separate 
occasions  Jesus  passed  through  Samaria  (Lk  9  52; 
17  11).  It  is  therefore  more  logical  to  suppose 
that  the  events  described  in  Lk  10  38-41,  f tilling 
within  the  intervening  period,  took  place  in  Bethany 
during  an  excursion  of  Jesus  to  Judaea,  and  formed 
one  of  the  several  visits  upon  which  the  friendship 
recorded  in  Jn  11  3.5  was  built.  According  to  a 
fragment  of  a  Coptic  gospel  belonging  to  the  2d 
cent,  (cf  Hennecke,  Ncutestamentliche  Apokry- 
phen,  38,  39),  Martha  was  present  with  the  other 
two  Marys  at  the  empty  grave  of  Jesus  (cf  Mt  28 
1.11),  and  went  and  informed  the  disciples. 

C.  M.  Kerr 

MARTYR,  mar'ter  ((xapTvs,  martus,  Aeolic 
napTvp,  viartur) :  One  who  gives  heed,  and  so,  a 
"witness,"  so  trd  in  numerous  passages,  both  as  of 
one  bearing  testimony,  and  also  as  of  one  who  is  a 
spectator  of  anything  (see  Witness).  In  AV 
rendered  "martyr"  in  Acts  22  20,  "thy  martyr 
Stephen";  and  Rev  2  13,  "Antipas  my  faithful 
martyr";  also  17  6,  "the  blood  of  the  martyrs  of 
Jesus,"  where  alone  AllV  retains  "martyrs."  These 
3  passages  are  the  beginning  of  the  use  of  the  word 
"martyr"  for  such  witnesses  as  were  faithful  even 
unto  death,  its  uniform  modern  use. 


2001 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Marsh 
Mary 


MARVEL,  mar'vel,  MARVELOUS,  mar'vel-us 
(<TCF1 ,  tdmah,  K5B ,  paid';  9av\i.a.t,oi,  thaumdzo, 
Saujxao-Tos,  thaumastos) :  "To  marvel"  is  the  tr  of 
tdmah,  "to  wonder"  (Gen  43  33;  Ps  48  5,  RV 
"were  amazed";  Eccl  5  8);  of  thaumazo,  "to 
admire,"  "wonder"  (Mt  8  10.27;  Mk  5  20;  Jn 
3  7;  Acts  2  7;  Rev  17  7  AY,  etc);  "marvel" 
(subst.)  occurs  in  the  pi.  as  tr  of  paid',  "to  distin- 
guish," fig.,  "to  make  wonderful"  (Ex  34  10,  "I 
will  do  marvels,  such  as  have  not  been  wrought" 
[RVm  "Created"]);  and  of  thaumastos  (thaiima) 
(2  Cor  11  14). 

"Marvelous"  is  the  tr  of  paid',  "marvelous  works" 
(1  (Mi  16  12.24;  Ps  9  I);  "marvelous  things"  (Job 
5  0;  10  16;  Ps  31  21;  118  23;  Isa  29  14;  Dnl  11 
:i(r.  Zee  8  6,  bis) ;  "marvellously,"  paid'  (Job  37  5; 
Hah  1  5  bis  [tdmah],  "regard  and  wonder  marvellously," 
lit.  "marvel  marvellously");  thaumastos,  "admirable," 
"wonderful,"  is  tr1  "marvelous"  (Mt  21  42;  1  Pet  2 
9;     Rev   15   1.3,  etc). 

In  Apoe  we  have  "marvel"  (Ecclus  11  13;  47  17; 
2  Mace  1  22;  7  12);  "marvelleth"  (Ecclus  40  7; 
43  IS);  "marvellous"  (Wisd  10  17;  19  8,  etc,  mostly 
thaumazo  and  compounds). 

RV  has  "wonder"  for  "marvel"  (Rev  17  7);  "the 
marvel"  for  a  "marvellous  thing"  (Jn  9  30);  "mar- 
velled" for  "wondered"  (  Lk  8  2f>;  11  14);  "marvelled 
at"  for  "admired"  (2  Thess  1  10);  "marveling"  for 
"wondered"  (Lk  9  43);  "marvellous"  for  "wondrous" 
(I  Ch  16  0;  l's  105  2);  "marvellous  things"  for  "and 
wonders"  (Job  9  10);  "wonderful"  for  "marvellous" 
(Ps  139  14);  for  "marvelled"  (Mt  9  8),  "were  afraid," 
and  (Mk  12  17)  "marvelled  greatly"    (different  texts). 

W.  L.  Walker 

MARY,  ma'ri,  mar'i  (Mapia,  Marin,  Mapidji, 
Maridm,  Gr  form  of  Heb  u^i'C,  miryam): 

I.     Definition   and   Questions   or  Identification 
The  Name  Mary  in  the  NT 
II.     Mary,  the  Virgin 

1.  Mary  in  the  Infancy  Narratives 

2.  Mary  at  ( 'ana 

3.  Mary  and  the,  Career  of  Jesus 

4.  Mary  at  the  Cross 

5.  Mary  in  the  Christian  Community 

6.  Mary  in  Ecclesiastical  Doctrine  aiid  Tradition 

(1)  Legend 

(2)  Dogma 

(a)  The  Dogma  of  Her  Sinlessness 

(/>)    Dogma  of  Mary's  Perpetual  Virginity 

(r)    Doctrine  of  Mary's  Glorification 

(3)  Conclusion 
III.    Mary  Magdalene 

1.  Mary  Not  the  Sinful  Woman 

2.  Mary  Not  a  Nervous  Wreck 
IV.     Mary  of  Bethany 

1.  Attack  upon  Luke's  Narrative 

2.  Evidence  of  Luke  Taken  Alone 

3.  Evidence  Sifted  by  Comparison 

4.  Character  of  Mary 

V.     Mary,  the  Mother  of  James  and  Josls 
VI.     Mary,  the  Mother  of  John  Mark 

/.   Definition  and  Questions  of  Identification.  — ■ 

A  Heb  fem.  proper  name  of  two  persons  in  the  OT 
(see  Ex  15  20;  Nu  12  1;  Mic  6  4;  1  Ch  4  17) 
and  of  a  number  not  certainly  determined  in  the  NT. 
The  prevalence  of  the  mime  in  NT  times  has  been 
attributed,  with  no  great  amount  of  certainty,  to 
the  popularity  of  Mariamne,  the  last  representative 
of  the  Hasmonean  family,  who  was  the  second  wife 
of  Herod  I. 

(1)  The  name  Mary  occurs  in  51  passages  of  the 
NT  to  which  the  following  group  of  articles  is  con- 
fined    (see     Miriam).     Collating     all 

The  Name  these  references  we  have  the  following 
Mary  in  apparent  notes  of  identification:  (a) 
the  NT  Alary,  the  mother  of  Jesus;    (6)  Mary 

Magdalene;  (c)  Mary,  the  mother  of 
James;  (d)  Mary,  the  mother  of  Joses;  (e)  Mary, 
the  wife  of  Clopas;  (/)  Mary  of  Bethany;  (g)  Mary, 
the  mother  of  Mark;  (h)  Mary  of  Rome;  (i)  the 
"other"  Mary. 

(2)  A  comparison  of  Mt  27  50;  28  1  with  Mk 
15  47  seems  clearly  to  identify  the  "other"  Mary 
with   Mary  the  mother  of  Joses. 

(3)  Mk~15  40  identifies  Mary  the  mother  of 
James  and  Mary  the  mother  of  Joses  (cf  15  47) 
(see  Allen's  note  on  Mt  27  56). 


(4)  At  this  point  a  special  problem  of  identifi- 
cation arises.  Mary,  the  wife  of  Clopas,  is  men- 
tioned as  being  present  at  the  cross  with  Mary  the 
mother  of  Jesus,  the  hitter's  sister  and  Mary  of 
Magdala  (Jn  19  25).  In  the  other  notices  of  the 
group  at  the  cross,  Mary,  the  mother  of  James,  is 
mentioned  (Mt  27  56;  Mk  15  40).  Elsewhere, 
James  is  regularly  designated  "son  of  Alphaeus" 
(Mt  10  3;  Mk  3  18;  Lk  6  15).  Since  it  can 
hardly  be  doubted  that  James,  the  apostle,  and 
James  the  Less,  the  son  of  Mary,  are  one  and  the 
same  person,  the  conclusion  seems  inevitable  that 
Mary,  the  mother  of  James,  is  also  the  wife  of 
Alphaeus.  Here  we  might  stop  and  leave  the  wife 
of  Clopas  unidentified,  but  the  fact  that  the  name 
Alphaeus  ('AA</;a?o?,  Alphaios)  is  the  Gr  trans- 
literation of  the  Aram,  ",S?n,  halpay,  together  with 
the  unlikelihood  that  anyone  important  enough  to 
be  mentioned  by  John  would  be  omitted  by  the 
synoptists  and  that  another  Mary,  in  addition  to 
the  three  definitely  mentioned,  could  be  present 
and  not  be  mentioned,  points  to  the  conclusion  that 
the  wife  of  Clopas  is  the  same  person  as  the  wife 
of  Alphaeus  (see  Alphaeus).  Along  with  this 
reasonable  conclusion  has  grown,  as  an  excrescence, 
another  for  which  there  is  no  basis  whatever;  viz. 
that  the  wife  of  Clopas  was  the  sister  of  Mary,  the 
mother  of  Jesus.  This  would  make  the  apostle 
James  the  cousin  of  Jesus,  and,  by  an  extension  of 
the  idea,  would  identify  James,  the  apostle,  with 
James,  the  "Lord's  brother."  The  available  evi- 
dence is  clearly  against  both  these  inferences  (see 
Mt  13  55;   Mk  6  3;   Gal  1  19). 

(5)  One  other  possible  identification  is  offered  for 
our  consideration.  Zahn,  in  an  exceedingly  interesting 
note  ( Ar7',  II,  514),  identifies  Mary  of  Rome  (Rom 
16  6)  with  the  "other"  Mary  of  Mt.  We  need  not 
enter  into  a  discussion  of  the  point  thus  raised,  since 
the  identification  of  a  woman  of  whom  we  have  no 
details  given  is  of  little  more  than  academic  interest. 

We  are  left  free,  however,  by  the  probabilities 
of  the  case  to  confine  our  attention  to  the  principal 
individuals  who  bear  the  name  of  Mary.  We  shall 
discuss  Mary,  the  mother  of  Jesus;  Mary  of  Mag- 
dala; Mary  of  Bethany;  Mary,  the  mother  of 
James  and  Joses;    Mary,  the  mother  of  Mark. 

//.  Mary,  the  Virgin. — The  biography  of  the 
mother  of  Jesus  is  gathered  about  a  brief  series  of 
episodes  which  serve  to  exhibit  her  leading  char- 
acteristics in  clear  light.  Two  causes  have  oper- 
ated to  distort  and  make  unreal  the  very  clear  and 
vivid  image  of  Mary  left  for  us  in  the  Gospels. 
Roman  Catholic  dogmatic  and  sentimental  exag- 
geration has  well-nigh  removed  Mary  from  history 
(see  Immaculate  Conception).  On  the  other 
hand,  reaction  and  overemphasis  upon  certain 
features  of  the  Gospel  narrative  have  led  some  to 
credit  Mary  with  a  negative  attitude  toward  Our 
Lord  and  His  claims,  which  she  assuredly  never 
occupied.  It  is  very  important  that  we  should 
follow  the  narrative  with  unprejudiced  eyes  and 
give  due  weight  to  each  successive  episode. 

Mary  appears  in  the  following  passages:  the 
Infancy  narratives,  Mt  1  and  2;  Lk  1  and  2; 
the  wedding  at  Cana  of  Galilee,  Jn  2  1-11;  the 
episode  of  Mt  12  40;  Mk  3  21.31  ft;  the  incident 
at  the  cross,  Jn  19  25  ff;  the  scene  in  the  upper 
chamber,  Acts  1  14. 

(1)  It  is  to  be  noted,  first  of  all,  that  Mary  and 
her  experiences  form  the  narrative  core  of  both 
Infancy  documents.  This  is  contrary 
1.  Mary  in  to  the  ordinary  opinion,  but  is  un- 
the  Infancy  questionably  true.  She  is  obviously 
Narratives  the  object  of  special  interest  to  Luke 
(see  Ramsay,  Was  Christ  Born  at 
Bethlehem?  70  f),  and  there  are  not  wanting  indi- 


Mary 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2002 


cations  that  Luke's  story  came  from  Mary  herself, 
lint,  while  Matthew's  account  does  not  exhibit  his 
interest  in  Mary  quite  so  readily,  that  he  was  in- 
terested in  the  pathetic  story  of  the  Lord's  mother  is 
evident. 

Luke  tells  the  story  of  Mary's  inward  and  deeply 
personal  experiences,  her  call  (1  26  f),  her  maidenly 
fears  (1  29.35),  her  loyal  submission  (1  38),  her 
outburst  of  sacred  and  unselfish  joy  (1  39-55). 
From  this  anticipatory  narrative;  he  passes  at  once 
to  the  Messianic;  fulfilment. 

Matthew  tells  the  story  of  the  outward  and,  so 
to  say,  public  experiences  of  Mary  which  follow 
hard  upon  the  former  and  are  in  such  dramatic  con- 
trast with  them:  the  shame  and  suspicion  which 
fell  upon  her  (1  IS);  her  bitter  humiliation  (1  19), 
her  ultimate  vindication  (1  20f).  Here  the  two 
narratives  supplement  each  other  by  furnishing 
different  details  but,  as  in  other  instance's,  converge 
upon  the  central  fact — the  central  fact  here  being 
Mary  herself,  her  character,  her  thoughts,  her  expe- 
riences. The  point  to  be  emphasized  above  all 
others  is  that  we  have  real  biography,  although  in 
fragments;  in  that  the  same  person  appears  in  the 
inimitable;  reality  of  actual  characterization,  in 
both  parts  of  the  story.  This  is  sufficient  guaranty 
of  historicity;  for  no  two  imaginary  portraits  ever 
agreed  unless  one  copied  the  other — which  is  evi- 
dently not  the  case  here.  More  than  this,  the  story 
is  a  truly  human  narrative  in  which  the  remarkable 
character  of  the  events  which  took  place  in  her  life 
only  serves  to  bring  into  sharper  relief  the  simple, 
humble,  natural  qualities  of  the  subject  of  them. 

(2)  One  can  hardly  fail  to  be  impressed,  in  study- 
ing Mary's  character,  with  her  quietness  of  spirit; 
her  meditative  inwardness  of  disposition;  her 
admirable  self-control;  her  devout  and  gracious 
gift  of  sacred  silence.  The  canticle  (Lk  1  46-55), 
which  at  least  expresses  Luke's  conception  of  her 
nature,  indicates  that  she  is  not  accustomed  to 
dwell  much  upon  herself  (4  lines  only  call  particular 
attention  to  herself),  and  that  her  mind  is  saturated 
with  the  spirit  and  phraseology  of  the  OT.  The 
intensely  Jewish  quality  of  her  piety  thus  expressed 
accounts  for  much  that  appears  anomalous  in  her 
subsequent  career  as  depicted  in  the  Gospels. 

The  first  episode  which  demands  our  attention 
is  the  wedding  at  Cana  of  Galilee  (Jn  2  1-11). 
The  relationship  between  Jesus  and 
2.  Mary  His  mother  has  almost  eclipsed  other 
at  Cana  interests  in  the  chapter.     It  is  to  be 

noted  that  the  idea  of  wanton  inter- 
ference on  the  part  of  Mary  and  of  sharp  rebuke  on 
the  part  of  Jesus  is  to  be  decisively  rejected.  The 
key  to  the  meaning  of  this  episode  is  to  be  found 
in  4  simple  items:  (1)  in  a  crisis  of  need,  Mary 
turns  naturally  to  Jesus  as  to  the  one  from  wrhom 
help  is  to  be  expected ;  (2)  she  is  entirely  undisturbed 
by  His  reply,  whatever  its  meaning  may  be;  (3) 
she  prepares  the  way  for  the  miracle  by  her  authori- 
tative directions  to  the  servants;  (4)  Jesus  does 
actually  relieve  the  situation  by  an  exercise  of  power. 
Whether  she  turned  to  Jesus  with  distinctly  Messianic 
expectation,  or  whether  Jesus  intended  to  convey  a 
mild  rebuke  for  her  eagerness,  it  is  not  necessary 
for  us  to  inquire,  as  it  is  not  possible  for  us  to  de- 
termine. It  is  enough  that  her  spontaneous  appeal 
to  her  Son  did  not  result  in  disappointment,  since, 
in  response  to  her  suggestion  or,  at  least,  in  har- 
mony with  it,  He  "manifested  his  glory."  The 
incident  confirms  the  Infancy  narrative  in  wdiich 
Mary's  quiet  and  forceful  personality  is  exhibited. 

In  Mt  12  46  (||  Mk  3  31-35),  we  are  told  that, 
when  His  mother  and  His  brethren  came  seeking 
Him,  Jesus  in  the  well-known  remark  concerning 
His  true  relatives  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven 
intended   to  convey   a  severe  rebuke   to  His   own 


household  for  an  action  which  involved  both  un- 
belief and  presumptuous  interference  in  His  great 
life-work.      The    explanation    of    this 

3.  Mary  incident,  which  involves  no  such  pain- 
and  the  ful  implications  as  have  become  con- 
Career  of  nected  with  it  in  the  popular  mind, 
Jesus  is  to  be  found  in  Mark's  account.      He 

interrupts  his  narrative  of  the  arrival  of 
the  relatives  (which  begins  in  ver  21)  by  the  account 
of  the  accusation  made  by  the  scribes  from  Jerus  that 
t  he  power  of  Jesus  over  demons  was  due  to  Beelze- 
bub. This  goes  a  long  way  toward  explaining  the 
anxiety  felt  by  the  relatives  of  Jesus,  since  the  un- 
governed  enthusiasm  of  the  multitude,  which  gave 
Him  no  chance  to  rest  and  .seemed  to  threaten  His 
health,  was  matched,  contrariwise,  by  the  bitter, 
malignant  opposition  of  the  authorities,  who  would 
believe  any  malicious  absurdity  rather  than  that 
His  power  came  from  God.  The  vital  point  is  that 
the  attempt  of  Mary  and  her  household  to  get 
possession  of  the  pen-son  of  Jesus,  in  oreler  to  induce 
Him  to  go  into  retire>mc>nt  for  a  time,  was  not  due 
to  captious  and  interfering  unbelief,  but  to  loving 
anxiety.  The  worels  of  Jesus  have  the;  undoubted 
ring  of  conse'ious  authority  and  express  the  determi- 
nation of  one  who  wills  the  control  of  his  own  life — 
but  it  is  a  se-rious  mistake  to  read  into  the>m  any 
faintest  acce'nt  of  satire.  It  has  been  well  said 
(Horace  Bushnell,  Sermons  on  Living  Subjects,  30) 
that  Jesus  would  scarcely  make  use  of  the  family 
symbolism  to  designate  the  sacred  relationships  of 
the  kingelom  of  heaven,  while,  at  the  same  time,  He 
was  depreciating  the  value  and  importance  of  the 
very  relationships  which  formed  the  basis  of  His 
analogy.  The  real  atmosphere  of  the  incident  is 
very  different  from  this. 

To  be  sure  that  many  have  misinterpreted  the 
above  incident  we  need  only  turn  to  the  exquisitely 

tender  sceme  at  the  cross  recorded  by 

4.  Mary  at  John  (19  25  ff).  This  scene,  ecmally 
the  Cross      beautiful   whether  one   considers   the 

relationship  which  it  discloses  as  exist- 
ing between  Je;sus  and  His  mother,  or  between  Jesus 
and  His  well-beloved  disciple,  removes  all  possible 
ambiguity  which  might  attach  to  the  preceding 
incidents,  and  reveals  the  true  spirit  of  the  Master's 
home.  Jesus  could  never  have  spoken  as  He  did 
from  the  cross  unless  He  had  consistently  main- 
tained the  position  and  performed  the  duties  of  an 
eldest  son.  The  tone  and  quality  of  the  scene 
could  never  have  been  what  it  is  had  there  not  been 
a  stedfast  tie  of  tender  love  and  mutual  under- 
staneling  between  Jesus  and  His  mother.  Jesus 
could  hand  over  His  sacred  charge  to  the  trust- 
worthy keeping  of  another,  because  He  had  faith- 
fully maintained  it  Himself. 

The  final  passage  which  we  need  to  consider  (Acts 
1  14)  is  esp.  important,  because  in  it  we  discover 

Mary  and  her  household  at  home  in 

5.  Mary  in  the  mielst  of  the  Christian  community, 
the  Chris-  engaged  with  them  in  prayer.  It  is 
tian  Com-  also  clear  that  Mary  herself  and  the 
munity  family,  who  seemed  to  be  very  com- 
pletely under  her  influence,  whatever 

may  have  been  their  earlier  misgivings,  never  broke 
with  the  circle  of  disciples,  and  persistently  kept 
within  the  range  of  experiences  which  led  at  last 
to  full-orbed  Christian  faith.  This  makes  it  suffi- 
ciently evident,  on  the  one  hand,  that  the  household 
never  shared  the  feelings  of  the  official  class  among 
the  Jews;  and,  on  the  other,  that  the  family  of 
Jesus  passed  through  the  same  cycle  of  expediences 
which  punctuated  the  careers  of  the  whole  body  of 
disciples  on  the  way  to  faith.  The  bearing  of  this 
simple  but  significant  fact  upon  the  historical  trust- 
worthiness of  the  body  of  incidents  just  passed  in 
review  is  evident. 


2003 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Mary 


The  sum  of  the  matter  concerning  Mary  seems  to 
be  this:  The  mother  of  Jesus  was  a  typical  Jewish 
believer  of  the  best  sort.  She  was  a  deeply  medi- 
tative, but  by  no  means  a  daring  or  original  thinker. 
Her  inherited  Messianic  beliefs  did  not  and  perhaps 
could  not  prepare  her  for  the  method  of  Jesus  which 
involved  so  much  that  was  new  and  unexpected. 
But  her  heart  was  true,  and  from  the  beginning 
to  the  day  of  Pentecost,  she  pondered  in  her  heart 
the  meaning  of  her  many  puzzling  experiences  until 
the  light  came.  The  story  of  her  life  and  of  her 
relationship  to  Jesus  is  consistent  throughout  and 
touched  with  manifold  unconscious  traits  of  truth. 
Such  a  narrative  could  not  have  been  feigned  or 
fabled. 

(1)  Legend. — The  ecclesiastical  treatment  of  Mary 
consists   largely   of   legend    and    dogma,    about   equally 

fictitious  and  unreliable.  The  legendary 
6  Marv  in  accounts,  which  include  the  apocryphal 
•j,'  .  .y  ,.  gospels,  deal,  for  the  most  part,  with  de- 
r/CClesiastl-  tails  of  her  parentage  and  early  life;  her 
cal  Doctrine  betrothal  and  marriage  to  Joseph;  her 
and  Tradi-  Journey  to  Bethlehem  and  the  birth  of  her 
,.  child.     At  this  point  the  legendary  narra- 

tion tives,    in    their    crass    wonder-mongering 

and  indelicate  intimacy  of  detail,  are  in 
striking  contrast  to  the  chaste  reserve  of  the  canonical 
story,  and  of  evidential  value  on  that  account. 

(2)  Dogma. — There  is,  in  addition,  a  full-grown  legend 
concerning  Mary's  later  life  in  the  house  of  John;  of 
her  death  in  which  the  apostles  were  miraculously  allowed 
to  participate;  her  bodily  translation  to  heaven;  her 
reception  at  the  hands  of  Jesus  and  her  glorification  in 
heaven.  In  this  latter  series  of  statements,  we  have 
already  made  the  transition  from  legend  to  dogma.  It 
is  quite  clear,  from  the  statements  of  Roman  Catholic 
writers  themselves,  that  no  reliable  historical  data  are 
to  be  found  among  these  legendary  accounts.  The 
general  attitude  of  modern  writers  is  exhibited  in  the 
following  sentences  (from  Wilhelm  and  Scannel,  Man- 
ual of  Catholic  Theol.,  II,  220,  quoted  by  Mayor,  H I)B, 
II,  288,n.):  "Mary's  corporeal  assumption  into  heaven 
is  so  thoroughly  implied  in  the  notion  of  her  personality 
as  given  by  Bible  and  dogma,  that  the  church  can  dis- 
pense with  strict  historical  evidence  of  the  fact."  If  that 
is  the  way  one  feels,  there  is  very  little  to  say  about  it. 
Aside  from  the  quasi-historical  dogma  of  Mary's  bodily 
assumption,  the  Roman  Catholic  doctrinal  interpreta- 
tion of  her  person  falls  into  three  parts. 

(a)  The  dogma  of  her  sinlessness:  This  is  discussed 
under  Immaculate  Conception  (q.v.)  and  need  not 
detain  us  here. 

(h)  The  dogma  of  Mary's  perpetual  virginity:  It  is 
evident  that  this,  too,  is  a  doctrine  of  such  a  nature  that 
its  advocates  might,  with  advantage  to  their  argument, 
have  abstained  from  the  appearance  of  critical  discussion. 

Even  if  all  the  probabilities  of  exegesis  are  violated 
and  the  cumulative  evidence  that  Mary  had  other  chil- 
dren done  away  with;  if  the  expression,  "brethren  of  the 
Lord"  is  explained  as  "foster-brethren,"  "cousins"  or 
what-not;  if  Jesus  is  shown  to  be  not  only  "first-born" 
but  "only-born"  Son  (Lk  2  7);  if  the  expression  of  Mt 
1  2.5  is  interpreted  as  meaning  "up  to  and  beyond" 
(Pusey  et  al.;  Cf  Roman  Catholic  Dirt.,  604).  it  would  still 
be  as  far  as  possible  from  a  demonstration  of  the  dogma. 
That  a  married  woman  has  no  children  is  no  proof  of 
virginity — perpetual  or  otherwise.  That  this  thought- 
has  entered  the  minds  of  Roman  Catholic  apologists 
although  not  openly  expressed  by  them,  is  evidenced 
by  the  fact  that  while  certain  forms  of  dealing  with  the 
"brethren-of-the-Lord"  question  make  these  the  sonsof 
Joseph  by  a  former  marriage,  the  favorite  doctrine  in- 
cludes the  perpetual  virginity  of  Joseph.  Just  as  the  idea 
of  the  sinlessness  of  Mary  has  led  to  the  dogma  of  the 
immaculate  conception,  so  the  idea  of  her  perpetual 
virginity  demands  the  ancillary  notion  of  Joseph's.  No 
critical  or  historical  considerations  are  of  any  possible 
use  here.  It  is  a  matter  of  dogmatic  assumption  un- 
mixed with  any  alloy  of  factual  evidence,  and  might  better 
be  openly  made  such. 

It  is  evident  that  a  very  serious  moral  issue  is  raised 
here.  The  question  is  not  whether  virginity  is  a  higher 
form  of  life  than  marriage.  One  might  be  prepared  to 
say  that  under  certain  circumstances  it  is.  The  point 
at  issue  here  is  very  different.  If  Mary  was  married  to 
Joseph  and  Joseph  to  Mary  in  appearance  only,  then 
they  were  recreant  to  each  other  and  to  the  ordinance 
of  God  which  made  them  one.  How  a  Roman  Catholic, 
to  whom  marriage  is  a  sacrament,  can  entertain  such  a 
notion  is  an  unfathomable  mystery.  The  fact  that 
Mary  was  miraculously  the  mother  of  the  Messiah  has 
nothing  to  do  with  the  question  of  her  privilege  and 
obligation  in  the  holiest  of  human  relationships.  Back 
of  this  unwholesome  dogma  are  two  utterly  false  ideas: 
that  the  marriage;  relationship  is  incompatible  with  holy 
living,  and  that  Mary  is  not  to  be,  considered  a  human 
being  under  the  ordinary  obligations  of  human  lifj. 


(c)  The  doctrine  of  Mary's  glorification  as  the  object 
of  worship  and  her  function  as  intercessor:  With  no 
wish  to  be  polemic  toward  Roman  Catholicism,  and,  on 
the  contrary,  with  every  desire  to  be  sympathetic,  it  is 
very  difficult  to  be  patient  with  the  puerilities  which 
disfigure  the  writings  of  Roman  Catholic  dogmaticians 
in  the  discussion  of  this  group  of  doctrines. 

(i)  Take,  for  example,  the  crude  literalism  involved 
in  the  identification  of  the  woman  of  Rev  12  1-6  with 
Mary.  Careful  exegesis  of  the  passage  (esp.  ver  6),  in 
connection  with  the  context,  makes  it  clear  that  no  hint 
of  .Mary's  status  in  heaven  is  intended.  As  a  matter  of 
fact,  Mary,  in  any  literal  sense,  is  not  referred  to  at  all. 
Mary's  motherhood  along  with  that  of  the  mother  of 
Moses  is  very  likely  the  basis  of  the  figure,  but  the 
woman  of  the  vision  is  the  church,  which  is.  at  once,  the 
mother  and  the  body  of  her  Lord  (see  Milligan,  Exposi- 
tors'  Bible,  "Revelation,"   196  f). 

Three  other  arguments  are  most  frequently  used  to 
justify  the  place  accorded  to  Mary  in  the  liturgy. 

(ii)  Christ's  perpetual  humanity  leads  to  His  per- 
petual Sonship  to  Mary.  This  argument,  if  it  carries 
any  weight  at  all,  in  this  connection,  implies  that  the 
glorified  Lord  Jesus  is  still  subject  to  His  mother.  It 
is,  however,  clear  from  the  Gospels  that  the  subjection 
to  His  parents  which  continued  after  the  incident  in  the 
Temple  (Lk  2  51)  was  gently  but  firmly  laid  aside  at 
the  outset  of  the  public  ministry  (see  above,  II,  2,  3). 
In  all  that  pertains  to  His  heavenly  office,  as  Lord, 
Mary's  position  is  one  of  dependence,  not  of  authority. 

(iii)  Christ  hears  her  prayers.  Here,  again,  dogmatic 
assumption  is  in  evidence.  That  He  hears  her  prayers, 
even  if  true  in  a  very  special  sense,  does  not,  in  the  least, 
imply  that  prayers  are  to  be  addressed  to  her  or  that 
she  is  an  intercessor  through  whom  prayers  may  be 
addressed  to  Him. 

(iv)  Since  Mary  cared  for  the  body  of  Christ  when  He 
was  on  earth,  naturally  His  spiritual  body  would  be  her 
special  care  in  heaven.  But,  on  any  reasonable  hypol  lie- 
sis,  Mary  was,  is,  and  must  remain,  a  part  of  that  body 
(see  Acts  1  14).  Unless  she  is  intrinsically  a  Divine 
being,  her  care  for  the  church  cannot  involve  her  uni- 
versal presence  in  it  and  her  accessibility  to  the  prayers 
of  her  fellow-believers. 

To  a  non-Romanist,  the  most  suggestive  fact  in  the 
whole  controversy  is  that  the  statements  of  cautious 
apologists  in  support  of  the  ecclesiastical  attitude  toward 
Mary,  do  not,  in  the  least  degree,  justify  the  tone  of 
extravagant  adulation  which  marks  the  non-polemical 
devotional  literature  of  the  subject  (see  Dearden,  Modem 
Romanism  Examined,  I'll), 

(,'i)  Conclusion. — Our  conclusion  on  the  whole  ques- 
tion is  that  the  lit.  of  Mariolatry  belongs,  historically, 
to  unauthorized  speculation;  and,  psychologically,  to 
the  natural  history  of  asceticism  and  clerical  celibacy. 

///.  Mary  Magdalene  (Mapia  MaY8aX.r|VTJ,  Maria 
Magdaleni  =  oi  "Magdala"). — A  devoted  follower 
of  Jesus  who  entered  the  circle  of  the  taught  during 
the  Galilean  ministry  and  became  prominent  during 
the  last  days.  The  noun  "Magdala,"  from  which 
the  adjective  "Magdalene"  is  formed,  does  not  occur 
in  the  Gospels  (the  word  in  Mt  15  39,  is,  of  course, 
"Magadan").  Themeaning  of  this  obscure  refer- 
ence is  well  summarized  in  the  following  quotations 
from  Plummer  (ICC,  "Luke,"  215):  "  'Magdala  is 
only  the  Gr  form  of  mighddl  or  watch-tower,  one 
of  the  many  places  of  the  name  in  Pal'  (Tristram, 
Bible  Places,  260) ;  and  is  probably  represented  by 
the  squalid  group  of  hovels  which  now  bears  the 
name  of  Mejdel  near  the  center  of  the  western  shore 
of  the  lake." 

As  she  was  the  first  to  bear  witness  to  the  resur- 
rection of  Jesus,  it  is  important  that  we  should  get 
a  correct  view  of  her  position  and  char- 
1.  Mary  not  acter.  The  idea  that  she  was  a  peni- 
the  Sinful  tent,  drawn  from  the  life  of  the  street, 
Woman  of  undoubtedly  arose,  in  the  first  in- 
Lk   7  stance,    from  a  misconception  of  the 

nature  of  her  malady,  together  with 
an  altogether  impossible  identification  of  her  with 
the  woman  who  was  a  sinner  of  the  preceding  sec- 
tion of  the  Gospel.  It  is  not  to  be  forgotten  that 
the  malady  demon-possession,  according  to  NT 
ideas  (see  Demon,  Demonologv),  had  none  of  the 
implications  of  evil  temper  and  malignant  disposi- 
tion popularly  associated  with  "having  a  devil." 
The  possessed  was,  by  Our  Lord  and  the  disciples, 
looked  upon  as  diseased,  the  victim  of  an  alien  and 
evil  power,  not  an  accomplice  of  it.  Had  this 
always  been  understood  and  kept  in  mind,  the  un- 


Mary 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2004 


fortunate  identification  of  Mary  with  the  career 
of  public  prostitution  would  have  been  much  less 
easy. 

According  to  NT  usage,  in  such  cases  the  name 
would  have  been  withheld  (cf  Lk  7  37;  Jn  8  3). 
At  t he  same  time  the  statement  that  7  demons  had 
been  cast  out  of  Mary  means  either  that  the  malady 
was  of  exceptional  severity,  possibly  involving 
several  relapses  (cf  Lk  11  26),  or  that  the  mode 
of  her  divided  and  haunted  consciousness  (cf  Mk  5 
9)  suggested  the  use  of  the  number  7.  Even  so, 
she  was  a  healed  invalid,  not  a  rescued  social 
derelict. 

The  identification  of  Mary  with  the  sinful  woman 
is,  of  course,  impossible  for  one  who  follows  care- 
fully the  course  of  the  narrative  with  an  eye  to  the 
transit  ions.  The  woman  of  ch  7  is  carefully  covered 
with  the  concealing  cloak  of  namelessness.  Un- 
doubtedly known  by  name  to  the  intimate  circle 
of  first  disciples,  it  is  extremely  doubtful  whether 
she  was  so  known  to  Luke.  Her  history  is  definitely 
closed  at  ver  50. 

The  name  of  Mary  is  found  at  the  beginning  of 
a  totally  new  section  of  the  ( iospel  (see  Plummer's 
analysis,  op.  cit .,  xxxvii),  where  the  name  of  Mary  is 
introduced  wit  h  a  single  mark  of  identification,  apart 
from  her  former  residence,  which  points  away  from 
the  preceding  narrative  and  is  incompatible  with 
it.  If  the  preceding  account  of  the  anointing  were 
Mary's  introduction  into  the  circle  of  Christ's 
followers,  she  could  not  be  identified  by  the  phrase 
of  Lk.  Jesus  did  not  cast  a  demon  out  of  the  sinful 
woman  of  ch  7,  ami  Mary  of  Magdala  is  not  repre- 
sented as  having  anointed  the  Lord's  feet.  The 
two  statements  cannot  be  fitted  together. 

Mary  has  been  misrepresented  in  another  way, 
scarcely  less  serious.     She  was  one  of  the  very  first 
witnesses  to  the  resurrection,  and  her 
2.  Mary         testimony  is  of  sufficient  importance 
Not  a  to  make  it  worth  while  for  those  who 

Nervous  antagonize  the  narrative  to  discredit 
Wreck  her  testimony.     This  is  done,  on  the 

basis  of  her  mysterious  malady,  by 
making  her  a  paranoiac  who  was  in  the  habit  of 
"seeing  things."  Renan  is  the  chief  offender  in 
this  particular,  but  others  have  followed  his 
example. 

(1)  To  begin  with,  it  is  to  be  remarked  that  Mary 
had  been  cured  of  her  malady  in  such  a  marked  way 
that,  henceforth,  throughout  her  life,  she  was  a 
monument  to  the  healing  power  of  Christ.  What 
He  had  done  for  her  became  almost  a  part  of  her 
name  along  with  the  name  of  her  village.  It  is  not 
to  be  supposed  that  a  cure  so  signal  would  leave  her 
a  nervous  wreck,  weak  of  will,  wavering  in  judgment, 
the  victim  of  hysterical  tremors  and  involuntary 
hallucinations. 

(2)  There  is  more  than  this  a  priori  consideration 
against  such  an  interpretation  of  Mary.  She  was 
the  first  at  the  tomb  (Mt  28  1;  Mk  16  1;  Lk  24 
10).  But  she  was  also  the  last  at  the  cross — she 
and  her  companions  (Mt  27  61;  Mk  15  40).  A 
glance  at  the  whole  brief  narrative  of  her  life  in  the 
Gospels  will  interpret  this  combination  of  state- 
ments. Mary  first  appears  near  the  beginning  of 
the  narrative  of  the  Galilean  ministry  as  one  of  a 
group  consisting  of  "many"  (Lk  8  3),  among  them 
Joanna,  wife  of  Chuzas,  Herod's  steward,  who  fol- 
lowed with  the  Twelve  and  ministered  to  them  of 
their  substance.  Mary  then  disappears  from  the 
text  to  reappear  as  one  of  the  self-appointed  watch- 
ers of  the  cross,  thereafter  to  join  the  company  of 
witnesses  to  the  resurrection.  The  significance  of 
these  simple  statements  for  the  understanding  of 
Mary's  character  and  position  among  the  followers 
of  Jesus  is  not  far  to  seek.  She  came  into  the  circle 
of  believers,  marked  out  from  the  rest  by  an  excep- 


tional experience  of  the  Lord's  healing  power. 
Henceforth,  to  the  very  end,  with  unwearied  de- 
votion, with  intent  and  eager  willingness,  with 
undaunted  courage  even  in  the  face  of  dangers  which 
broke  t  he  courage  of  t  he  chosen  Twelve,  she  followed 
and  served  her  Lord.  It  is  impossible  that  such 
singleness  of  purpose,  such  strength  of  will,  and, 
above  all,  such  courage  in  danger,  should  have 
been  exhibited  by  a  weak,  hysterical,  neurotic  in- 
curable. The  action  of  these  women  of  whom  Man- 
was  one,  in  serving  their  Master's  need  while  in  life, 
and  in  administering  the  last  rites  to  His  body  in 
death,  is  characteristic  of  woman  at  her  best. 

IV.  Mary  of  Bethany. — Another  devoted  follower 
of  Jesus.  She  was  a  resident  of  Bethany  (Bi^a^ta, 
Bethania),  and  a  member  of  the  family  consisting 
of  a  much-beloved  brother,  Lazarus,  and  another 
sister,  Martha,  who  made  a  home  for  Jesus  within 
their  own  circle  whenever  He  was  in  the  neighbor- 
hood. 

The  one  descriptive  reference,  aside  from  the 
above,  connected  with  Mary,  has  caused  no  end  of 
perplexity.  John  (11  2)  states  that  it  was  this 
Mary  who  anointed  the  Lord  with  ointment  and 
wiped  His  feet  with  her  hair,  whose  brother  Lazarus 
was  sick.  This  reference  would  be  entirely  satis- 
fied by  the  narrative  of  Jn  12  1.8,  and  no  difficulty 
would  be  suggested,  were  it  not  for  the  fact  that 
Luke  (7  36-50)  records  an  anointing  of  Jesus  by  a 
woman,  accompanied  with  the  wiping  of  His  fee, 
with  her  hair.  The  identification  of  these  two 
anointings  would  not  occasion  any  great  difficulty, 
in  spite  of  serious  discrepancies  as  to  time,  place 
and  other  accessories  of  the  action,  but  for  the  very 
serious  fact  that  the  woman  of  Lk  7  is  described  as 
a  sinner  in  the  dreadful  special  sense  associated 
with  that  word  in  NT  times.  This  is  so  utterly 
out  of  harmony  with  all  that  we  know  of  Mary  and 
the  family  at  Bethany  as  to  be  a  well-nigh  intol- 
erable hypothesis. 

On  the  other  hand,  we  are  confronted  with  at 
least  one  serious  difficulty  in  affirming  two  anoint- 
ings. This  is  well  stated  by  Mayor  (H DB,  III, 
280a):  "Is  it  likely  that  Our  Lord  would  have 
uttered  such  a  high  encomium  upon  Mary's  act  if 
she  were  only  following  the  example  already  set 
by  the  sinful  woman  of  Galilee;  or  (taking  the 
other  view)  if  she  herself  were  only  repeating  under 
more  favorable  circumstances  the  act  of  loving 
devotion  for  which  she  had  already  received  His 
commendation?"  We  shall  be  compelled  to  face 
this  difficulty  in  case  we  are  forced  to  the  conclusion 
that  there  were  more  anointings  than  one. 

In  the  various  attempts  to  solve  this  problem,  or 
rather  group  of  problems,  otherwise  than  by  hold- 
ing to  two  anointings,  Luke,  who 
1.  Attack  stands  alone  against  Mark,  Matthew 
upon  Luke's  and  John,  has  usually  suffered  loss 
Narrative  of  confidence.  Mayor  (op.  cit.,  282a) 
suggests  the  possibility  that  the  text 
of  Luke  has  been  tampered  with,  and  that  originally 
his  narrative  contained  no  reference  to  anointing. 
This  is  a  desperate  expedient  which  introduces 
more  difficulties  than  it  solves.  Strauss  and  other 
hostile  critics  allege  confusion  on  the  part  of  Luke 
between  the  anointing  at  Bethany  and  the  account 
of  the  woman  taken  in  adultery,  but,  as  Plumper 
well  says,  the  narrative  shows  no  signs  of  confusion. 
"The  conduct  both  of  Jesus  and  of  the  woman  is 
unlike  either  fiction  or  clumsily  distorted  fact.  His 
gentle  severity  toward  Simon,  and  tender  reception 
of  the  sinner,  are  as  much  beyond  the  reach  of 
invention  as  the  eloquence  of  her  speechless  affec- 
tion" (ICC,  "Luke,"  209). 

The  first  step  in  the  solution  of  this  difficulty  is 
to  note  carefully  the  evidence  supplied  by  Luke's 
narrative   taken   by   itself.     Mary   is  named    for 


2005 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Mary 


the  first  time  in  Lk  10  3S-42  in  a  way  which  clearly 
indicates  that  the  family  of  Bethany  is  there  men- 
tioned for  the  first  time  (a  "certain  [tis, 

2.  Evidence  lis]  woman  named  Martha,"  and  ''she 
of  Luke  had  a  sister  called  Mary,"  etc).  This 
Taken  phrasing  indicates  the  introduction  of 
Alone              a   new  group  of   names  (cf  Jn  11  1). 

It  is  also  a  clear  indication  of  the  fact 
that  Luke  does  not  identify  Mary  with  the  sinful 
woman  of  ch  7  (cf  Mt  26~6-13;  *  Mk  14  3-9;  Lk 
7  30-50;   Jn  12  1-8). 

Our  next  task  is  to  note  carefully   the  relationship 

between  the  narratives  of  Mark,  Matthew  and  .John  on 

one  side,  and  that  of  Luke  on  the  other. 

3.  Evidence  We  may  effectively  analyze  the  narratives 
e'-fipj  -uv  under  the  following  heads:  (I)  notes  of 
autea  uy  time  and  place;  (2)  circumstances  and 
Comparison  scenery   of    the  incident;     (.'5)    description 

of    the    person    who    did    the    anointing; 

(4)  complaints  of  her  action,  by  whom  and  for  what; 

(5)  t  he  lesson  drawn  from  the  woman's  action  which  con- 
stitutes Our  Lord's  defence  of  it;  (G)  incidental  features 
of  the  narrative. 

Under  (1)  notice  that  all  three  evangelists  place  the 
incident  near  the  close  of  the  ministry  and  at  Bethany. 
Under  (2)  it  is  important  to  observe  that  Matthew  and 
Mark  place  the  scene  in  the  house  of  Simon  "the  leper," 
while  John  states  vaguely  that  a  feast  was  made  for 
Him  by  persons  not  named  and  that  Martha  served. 
Under  (3)  we  observe  that  Matthew  and  Mark  say 
"a  woman,"  while  John  designates  Mary.  (4)  Accord- 
ing to  Matthew,  the  disciples  found  fault;  according  to 
Mark,  some  of  those  present  found  fault;  while  accord- 
ing to  John,  the  fault-finder  was  Judas  Iscariot.  Ac- 
cording to  all  three,  the  ground  or  complaint  is  the 
alleged  wastefulness  of  the  action.  (5)  Again,  according 
to  all  three,  Our  Lord  defended  the  use  made  of  the 
ointment  by  a  mysterious  reference  to  an  anointing  of 
His  body  for  the  burial.  John's  expression  in  par- 
ticular is  most  interesting  and  peculiar   (see  Jn  12  7). 

(6)  The  Simon  in  whose  house  the  incident  is  said  to 
have  taken  place  is  by  Matthew  and  Mark  designated 
"the  leper."  This  must  mean  either  that  he  had  pre- 
viously been  cured  or  that  his  disease  had  manifested 
itself  subsequent  to  the  feast.  Of  these  alternatives 
the  former  is  the  more  natural  (sec  Oould,  ICC,  "  Mark," 
257).  The  presence  of  a  healed  leper  on  this  occasion, 
together  with  the  specific  mention  of  Lazarus  as  a  guest, 
would  suggest  that  tin;  feast  was  given  by  people,  in  and 
about  Bethany,  who  had  especial  reason  to  be  grateful  to 
Jesus  for  the  exercise  of  His  healing  power. 

It  is  beyond  reasonable  doubt  that  the  narratives  of 
Matthew,  Mark  and  John  refer  to  the  same  incident. 
The  amount  of  convergence  and  the  quality  of  it  put 
this  identification  among  the  practical  certainties.  The 
only  discrepancies  of  even  secondary  importance  are 
a  difference  of  a  few  days  in  the  time  (Oould  says  four) 
and  the  detail  as  to  the  anointing  of  head  or  feet.  It  is 
conceivable,  and  certainly  no  very  serious  matter,  that 
John  assimilated  his  narrativo  at  this  point  to  the  similar 
incident  of  Lk  7. 

An  analysis  of  the  incident  of  Lk  7  with  reference  to 
the  same  points  of  inquiry  discloses  the  fact  that  it  can- 
not be  the  same  as  that  described  by  the;  other  evangel- 
ists. (1)  The  time  and  place  indications,  such  as  they 
are,  point  to  Galilee  and  the  Galilean  ministry.  This 
consideration  alone  is  a  formidable  obstacle  in  the 
way  of  any  such  identification.  (2)  The  immediate 
surroundings  are  different.  Simon  "the  leper"  and 
Simon  "the  Pharisee"  can  hardly  be  one  person.  No 
man  could  have  borne  both  of  these  designations.  In 
addition  to  this,  it  is  difficult  to  believe  that  a  Pharisee 
of  Simon's  temper  would  have  entertained  Jesus  when 
once  he  had  been  proscribed  by  the  authorities.  Simon's 
attilude  was  a  very  natural  one  at  the  beginning  of 
Christ's  ministry,  but  the  combination  of  hostility  and 
questioning  was  necessarily  a  temporary  mood.  (:■!) 
The  description  of  the  same  woman  as  sinner  in  the 
sense  of  Lk  7  in  one  Gospel;  simply  as  a  woman  in  two 
others;  and  as  the  beloved  and  honored  Mary  of  Bethany 
in  a  third  is  not  within  the  rango  of  probability,  esp.  as 
there  is  no  hint  of  an  attempt  at  explanation  on  the  part 
of  any  of  the  writers.  At  any  rate,  prima  facie,  this 
item  in  Luke's  description  is  seriously  at  variance  with 
the  other  narratives.  (4)  Luke  is  again  at  variance 
with  the  others,  if  he  is  supposed  to  refer  to  the  same 
event,  in  the  matter  of  the  complaint  and  its  cause.  In 
Luke's  account  there  is  no  complaint  of  the  woman's 
action  suggested.  There  is  no  hint  that  anybody  thought 
or  pretended  to  think  that  she  had  committed  a  sinful 
waste  of  precious  material.  The  only  complaint  is 
Simon's,  and  that  is  directed  agaitist  the  Lord  Himself, 
because  Simon,  judging  by  himself,  surmised  that  Jesus 
did  not  spurn  the  woman  because  He  did  not  know  her 
character.  This  supposed  fact  had  a  bearing  on  tho 
question  of  Our  Lord's  Messiahship,  concerning  which 
Simon  was  debating;  otherwise  one  suspects  he  had 
little  interest  in  the  episode.     This  fact  is,  as  we  shall  see. 


determinative  for  the  understanding  of  the  incident  and 
puts  it  apart  from  all  other  similar  episodes. 

(5)  The  lesson  drawn  from  the  act  by  Our  Lord  was 
in  each  incident  different.  The  sinful  woman  was  com- 
mended for  an  act  of  courtesy  and  tenderness  which 
expressed  a  love  based  upon  gratitude  for  deliverance  and 
forgiveness.  Mary  was  commended  for  an  act  which  had 
a  mysterious  and  sacramental  relationship  to  the  Lord's 
death,  near  at  hand. 

This  brings  us  to  the  point  where  wo  may  consider 
the  one  serious  difficulty,  that  alleged  by  Mayor  and 
others,  against  the  hypothesis  of  two  anointings,  namely, 
that  a  repetition  of  an  act  like  this  with  commendation 
attached  would  not  be  likely  to  occur.  The  answer  to 
this  argument  is  that  the  difficulty  itself  is  an  artificial 
one  due  to  a  misreading  of  the  incident.  In  the  point 
of  central  reference  the  two  episodes  are  worlds  apart. 
The  act  of  anointing  in  each  case  was  secondary,  not 
primary.  Anointing  was  one  of  those  general  and  preva- 
lent acts  of  social  courtesy  which  might  mean  much  or 
little,  this  or  that,  and  might  be  repeated  a  score  of  times 
in  a  year  with  a  different  meaning  each  time.  Tho 
matter  of  primary  importance  in  every  such  case  would 
be  the  purpose  and  motive  of  the  anointing.  By  this 
consideration  alone  we  may  safely  discriminate  between 
these  incidents.  In  the  former  case,  the  motive  was  to 
express  the  love  of  a  forgiven  penitent.  In  the  latter, 
the  motive  was  gratitude  for  something  quite  different, 
a  beloved  brother  back  from  the  grave,  and,  may  we  not 
say  (in  view  of  Jn  12  7),  grief  and  foreboding?  That 
Mary's  feeling  was  expressed  in  the  same  way  outwardly 
as  that  of  the  sinful  woman  of  the  early  ministry  does 
not  change  the  fact  that  the  feeling  was  different,  that 
the  act  was  different  and  that,  consequently,  the  com- 
mendation she  received,  being  for  a  different  thing,  was 
differently  expressed.  The  two  anointings  are  not 
duplicates.  Mary's  act,  though  later,  was  quite  as 
spontaneous  and  original  as  that  of  the  sinful  woman, 
and  the  praise  bestowed  upon  her  quite  as  natural  and 
deserved. 

With  this  fictitious  and  embarrassing  identifica- 
tion out  of  the  way,  we  are  now  free  to  consider 

briefly  the  career  and  estimate  the 
4.  Character  character  of  Mary.  (1)  At  the  outset 
of  Mary         it  is  worth  mentioning  that  we  have 

in  the  matter  of  these  two  sisters  a 
most  interesting  and  instructive  point  of  contact 
between  the  synoptic  and  Johannine  traditions. 
The  underlying  unity  and  harmony  of  the  two  are 
evident  here  as  elsewhere.  In  Lk  10  3S-42  we 
are  afforded  a  view  of  Mary  and  Martha  photo- 
graphic in  its  clear  revelat  ion  of  them  both.  Martha 
is  engaged  in  household  affairs,  while  Mary  is  sitting 
at  the  feet  of  Jesus,  absorbed  in  listening.  This, 
of  course,  might  mean  that  Mary  was  idle  and  list- 
less, leaving  the  burden  of  responsibility  for  the 
care  of  guests  upon  her  more  conscientious  sister. 
Most  housewives  are  inclined  to  take  this  view  and 
to  think  that  Martha  has  been  hardly  dealt  with. 
The  story  points  to  the  contrary.  It  will  be  no- 
ticed that  Mary  makes  no  defence  of  herself  and 
that  the  Master  makes  no  criticism  of  Martha  until 
she  criticizes  Mary.  When  He  does  speak,  it  is 
with  the  characteristic  and  inimitable  gentleness, 
but  in  a  way  leaving  nothing  to  be  desired  in  the 
direction  of  completeness.  He  conveyed  His  love, 
His  perfect  understanding  of  the  situation,  His  de- 
fence of  Mary,  His  rebuke  to  Martha,  in  a  single  sen- 
tence which  contains  a  perfect  photograph  of  the  two 
loved  sisters.  Martha  is  not  difficult  to  identify. 
She  was  just  one  of  those  excellent  and  tiresome 
women  whose  fussy  concern  and  bustling  anxiety 
about  the  details  of  household  management  make 
their  well-meant  hospitality  a  burden  to  all  their 
guests.  Mary's  quiet  and  restful  interest  in  the 
guest  and  His  conversation  must  be  set  against  the 
foil  of  Martha's  excess  of  concern  in  housework 
and  the  serving  of  food.  When  one  comes  to  think 
of  it,  Mary  chose  the  better  part  of  hospitality,  to 
put  no  higher  construction  upon  her  conduct. 
(2)  In  Jn  11  20,  we  are  told  that  Martha  went 
forth  to  meet  Jesus  while  Mary  remained  in  the 
house.  In  this  we  have  no  difficulty  in  recognizing 
the  same  contrast  of  outwardness  and  inwardness 
in  the  dispositions  of  the  sisters;  esp.,  as  when  Mary 
does  come  at  Martha's  call  to  meet  Jesus,  she  ex- 


Mary 
Master 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2006 


hibits  an  intensity  of  feeling  of  which  Martha  gives 
no  sign.  It  is  significant  that,  while  Mary  says 
just  what  Martha  had  already  said  (vs  21.32),  her 
way  of  saying  it  and  her  manner  as  a  whole  so  shakes 
the  Lord's  composure  that  He  is  unable  to  answer 
her  directly  but  addresses  His  inquiry  to  the  com- 
pany in  general  (ver  34).  (3)  Then  we  come  to  the 
events  of  the  next  chapter.  The  supper  is  given 
in  Bethany.  Martha  serves.  Of  course  she  serves. 
She  always  serves  when  there  is  opportunity. 
Waiting  on  guests,  plate  in  hand,  was  the  innocent 
delight  of  her  life.  One  cannot  fail  to  see  that,  in  a 
single  incidental  sentence,  the  Martha  of  Lk  10  38- 
42  is  sketched  again  in  lifelikeness.  It  is  the  same 
Martha  engaged  in  the  same  task.  But  what  of 
Mary  in  this  incident  ?  She  is  shown  in  an  unprec- 
edented role,  strange  to  an  oriental  woman  and 
esp.  to  one  so  retiring  in  disposition  as  Mary.  Her 
action  not  only  thrust  her  into  a  public  place  alone, 
but  brought  her  under  outspoken  criticism.  But 
after  all,  this  is  just  what  we  come  to  expect  from 
these  deep,  intense,  silent  natures.  The  Mary  who 
sat  at  Jesus'  feet  in  listening  silence  while  Martha 
bustled  about  the  house,  who  remained  at  home 
while  Martha  went  out  to  meet  Him,  is  the  very 
one  to  hurl  herself  at  His  feet  in  a  storm  and  passion 
of  tears  when  she  does  meet  Him  and  to  break  out 
in  a  self-forgetful  public  act  of  devotion,  strange 
to  her  modest  disposition,  however  native  to  her 
deep  emotion. 

Martha  was  a  good  and  useful  woman.  No  one 
would  deny  that,  least  of  all  the  Master  who  loved 
her  (Jn  11  5).  But  she  lived  on  the  surface  of 
things,  and  her  affect  ions  and  her  piety  alike  found 
adequate  and  satisfying  expression  at  all  times  in 
the  ordinary  kindly  offices  of  hospitality  and  do- 
mestic service.  Not  so  Mary.  Her  disposition  was 
inward,  silent,  brooding,  with  a  latent  capacity 
for  stress  and  the  forthwith,  unconventional  ex- 
pression of  feelings,  slowly  gathering  intensity 
through  days  of  thought  and  repression.  Mary 
would  never  be  altogether  at  home  in  the  world  of 
affairs.  Hers  was  a  rare  spirit,  doomed  often  to 
loneliness  and  misunderstanding  except  at  the 
hands  of  rarely  discerning  spirits,  such  as  she 
happily  met  in  the  person  of  her  Lord. 

V.  Mary,  the  Mother  of  James  and  Joses. — 
Under  this  caption  it  is  necessary  merely  to  recall 
and  set  in  order  the  few  facts  concerning  this  Mary 
given  in  the  Gospels  (see  Mt  27  55.56.61;  Mk  15 
40;  16  1;  Lk  24  10;  cf  Lk  23  49-56). 

In  Mt  27  55.56  (  ||  Mk  15  40),  we  are  told  that 
at  the  time  of  the  crucifixion  there  was  a  group  of 
women  observing  the  event  from  a  distance.  These 
women  are  said  to  have  followed  Jesus  from  Galilee, 
ministering  to  Him  and  to  the  disciples.  Among 
these  were  Mary  Magdalene  (see  III,  above) ;  Mary, 
mother  of  James  and  Joses;  and  the  unnamed 
mother  of  Zebedee's  children.  By  reference  to 
Lk  8  2.3,  where  this  group  is  first  introduced,  it 
appears  that,  as  a  whole,  it  was  composed  of  those 
who  had  been  healed  of  infirmities  of  one  kind  or 
another.  Whether  this  description  applies  indi- 
vidually to  Mary  or  not  we  cannot  be  sure,  but  it  is 
altogether  probable.  At  any  rate,  it  is  certain  that 
Mary  was  one  who  persistently  followed  with  the 
disciples  and  ministered  of  her  substance  to  aid 
and  comfort  the  Lord  in  His  work  for  others.  The 
course  of  the  narrative  seems  to  imply  that  Mary's 
sons  accompanied  their  mother  on  this  ministering 
journey  and  that  one  of  them  became  an  apostle. 
It  is  interesting  to  note  that  two  mothers  with  their 
sons  joined  the  company  of  the  disciples  and  that 
three  out  of  the  four  became  members  of  the  apos- 
tolic group.  Another  item  in  these  only  too  frag- 
mentary references  is  that  this  Mary,  along  with 
her  of  Magdala  and  the  others  of  this  group,  was 


of  sufficient  wealth  and  position  to  be  marked 
among  the  followers  of  Jesus  as  serving  in  this  par- 
ticular way.  The  mention  of  Chuzas'  wife  (Lk  8 
3)  is  an  indication  of  the  unusual  standing  of  this 
company  of  faithful  women. 

The  other  notices  of  Mary  show  her  lingering 
late  at  the  cross  (Mk  15  40);  a  spectator  at  the 
burial  (Mk  15  47);  and  among  the  first  to  bear 
spices  to  the  tomb.  This  is  the  whole  of  this 
woman's  biography  extant,  but  perhaps  it  is  enough. 
We  are  told  practically  nothing,  directly,  concerning 
her;  but,  incidentally,  she  is  known  to  be  generous, 
faithful,  loving,  true  and  brave.  She  came  in  sorrow 
to  the  tomb  to  anoint  the  body  of  her  dead  Lord; 
she  went  away  in  joy  to  proclaim  Him  alive  forever- 
more;.  A  privilege  to  be  coveted  by  the  greatest  was 
thus  awarded  to  simple  faith  and  trusting  love. 

VI.  Mary,  the  Mother  of  John  Mark. — This 
woman  is  mentioned  but  once  in  the  NT  (Acts  12 
12),  but  in  a  connection  to  arouse  intense  interest. 
Since  she  was  the  mother  of  Mark,  she  was  also,  in 
all  probability,  the  aunt  of  Barnabas.  The  aunt 
of  one  member  and  the  mother  of  another  of  the 
earliest  apostolic  group  is  a  woman  of  importance. 
The  statement  in  Acts,  so  far  as  it  concerns  Mary,  is 
brief  but  suggest  ive.  Professor  Ramsay  (see  St.  Paul 
the  Traveller,  etc,  385)  holds  that  the  authority  for 
this  narrative  was  not  Peter  but  Mark,  the  son  of 
the  house.  This,  if  true,  adds  interest  to  the  story 
as  we  have  it.  In  the  first  place,  the  fact  that  Peter 
went  thither  directly  upon  his  escape  from  prison 
argues  that  Mary's  house  was  a  well-known  center 
of  Christian  life  and  worship.  The  additional  fact 
that  coming  unannounced  and  casually  the  apostle 
found  a  considerable  body  of  believers  assembled 
points  in  the  same  direction.  That  "many"  were 
gathered  in  the  house  at  the  same  time  indicates 
that  the  house  was  of  considerable  size.  It  also  ap- 
pears that  Rhoda  was  only  one  of  the  maids,  arguing 
a  household  of  more  than  ordinary  size.  There  is  a 
tradition  of  doubtful  authenticity,  that  Mary's 
house  was  the  scene  of  a  still  more  sacred  gathering 
in  the  upper  room  on  the  night  of  the  betrayal. 
We  conclude  that  Mary  was  a  wealthy  widow  of 
Jerus,  who,  upon  becoming  a  disciple  of  Christ, 
with  her  son,  gave  herself  with  whole-souled  devo- 
tion to  Christian  service,  making  her  large  and  well- 
appointed  house  a  place  of  meeting  for  the  pro- 
scribed and  homeless  Christian  communion  whose 
benefactor  and  patron  she  thus  became. 

Louis  Matthew's  Sweet 

MARY,  THE  PASSING  OF.  See  Apocryphal 
Gospels. 

MASALOTH,  mas'a-loth.     Sec  Mesaloth. 

MASCHIL,  mas'kil.     See  Psalms. 

MASH  (lffg,  mash):  Named  in  Gen  10  23  as 
one  of  the  sons  of  Aram.  In  the  ||  passage  in 
1  Ch  1  17  the  name  is  given  as  "Meshech" 
(meshekh),  and  the  LXX  (Mosoch)  supports  this 
form  in  both  passages.  "Meshech,"  however,  is  a 
Japhetic  name  (Gen  10  2),  and  "Mash"  would 
seem  to  be  the  original  reading.  It  is  probably  to 
be  identified  with  the  Mons  Masius  of  classical 
writers  (Strabo,  etc),  on  the  northern  boundary  of 
Mesopotamia. 

MASHAL,  ma'shal  (bTBtt,  mashal,  1  Ch  6  74). 
See  Mishal. 

MASIAS,  ma-sl'as  (A,  Mao-Cas,  Masias,  B,  Mci- 
o-cuas,  Meisalas):  The  head  of  one  of  the  families 
of  Solomon's  servants  (1  Esd  5  34);  it  has  no 
equivalent  in  the  ||  Ezr  2  55  ff;    RVm  "Misaias." 


2007 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Mary 
Master 


MASMAN,  mas'man.     See  Maasmas. 

MASON,  ma's'n:  The  tr  of  4  Heb  words:  (1) 
"3X  TL'in ,  hdrash  'ebhen,  "graver  of  stone"  (2  S  5 
11);  (2)  (3)  "Tia,  gudhar  (2  K  12  12),  l^p  tthn , 
hdrash  klr  (1  Ch  14  1),  "maker  of  a  wall  [or 
hedge]";  (4)  2tn,  hdcabh,  "a  hewer  or  digger  [of 
stones]"  (1  Ch  22  2;  Ezr  3  7).  Lebanon  still 
supplies  the  greater  number  of  skilled  masons  to  Pal 
and  Syria  (see  2  S  5  11),  those  of  Shweir  being  in 
special  repute.  See  Crafts,  II,  8;  also  Archi- 
tecture; Building;  Gebal;  House. 

MASPHA,  mas'fa  (1  Mace  3  46,  RV  "Mizpeh"). 
See  Mizpeh,  4. 

MASREKAH,  mas're-ka,  mas-re'ka  (Tlp^'Q , 
masrekdh;  Mao-6KKa,  Masekka) :  A  place  mentioned 
in  the  list  of  ancient  rulers  of  Edom  (Gen  36  31), 
"before  there  reigned  any  king  over  the  children  of 
Israel."  Masrekah  was  the  royal  city  of  Samlah, 
son  of  Hadad  (ver  36;  1  Ch 'l  47).  The  name 
may  mean  "place  of  choice  vines,"  but  there  is 
nothing  to  show  in  what  locality  it  must  be  sought. 

MASSA,  mas'a  (SEtt ,  massd',  "burden"): 
Descendant  of  Abraham  through  Ishmael  (Gen  25 
14;  1  Ch  1  30).  His  people  may  be  the  Masani 
of  Ptolemy,  having  Eastern  Arabia  near  Babylon 
as  their  habitat.  The  marginal  reading  of  the  head- 
ing to  Prov  31  mentions  Lemuel  as  king  of  Massa. 
If  that  reading  is  accepted,  it  would  seem  that  a 
tribe  and  probably  a  place  were  named  from  Ish- 
niael's  descendant.  The  reading  is  doubtful, 
however,  for  where  the  phrase  recurs  in  Prov  30  1 
(RV)  it  appears  to  be  a  gloss. 

MASSACRE,  mas'a-ker,  OF  THE  INNOCENTS. 
See  Innocents,  Massacre  of. 

MASSAH  AND  MERIBAH,  mas'a,  mer'i-ba 
(PC'H^  HE'S ,  massah  umTlbhah,  "proving  and 
strife";  impac-p-os  Kal  XoiSop-qo-is,  peirasmds  kai 
loiddresis):  These;  names  occur  together  as  applied 
to  one  place  only  in  Ex  17  7;  they  stand,  however, 
in  parallelism  in  Dt  33  8;  Ps  95  8.  In  all  other 
cases  they  are  kept  distinct,  as  belonging  to  two 
separate  narratives.  The  conjunction  here  may 
be  due  to  conflation  of  the  sources.  Of  course,  it  is 
not  impossible  that,  for  the  reason  stated,  the  double 
name  was  given,  although  elsewhere  (Dt  6  16; 
9  22)  the  place  is  referred  to  as  Massah. 

This  scene  is  laid  in  Ex  17  1  at  Rephidim  (q.v.) 
and  in  ver  6  at  HoREB  (q.v.).  It  is  near  the  begin- 
ning   of    the    desert    wanderings.     In 

1.  First  dearth  of    water   the   people    murmur 
Instance         and    complain.     Moses,    appealing   to 

God,  is  told  what  to  do.  He  takes  with 
him  the  elders  of  Israel,  and  smites  with  his  rod 
the  rock  on  which  the  Lord  stands  in  Horeb,  where- 
upon water  gushes  forth,  and  the  people  drink. 
Here  Moses  alone  is  God's  agent.  There  is  no  hint 
of  blame  attaching  to  him.  He  called  the  place 
Massah  and  Meribah,  because  of  the  striving  of  the 
children  of  Israel,  and  because  they  tempted  the 
Lord  (ver  7).  In  some  way  not  indicated,  here 
and  at  Meribah,  God  put  the  Levitcs  to  proof  (Dt 
33  8). 

The  second  narrative  describes  what  took  place 

at  Kadesh  (i.e.  "Kadesh-barnea")  when  the  desert 

wanderings  were  nearly  over  (Nu  20 

2.  Second      1-13).     The  flow  of  water  from   the 
Instance         famous   spring   for   some   reason   had 

ceased.  In  their  distress  the  people 
became  impatient  and  petulant.  At  the  door  of 
the  tent  of  meeting  Moses  and  Aaron  received  the 


Lord's  instructions.  In  his  speech  of  remonstrance 
to  the  people  Moses  seemed  to  glorify  himself  and 
his  brother;  and  instead  of  speaking  to  the  rock 
as  God  had  commanded,  he  struck  it  twice  with  his 
rod.  The  flow  of  water  was  at  once  restored;  but 
Moses  and  Aaron  were  heavily  punished  because 
they  did  not  sanctify  God  in  the  eyes  of  the  children 
of  Israel.  The  "Waters  of  Meribah"  was  the  name 
given  to  this  scene  of  strife.  The  incident  is  re- 
ferred  to  in  Nu  20  24,  and  Dt  32  51  (m'ribhath 
kadhesh,  AV  "Meribah-Kadesh,"  RV  "Meribah  of 
Kadesh").  In  Ps  81  7  God  appears  as  having 
tested  Israel  here.  The  sin  of  Israel  and  the  en- 
suing calamity  to  Moses  are  alluded  to  in  Ps  106  32. 

The  place  appears  in  Ezk  47  19;  48  28,  as  on 
the  southern  border  of  the  land  of  Israel,  in  the 
former  as  "Meriboth-kadesh,"  in  the  latter  as 
"Meribath-kadesh"  (Meriboth  =  pl.  Meribath  = 
"const,  sing.")  where  the  position  indicated  is  that 
of  '  Aiti Kadis,  "Kadesh-barnea." 

In  Dt  33  2,  by  a  slight  emendation  of  the  text 
we  might  read  merlbhoth  kadhesh  for  meribhebhoth 
kadhesh.     This  gives  a  preferable  sense. 

\Y.  Ewivg 

MASSIAS,  ma-si'as  (A,  Mao-<rCas,  Massias,  B, 
'Ao-creias,  Asseias) :  One  of  those  who  put  away  their 
"strange  wives"  (1  Esd  9  22)  =  "Maaseiah"  of  Ezr 
10  22. 

MAST.     See  Ships  axd  Boats,  II,  2,  (3);   3. 

MASTER,  mas'ter  (fllS ,  'ddhon,  b?5  ,  ba'al, 
^2.*) ,  rabbi;  Seo-n-oTTjs,  despdtes,  8i8do-Ka\os,  didd- 
skalos,  Kvpios,  kurios,  pappc,  rhabbi):  "Master," 
when  the  tr  of  'ddhon,  "ruler,"  "lord"  (Sir), 
often  tr'1  "lord,"  demotes  generally  the  owner  or 
master  of  a  servant  or  slave  (Gen  24  9,  etc;  39  2, 
etc;  Ex  21  4,  etc;  Dt  23  15  bis;  2  S  9  9.10 
bis;  Prov  30  10);  elsewhere  it  is  rather  "lord"  or 
"ruler"  (often  king,  e.g.  1  S  24  6.S;  26  16);  in 
the  pi.  'adhonlm,  it  is,  as  the  rule,  used  only  of  God 
(but  see  Gen  19  2.18;  Dt  10  17;  Ps  136  3, 
"Lord  of  lords";  Isa  26  13,  "other  lords";  19  4 
[Heb  "lords"];  24  2).  Ba'al,  "lord,"  "owner,"  is 
trd  "master":  "the  master  of  the  house"  (Ex  22  8; 
Jgs  19  22.23);  "the  ass  his  master's  crib"  (Isa  1 
3).  We  have  it  also  tr'1  "masters  of  assemblies" 
(Eccl  12  11).  See  Assemblies,  Masters  of.  Cf 
Ecclus  32  1,  "master  [of  a  feast],"  RV  "ruler"; 
Jn  2  9,  "ruler  of  the  feast";  rabh  (Did  1  3;  Jon  1 
6,  "shipmaster");  rabh,  Aram.,  "great,"  "mighty," 
"elder"  (Did  4  9;  5  11,  "master  of  the  magicians"); 
also  sar,  "head"  or  "chief"  (Ex  1  11,  "taskmasters"; 
1  Ch  15  27,  "master  of  the  song,"  RVm  "the 
carrying  of  the  ark,  Heb  the  lifting  up");  xur,  "to 
call,"  "to  awake,"  is  also  rendered  "master"  in 
AV,  "The  Lord  will  cut  off  the  man  that  doeth  this, 
the  master  and  the  scholar,"  m  "him  that  waketh 
and  him  that  answereth,"  RV  as  AVm  (Mai  2  12). 
The  vb.  "to  master"  does  not  occur  in  the  OT, 
but  we  have  in  Apoc  (Wisd  12  18)  "mastering  thy 
power"  (despdzon  ischuos),  RV  "being  sovereign 
over  [thy]  strength." 

In  the  NT  des poles  answers  to  'ddhon  as  "master" 
(1  Tim  6  1.2;  2  Tim  2  21),  rendered  also  "Lord" 
(Lk  2  29,etc);  kurios,  is  "Master,"  "Lord,"  "Sir," 
used  very  frequently  of  God  or  of  Christ  (Mt  1 
20.22.24),  trd  "Master"  (Mt  6  24;  15  27;  AV  Mk 
13  35;  Rom  14  4,  etc);  kathegetis, a  "leader,"  is  trd 
"Master"  (Mt  23  8[AV].10);  didaskalos,  a  title  very 
often  applied  to  Our  Lord  in  the  Gospels,  is  "Teach- 
er," trd  "Master"  in  AV  Mt  8  19;  9  11;  Mk  4  38; 
Lk  3  12,  etc;  RV  "Teacher" ;  also  Jn  3  2  10;  Jas 
3  1,  "be  not  many  masters,"  RV  "teachers";  rhabbi, 
rhabbei  ("Rabbi")  (a  transliterated  Heb  term 
signifying  "my  Teacher")  is  also  in  several  instances 
applied  to  Jesus,  AV  "Master"  (Mt  26  25.49;   Mk 


Mastery 
Matthew,  Gospel 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2008 


9  5;  11  21;  Jn  9  2  [RV  leaves  untranslated]; 
Mk  10  51,  "Rabboni,"  AV  "Lord"';  Jn  20  16 
["Rabbouni"],  RV  "Rabboni,"  q.v.). 

For  "master"  RV  has  "lord"  (1  S  26  16;  29  4. 10; 
Am  4  1;  Mk  13  :<5;  Horn  14  4) ;"  master"  for  "  lord  " 
(Gen  39  16;  2  Pet  2  I;  Rev  6  10);  for  "good  man 
of  the  house"  (Ml  24  43;  Lb  12  39),  "master  of  the 
house";  in  Eph  6  5,  RVrn  gives  "Gr  lords"  (in  ver  9, 
"their  Master  and  yours"  is  also  Gr  kuriox);  instead 
of  "the  only  Lord  Cod  and  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ" 
(Jude  ver  4),  RV  reads  "our  only  Master  and  Lord, 
Jesus  Christ,"  m  "the  only  Master,  and  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ";  for  "overcame  them"  (Acts  19  10),  "mas- 
tered both  of  them." 

W.  L.  Walker 

MASTERY,  mas'ter-i  (TTTOjl,  ^hurah,  tablp , 
sh'iet,  Aram.;  avcovitonai,  agonizomai,  aOXtto, 
athle'd):  "Mastery  occurs  twice  in  the  OT  and 
twice  in  AV  of  the  NT:  in  Ex  32  18  ((fbhurah, 
"might"),  "the  voice  of  them  that  shout  for  mas- 
tery"; in  Dnl  6  24  {sh'iet,  "to  have  power"),  "The 
lions  had  the  mastery  of  them";  in  1  Cor  9  25, 
agonizomai,  "to  contend  for  a  prize,"  to  be  a  com- 
batant in  the  public  games,  is  trd  "striveth  for  the 
mastery,"  RV  "striveth  in  the  games";  and  in 
2  Tim  2  5,  athleo,  with  the  same  meaning,  is  trd 
"strive  for  masteries,"  RV  "contend  in  the  games." 
From  the  Gr  we  have  the  words  "athlete,"  etc. 

W.  L.  Walker 

MASTIC,  MASTICK.mas'tik  (crxtvos,  schinos) :  A 
tree  mentioned  onlyinSus  ver  54  (cf  Gen  37  25  m). 
It  is  the  Pistacia  lentiscus  (Arab.  Mistaki),  a  shrub 
which  attains  a  height  of  10  to  12  ft.,  growing  in 
thickets  on  the  slopea  round  the  Mediterranean. 
The  gum  which  exudes  through  incisions  made  in 
the  bark  is  greatly  prized  as  a  masticatory.  The 
smell  and  flavor  are  suggestive  of  the  terebinth. 
It  is  chewed  in  order  to  preserve  the  teeth  and  gums. 
But  often  men  chew  it  without  any  special  purpose, 
just  because  they  like  it.  The  mastick  produced 
in  Chios  is  most  highly  esteemed.  It  is  employed 
in  making  perfumes  and  sweetmeats;  in  preparing 
bread  a  little  is  sometimes  added  to  the  dough  just 
before  it  is  put  into  the  oven.  W.  Ewing 

MATHANIAS,  math-a-ni'as:  AV  in  1  Esd  9 
31.     See  Matthanias. 

MATHELAS,  ma-the'las  (A,  MaG^Xas,  Mathtlas, 
B,  Ma€T|\as,  Maetlas;  AV  Matthelas):  One  of  the 
priests  who  had  married  "strange  wives"  (1  Esd 
9  19)  =  "Maaseiah"  of  Ezr  10  18. 

MATHUSALA,  ma-t  hu'sa-la  (Ma0ouo-a\d,  Mathou- 
sald):    Gr   form   of    "Methuselah,"    RV    (Lk  3  37 

AV). 

MATRED,  ma'tred  H"ltp"Q ,  matredh,  "expul- 
sion"): The  mother  of  Mehetabel,  wife  of  Hadar, 
one  of  the  kings  of  Edom  (Gen  36  39;  1  Ch  1  50, 
"Hadad").  The  LXX  and  Pesh  designate  Matred 
as  male,  i.e.  as  son  of  Me-zahab  instead  of  daughter. 

MATRI,  ma'trl  PIPE ,  matri,  "rainy"):  A 
family  of  the  tribe  of  Benjamin  to  which  King  Saul 
belonged    (1   S   10  21  AV). 

MATRITES,  ma'trits  ("niplgn,  ha-matrl):  The 
RV  tr  of  matri  with  the  definite  art.,  "the  Matrites" 
(1  S  10  21). 

MATTAN,  mat/an  ("jI^S  ,  mattan,  "a  gift") : 

(1)  A  priest  in  the  house  of  Baal,  slain  by  Jehoiada 
before  Baal's  altar  (2  K  11  18;  2  Ch  23  17). 

(2)  The  father  of  Shephatiah  a  contemporary 
and  persecutor  of  Jeremiah  (Jer  38  1),  one  of  those 
who  put  Jeremiah  into  Malechiah's  dungeon  (ver  6). 


MATTANAH,  mat'a-na  (rCITO,  mattanah;  B, 
Mav8avaeiv,  Manthanacin;  A,  MavGavtiv,  Man- 
lhanein):  A  station  of  the  Israelites  which  seems  to 
have  lain  between  Beer  and  Nahaliel  (Nu  21  18  f). 
The  name  means  "gift,"  and  might  not  inappro- 
priately be  applied  to  a  well  in  the  wilderness 
(Budde  translates  "Out  of  the  desert  a  gift";  see 
ExposT,  VI,  482).  Some  would  therefore  identify 
it  with  Beer.  This  is  improbable.  There  is  now 
no  clue  to  the  place,  but  it  must  have  lain  S.W. 
of  the  Dead  Sea. 

MATTANIAH,  mat-a-nl'a  (irPjn'Q ,  mattanyahu, 
"gift  of  Jeh"): 

(1)  King  Zedekiah's  original  name,  but  changed 
by  Nebuchadnezzar  when  he  made  him  king  over 
Judah  instead  of  his  nephew  Jehoiachin  (2  K 
24  17). 

(2)  A  descendant  of  Asaph  (1  Ch  9  15),  leader 
of  the  temple  choir  (Neh  11  17;  12  8).  Men- 
tioned among  the  "porters,"  keepers  of  "the  store- 
houses of  the  gates"  (12  25),  and  again  in  ver  35  as 
among  the  "priests'  sons  with  trumpets." 

(3)  May  be  the  same  as  (2),  though  in  2  Ch  20 
14  he  is  mentioned  as  an  ancestor  of  that  Jahaziel 
whose  inspired  words  in  the  midst  of  the  congrega- 
tion encouraged  Jehoshaphat  to  withstand  the  in- 
vasion of  Moab,  Amnion  and  Seir  (vs  14  ff). 

(4-7)  Four  others  who  had  foreign  wives,  (a)  the 
Matthanias  of  1  Esd  9  27  (Ezr  10  20);  {b)  the 
Othonias  of  1  Esd  9  28  (Ezr  10  27);  (c)  the 
Matthanias  of  1  Esd  9  31  (Ezr  10  30);  (d)  the 
fourth  of  these  in  1  Esd  9  34  AV  has  had  his 
name  blended  into  that  of  Mattenai,  and  the  two 
appear  as  the  composite  name  Mamnitanemus 
(Ezr  10  37).     He  is  a  son  of  Bani. 

(8)  A  Levite,  fat  her  of  Zaccur,  ancestor  of  Hanan 
the  under-treasurer  of  the  Levitical  offerings  under 
Nehemiah  (Neh  13  13). 

(9)  One  of  the  sons  of  Heman  the  singer,  whose 
office  it  was  to  blow  the  horns  in  the  temple-service 
as  David  had  appointed  it  (1  Ch  25  4.5).  He 
was  head  of  the  9th  division  of  the  12  Levites  (1 
Ch  25  16),  who  were  proficient  in  the  Songs  of  Jeh 
(1  Ch  25  7). 

(10)  One  of  the  sons  of  Asaph  who  helped  Heze- 
kiah  in  the  fulfilling  of  his  vow  to  cleanse  the  house 
of  the  Lord  (2  Ch  29  13).         Henry  Wallace 

MATTATHA,   mat'a-tha    (Mai-raGd,    Mattathd): 

Son  of  Nathan  the  son  of  David  in    the   genealogy 
of  Jesus  (Lk  3  31). 

MATTATHAH,     mat'a-tha:      RV     Mattattah 

(q.v.). 

MATTATHIAS,  mat-a-thl'as  (MaTTaOCas,  Mat- 
talhias).    The  persons  of  this  name  in  the  Apoc  are: 

(1)  Mattathias  the  father  of  the  Maccabees. 
See  Asmoneans;   Maccabees. 

(2)  One  of  the  7  who  stood  on  Ezra's  right  hand 
as  he  read  the  law  (1  Esd  9  43)  =  "Mattithiah" 
of  Neh  8  4. 

(3)  The  son — probably  the  youngest  (cf  1  Mace 
16  2) — of  Simon  the  Maccabean,  treacherously 
murdered  along  with  his  father  and  his  brother 
Judas  by  his  brother-in-law  Ptolemy,  son  of  Abubus 
in  the  stronghold  of  Dok  near  Jericho  in  the  177th 
Seleucid— 136-135  BC  (1  Mace  16  14). 

(4)  Son  of  Absalom,  one  of  the  two  "captains 
of  the  forces"  who  in  the  campaign  against  Deme- 
trius in  the  plain  of  Hazor  gallantly  supported 
Judas,  enabling  the  latter  to  turn  an  impending 
defeat  into  a  great  victory  (1  Mace  11  70). 

(5)  One  of  the  three  envoys  sent  by  Nicanor  to 
treat  with  Judas  in  161  BC  (2  Mace  14  19).     No 


2009 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Mastery 
Matthew,  Gospel 


names  of  envoys  are  given  in  the  account  of  1  Mace 
7  27  ff. 

(6)  One  of  (lie  sons  of  Asom  who  put  away  his 
"strange  wife"  (1  Esd  9  33)=AV  "Matthias"  = 
"Mattattah"  of  Ezr  10  33. 

In  addition  to  these  two  of  this  name  are  men- 
tioned in  the  NT: 

(7)  Lk  3  25,  "son  of  Amos." 

(8)  Lk  3  26,  "son  of  Semein."  S.  Angus 

MATTATTAH,  mat'a-ta  (nnn"5 ,  mattattah) :  RV 
for  "Mattathah"  in  AY  (Ezr  10  33).  The  same  as 
"Mattathias"  of  1  Esd  9  33,  AY  "Matthias"  (q. v.). 

MATTENAI,  mat-e-na'l,  mat'e-ni  fJlsflB,  mat- 
tenaij,   "liberal"): 

(1)  (2)  Two  who  married  foreign  wives,  one  a 
son  of  Hashum  (Ezr  10  33;  in  1  Esd  9  33  "Altan- 
neus");  the  other  a  son  of  Bani  (Ezr  10  37). 

(3)  A  i>riest  in  the  days  of  Joiakim  son  of  Jeshua 
(Nen  12  19),  representing  the  house  of  Joiarib. 

MATTER,  mat'er:  This  word  being  a  very  general 
term  may  express  various  ideas.  RV  therefore 
frequently  changes  the  reading  of  AV  in  order  to 
stale  more  definitely  the  meaning  of  the  context 
(cf  Ex  24  14;  1  S  16  18;  1  K  8  59;  2  S  11  19; 
Est  3  4;  Ps  35  20;  64  5;  Prov  16  20;  18  13). 
"Iin ,  dabhdr,  and  the  Gr  X670S,  logos,  both  meaning 
"word,"  are  very  frequently  trd  by  "matter." 
(5Xi7,  hide,  "wood,"  is  rendered  "matter"  in  Jas  3  5 
AV  (RV  "how  much  wood  is  kindled";  cf  Sir  28 
10).  Job  32  18  tr"  lit.  "words";  also  Dnl  4  17, 
"sentence."  diacptpu,  diaphero,  "to  carry  in  differ- 
ent places,"  "to  differ,"  is  rendered  "to  make 
matter"  (Gal  2  6).  The  meaning  is  "it  makes  a 
difference,"  "it  matters,"  "it  is  of  importance." 

A.  L.  Breslich 

MATTHAN,  mat'than  (TR MarGdv, Matthdn, WH 
Ma90dv,  Maththdn):  An  ancestor  of  Jesus,  grand- 
father of  .Joseph  the  husband  of  Mary  (Mt  1  15). 
See  Matthat. 

MATTHANIAS,  mat-tha-ni'as  (A,  MarOavCas, 
Matthanlas,  B,  MaTav,  Matdri): 

(1)  One  of  those  who  put  away  their  "strange 
wives"  (1   Esd  9  27)  =  "Mattaniah"  of  Ezr  10  26. 

(2)  AV'Mathanias"  (1  Esd  9  31)  =  "Mattaniah" 
of  Ezr  10  30.  B,  followed  by  Swete,  reads  Uea- 
Ka.tnracrtJ.vs,  Beskaspasm  lis. 

MATTHAT,  mat'that  (Maxedr,  Matthdt,  Ma9- 
0aT,  Maththdt):  The  name  of  two  ancestors  of  Jesus 
in  Lk's  genealogy  (Lk  3  24.29),  one  being  the 
grandfather  of  Joseph  the  husband  of  Mary. 

MATTHEW,  math'u:  Matthew  the  apostle 
and  evangelist  is  mentioned  in  the  4  catalogues  of 
the  apostles  in  Mt  10  3;  Mk  3  IS;  Lk  6  15; 
Acts  1  13,  though  his  place  is  not  constant  in  this 
list,  varying  between  the  7th  and  the  8th  places  and 
thus  exchanging  positions  with  Thomas.  The  name 
occurring  in  the  two  forms  Marflcuos,  Matthaios,  and 
NadOatos,  Maththaios,  is  a  Gr  reproduction  of  the 
Aram.  Mattathydh,  i.e.  "gift  of  Jen,"  and  equivalent 
to  Theodore.  Before  his  call  to  the  apostolic  office, 
according  to  Mt  9  9,  his  name  was  Levi.  The 
identity  of  Matthewr  and  Levi  is  practically  beyond 
all  doubt,  as  is  evident  from  the  predicate  in  Mt  10 
3;  and  from  a  comparison  of  Mk  2  14;  Lk  5  27 
with  Mt  9  9.  St.  Mark  calls  him  "the  son  of 
Alphaeus"  (Mk  2  14),  although  this  cannot  have 
been  the  Alphaeus  who  w?as  the  father  of  James  the 
Less;  for  if  this  James  and  Matthew  had  been 
brothers  this  fact  would  doubtless  have  been  men- 
tioned, as  is  the  case  with  Peter  and  Andrew,  and 
also  with  the  sons  of  Zebedee.     Whether  Jesus,  as 


He  did  in  the  case  of  several  others  of  His  disci- 
ples, gave  him  the  additional  name  of  Matthew 
is  a  matter  of  which  we  are  not  informed.  As 
he  was  a  customs  officer  (6  TtXwvr)-;,  ho  telones,  Mt 
10  3)  in  Capernaum,  in  the  territory  of  Herod 
Antipas,  Matthew  was  not  exactly  a  Rom  official, 
but  was  in  the  service  of  the  tetrarch  of  Galilee,  or 
possibly  a  subordinate  officer,  belonging  to  the  class 
called  portitores,  serving  under  the  publicani,  or 
superior  officials  who  farmed  the  Rom  taxes.  As 
such  he  must  have  had  some  education,  and  doubt- 
less in  addition  to  the  native  Aram,  must  have  been 
acquainted  with  the  Gr.  His  ready  acceptance  of 
the  call  of  Jesus  shows  that  he  must  have  belonged 
to  that  group  of  publicans  and  sinners,  who  in 
Galilee  and  elsewhere  looked  longingly  to  Jesus 
(Mt  11  19;  Lk  7  34;  15  1).  Just  at  what  period 
of  Christ's  ministry  he  was  called  does  not  appear 
with  certainty,  but  evidently  not  at  once,  as  on  the 
day  when  he  was  called  (Mt  9  11.14.18;  Mk  5 
37),  Peter,  James  and  John  are  already  trustworthy 
disciples  of  Jesus.  Unlike  the  first  six  among  the 
apostles,  Matthew  did  not  enter  the  group  from 
among  the  pupils  of  John  the  Baptist.  These  are 
practically  all  the  data  furnished  by  the  NT  on  the 
person  of  Matthew,  and  what  is  found  in  post-  and 
extra-Bib.  sources  is  chiefly  the  product  of  imagina- 
tion and  in  part  based  on  mistaking  the  name  of 
Matthew  for  Matthias  (cf  Zahn,  Intro  to  the  NT,  ch 
liv,  n.3).  Tradition  states  that  he  preached  for 
15  years  in  Pal  and  that  after  this  he  went  to  foreign 
nations,  the  Ethiopians,  Macedonians,  Syrians, 
Persians,  Parthians  and  Medes  being  mentioned. 
He  is  said  to  have  died  a  natural  death  either  in 
Ethiopia  or  in  Macedonia.  The  stories  of  the  Roman 
Catholic  church  that  he  died  the  death  of  a  martyr 
on  September  21  and  of  the  Gr  church  that  this 
occurred  on  November  10  are  without  any  histori- 
cal basis.  Clem.  Alex.  (Strom.,  iv.9)  gives  the  ex- 
plicit denial  of  Heracleon  that  Matthew  suffered 
martyrdom.  G.  H.  Schoddu 

MATTHEW,  THE  GOSPEL  OF  (eiayytkiov  Kard 

MaGGaiov,  euaggelion  katd  Matkthaion  [or  McerGaiov, 

Matthaiou]) : 

1.  Name  of  Gospel — Unity  and  Integrity 

2.  Oanonieity  and  Authorship 

3.  Relation  of  Gr  and  Aram.  Gospels 

4.  Contents,  Character  and  Purpose 

5.  Problems  of  Literary  Relation 
0.   Date  of  Gospel 

Literature 

The  "Gospel  according  to  Matthew,"  i.e.  the 
Gospel  according  to  the  account  of  Matthew,  stands, 
according  to  traditional,  but  not  en- 
1.  Name  of  tirely  universal,  arrangement,  first 
Gospel —  among  the  canonical  Gospels.  The 
Unity  and  Gospel,  as  will  be  seen  below,  was 
Integrity  unanimously  ascribed  by  the  testi- 
mony of  the  ancient  church  to  the 
apostle  Matthew,  though  the  title  does  not  of  itself 
necessarily  _  imply  immediate  authorship.  The 
unity  and  integrity  of  the  Gospel  were  never  in 
ancient  times  called  in  question.  Chs  1,  2,  par- 
ticularly— the  story  of  the  virgin  birth  and  child- 
hood of  Jesus — are  proved  by  the  consentient  tes- 
timony of  MSS,  YSS,  and  patristic  references,  to 
have  been  an  integral  part  of  the  Gospel  from  the 
beginning  (see  Virgin  Birth).  The  omission  of 
this  section  from  the  heretical  Gospel  of  the  Ebion- 
ites,  which  appears  to  have  had  some  relation  to  our 
Gospel,  is  without  significance. 

The  theory  of  successive  redactions  of  Mt,  starting 
with  an  Aram.  Gospel,  elaborated  by  Eichhorn  and 
Marsh  (1801),  and  the  related  theories  of  successive 
editions  of  the  Gospel  put  forth  by  the  Tubingen  school 
(Baur,  Hilgenfeld,  Kostlin,  etc),  and  by  Ewald  (Bleek 
supposes  a  primitive  Gr  Gospel),  lack  historical  founda- 
tion, and  are  refuted  by  the  fact  that  M.SS  and  VSS 
know  only  the  ultimate  redaction.     Is  it  credible  that 


Matthew,  Gospel    THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2010 


2.   Canon- 
icity  and 
Authorship 


tho  churches  should  quietly  accept  redaction  after  redac- 
tion, and  not  a  word  be  said,  or  a  vestige  remain,  of  any 
ot    t  hem  '.' 

(1)  Canonicity.  The  apostolic  origin  and  canon- 
ical rank  of  the  ( lospel  of  Ml  were  accepted  without 

a  doubt  by  the  early  church.  Origen, 
in  the  beginning  of  the  3d  cent,  could 
speak  of  it  us  the  first  of  ''the  four 
( iospels,  which  alone  are  received  with- 
out dispute  by  the  church  of  Cod  tmder 
heaven"  (in  Euseb.,  HE,Yl,  25).  The  use  of  the 
Gospel  can  be  traced  in  the  apostolic  Fathers;  most 
distinctly  in  Barnabas,  who  quotes  Mt  22  14  with 
the  formula,  "It  is  written"  (5).  Though  not 
mentioned  by  name,  it  was  a  chief  source  from  which 
Justin  took  his  data  for  the  life  and  words  of  Jesus 
(ef  West  cot  t,  Canon,  01  f'f),  and  apostolic  origin  is 
implied  in  its  forming  part  of  "the  Memoirs  of  the 
Apostles,"  "which  are  called  Gospels,"  read  weekly 
in  the  assemblies  of  the  Christians  (Ap.  i.66,  etc). 
Its  identity  with  our  Mt  is  confirmed  by  the  un- 
doubted presence  of  that  Gospel  in  the  Diatessaron 
of  Tatian,  Justin's  disciple.  The  testimony  _  of 
Papias  is  considered  below.  The  unhesitating 
acceptance  of  the  Gospel  is  further  decisively  shown 
by  the  testimonies  and  use  made  of  it  in  the_  works 
of  Irenaeus,  Tertullian,  Clement  of  Alexandria,  and 
byits  inclusion  in  the  Muratorian  Canon,  the  Itala, 
Pesh,  etc.    See  Canon  of  NT;  Gospels. 

(2)  Authorship. — The  questions  that  cluster 
around  the  First  Gospel  have  largely  to  do  with  the 
much-discussed  and  variously  disputed  statement 
concerning  it  found  in  Eusebius  (HE,  III,  39),  cited 
from  the  much  older  work  of  Papias,  entitled  In- 
terpretation of  the  Words  of  the  Lord.  Papias  is  the 
first  who  mentions  Matthew  by  name  as  the  author 
of  the  Gospel.  His  words  are:  "Matthew  com- 
posed the  Logia  [\6yia,  login,  "words,"  "oracles"] 
in  the  Heb  [Aram. J  tongue,  and  everyone  inter- 
preted them  as  he  was  able.  Papias  cannot  here 
be  referring  to  a  book  of  Matthew  in  which  only  the 
discourses  or  sayings  of  Jesus  had  been  preserved, 
but  which  had  not  any,  or  only  meager  accounts  of 
His  deeds,  which  imaginary  document  is  in  so  many 
critical  circles  regarded  as  the  basis  of  the  present 
Gospel,  for  Papias  himself  uses  the  expression 
tA  \b-yia,  td  logia,  as  embracing  the  story,  as  he 
himself  savs,  in  speaking  of  Mk,  "of  the  things 
said  or  done  by  Christ"  (Euseb.,  HE,  III,  24;  cf 
particularly  T.  Zalm,  Intro  to  NT,  sec.  54,  and 
Lightf oot,  Supernatural  Religion,  170  ft).  Eusebius 
further  reports  that  after  Matthew  had  first  labored 
among  his  Jewish  compatriots,  he  went  to  other 
nations,  and  as  a  substitute  for  his  oral  preaching, 
left  to  the  former  a  Gospel  written  in  their  own 
dialect  (III,  24).  The  testimony  of  Papias  to 
Matthew  as  the  author  of  the  First  Gospel  is  con- 
firmed by  Irenaeus  (hi. 3,  1)  and  by  Origen  (in 
Euseb.,  HE,  V,  10),  and  may  be  accepted  as  repre- 
senting a  uniform  2d-cent.  tradition.  Always, 
how-ever,  it  is  coupled  with  the  statement  that  the 
Gospel  was  originally  written  in  the  Heb  dialect. 
Hence  arises  the  difficult  question  of  the  relation  of 
the  canonical  Gr  Gospel,  with  which  alone,  appar- 
ently, the  fathers  were  acquainted,  to  this  alleged 
original  apostolic  work. 

One  thing  which  seems  certain  is  that  whatever 
this  Heb  (Aram.)  document  may  have  been,  it  was  not 

an  original  form  from  which  the  present 
3.  Relation  Gr  Gospel  of  Mt  was  tr'1,  either  by  the 
of  Gr  and  apostle  himself,  or  by  somebody  else, 
Aram.  as  was  maintained  by  Bengel,  Thiersch, 

Gospels         and  other  scholars.     Indeed,  the  Gr 

Mt  throughout  bears  the  impress  of 
being  not  a  tr  at  all,  but  as  having  been  originally 
written  in  Gr,  and  as  being  less  Hebraistic  in  the 
form  of  thought  than  some  other  NT  writings,  e.g. 


the    Apocalypse.     It   is   generally   not   difficult   to 

discover  when  a  Gr  book  of  this  period  is  a  tr  from 
the  Heb  or  Aram.  That  our  Mt  was  written  origi- 
nally in  Gr  appears,  among  other  things,  from  the 
way  in  which  it  makes  use  of  the  OT,  sometimes 
following  the  LNN,  sometimes  going  back  to  the 
Heb.  Particularly  instructive  passages  in  this 
regard  an;  12  18-21  and  13  14.15,  in  which  the 
rendering  of  the  Alexandrian  tr  would  have  served 
the  purposes  of  the  evangelist,  but  he  yet  follows 
more  closely  the  original  text,  although  he  adopts 
the  LXX  wherever  this  seemed  to  suit  better  than 
the  Heb  (cf  Keil's  Comm.  on  Mt,  loc.  cit .). 

The  external  evidences  to  which  appeal  is  made 
in  favor  of  the  use  of  an  original  Heb  or  Aram.  Mt 
in  the  primitive  church  are  more  than  elusive. 
Eusebius  {HE,  V,  10)  mentions  as  a  report  (X<?- 
7«rat,  legetai)  that  Pantaenus,  about  the  year  170 
AD,  found  among  the  Jewish  Christians,  probably 
of  South  Arabia,  a  Gospel  of  Mt  in  Heb,  left  there 
by  Bartholomew;  and  Jerome,  while  in  the  Syrian 
Beroea,  had  occasion  to  examine  such  a  work, 
which  he  found  in  use  among  the  Nazarenes,  anil 
which  at  first  he  regarded  as  a  composition  of  the 
apostle  Matthew,  but  afterward  declared  not  to  be 
such,  and  then  identified  with  the  Gospel  according 
to  the  Hebrews  (Evangelium  secundum  or  juxta 
Hebraeos)  also  called  the  Gospel  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles,  or  of  the  Nazarenes,  current  among  the 
Nazarenes  and  Ebionites  (De  Vir.  Illuslr.,  iii;  Con- 
tra Pelag., i'u.2;  Comm.  on  Mt  12  13,  etc;  see  Gos- 
pel according  TO  the  Hebrews).  For  this  reason 
the  references  by  Irenaeus,  Origen,  Eusebius  to  the 
Heb  Gospel  of  Mt  are  by  many  scholars  regarded  as 
referring  to  this  Heb  Gospel  which  the  Jewish  Chris- 
tians employed,  and  which  they  thought  to  be  the 
work  of  the  evangelist  (cf  for  fuller  details  It  E,  XII, 
art.  "Matthaeus  der  Apostel").  Just  what  the  origi- 
nal Heb  Mt  was  to  which  Papias  refers  (assuming  it 
to  have  had  a  real  existence)  must,  with  our  present 
available  means,  remain  an  unsolved  riddle,  as  also 
the  possible  connection  between  the  Gr  and  Heb 
texts.  Attempts  like  those  of  Zahn,  in  his  Kom- 
mentar  on  Mt,  to  explain  readings  of  the  Gr  text 
through  an  inaccurate  understanding  of  the  imag- 
inary Heb  original  are  arbitrary  and  unreliable. 
There  remains,  of  course,  the  possibility  that  the 
apostle  himself,  or  someone  under  his  care  (thus 
Godet),  produced  a  Gr  recension  of  an  earlier  Aram, 
work. 

The  prevailing  theory  at  present  is  that  the  Heb 
Matthaean  document  of  Papias  was  a  collection  mainly 
of  the  discourses  of  Jesus  (called  by  recent  critics  Q), 
which,  in  variant  fir  translations,  was  used  both  by  the 
author  of  the  Gr  Mt  and  by  the  evangelist  Luke,  thus 
explaining  the  common  features  in  these  two  gospels 
(W.  C.  Allen,  however,  in  his  Crit.  and  Exeaet.  Comm.  on 
Mt,  disputes  Lk's  use  of  this  supposed  common  source, 
Intro,  xlvifr).  The  use  of  this  supposed  Matthaean 
source  is  thought  to  explain  how  the  Or  Gospel  came  to 
bo  named  after  the  apostle.  It  has  already  been  re- 
marked, however,  that  there  is  no  good  reason  for  sup- 
posing that  the  "Logia"  of  Papias  was  confined  to  dis- 
courses.    See  further  on  "  sources  "  below. 

(1)  Contents  and  character. — As  respects  con- 
tents, the  Gospel  of  Mt  can  be  divided  into  3  chief 
parts:  (1)  preliminary,  including  the 
4.  Contents,  birth  and  early  youth  of  the  Lord 
Character  (chs  1,  2) ;  (2)  the  activitv  of  Jesus  in 
and  Galilee   (chs  3-18);     (3)   the  activity 

Purpose  of  Jesus  in  Judaea  and  Jerus,  followed 
by  His  passion,  death,  and  resurrection 
(chs  19-28).  In  character,  the  Gospel,  like  those 
of  the  other  evangelists,  is  only  a  chrestomathy,  a 
selection  from  the  great  mass  of  oral  tradition  con- 
cerning the  doings  and  sayings  of  Christ  current 
in  apostolic  and  early  Christian  circles,  chosen  for 
the  special  purpose  which  the  evangelist  had  in  view. 
Accordingly,  there  is  a  great  deal  of  material  in  Mt 


2011 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA    Matthew,  Gospel 


in  common  with  Mk  and  Lk,  although  not  a  little 
of  this  material,  too,  is  individualistic  in  character, 
and  of  a  nature  to  vex  and  perplex  the  harmonist, 
as  e.g.  Matthew's  accounts  of  the  temptation,  of  t  lie 
demoniacs  at  Gadara,  of  the  blind  man  at  Jericho 
(4  1-11;  8  28-34;  20  29-34);  yet  there  is  much 
also  in  this  Gospel  that  is  peculiar  to  it.  Such  are 
the  following  pericopes:  chs  1,2;  9  27-36;  10  15. 
:*!7  40;  11  28-30;  12  11.12.15-21.33-38;  13  24- 
30.36-52;  14  28-31;  16  17-1'.);  17  24-27;  18 
15-35;  19  10-12;  20  1-16;  21  10 f.  14-16.28-32; 
22  1  14;  23  8-22;  24  42-25  46;  27  3—10.62-66; 
28  1 1  IT.  The  principle  of  arrangement  of  the 
material  is  not  chronological,  but  rather  that  of 
similarity  of  material.  The  addresses  and  parables 
of  Jesus  are  reported  consecutively,  although  they 
may  have  been  spoken  at  different  times,  and 
material  scattered  in  the  other  evangelists — esp.  in 
Lk — is  found  combined  in  Mt.  Instances  are  seen 
in  t  he  Sermon  on  the  Mount  (chs  5-7),  the  "mission 
address"  (ch  10),  the  seven  parables  of  the  Kingdom 
of  God  (eh  13),  the  discourses  and  parables  (ch  18), 
the  woes  against  the  Pharisees  (eh  23),  and  the  grand 
eschatological  discourses  (chs  24,  25)  (cf  with  \\  in 
the  other  gospels,  on  the  relation  to  which,  see 
below). 

(2)  Purpose. — The  special  purpose  which  the 
writer  had  in  view  in  his  Gospel  is  nowhere  expressly 
stated,  as  is  done,  e.g.,  by  the  writer  of  the  Fourth 
Gospel  in  Jn  20  30.31,  concerning  his  book,  but  it 
can  readily  be  gleaned  from  the  general  contents  of 
the  book,  as  also  from  specific;  passages.  The  tradi- 
tional view  that  Matthew  wrote  primarily  to  prove 
that  in  Jesus  of  Nazareth  is  to  be  found  the  ful- 
filment- and  realization  of  the  Messianic  predictions 
of  the  OT  prophets  and  seers  is  beyond  a  doubt 
correct..  The  mere  fact  that  there  are  about  40 
proof  passages  in  Mt  from  the  OT,  in  connection 
even  with  the  minor  del  ails  of  Christ's  career,  such 
as  His  return  from  Egypt  (2  15),  is  ample  evidence 
of  this  fact,  although  the  proof  manner  and  proof 
value  of  some  of  these  passages  are  exegetical 
cruces,  as  indeed  is  the  whole  way  in  which  the  OT 
is  cited  in  the  NT  (see  Quotations,  NT). 

The  question  as  to  whether  the  Gospel  was 
written  for  Jewish  Christians,  or  for  Jews  not  yet 
converted,  is  less  important,  as  this  book,  as  was  the 
case  probably  with  the  Ep.  of  Jas,  was  written  at 
that  transition  period  when  the  Jewish  and  the 
Christian  communions  were  not  yet  fully  separated, 
and  still  worshipped  together. 

Particular  indications  as  to  this  purpose  of  the 
Gospel  are  met  with  at  the  beginning  and  through- 
out the  whole  work;  e.g.  it  is  obvious  in  1  1,  where 
the  proof  is  furnished  that  Jesus  was  the  son  of 
Abraham,  in  whom  all  families  of  the  earth  were  to 
be  blessed  (Gen  12  3),  and  of  David,  who  was  to 
establish  the  kingdom  of  God  forever  (2  S  7).  The 
genealogy  of  Lk,  on  the  other  hand  (3  23  ff),  with 
its  cosmopolitan  character  and  purpose,  aiming  to 
show  that  Jesus  was  the1  Redeemer  of  the  whole 
world,  leads  back  this  line  to  Adam,  the  common 
ancestor  of  all  mankind.  Further,  as  the  genealogy 
of  Mt  is  evidently  that  of  Joseph,  the  foster  and 
legal  father  of  Jesus,  and  not  that  of  Mary,  as  is  the 
case  in  Lk,  the  purpose  to  meet  the  demands  of  the 
Jewish  reader  is  transparent.  The  full  account  in 
Mt  of  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  which  does  not, 
as  is  sometimes  said,  contain  a  "new  program  of 
the  kingdom  of  God" — indeed  does  not  contain  the 
fundamental  principles  of  the  Gospel  at  all — but  is 
the  deeper  and  truly  Bill,  interpretation  of  the  Law 
over  against  the  superficial  interpretation  of  the 
current  Pharisaism,  which  led  the  advocates  of  the 
latter  in  all  honesty  to  declare,  "What  lack  I  yet?" 
given  with  the  design  of  driving  the  auditors  to  the 
gospel  of  grace  and  faith  proclaimed  by  Christ  (cf 


Gal  3  24) — all  this  is  only  intelligible  when  we 
remember  that  the  book  was  written  for  Jewish 
readers.  Again  the  yeypcnrTcu,  gegraptai — i.e.  the 
fulfilment  of  OT  Scripture,  a  matter  which  for  the 
Jew  was  everything,  but  for  the  Gentile  was  of 
little  concern — appears  in  Mt  on  all  hands.  We 
have  it  e.g.  in  connection  with  the  birth  of  Jesus  from 
a  virgin,  His  protection  from  Herod,  His  coming 
to  Nazareth  (1  22f;  2  5.6.15.17  f.23),  the  activity 
of  John  the  Baptist  (3  3;  cf  11  10),  the  selection 
of  Galilee  as  the  scene  of  Jesus'  operations  (4  14  ff), 
the  work  of  Jesus  as  tin;  fulfilment  of  the  Law 
and  Prophets  (5  17),  His  quiet,  undemonstrative 
methods  (12  17  IT),  His  teaching  by  parables  (13 
3.")),  His  entrance  into  Jerus  (21  4f'.16),  His  being 
arrested  (26  54),  the  betrayal  of  Judas  (27  9),  the 
distribution  of  His  garments  (27  35).  Through- 
out, as  Professor  Kiibel  says,  the  Gospel  of  Mt  shows 
a  "diametrical  contrast  between  Christ  and  Pharisa- 
ism." Over  against  the  false;  Messianic  ideas  and 
ideals  of  contemporary  teachings  among  the  Jews, 
Mt  selects  those  facts  from  the  teachings  and  deeds 
of  Christ  which  show  the  true  Messiah  and  the  cor- 
rect principles  of  the  kingdom  of  God.  In  this 
respect  the  Gospel  can  be  regarded  as  both  apolo- 
getic and  polemical  in  its  aim,  in  harmony  with 
which  also  is  its  vivid  portraiture  to  the  growing 
hostility  of  the  Jews  to  Christ  and  to  His  teachings 
which,  in  the  latter  part  of  Mt,  appears  as  intense 
as  it  does  in  John.  Nowhere  else  do  we  find  such 
pronounced  denunciations  of  the  Pharisees  and  their 
system  from  the  lips  of  Jesus  (cf  9  11  ff;  12  1  fT; 
15  1  ff;  16  Iff;  and  on  particular  points  5  20 ff; 
9  13;  23  23;  see  also  8  12;  9  34;  12  24;  21  43). 
It  is  from  this  point  of  view,  as  representing  the 
antithesis  to  the  narrow  Pharisaic  views,  that,  we 
are  to  understand  the  writer's  emphasis  on  the 
universality  of  the  kingdom  of  Jesus  Christ  (cf  3 
1-12;  8  10-12;  21  33-44;  28  18-20)— passages 
in  which  some  have  thought  they  discerned  a  con- 
tradiction to  the  prevailing  Jewish  strain  of  the 
Gospel. 

The  special  importance  of  the  Gospel  of  Mt  for 
the  synoptic  problem  can  be  fully  discussed  only 

in  the  art.  on  this  subject  (see  Gos- 
5.  Problems  pels,  The  Synoptic),  and  in  con- 
of  Literary  nection  with  Mk  and  Lk.  The 
Relation         synoptic  problem  deals  primarily  with 

the  literary  relations  existing  between 
the  first  3  Gospels.  The  contents  of  these  are  in 
many  cases  so  similar,  even  in  verbal  details,  that 
they  must  have  some  sources  in  common,  or  some 
dependence  or  interdependence  must  exist  between 
them;  on  the  other  hand,  each  of  the  3  Gospels 
shows  so  many  differences  and  dissimilarities  from 
the  other  two,  that  in  their  composition  some  inde- 
pendent source  or  sources — oral  or  written — must 
have  been  employed.  In  general  it  may  be  said 
that  the  problem  itself  is  of  little  more  than  literary 
importance,  having  by  no  means  the  historical 
significance  for  the  development  of  the  religion  ot 
the  NT  which  the  Pentateuchal  problem  has  for 
that  of  the  OT.  Nor  has  the  synoptic  problem 
any  historical  background  that  promises  a  solution 
as  the  Pentateuchal  problem  has  in  the  history  of 
Israel.  Nothing  save  an  analysis  of  the  contents  of 
these  Gospels,  and  a  comparison  of  the  contents  of 
the  three,  offers  the  scholar  any  material  for  the 
study  of  the  problem,  and  as  subjective  taste  and 
impressions  are  prime  factors  in  dealing  with  ma- 
terials of  this  sort,  it  is  more  than  improbable,  in 
the;  absence  of  any  objective  evidence,  that  the 
synoptic  problem  in  general,  or  the  question  of  the 
sources  of  Mt  in  particular,  will  ever  be  solved  to 
the;  satisfaction  of  the  majority  of  scholars.  The 
hypothesis  which  at  present  has  widest  acceptance 
is    the    "two-source"    Mieory,    according   to   which 


Matthias 
Meals 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2012 


Mk,  in  its  existing  or  some  earlier  form,  and  the 
problematical  original  Alt  (Q),  constitute  the  basis 
of  our  canonical  Gospel. 

In  proof  of  this,  it  is  pointed  out  that  nearly  the  whole 
of  the  narrative-matter  of  Mk  is  taken  up  into  Mt,  as 
also  into  Lk,  while  the  large  sections,  chiefly  discourses, 
common  to  Mt  and  Lk  are  held,  as  already  said,  to 
point  to  a  source  of  that  character  which  both  used. 
The  difficulties  arise;  when  the  comparison  is  pursued  into 
details,  and  explanation  is  sought  of  the  variations  in 
phraseology,  order,  sometimes  in  conception,  in  the 
respective  gospels. 

Despite  the  prestige  which  this  theory  has  at- 
tained, the  true  solution  is  probably  a  simpler  one. 
Matthew  no  doubt  secured  the  bulk  of  his  data 
from  his  own  experience;  and  from  oral  tradition, 
and  as  the  former  existed  in  fixed  forms,  due  to 
catechetical  instruction,  in  the  early  church,  it  is 
possible  to  explain  the  similarities  of  Mt  with  the 
other  two  synoptics  on  this  ground  alone,  without 
resorting  to  any  literary  dependence,  either  of  Mt 
on  the  other  two,  or  of  these,  or  either  of  them,  on 
Mt.  The  whole  problem  is  purely  speculative  and 
subjective  and  under  present  conditions  justifies 
a  cui  bono  ?  as  far  as  the  vast  literature  which  it  has 
called  into  existence  is  concerned. 

According  to  early  and  practically  universal 
tradition   Mt  wrote  his  Gospel  before  the  other 

three,  and  the  place  assigned  to  it  in 
6.  Date  of  NT  literature  favors  the  acceptance 
Gospel  of  this  tradition.     Irenaeus reports  that 

it  was  written  when  Peter  and  Paid 
were  preaching  in  Rome  (iii.l),  and  Euseb.  states 
that  this  was  done  when  Matthew  left  Pal  and  went 
to  preach  to  others  {HE,  III,  24).  Clement  of 
Alexandria  is  responsible  for  the  statement  that  the 
presbyters  who  succeeded  each  other  from  the 
beginning  declared  that  "the  gospels  containing  the 
genealogies  [Mt  and  Lk]  were  written  first"  (Euseb., 
HE,  VI,  14).  This  is,  of  course,  fatal  to  the  current 
theory  of  dependence  on  Mk,  and  is  in  consequence 
rejected.  At  any  rate,  there  is  the  best  reason  for 
holding  that  the  book  must  have  been  written 
before  the  destruction  of  Jerus  in  70  AD  (cf  24  15). 
The  most  likely  date  for  the  Gr  Gospel  is  in  the  7th 
Christian  decade.  Zahn  claims  that  Matthew 
wrote  his  Aram.  Gospel  in  Pal  in  62  AD,  while  the 
Gr  Mt  dates  from  85  AD,  but  this  latter  date  is  not 
probable. 

Literature. — Intro  to  the  Comms.  on  Mt  (Meyer, 
Alford,  Allen  [ICC],  Broadus  [Philadelphia,  1887], 
Morison,  Plummer,  Schaeffer  in  Lutheran  Commentary 
[New  York,  18951,  etc);  works  on  Intro  to  the  NT 
(Salmon,  Weiss,  Zahn,  etc) ;  arts,  in  Bible  Diets,  and 
Encs  may  be  consulted.  See  also  F.  O.  Burkitt,  The 
Gospel  History  and  Its  Transmission;  Wellhausen,  Das 
Evangelium  Matthaei  and  Einleitung  in  die  drei  ersten 
Evangelien;  Sir  J.  C.  Hawkins,  Horae  Synopticae;  West- 
cott,  Intro  to  the  Study  of  the  Gospels;  Lightfoot,  Essays 
on  Supernatural  Religion,  V,  "  Papias  of  Hierapolis" 
(this  last  specially  on  the  sense  of  Logia).  See  also  the 
works  cited  in  Mark,  Gospel  of. 

G.    H.   SCHODDB 

MATTHIAS,  ma-thi'as  (MaTeCas,  Matthias,  or 
MaGOtas,  Maththias;  tVJTiPi'Q ,  Mattithyah,  "given 
of  Jeh"):  Matthias  was  the  one  upon  whom  the 
lot  fell  when  he,  along  with  Joseph  Barsabbas,  was 
put  forward  to  fill  up  the  place  in  the  apostleship 
left  vacant  by  Judas  Iscariot  (Acts  1  15-26). 
This  election  was  held  at  Jerus,  and  the  meeting 
was  presided  over  by  St.  Peter.  The  conditions 
demanded  of  the  candidates  were  that  they  should 
"have  eompanied  with  us  all  the  time  that  the  Lord 
Jesus  went  in  and  went  out  among  us,  beginning 
from  the  baptism  of  John,  unto  the  day  that  he  was 
received  up  from  us,"  and  that  the  one  chosen 
should  "become  a  witness  with  us  of  his  resurrection" 
(Acts  1  21.22).  The  mode  of  procedure  was  by 
lot,  and  with  prayer  was  the  election  made  (cf 
Acts  1  24). 

Hilgenfeld   identifies   Matthias   with   Nathanael 


(cf  Nathanael).  He  was  traditionally  the  author 
of  the  "Gospel  of  Matthias,"  a  heretical  work  re- 
ferred to  by  Origen  (Horn,  on  Lk,  i),  by  Eusebius 
{HE,  III,  25,  6)  and  by  Hieronymus  {Proem  in 
Matth.).  No  trace  of 'it  is  left.  The  gnostic 
Basilides  (c  133  AD)  and  his  son  Isidor  claimed  to 
ground  their  doctrine  in  the  "Gospel  of  Basilides" 
on  the  teaching  Matthias  received  directly  from  the 
Saviour  (Hippol.,  vii.20)  (cf  Hennecke,  Neutes- 
tamenlliche  Apokryphen,  167).  Various  parts  of 
the  apocryphal  "Contendings  of  the  Apostles"  deal 
with  the  imprisonment  and  blinding  of  Matthias  by 
the  Ethiopian  cannibals,  and  his  rescue  by  Andrew 
(cf  Budge,  Contendings  of  the  Apostles,  II,  163,  164, 
207-88;  see  also  Andrew).  According  to  the 
Martyrdom  of  St.  Matthias  (Budge,  II,  289-94)  he 
was  sent  to  Damascus,  and  died  at  Phalaeon,  a  city 
of  Judaea.  Other  sources  mention  Jerus  as  the 
place  of  Matthias'  ministry  and  burial. 

CM.  Kerr 
MATTITHIAH,  mat-i-thl'a  (rPtfira  ,  mattithyah, 
or  ^rPrilTQ,  vtattithyahu,  "gift  of  Jeh"): 

(1)  The  Mattithiah  of  Neh  8  4  (1st  spelling) 
was  one  of  those;  who  stood  at  Ezra's  right  hand 
while  he  read  the  law  (cf  1  Esd  9  43).  He  may  be 
the  individual  set  over  "things  that  were  baked  in 
pans"   (1  Ch  9  31). 

(2)  One  of  those  appointed  by  David  to  minister 
before  the  ark,  and  to  "celebrate  and  to  thank  and 
praise  Jeh,  the  God  of  Israel"  (1  Ch  16  4.5). 

(3)  One  of  those  who  had  foreign  wives  (Ezr  10 
43).     In  1  Esd  9  35,  "Mazitias." 

(4)  One  of  the  Levites  who  ministered  before  the 
ark  with  harps  (1  Ch  15  18.21;  25  3.21,  2d 
spelling).  Henry  Wallace 

MATTOCK,  mat/ok:  The  tr  of  3  Heb  words: 
(1)  rnp-jn'D,  mahareshdh,  probably  "a  pickaxe" 
(1  S  13  20.21;  cf  ver  21  m);  (2)  1-\T\ ,  herebh, 
"sword,"  "ax,"  "tool"  (2  Ch  34  6  A V,  "with  their 
mattocks,"  AVm  "mauls,"  RV  "in  their  ruins," 
RVm  "with  their  axes") ;  (3)  ^$1?  ,  madder,  "a  hoe," 
"rake,"  "chopping  instrument"  (Isa  7  25).  Vines 
were  usually  grown  on  terraces  on  the  hills  of  Pal, 
and  then  the  mattock  was  in  constant  use.  The 
usual  mattock  is  a  pick  with  one  end  broad,  the 
other  pointed. 

MAUL,  mol  CpB1?,  mephlc,  lit.  "a  breaker,"  "a 
club,"  "mace,"  "mattock"):  A  smashing  weapon 
like  the  oriental  war-club  or  the  clubs  always  carried 
by  the  shepherds  of  Lebanon  (Prov  25  18;  cf  Jer 
51  20  m). 

MAUZZIM,  moz'em,  mots'em  (nt-TIpp ,  ?nu*uz- 
zim,  "places  of  strength,"  "fortresses"):  Many  con- 
jectures as  to  the  meaning  of  this  word  and  its 
context  (Did  11  38;  cf  vs  19.39)  have  been  made. 
The  LXX  (uncertainly),  Theodotion,  and  the 
Geneva  Version  render  it  as  a  proper  name.  Theod- 
oret  adopted  Theodotion's  reading  and  explained 
it  as  "Antichrist"!  Grotius  thought  it  a  corrup- 
tion of  "Afcfos,  Azizos,  the  Phoen  war-god,  while 
Calvin  saw  in  it  the  "god  of  wealth"!  Perhaps 
the  buzz  of  conjectures  about  the  phrase  is  owing 
to  the  fact  that  in  the  first  passage  cited  the  word 
is  preceded  by  'Eld"h,  meaning  God.  The  context 
of  the  passage  seems  clearly  to  make  the  words 
refer  to  Antiochus  Epiphanes,  and  on  this  account 
some  have  thought  that  the  god  Mars — whose 
figure  appears  on  a  coin  of  Antiochus — is  here  re- 
ferred to.  All  this  is,  however,  little  better  than 
guesswork,  and  the  RV  tr,  by  setting  the  mind  upon 
the  general  idea  that  the  monarch  referred  to  would 
trust  in  mere  force,  gives  us,  at  any  rate,  the  general 


2013 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Matthias 
Meals 


souse,  (hough  it  (loos  not  exclude  the  possibility  of 
a  reference  to  a  particular  deity.  In  vs  19  and  39, 
tin' word  "Mauzzim"  is  simply  trd  "fortresses,"  and 
the  idea  conveyed  is  that  the  mental  obsession  of 
fortresses  is  equivalent  to  deifying  them.  A  con- 
jecture of  Layard's  {Nineveh,  II,  456,  n.),  is,  at  any 
rate,  worth  referring  to.  Henry  Wallace 

MAW,  mo  (nn^>,  kebhah  [of  fOp,  kobhah,  Nu  25 
8],  1ZH3,  k'res;  LXN  ewo-rpov,  enustron):  The 
first  word  means  the  maw  or  stomach  of  ruminants. 
It  is  derived  from  a  root  designating  "hollowed  out." 
It  is  mentioned  alongside  of  the  shoulder  and  the 
two  cheeks  of  ox  and  sheep,  which  are  the  priest's 
share  of  any  sacrifice  brought  by  Israelites  (Dt  18 
3).  LXX,  where  enustron  corresponds  to  Attic 
TJwo-Tpop,  enustron,  denotes  the  fourth  stomach  or 
abomasum,  which  was  considered  as  a  delicacy,  and 
was  almost  a  national  dish  of  the  Athenians,  just 
as  tripe  is  of  the  Londoners.  The  parallel  form 
kobhah  is  used  for  the  body  of  a  woman,  which  is 
being  transfixed  by  a  spear  thrust  in  Nu  25  8.  The 
last  word  k'res  is  found  in  a  metaphorical  sense: 
"[Nebuchadrezzar]  hath,  like  a  monster,  swallowed 
me  up,  Ik;  hath  filled  his  maw  with  my  delicacies" 
(Jor  61  34).  H.  L.  E.  Luering 

MAZITIAS,  maz-i-ti'as  (A,  Ma^rCas,  Mazitlas, 
B,  Zei-rCas,  Zeitias):    One  of  those  who  had  taken 

"strange  wives"  (1  Esd  9  3.")),  identical  with 
Mattithiah  (Ezr  10  43). 


MAZZALOTH,  maz'a-loth    (The   Planets) 
Astrology,  9. 


Si 


MAZZAROTH,  maz'a-roth:  The  12  constella- 
tions of  the  Zodiac.     See  Astronomy,  II,  12. 

MAZZEBAH,  maz-e'ba,  mats-e'ba.     Hoe  Pillar. 

MEADOW,  med'o:  (1)  D""" ,  'aroth,  "the 
meadows  [AV  "paper  roods"]  by  the  Nile"  (Isa 
19  7);  S'ZiTrn^"}?  ,  malareh-gahha\  AV  "meadows 
of  Gibeah,"  RV  "Maareh-geba,"  RVm  "the 
meadow  of  Geba,  or  Gibeah"    (Jgs  20  33) ;    from 

•"HIP,  %arah,  "to  be  naked";  cf  Arab.     £>£■ ,   ariya, 

"to  be  naked,"    dj£.,     xara'd',   "a   bare  tract   of 

land."  \\rolh  and  monarch  signify  tracts  bare  of 
trees.  (2)  1J1X ,  'aim,  in  Pharaoh's  dream  of  the 
kino,  AV  "meadow,"  RV  "reed  grass"  (Gen  41 
2.18).  'Ahu  is  found  also  in  Job  8  11,  AV  and 
RV  "flag,"  RVm  "rood-grass."  According  to 
Gesenius,  ahu  is  an  Egyp  word  denoting  the  vege- 
tation of  marshy  ground.  (3)  tTtn?  b2X,  'abhel 
k'rantlm,  "Abel-cheramim,"  RVm  "The  meadow 
of  vineyards,"  AV  "the  plain  [AVm  "Abel"]  of  the 
vineyards"  (Jgs  11  33);  "Abel-bet  h-maaeah"  (1  K 
15  20;  2  K  15  29;  cf  2  S  20  14.15.18);  "Abel- 
shit  tim"  (Nu  33  49;  cf  25  1;  Josh  2  1;  3  1; 
Jgs  7  22;  Joel  3  18;  Mic  6  5);  "Abel-meholah" 
(Jgs  7  22;  1  K  4  12;  19  16);  "Abel-maim" 
(2Ch  16  4);  "Abel-mizraim"  (Gen  50  11):  '•stone," 
AV  "Abel,"  RVm  "Abel,"  that  is  "a  meadow''  ( I  S 

6  IS);    cf  Arab.    Jot,    'abal,   "green  grass,"  and 

'LLi'  ,    'abalat,   "unhealthy  marshy  ground,"   from 

Jo.  ,   wabal,  "to  rain."  Alfred  Ely  Day 

MEAH,  me'a  (T\$12,  me'ah,  "hundred").  See 
Hammeah. 


MEAL,  mel  (^255  ,  'okhel) :  Denotes  the  portion  of 
food  eaten  at  any  one  time.  It  is  found  as  a  com- 
pound in  Ruth  2  14,  "meal-time,"  lit.  "the  time 
of  eating."     See  Food. 

MEAL  OFFERING.    See  Sacrifice. 

MEALS,  melz,  MEAL-TIME:  Bread  materials, 
bread-making  and  baking  in  the  Orient  are  dealt 
with  under  Bread  (q.v.).  For  food-stuffs  in  use 
among  the  Hebrews  in  Bible  times  more  specifically 
see  Food.  This  article  aims  to  be  complementary, 
dealing  esp.  with  the  methods  of  preparing  and 
serving  food  and  times  of  meals  among  the  ancient 
Hebrews. 

The  Book  of  Jgs  gives  a  fair  picture  of  the  early 
formative  period  of  the  Hob  people  and  their  ways 
of  living.  It  is  a  picture  of  semi-savagery — of  the 
life  and  customs  of  free  desert  tribes.  In  1  S  we 
note  a  distinct  step  forward,  but  the  domestic  and 
cultural  life  is  still  low  and  crude.  When  they  are 
settled  in  Pal  and  come  in  contact  with  the  most 
cultured  people  of  the  day,  the  case  is  different. 
Most  that  raised  those  Som  invaders  above  the 
dull,  crude  existence  of  fellahin,  in  point  of  civiliza- 
tion, was  due  to  the  people  for  whom  the  land  was 
named  (Macalister,  Hist  of  Civilization  in  Pol). 
From  that  time  on  various  foreign  influences  played 
their  several  parts  in  modification  of  Hob  life  and 
customs.  A  sharp  contrast  illustrative  of  the 
primitive  beginnings  and  the  growth  of  luxury  in 
Israel  in  the  preparation  and  use  of  foods  may  be 
seen  by  a  comparison  of  2  S  17  28  f  with  1  K  4 
22  f. 

/.  Methods  of  Preparing  Food. — The  most  primi- 
tive way  of  using  the  cereals  was  to  pluck  the  fresh 
ears  (Lev  23  14;  2  K  4  42),  remove 
1.  Cereals  the  husk  by  rubbing  (cf  Dt  23  25 
and  Mt  12  1),  and  eat  the  grain  raw. 
A  practice  common  to  all  periods,  observed  by 
fellahin  today,  was  to  parch  or  roast  the  ears  and 


Baking  Bread  on  Stones. 


oat  them  unground.  Later  it  became  customary 
to  grind  the  grain  into  flour,  at  first  by  the  rudi- 
mentary method  of  pestle  and  mortar  (Nu  11  8; 
cf  Prov  27  22),  later  by  the  hand-mill  (Ex  11  5; 
Job  31  10;  cf  Mt  24  41),  still  later  in  mills  worked 
by  the  ass  or  other  animal  (Mt  18  6,  lit .  "a  mill- 


Meals 
Mean 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2014 


stone  turned  by  an  ass").     The  flour  was  then  made 
into  bread,  with  or  without  leaven  (see  Leaven). 

Another  simple  way  of  preparing  (lie  grain  was  to 
soak  it  in  water,  or  boil  il  slightly,  and  then,  after  drying 
and  crushing  il,  lo  servo  it  as  the  dish  called  "groats" 
is  served  among  western  peoples. 

The  kneading  of  the  dough  preparatory  to  baking 
was  done  doubtless,  as  it  is  now  in  the  East,  by  press- 
ing it  Let  ween  the  hands  or  by  passing  it  from  hand  to 
hand;  except  that  in  Egypt,  as  the  monuments  show,  it 
was  put  in  "baskets"  and  trodden  with  the  feet,  as 
grapes  in  t  lie  wine  press.  (This  is  (lone  in  Paris  bakeries 
to  this  day.)     See  Bread;  Food. 

Lentils,  several  kinds  of  beans,  and  a  profusion 

of  vegetables,  wild  and  cultivated,  were  prepared 

and     eaten     in     various     ways.     The 

2.  Vege-         lentils    were    sometimes    roasted,     as 
tables  they  are  today,  and  eaten  like  "parched 

corn."  They  were  sometimes  stewed 
like  beans,  and  flavored  with  onions  and  other 
ingredients,  no  doubt,  as  we  find  done  in  Syria 
today  (cf  Gen  25  29.34),  and  sometimes  ground 
and  made  into  bread  (Ezk  4  9;  cf  ZDPV,  IX, 
4).  The  wandering  Israelites  in  the  wilderness 
looked  back  wistfully  on  the  cucumbers,  melons, 
leeks,  onions  and  garlic  of  Egypt  (Nu  11  5),  and 
later  we  find  all  of  these  used  for  food  in  Pal.  How 
many  other  things  were  prepared  and  used  for  food 
by  them  may  be  gathered  from  the  Mish,  our  rich- 
est source  of  knowledge  on  the  subject. 

The  flesh  of  animals — permission  to  eat  which  it 

would  seem  was  first  given  to  Noah  after  the  deluge 

(Gen  1  29  f;  9  3  f  J—  was  likewise  pre- 

3.  Meat         pared  and  used  in  various  ways:  (a) 

Roastingwas  much  in  vogue,  indeed  was 
probably  the  oldest  (if  all  methods  of  preparing  such 
food.  At  first  raw  meat  was  laid  upon  hot  stones 
from  which  the  embers  had  been  removed,  as  in  the 
ease  of  the  "cake  baken  on  the  hot  stones"  (1  K  19 
6RVm;  cf  Hos  7  8,  "a  cake  not  turned"),  and 
sometimes  underneath  with  a  covering  of  ashes. 
The  fish  that  the  disciples  found  prepared  for  them 
by  the  Sea  of  Galilee  (Jn  21  9)  was,  in  exception 
to  this  rule,  cooked  on  the  live  coals  themselves. 
A  more  advanced  mode  of  roasting  was  by  means 
of  a  spit  of  green  wood  or  iron  (for  baking  in  ovens, 
see  Food),  (6)  Boiling  was  also  common  (see  Gen 
25  29;  Ex  12  9,  etc,  ARV:  EV  more  frequently 
"seething,"  "sod,"  "sodden"),  as  it  is  in  the  more 
primitive  parts  of  Syria  today.  The  pots  in  which 
the  boiling  was  done  were  of  earthenware  or  bronze 
(Lev  6  28).  When  the  meat  was  boiled  in  more 
water  than  was  required  for  the  ordinary  "stew" 
the  result  was  the  broth  (Jgs  6  19  f),  and  the  meat 
and  the  broth  might  then  be  served  separately. 
The  usual  way,  however,  was  to  cut  the  meat  into 
pieces,  larger  or  smaller  as  the  case  might  demand 
(1  S  2  13;  Ezk  24  3ff;  cf  Micah's  metaphor, 
3  3),  and  put  these  pieces  into  the  cooking-pot 
with  water  sufficient  only  for  a  stew.  Vegetables 
and  rice  were  generally  added,  though  crushed 
wheat  sometimes  took  the  place  of  the  rice,  as  in 
the  case  of  the  "savory  meat"  which  Rebekah  pre- 
pared for  her  husband  from  the  "two  kids  of  the 
goats"  (Gen  27  9).  The  seeds  of  certain  legu- 
minous plants  were  also  often  prepared  by  boiling 
(Gen  25  29;  2  K  4  38).  (c)  The  Heb  house- 
wives, we  may  be  sure,  were  in  such  matters  in  no 
way  behind  their  modern  kinswomen  of  the  desert, 
of  whom  Doughty  tells:  "The  Arab  housewives 
make  savory  messes  of  any  grain,  seething  it  and 
putting  thereto  only  a  little  salt  and  samn  [clarified 
butter]." 

Olive  oil  was  extensively  and  variously  used  by 

the  ancient  Hebrews,  as  by  most  eastern  peoples 

then,  as  it  is  now.     (a)  Oriental  cook- 

4.  Oil  ing  diverges    here  more  than  at  any 

other  point  from  that  of  the  northern 

and  western  peoples,  oil  serving  many  of  the  pur- 


poses of  butter  and  lard  among  ourselves,  (/>)  Oil 
was  used  in  cooking  vegetables  as  we  use  bacon 
and  other  animal  fats,  and  in  cooking  (ish  ami  eggs, 
as  also  in  the  finer  sorts  of  baking.  See  Bread; 
Food;  Oil.  (c)  They  even  mixed  oil  with  the 
Hour,  shaped  it  into  cakes  and  then  baked  it  (Lev 
2  4).  The  "lit  tie  oil"  of  the  poor  widow  of  Zere- 
phath  was  clearly  not  intended  for  the  lamps,  but 
to  bake  her  pitiful  "handful  of  meal"  (1  K  17  12). 
(<l)  Again  the  cake  of  unmixed  flour  might  be  baked 
till  almost,  done,  then  smeared  with  oil,  sprinkled 
with  anise  seed,  and  brought  by  further  baking  to 
a  glossy  brown.  A  species  of  thin  flat  cakes  of  this 
kind  are  "the  wafers  .anointed  with  oil"  of  Ex  29  2, 
etc.  (e)  Oil  and  honey  constituted,  as  now  in  the 
East,  a  mixture  used  as  we,  use  butter  and  honey, 
and  are  found  also  mixed  in  the  making  of  sweet 
cakes  (Ezk  16  13.19).  The  taste  of  the  manna 
is  said  in  Ex  16  31  to  be  like  that  of  "wafers  made 
with  honey,"  and  in  Nu  11  8  to  be  like  "the  taste 
of  cakes  baked  with  oil"  (RVm). 

//.  Meals,  Meal-Time,  etc. — (1)  It  was  cus- 
tomary among  the  ancient  Hebrews,  as  among  their 
contemporaries  in  the  East  in  classical  lands,  to 
have  but,  two  meals  a  day.  The  "morning  morsel" 
or  "early  snack,"  as  it  is  called  in  the  Talm,  taken 
with  some  relish  like  olives,  oil  or  melted  butter, 
might  be  used  by  peasants,  fishermen,  or  even 
artisans,  to  "break  their  fast"  (see  the  one  refer- 
ence to  it  in  the  NT  in  Jn  21  12.15),  but  this  was 
not  a  t rue  meal.  It  was  rather  dpLarov  -rrpwiuov, 
driston  proinon  (Robinson,  BRP,  II,  18),  though 
some  think  it  the  dpajrov,  driston,  of  the  NT 
(Edersheim,  LTJM,  II,  205,  n.  3;  cf  Plummer, 
/('(,',  on  Lk  11  37).  To  "eat  a  meal,"  i.e.  a  full 
meal,  in  the  morning  was  a  matter  for  grave 
reproach  (Eccl  10  16),  as  early  drinking  was  un- 
usual and  a  sign  of  degradation  (cf  Acts  2  15). 

(2)  The  first  meal  (cf  "meal-time,"  lit.  "the  time 
of  eating,"  Ruth  2  14;  Gen  43  16),  according  to 
general  usage,  was  taken  at  or  about  noon  when 


Arab  Meal. 

the  climate  and  immemorial  custom  demanded  a 
rest  from  labor.  Peter's  intended  meal  at  Joppa, 
interrupted  by  the  messengers  of  Cornelius,  was 
at  "the  sixth  hour,"  i.e.  12  M.  It  corresponded 
somewhat  to  our  modern  "luncheon,"  but  the  hour 
varied  according  to  rank  and  occupation  (Shab- 
bdth  10a).  The  Bedawi  take  it  about  9  or  10 
o'clock  (Burckhardt,  Notes,  I,  09).  It  is  described 
somewhat  fully  by  Lane  in  Modem  Egyptians^ 
To  abstain  from  this  meal  was  accounted  "fasting 
(Jgs  20  20;  1  S  14  24).  Drummond  (Tropical 
Africa)  says  his  Negro  bearers  began  the  day's 
work  without  food. 

(3)  The  second  and  main  meal  (NT,  Mttvov, 
deipnori)  was  taken  about  the  set  of  sun,  or  a  little 
before  or  after,  when  the  day's  work  was  over  and 


201.5 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Meals 
Mean 


the  laborers  had  "come  in  from  the  field"  (Lk  17 
7;  24  29  f).  This  is  the  "supper  time,"  the  "great 
supper"  of  Lk  14  16,  the  important  meal  of  the 
day,  when  the  whole  family  were  together  for  the 
evening  (Burckhardt,  Notes,  I,  69).  It  was  the 
time  of  the  feeding  of  the  multitudes  by  Jesus  (Mk 
6  35;  Mt  14  15;  Lk  9  12),  of  the  eating  of  the 
Passover,  and  of  the  partaking  of  the  Lord's  Supper. 
According  to  Jewish  law,  and  for  special  reasons, 
the  chief  meal  was  at  midday— "at  the  sixth  hour," 
according  to  Jos  (Vita,  54;  cf  Gen  43  16-25; 
2  S  24  15  LXX).  It  was  Jeh's  promise  to  Israel 
that  they  should  have  "bread"  in  the  morning  and 
"flesh"  in  the  evening  (Ex  16  12),  incidental  evi- 
dence of  one  way  in  which  the  evening  meal  differed 
from  that  at  noon.  At  this  family  meal  ordinarily 
there  was  but  one  common  dish  for  all,  into  which 
all  "dipped  the  sop"  (see  Mt  26  23;  Mk  14  20), 
so  that  when  the  food,  cooked  in  this  common  stew, 
was  set  before  the  household,  the  member  of  the 
household  who  had  prepared  it  had  no  further  work 
to  do,  a  fact  which  helps  to  explain  Jesus'  words 
to  Martha,  'One  dish  alone  is  needful'  (Lk  10  42; 
Hastings  DCG,  s.v.  "Meals"). 

(1)  Sabbath  banqueting  became  quite  customary 
among  the  Jews  (see  examples  cited  by  Lightfoot, 
Hor.  Heb  ct  Talm  on  Lk  14  1;  cf  Edersheim,  LTJM, 
II,  52,  437;  Farrar,  Life  of  Christ,  II,  119,  n.L 
Indeed  it  was  carried  to  such  an  excess  that  it 
became  proverbial  for  luxury.  But  the  principle 
which  lay  at  the  root  of  the  custom  was  the  honor 
of  the  Sabbath  (Lightfoot,  op.  cit.,  Ill,  149),  which 
mav  explain  Jesus'  countenance  and  use  of  the 
custom  (cf  Lk  7  36;  11  37;  14  7-14),  and  the 
fact  that  on  the  last  Sabbath  He  spent  on  earth 
before  His  passion  He  was  the  chief  guest  at  such 
a  festive  meal  (Jn  12  2).  It  is  certain  that  lie 
made  use  of  such  occasions  to  teach  lessons  of 
charity  and  religion,  in  one  case  even  when  His 
host  was  inclined  to  indulge  in  discourteous  criticism 
(Lk  7  39;  11  38.45  f;  cf  Jn  12  7  f).  He  seems  to 
have  withheld  His  formal  disapproval  of  what 
might  be  wrong  in  tendency  in  such  feasts  because 
of  the  latent  possibilities  for  good  He  saw  in  them, 
and  so  often  used  them  wisely  and  well.  It  was 
on  one  of  these  occasions  that  a  fellow-guest  in  his 
enthusiasm  broke  out  in  the  exclamation,  "Blessed 
is  he  that  shall  eat  bread  in  the  kingdom  of  God" 
(Lk  14  15),  referring  evidently  to  the  popular 
Jewish  idea  that  the  Messianic  kingdom  was  to  be 
ushered  in  with  a  banquet,  and  that  feasting  was 
to  be  a  chief  part  of  its  glories  (cf  Isa  25  6;  Lk 
13  29).     See  Banquet. 

///.  Customs  at  Meals. — In  the  earliest  times 
the  Hebrews  took  their  meals  sitting,  or  more  prob- 
ably squatting,  on  the  ground  like  the  Bedawi  and 
fellahin  of  today  (see  Gen  37  25,  etc),  with  the 
legs  gathered  tailor-fashion  (PEFS,  1905,  124). 
The  use  of  seats  naturally  followed  upon  the  change 
from  nomadic  to  agricultural  life,  after  the  conquest 
of  Canaan.  Saul  and  his  messmates  sat  upon 
"seals"  (1  S  20  25),  as  did  Solomon  and  his  court 
(1  K  10  5;  cf  13  20,  etc).  With  the  growth  of 
wealth  and  luxury  under  the  monarchy,  the  custom 
of  reclining  at  meals  gradually  became  the  fashion. 
In  Amos'  day  it  was  regarded  as  an  aristocratic 
innovation  (Am  3  12;  6  4),  but  two  centuries 
later  Ezekiel  speaks  of  "a  stately  bed"  or  "couch" 
(cf  Est  1  6  RV)  with  "a  table  prepared  before  it" 
(Ezk  23  41),  as  if  it  was  no  novelty.  By  the  end 
of  the  3d  cent.  BC  it  was  apparently  universal,  ex- 
cept among  the  very  poor  (Jth  12  15;  Tob  2  1). 
Accordingly,  "sitting  at  meat"  in  the  NT  (EV)  is 
everywhere  re] )laced  by  "reclining"  (RVm),  though 
women  and  children  still  sat.  They  leaned  on  the 
left  elbow  (Sir  41  19),  eating  with  the  right  hand 
(see  Lord's  Supper).     The  various  words  used  in 


the  Gospels  to  denote  the  bodily  attitude  at  meals, 
as  well  as  the  circumstances  described,  all  imply 
that  the  Syrian  custom  of  reclining  on  a  couch, 
followed  by  Greeks  and  Romans,  was  in  vogue 
(Edersheim,  II,  207).     Luke  uses  one  word  for  it 


tneduis  lectin 
6\     5\    ^ 

\ 

A 

A 
A 

y 
y 
y 

mensa 

I 


Table  and  Couches  with  Seats  Numbered  in 
Order  of  Rank. 

which  occurs  nowhere  else  in  the  NT  (/cara- 
KKidrjvai,  kataklithenai,  7  36;  14  8;  24  30;  and 
Ka.Ta.K.\lveiv,  katakllnein,  9  14.15),  which  Hobart 
says  is  the  medical  term  for  laying  patients  or 
causing  them  to  lie  in  bed  (Medical  Language  of 
Luke,  69).  For  costumes  and  customs  at  more 
elaborate  feasts  see  Banquet;  Dress.  For  de- 
tails in  the  "minor  morals"  of  the  dinner  table, 
see  the  classical  passages  (Sir  31  12-18;   32  3-12), 


Reclining  on  Couches. 

in  which  Jesus  ben-Sira  has  expanded  the  counsel 
given  in  Prov  23  1  f;  cf  Kennedy  in  1-vol  JIDB, 
s.v.  "Meals." 

Literature. — ■Edersheim,  Life  and  Times  of  Jesus 
the  Messiah;  O.  Holtzmann,  Eine  Untersuchung  zum 
Leben  Jesu,  ET,  20G;  B.  Weiss,  The  Life  of  Christ,  II, 
125,  n.  2;  Plummer,  ICC,  "Luke,"  159  f;  Farrar,  Life 
of  Christ;    HDB,  DCG,  1-vol  HDB;    Eli;    Jew  Eur,  etc. 

Geo.  B.  Eager 
MEAN,  men:  The  noun  "meaning"  (Did  8  15 
AV,  RV  "I  sought  to  understand";  and  1  Cor  14 
11)  is  synonymous  with  "signification,"  but  in  1 
Mace  15  4  AV  it  expresses  "purpose"  (RV  "I  am 
minded  to  land").  The  noun  "mean"  in  Heb 
always  occurs  in  the  pi.,  and  is  generally  used  in 
the  sense  of  "agency,"  "instrument"  (cf  1  K  10  29, 
etc).  RV  very  frequently  changes  AV:  Wisd  8 
13,  "because  of  her";  2  Thess  2  3,  "in  any  wise"; 
Lk  8  36,  "how";  Prov  6  26,  "on  account  of"; 
Rev  13  14,  "by  reason  of"  (cf  also  2  Thess  3  16; 
Jn  9  21).  .He  9  15  (AV  "that  by  means  of  death") 
tra  lit.  "that  a  death  having  taken  place,"  from 
yivofiai,  ginomai,  "to  become,"  "to  happen."  Acts 
18  21  AV,  "I  must  by  all  means  keep  this  feast," 
is  omitted  in  RV  in  harmony  with  several  cursives, 
the  Vulg,  and  some  other  VSS. 

The  adj.  "mean"  is  used  in  the  sense  of 
"common,"     "humble"     (CHS,     'arfham,     "man"; 


Meani 
Medes 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2016 


cf  Isa  2  9;  5  15;  31  8  omits  "moan")-  It  is  also 
used  in  the  sense  of  "obscure"  (Prov  22  29,  jJUJn, 
hashokh,  "obscure";  da-^fios,  dsemos,  lit.  "without 
a  mark,"  "unknown,"  Acts  21  39).  "Mean"  is 
found  in  expressions  like  "in  the  meanwhile"  (AV 

1  K  18  45,  RV  "little  while";  Jn  4  31;  Horn  2 
15,  RV  "one  with  another");  "in  the  mean  time" 
(1  Mace  11  41  AV;  Lk  12  1);  and  "in  the  mean 
season"  AV  (1  Mace  11  14;  15  15).  The  advb. 
"meanly"  is  found  (2  Mace  15  38)  in  the  sense  of 
"moderately." 

The  vb.  "mean"  expresses  purpose  (Isa  3  15; 
10  7;  Gen  50  20,  etc).  In  some  cases  RV  renders 
lit.  tr:  Acts  27  2,  "was  about  to  sail"  (AV  "mean- 
ing to  sail");  cf  Acts  21  13;  2  Cor  8  13.  In 
other  instances  the  idea  of  "to  mean"  is  "to  signify," 
"to  denote"  (1  S  4  0;  Gen  21  29;  Mt  9  13,  etc). 
Lk  15  20  tr3  lit.  "what  these  things  might  be." 
In  Ex  12  20  the  sense  of  "mean  ye"  is  "to  have  in 
mind."  A.  L.  Breslich 

MEANI,  me-a'nl:  AV  =  RV  "Maani"  (1  Esd 
5  31). 

MEARAH,  me-a'ra  (r"n3r"£ ,  me*arah;  omitted  in 
LXX):  A  town  or  district  mentioned  only  in  Josh 
13  4,  as  belonging  to  the  Zidonians.  The  name 
as  it  stands  means  "cave."  If  that  is  correct  it 
may  be  represented  by  the  modern  village  Mog- 
heirlyeh,  "little  cave,"  not  far  from  Sidon.  Per- 
haps, however,  we  should  find  in  the  word  the  name 
of  a  Sidonian  city,  with  the  prep.  ~\"Q ,  min,  that  has 
suffered  change  in  transcription.  LXX  reads  "from 
Gaza";  but  Gaza  is  obviously  too  far  to  the  S. 

MEASURE,  mezh'tir,  MEASURES:  Several 
different  words  in  the  Heb  and  Gr  are  rendered  by 
"measure"  in  EV.  In  Job  11  9  and  Jer  13  25 
it  stands  for  TQ ,  madh,  n'H'Q ,  midddh,  and  it  is 
the  usual  rendering  of  the  vb.  Tj'P ,  mddhadh,  "to 
measure,"  i.e.  "stretch  out,"  "extend,"  "spread." 
It  is  often  used  to  render  the  words  representing 
particular  measures,  such  as  ephah  (Dt  25  14.15; 
Prov  20  10;  Mic  6  10);  or  kor  (1  K  4  22;  5  11 
[5  2  and  5  25  Heb  text];    2  Ch  2  10  [Heb  text 

2  9];  27  5;  Ezr  7  22);  or  seah  (Gen  18  6;  IS 
25  18;  1  K  18  32;  2  K  7  1.16.18);  or  /3<£ros,  bdtos, 
"bath"  (Lk  16  6).  For  these  terms  see  Weights 
and  Measures.  It  also  renders  •"T^'D ,  midddh, 
"measure  of  length"  (Ex  26  2);  tVTWip ,  mesurah, 
a  liquid  measure  (Lev  19  35;    1  Ch  23  29;    Ezk 

4  11.16);  T2£TP)2,  mishpdt,  "judgment"  (Jer  30 
11;  46  28);  HKCiiD,  sa'.f'dh,  a  word  of  uncertain 
meaning,  perhaps  derived  from  seah  (Isa  27  8); 
TSJ^blp ,  shdlish,  "threefold,  large  measure"  (Ps  80  5 
[Heb  text  ver  6];  Isa  40  12);  }3h,  tokhen,  and 
rCSrVO,  mathkoneth,  "weight"  and  that  which  is 
weighed,  taken  as  measure  (Ezk  45  11).     In  Isa 

5  14  it  stands  for  pn ,  hok,  "limit,"  In  the  NT, 
besides  being  the  usual  rendering  of  the  vb.  fierptw, 
metrcd,  and  of  the  noun  fi^rpov,  metron,  it  is  used 
for  x°?VL%,  choinix,  a  dry  measure  containing  about 
a  quart  (Rev  6  0).  H.  Porter 

MEASURING  LINE  Op,  kaw,  Hip,  keweh): 
The  usual  meaning  is  simply  line,  rope  or  cord,  as 
in  Isa  28  10.13,  but  the  line  was  used  for  measure- 
ment, as  is  evident  from  such  passages  as  1  K  7  23; 
Job  38  5;  Jer  31  39.  Whether  the  line  for  meas- 
uring had  a  definite  length  or  not  we  have  no  means 
of  knowing.  In  Isa  44  13  it  refers  to  the  line  used 
by  the  carpenter  in  marking  the  timber  on  which  he 
is  working,  and  in  Zee  1  16  it  refers  to  the  builder's 
line. 


Figuratively:  It  signifies  destruction,  or  a  portion 
of  something  marked  off  by  line  for  destruction,  as 
in  2  K  21  13;  or  for  judgment,  as  in  Isa  28  17. 

II.  Porter 

MEASURING  REED  (n'TOH  POp ,  k'neh  ha- 
midddh;  Ka.Xap.os,  kulamos):  Used  in  Ezk  40  5ff; 
42  16;  45  1;  Rev  11  1;  21  15.16.  The  length 
of  the  reed  is  given  as  6  cubits,  each  cubit  being  a 
cubit  and  a  palm,  i.e.  the  large  cubit  of  7  palms,  or 
about  10  ft,  See  Obit.  Originally  it  was  an 
actual  reed  used  for  measurements  of  considerable 
length,  but  came  at  last  to  be  used  for  a  measure 
of  definite  length,  as  indicated  by  the  reference  in 
Ezk  (cf  "pole"  in  Eng.  measures). 

MEAT,  met  (Bpw(j.a,  broma,  Bpwo-is,  brosis) :  In  AV 
used  for  food  in  general,  e.g.  "I  had  my  meat  of 
herbs"  (2  Esd  12  51);  "his  disciples  were  gone 
away  into  the  city  to  buy  meat,"  RV  "food"  (Jn 
4  8).  The  Eng.  word  signified  whatever  is  eaten, 
whether  of  flesh  or  other  food. 

MEAT  OFFERING.    See  Sacrifice. 

MEBUNNAI,  me-bun'I,  me-bun'a-I  P?^, 
mrbhunnaij,  "well-built"):  One  of  David's  "braves" 
(2  8  23  27).  In  2  S  21  18  he  is  named  |'Sib- 
bechai"  (RV  "Sibbecai"),  and  is  there  mentioned 
as  the  slaver  of  a  Phili  giant.  The  RV  spelling 
occurs  in  1  Ch  11  29,  the  AV  "Sibbechai"  in  20 
4  (cf  2  S  21  18);  and  in  1  Ch  27  11  the  RV 
spelling  recurs,  where  this  person  is  mentioned  as 
captain  of  the  8th  course  of  the  12  monthly  courses 
that  served  the  king  in  rota.  Scribal  error,  and  the 
similarity  in  Heb  spelling  of  the  two  forms  accounts 
for  the  difference  in  spelling.  RV  consistently  tries 
to  keep  this  right,  Henry  Wallace 

MECHERATHITE,  mP-ke'rath-it  (TH^,  me- 
khrrdthl,  "dweller  in  Mecharah") :  Possibly  this  is 
a  misreading  of  "Maachathite"  (AV).  It  is  the 
description  of  Hepher,  one  of  David's  valiant  men 
(1  Ch  11  36). 

In  the  parallel  list  of  2  S  23,  esp.  ver  34,  the  "Maa- 
chathite" is  mentioned  without  name  in  the  place  in  the 
list  given  to  Hepher  in  1  Ch  11  36.  The  variations 
do  not  destroy  the  conviction  that  the  list  is  virtually 
the  same. 

MECONAH,  mS-ko'na  (^V ,  mekhondh;  Maxvd, 
Machnd):  A  town  apparently  in  the  neighborhood 
of  Ziklag,  named  only  in  Neh  11  28,  as  reoccupied 

by  the  men  of  Judah  after  the  Captivity.     It  is 
not  identified. 

MEDABA,  med'a-ba:  The  Gr  form  of  "Medeba" 
in  1  Mace  9  36. 

MEDAD,  me'dad  OTX>,  medhadh,  "affection- 
ate"): One  of  the  70  elders  on  whom  the  spirit  of 
the  Lord  came  in  the  days  of  Moses  enabling  them 
to  prophesy.  Medad  and  one  other,  Eldad,  began 
to  prophesy  in  the  camp,  away  from  the  other  elders 
who  had  assembled  at  the  door  of  the  tabernacle 
to  hear  God's  message.  Joshua  suggested  that 
Eldad  and  Medad  be  stopped,  but  Moses  inter- 
ceded on  their  behalf,  saying,  "Would  that  all  Jeh's 
people  were  prophets!"  (Nu  11  26-29).  _  The 
subject-matter  of  their  prophecy  has  been  variously 
supplied  by  tradition.  Cf  the  Pal  Tgs  ad  loc.,  the 
apocalyptic  Book  of  Eldad  and  Modad,  and  Ba~al 
ha-turlm  (ad  loc).  Ella  Davis  Isaacs 

MEDAN,  me'dan  079 »  medhan,  "strife"):  One 
of  the  sons  of  Abraham  by  Keturah  (Gen  25  2; 
1  Ch  1  32).  The  tribe  and  its  place  remain  un- 
identified, and  the  conjecture  that  the  name  may 


2017 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Meani 
Medes 


bo  connected  with  the  Midianites  is  unlikely  from 
the  fact  that  in  the  list  of  the  sons  of  Abraham  and 
Keturah  Midian  is  mentioned  alongside  of  Medan. 

MEDEBA,  med'e-ba  (KST£,  medh'bhd';  Mai- 
8aPa,  Maidabd,  MT]8apd.,  Medabd):  The  name  may 
mean  "gently  flowing  water,"  but  the  sense  is  doubt- 
ful. This  city  is  first  mentioned  along  with  Heshbon 
and  Dibon  in  an  account  of  Israel's  conquests  (Nu 
21  30).  It  lay  in  the  Mlshor,  the  high  pastoral 
land  of  Moab.  The  district  in  which  the  city  stood 
is  called  the  Mishor  or  plain  of  Medeba  in  the 
description  of  the  territory  assigned  to  Reuben 
(Josh  13  9),  or  the  plain  by  Medeba  (ver  16). 
Here  the  Ammonites  and  their  Syrian  allies  put 
the  battle  in  array  against  Joab,  and  were  signally 
defeated  (1  Ch  19  7).  This  must  have  left  the 
place  definitely  in  the  possession  of  Israel.  But 
it  must  have  changed  hands  several  times.  It  was 
taken  by  Omri,  evidently  from  Moab;  and  Mesha 
claims  to  have  recovered  possession  of  it  (M  S,  11. 
7.8.29.30).  It  would  naturally  fall  to  Israel  under 
Jeroboam  II;  but  in  Isa  15  2  it  is  referred  to  as  a 
city  of  Moab.  It  also  figures  in  later  Jewish  his- 
tory. John,  son  of  Mattathias,  was  captured  and 
put  to  death  by  the  Jambri,  a  robber  tribe  from 
Medeba.  This  outrage  was  amply  avenged  by 
Jonathan  and  Simon,  who  ambushed  a  marriage 
party  of  the  Jambri  as  they  were  bringing  a  noble 
bride  from  Gabbatha,  slew  them  all  and  took  their 
ornaments  (1  Mace  9  36  ff;  Ant,  XII,  i,  2,  4). 
Medeba  was  captured  by  Hyrcanus  "not  without 
the  greatest  distress  of  his  army"  (Ant,  XIII,  ix,  1). 
It  was  taken  by  Jannaeus  from  the  Nabataeans. 
Hyrcanus  promised  to  restore  it  with  other  cities 
so  taken  to  Aretas  in  return  for  help  to  secure  him 
on  the  Judaean  throne  (ib,  xv,  4;  XIV,  i,  4). 
Ptolemy  speaks  of  it  as  a  town  in  Arabia  Petraea, 
between  Bostra  and  Petra.  Eusebius  and  Jerome 
knew  it  under  its  ancient  name  (Onom,  s.v.).  It 
became  the  seat  of  a  bishropric,  and  is  mentioned 
in  the  Acts  of  the  Council  of  Chalcedon  (451  AD), 
and  in  other  ecclesiastical  lists. 

The  ancient  city  is  represented  by  the  modern 
Madchd,  a  ruined  site  with  an  Aral)  village,  crowning  a 
low  hill,  some  6  miles  S.  of  Heshbon,  with  which  it  was 
connected  by  a  Rom  road.  The  ruins,  which  are  con- 
siderable, date  mainly  from  Christian  times.  The  sur- 
rounding walls  can  be  traced  in  practically  their  whole 
circuit.  There  is  a  large  tank,  now  dry,  measuring  108 
yds.  X 103  yds.,  and  about  12  ft.  in  depth.  In  1880  it  was 
colonized  by  some  Christian  families  from  Kerak,  among 
whom  the  Latins  carry  on  mission  work.  In  December, 
1896,  a  most  interesting  mosaic  was  found.  It  proved 
to  l)e  a  map  of  part  of  Pal  and  Lower  Egypt  of  the  time 
of  Justinian.  Unfortunately  it  is  much  damaged.  An 
account  of  it  will  be  found  in  PEFS,  1897,  213  if,  239; 
1898,  85,  177  ff,  251. 

W.   EwiNG 

MEDES,  medz  PT3 ,  madhi;  Assyr  Amadd, 
Madd;    Achaem.  Pers  Mdda;    Mf\8oi,  Medoi  [Gen 

10  2;  2  K  17  6;  18  11;  1  Ch  1  5;  Ezr  6  2;  Est 
1  3.14.18.19;  10  2;  Isa  13  17;  21  2;  Jer  25  25; 
51  11.28;     Dnl  5  28;     6  1.9.13.16;     8  20;     9  1; 

11  1]):  Mentioned  as  Japhethites  in  Gen  10  2,  i.e. 
Aryans,^ and  accordingly  they  first  called  themselves 
" Apioi,  Arioi  (Herod,  vii.62),  in  Avestic  Airya  = 
Skt.  Arya,  "noble."  They  were  closely  allied  in 
descent,  language  and  religion  with  the  Persians, 
and  in  secular  history  preceded  their  appearance  by 
some  centuries.  Like  most  Aryan  nations  they 
were  at  first  divided  into  small  village  communities 
each  governed  by  its  own  chiefs  (called  in  Assyr 
hazandti  by  Assur-bani-pal :  cf  Herod,  i.96). 
Shalmaneser  II  mentions  them  (Nimrod  Obelisk, 
i.121)  about  840  BC.  They  then  inhabited  the 
modern  A'zarbdijdn  (Media  Atropatene).  Ram- 
manu-nirari  III  of  Assyria  (Rawlinson,  WAI,  I, 
35)  declares  that  he  (810-781  BC)  had  conquered 
"the  land  of  the  Medes  and  the  land  of  Parsua" 


Median  Dress. 


(Persis),  as  well  as  other  countries.     This  probably 
meant  only  a  plundering  expedition,  as  far  as  Media 
was    concerned.      So    also   Assur-nirari   II    (WAI, 
II,  52)  in  749-748  BC  overran  Namri  in  Southwest 
Media.     Tiglath-pileser  IV    (in   Bab  called   Pulu, 
the  "Pul"  of  2  K  15  19)  and  Sargon  also  overran 
parts  of  Media.     Sargon  in  716 
BC  conquered  Kisheshin,  Khar- 
khar    and    other  parts   of    the 
country.     Some  of  the  Israelites 
were    by  him    transplanted    to 
"the  cities  of  the  Medes"  (2  K 
17  6;    18  11;   the  LXX  reading 
'0pi7,  Ori,   cannot    be  rendered 
"mountains"  of  the  Medes  here) 
after  the  fall  of  Samaria  in  722 
BC.     It  was  perhaps  owing  to 
the  need  of  being  able  to  resist 
Assyria  that  about  720  BC  the 
Medes  (in  part  at  least)  united 
into  a  kingdom  under  Deiokes, 
according   to  _  Herodotus  (i.98). 
Sargon   mentions  him    by    the 
name  Dayaukku,  and  says  that 
he  himself  captured  this  prince 
(715    BC)    and    conquered    his 
territory  two  years  later.     After 
his    release,    probably,  Deiokes 
fortified    Ecbatana    (formerly 
Ellippi)  and  made  it  his  capital. 
It  has  been  held  by  some  that 
Herodotus  confounds  the  Medes 
here    with   the    Manda    (or 
Umman-Manda,   "hosts  of  the 
Manda")    of    the    inscriptions; 
but  these  were  probably  Aryan 
tribes,  possibly  of  Scythian  origin,  and  the  names 
Mada   and   Manda   may   be,    after   all,    identical. 
Esar-haddon  in  his  2d  year  (679-678  BC)  and  Assur- 
bani-pal  warred  with  certain  Median  tribes,  whose 
power   was   now    growing   formidable.     They    (or 
the  Manda)  had  conquered  Persis  and  formed  a 
great     confederacy.      Under     Kyaxares     (Uvakh- 
shatara — Deiokes'  grandson,  according  to  Herodo- 
tus), they  besieged  Nineveh,  but  Assur-bani-pal,  with 
the  assistance  of  the  Ashguza  (?  the  Ashkenaz  of 
Gen  10  3),   another   Aryan    tribe,   repelled   them. 
The  end  of  the  Assyr  empire  came,  however,  in  606 
BC,   when   the    Manda    under    their  king  Iriba- 
tukte,  Mamiti-arsu  "lord  of  the  city  of  the  Medes," 
Kastarit  of  the  Armenian  district  of  Kar-kassi,  the 
Kimmerians     (Gimirra  =  Gomer)     under    Teushpa 
(Teispes,  Chaishpish),  the  Minni  (Manna;    cf  Jer 
61  27),  and  the  Babylonians  under  Nabu-pal-usur, 
stormed  and   destroyed   Nineveh,   as   Nabu-nahid 
informs   us.     The   last   king  of   Assyria,   Sin-sar- 
iskun  (Sarakos),  perished  with  his  people. 

_  Herodotus  says  that  Deiokes  was  succeeded  by  Phraor- 
tes  (Fravartish)  his  son,  Phraortes  by  his  son  Kyaxares; 
and  the  latter  in  turn  left  his  kingdom  to  his  son  Astyages 
whose  daughter  Mandane  married  Cambyses,  father  of 
the  great  Cyrus.  Yet  there  was  no  Median  empire 
(such  as  he  describes)  then,  or  at  least  it  did  not  em- 
brace all  the  Aryan  tribes  of  Western  Asia,  as  we  see 
from  the  inscriptions  that  in  606  BC,  and  even  later, 
many  of  them  were  under  kings  and  princes  of  their 
own  (cf  Jer  25  25;  51  11).  Herodotus  tells  us  they 
were  divided  into  six  tribes,  of  whom  the  Magi  were  one 
(Herod,  i.101).  Kyaxares  warred  for  5  years  (590-585 
BC)  with  the  Lydians,  the  struggle  being  ended  in  May, 
585,  by  the  total  eclipse  of  the  sun  foretold  by  Thales 
(Herod,  i.74). 

The  alliance  between  the  Medes  and  the  Baby- 
lonians ended  with  Nebuchadnezzar's  reign.  His 
successor  Nabu-nahid  (555  BC)  says  that  in  that 
year  the  Medes  under  Astyages  (Ishtuwegu) 
entered  Mesopotamia  and  besieged  Haran.  Soon 
after,  however,  that  dynasty  was  overthrown;  for 
Cyrus  the  Persian,  whom  Nabu-nahid  the  first 
time  he  mentions  him  styles  Astyages'  "youthful 


Media 
Mediation 


THE  INTERNATIONAL,  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2018 


slave"  (ardum  sahru),  but  who  was  even  then  king 
of  Anshan  (Anzan),  attacked  and  in  549  BC  cap- 
tured Astyages,  plundered  Ecbatana,  and  became 
king  of  the  Medes.  Though  of  Pers  descent ,  Cyrus 
did  not,  apparently,  begin  to  reign  in  Persia  till  546 
BC.  Henceforth  there  was  no  Median  empire 
distinguished  from  the  Pers  (nor  is  any  such  men- 
tioned in  Dnl,  in  spite  of  modern  fancies).  _  As  the 
Medes  were  further  advanced  in  civilization  and 
preceded  the  Persians  in  sovereignty,  the  Gr  his- 
torians generally  called  the  whole  nation  "the 
Medes"  long  after  Cyrus'  time.  Only  much  later 
are  the  Persians  spoken  of  as  the  predominant  part- 
ners. Hence  it  is  a  sign  of  early  date  that  Daniel 
(8  20)  speaks  of  "Media  and  Persia,"  whereas  later 
the  Book  of  Est  reverses  the  order  ("Persia  and 
Media,"  Est  1  3.14.18.19;  10  2),  as  in  the  in- 
scriptions of  Darius  at  Behistun. 

Under  Darius  I,  Phraortes  (Eravartish)  rebelled, 
claiming  the  throne  of  Media  as  a  descendant  of 
Kyaxares.  His  cause;  was  so  powerfully  supported 
among  the  Medes  that  the  rebellion  was  not  sup- 
pressed till  after  a  fierce  struggle.  He_  was  finally 
taken  prisoner  at  Raga  (.Rat,  near  Tehran),  brutally 
mutilated,  and  finally  impaled  at  Ecbatana.  After 
that  Median  history  merges  into  that  of  Persia. 
The  history  of  the  Jews  in  Media  is  referred  to  in 
Did  and  Est,  1  Mace  tells  something  of  Media 
under  the  Syrian  (6  56)  and  Parthian  dominion 
(14  1-3;  cf  Jos,  Ant,  XX,  iii).  Medes  are  last 
mentioned  in  Acts  2  9.  They  are  remarkable  as 
the  first  leaders  of  the  Aryan  race  in  its  struggle 
with  the  Semites  for  freedom  and  supremacy. 

W.  St.  Clair  Tisdall 

MEDIA,  me'di-a  PTQ,  madhay;  Achaem.  Pers 
Mada;  M^Sia,  Media) :  Lay  to  the  W.  and  S.W. 
of  the  Caspian,  and  extended  thence  to  the  Zagrus 
Mountains  on  the  W.  On  the  N.  in  later  times  it 
was  bounded  by  the  rivers  Araxes  and  Cyrus,  which 
separated  it  from  Armenia.  Its  eastern  bound- 
aries were  formed  by  Hyrcania  and  the  Great  Salt 
Desert  (now  called  the  Kavir),  and  it  was  bounded 
on  the  S.  by  Susiana.  In  earlier  times  its  limits 
were  somewhat  indefinite.  It  included  Atropatene 
(Armenian  Atrpatakan,  the  name,  "Eire-guarding/' 
showing  devotion  to  the  worship  of  Fire)  to  the  N., 
and  Media  Magna  to  the  S.,  the  former  being  the 
present  A'zarbaijdn.  Near  the  Caspian  the  country 
is  low,  damp  and  unhealthy,  but  inland  most  of  it 
is  high  and  mountainous,  Mt.  Demavand  in  the 
Alburz  range  reaching  18,600  ft,  Atropatene  was 
famed  for  the  fertility  of  its  valleys  and  table-lands, 
except  toward  the  N.  Media  Magna  is  high;  it 
has  fruitful  tracts  along  the  course  of  the  streams, 
but  suffers  much  from  want  of  water,  though  this 
was  doubtless  more  abundant  in  antiquity.  It 
contained  the  Nisaean  Plain,  famous  for  its  breed 
of  horses.  The  chief  cities  of  ancient  Media  were 
Ecbatana,  Gazaea,  and  Ragae.  The  Orontes 
range  near  Ecbatana  is  the  present  A  Ivnnd.  Lake 
Spauta  is  now  known  as   Urmi  (Urumiah). 

W.  St.  Clair  Tisdall 

MEDIAN,  me'di-an.  Sec  Darius;  Medes; 
Media. 

MEDIATION,  me-di-a'shun,  MEDIATOR,  me'- 
di-a-ter: 

I.  Introductory 

1.  The  Terms 

(1)  Mediation 

(2)  Mediator 

2.  The  Principle  of  Mediation 
II.     Mediation  in  the  OT 

1.  Negative  Teaching  in  the  OT 

2.  The  Positive  Teaching:  Early  Period 

3.  Prophetic  Mediation 

4.  Priestly  Mediation 

5.  The  Theocratic  King:  the  Messiah 

6.  The  Suffering  Servant 


7.   Superhuman  Agents  of  Mediation 

(1)  Angelic  Mediation 

(2)  Divine  Wisdom 

III.  I  n  Semi-  and  Non-canonical  Jewish  Literature 

IV.  Mediation  and  Mediator  in  the  NT 

1.  The  Synoptic  Gospels 

(1)  Christ  as  Prophet 

(2)  As  King 

(3)  As  Priest  (Redeemer) 

2.  Primitive  Apostolic  Teachings 

(1)  The  Early  Speeches  in  Acts 

(2)  Epistles  of  James  and  Jude 

(3)  1  Peter 

3.  Epistles  of  Paul 

(1)  The  Need  of  a  Mediator 

(2)  The  Qualifications 

(3)  The  Means,  the  Death  of  Christ 

(4)  The  Resurrection  and  Exaltation 

(5)  The  Cosmic  Aspect  of  Christ's  Mediator- 
ship 

4.  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews 

5.  The  Johannine  Writings 

(1)  The  Fourth  Gospel 

(2)  The  Epistles 

(3)  The  Apocalypse 
V.     Conclusion 

Literature 

/.  Introductory. — (1)  "Mediation"  in  its  broadest 

sense   may   be  defined   as   the   act  of  intervening 

between  parties   at  variance  for   the 

1.  The  purpose  of  reconciling  them,  or  be- 
Terms  tween  parties  not  necessarily  hostile 

for  the  purpose  of  leading  them  into 
an  agreement  or  covenant.  Theologically,  it  has 
reference  to  the  method  by  which  God  and  man  are 
reconciled  through  the  instrumentality  of  some 
intervening  process,  act  or  person,  and  esp.  through 
the  atoning  work  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  term  itself 
does  not  occur  in  Bib.  literature.  (2)  The  term 
"mediator"  (=  middleman,  agent  of  mediation) 
is  nowhere  found  in  OT  or  Apoc  (EV),  but  the 
corresponding  Gr  word  M«cr''T1?s,  mesites,  occurs 
once  in  LXX  (Job  9  33  AV,  "Neither  is  there  any 
daysman  betwixt  us,"  where  "daysman"  stands  for 
Heb  mdkhV'h,  "arbitrator,"  ARV,  ERVm  "umpire" 
[see  Daysman];  LXX  has  6  fxeair-qs  ^w,  ho 
viesites  hemon,  "our  mediator,"  as  a  paraphrase 
for  Heb  benenii,  "betwixt  us").  Even  in  the  NT, 
mesites,  "mediator,"  occurs  only  6 1,  viz.  Gal  3  19.20 
(of  Moses),  and  1  Tim  2  5;  He  8  6;  9  15;  12  24 
(of  Christ). 

Though  the  actual  terms  are  thus  very  rare,  the 
principle  of  mediation  is  one  of  great  significance 

in  Bib.  theology,  as  well  as  in  the  Jew- 

2.  The  ish-Alexandrian  philosophy.  It  cor- 
Principle  of  responds  to  a  profound  human  in- 
Mediation     stinct  or  need  which  finds  expression 

in  some  form  or  other  in  most  religions. 
It  is  an  attempt  to  solve  the  problem  raised  by  (1) 
the  idea  of  the  infinite  distance  which  separates  God 
from  man  and  the  universe,  and  (2)  the  deeply  felt 
want  of  bringing  them  into  a  harmonious  relation. 
The  conception  of  mediation  will  differ,  therefore, 
according  to  whether  the  distance  to  be  surmounted 
is  understood  ethically  or  metaphysically.  If  it  be 
thought  of  in  an  ethical  or  religious  sense,  that  is, 
if  the  emphasis  be  laid  on  the  fact  of  human  sin  as 
standing  in  the  way  of  man's  fellowship  with  God, 
then  mediation  will  be  the  mode  by  which  peacefui 
relations  are  established  between  sinful  man  and  the 
absolutely  righteous  God.  But  if  the  antithesis 
of  God  and  the  world  be  conceived  of  metaphysi- 
cally, i.e.  be  based  on  the  ultimate  nature  of  God 
and  of  the  world  conceived  as  essentially  opposed 
to  each  other,  then  mediation  will  be  the  mode  by 
which  the  transcendent  God,  without  Himself 
coming  into  direct  contact  with  the  world,  is  able 
to  produce  effects  in  it  through  an  intermediate 
agent  (or  agents).  The  latter  conception  (largely 
the  result  of  an  exaggerated  Platonic  dualism) 
exerted  an  important  influence  on  later  Jewish 
thought,  and  even  on  Christian  theology,  and  will 
come  briefly  under  our  consideration.     But  in  the 


2019 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Media 
Mediation 


main  we  shall  be  concerned  with  the  former  view, 
as  more  in  harmony  with  the  development  of  Bib. 
theology  which  culminates  in  the  NT  doctrine  of 
atonement.  Mediation  between  God  and  man  as 
presented  in  the  Scriptures  has  3  main  aspects, 
represented  respectively  by  the  functions  of  the 
prophet,  the  priest,  and  the  theocratic  king.  Here 
and  there  in  the  OT  these  tend  to  meet,  as  in  Mel- 
chizedek  the  priest-king,  and  in  the  Suffering 
Servant  of  Deutero-Isa,  who  unites  the  priestly 
function  of  sacrifice  with  the  prophetic  function 
of  revealing  the  Divine  will.  But  on  the  whole, 
these  aspects  of  mediation  in  the  OT  run  along  lines 
which  have  no  meeting-point  in  one  person  adequate 
to  all  the  demands.  In  the  NT  they  intersect  in 
the  person  and  work  of  Jesus  Christ,  who  realizes 
in  Himself  the  full  meaning  of  the  prophetic,  priestly, 
and  kingly  ideals. 

//.  Mediation  in  the  OT. — We  do  not  find  in  the 
OT  a  fixed  and  final  doctrine  of  mediation  univer- 
sally accepted  as  an  axiom  of  religious 

1.  Negative  thought,  but  only  a  gradual  movement 
Teaching  toward  such  a  doctrine,  under  the 
in  the  OT      growing  sense  of  God's  exaltation  and 

of  man's  frailty  and  sinfulness.  Such 
a  passage  as  1  S  2  25  seems  definitely  to  contra- 
dict the  idea  of  mediation.  Still  more  striking  are 
the  words  of  Job  above  referred  to,  "There  is  no 
umpire  betwixt  us,  that  might  lay  his  hand  upon  us 
both,"  i.e.  to  enforce  his  decision  (Job  9  33), 
where  the  LNX  paraphrases,  "Would  that  there 
were  a  mediator  and  a  reprover  and  a  hearer  be- 
tween us  both."  The  note  of  despair  which  char- 
acterizes this  passage  shows  that  Job  has  no  hope 
that  such  an  arbitrator  between  him  and  God  is 
forthcoming.  Yet  the  words  give  pathetic  utter- 
ance to  the  deep  inarticulate  cry  of  humanity  for  a 
mediator.  In  this  connection  we  should  note  the 
protests  of  prophets  and  psalmists  against  an  un- 
ethical view  of  mediation  by  animal  sacrifices  (Mic 
6  6-8;  Ps  40  6-8,  etc),  and  their  frequent  direct 
appeals  to  God  for  mercy  without  reference  to  any 
mediation  (Ps  25  7;  32 "5;   103  8 ft  etc). 

(1)  Mediatory  sacrifice. — In  the  patriarchal  age, 
before   the   official   priest   had   been   differentiated 

from  the  rest  of  the  community,  the 

2.  The  function  of  offering  sacrifice  was  dis- 
positive charged  by  the  head  of  the  family  or 
Teaching:  clan  on  behalf  of  his  people,  as  by 
Early  Noah  (Gen  8  20),  Abraham  (Gen  12 
Period            7.8;     15  9-11),    Isaac,    (Gen  26  24 f), 

Jacob  (Gen  31  54;  33  20).  So  Job, 
conceived  by  the  writer  as  living  in  patriarchal 
antiquity,  is  said  to  have  offered  sacrifices  vicari- 
ously for  his  sons  (Job  1  5).  Melchizedek,  the 
priest-king  of  Salem  (Gen  14  18-20),  is  a  figure  of 
considerable  theological  interest,  inasmuch  as  he 
was  taken  by  the  author  of  Ps  110  as  the  forerunner 
of  the  ideal  theocratic  king  who  was  also  priest, 
and  by  the  author  of  He  as  prototype  of  Christ's 
priesthood. 

(2)  Intercessory  prayer. — Intercession  is  in  all 
stages  of  thought  an  essential  element  in  mediation. 
We  have  striking  examples  of  it  in  Gen  18  22-33; 
Job  42  8-10. 

(3)  The  Mosaic  covenant. — In  Moses  we  have  for 
the  first  time  a  recognized  national  representative 
who  acted  both  as  God's  spokesman  to  the  people, 
and  the  people's  spokesman  before  God.  He  alone 
was  allowed  to  "come  near  unto  Jeh,"  and  to  him 
Jeh  spake  "face  to  face,  as  a  man  speaketh  unto  his 
friend"  (Ex  33  11).  He  went  up  to  God  and 
"reported  the  words  of  the  people"  to  Him,  as  to  a 
sovereign  who  cannot  be  approached  save  by  his 
duly  accredited  minister  (Ex  19  8).  We  have  a 
striking  example  of  his  intercessory  mediation  in  the 
episode;  of  the  golden  calf,  when  he  pleaded  effectively 


with  God  to  turn  from  His  wrath  (Ex  32  12-14), 
and  even  offered  to  "make  atonement  for"  (kipper, 
lit.  "cover")  their  sin  by  confessing  their  sin  before 
God,  and  being  willing  to  be  blotted  out  of  God's 
book,  so  that  the  people  might  be  spared  (vs  30-32). 
Here  we  have  already  the  germs  of  the  idea  of 
vicarious  suffering  for  sin. 

(4)  Intercessory  mediation. — Samuel  is  by  Jere- 
miah classed  with  Moses  as  the  chief  representative 
of  intercessory  mediation  (Jer  15  1).  He  is  re- 
ported as  mediating  by  prayer  between  Israel  and 
God,  and  succeeding  in  warding  off  the  punishment 
of  their  sin  (1  S  7  5-12).  On  such  occasions, 
prayer  was  wont  to  be  accompanied  by  confessions 
of  sins  and  by  an  offering  to  Jeh. 

Samuel  represents  the  transition  from  the  ancient 

seer  or   soothsayer   to    the    prophetic   order.      The 

prophet  was  regarded  as  the  organ  of 

3.  Prophetic  Divine  revelation,  to  consult  whom 
Mediation     was  equivalent  to  "inquiring  of  God" 

(1  S  9  9) — a  commissioner  sent  by 
God  (Isa  6  8  f )  to  proclaim  His  will  by  word  and 
action.  In  that  capacity  he  was  Jell's  representa- 
tive among  men,  and  so  could  speak  in  a  tone  of 
authority.  Prophetic  revelation  is  essential  to  the 
OT  religion  (cf  He  1  1),  which  by  it  stands  dis- 
tinguished from  a  mere  philosophy  or  natural  reli- 
gion. God  is  not  merely  a  passive  object  of  human 
discovery,  but  one  who  actively  and  graciously 
reveals  Himself  to  His  chosen  people  through  the 
medium  of  the  authorized  exponents  of  His  mind 
and  will.  Thus  in  the  main  the  prophet  stands  for 
the  principle  of  mediation  in  its  man-ward  aspect. 
But  the  God-ward  aspect  is  not  absent,  for  we  find 
the  prophet  mediating  with  God  on  behalf  of  men, 
making  intercession  for  them  (Jer  14  19-22;  Am 
7  2f.5f). 

Mediation  is  in  a  peculiar  sense  the  fund  ion  of  the 

priest.     In  the  main  he  stands  for  the  principle  in 

its  God-ward  aspect.    Yet  in  the  early 

4.  Priestly  period  it  was  the  man-ward  aspect  that 
Mediation     was   most   apparent;     i.e.    the   priest 

was  at  first  regarded  as  the  medium 
through  which  Jeh  delivered  His  oracles  to  men, 
the  human  mouthpiece  of  supernatural  revelation, 
giving  advice  in  difficult  emergencies  by  casting  the 
sacred  lot.  Before  the  time  of  the  first  literary 
prophets,  the  association  of  the  priests  with  the 
ephod  and  the  lot  had  receded  into  the  background 
(though  the  high  priest  theoretically  retained  the 
gift  of  interpreting  the  Divine  will  through  the 
Urim  and  Thummim,  Ex  28  30;  Lev  8  8);  but 
the  power  they  lost  with  the  oracle  they  gained  at 
the  altar.  First  they  acquired  a  preferential 
status  at  the  local  sanctuaries;  then,  in  the  Deutero- 
iiomic  legislation,  where  sacrifice  is  limited  to  the 
Jems  sanctuary,  it  is  assumed  that  only  Levite 
priests  can  officiate.  Finally,  in  the  Levitical  sys- 
tem as  set  forth  in  the  PC  (which  regulated  Jewish 
worship  in  the  post-exilic  times),  the  Aaronic 
priests,  now  clearly  distinguished  from  the  Levitcs, 
have  the  sole  privilege  of  immediate  access  to  God 
in  His  sanctuary  (Nu  4  19.20;  16  3-5).  God's 
transcendence  and  holiness  are  now  so  emphasized 
that  between  Him  and  the  sin-stained  people  there 
is  almost  an  infinite  chasm.  Hence  the  people  can 
only  enjoy  its  ideal  right  of  drawing  nigh  unto  God 
and  offering  sacrifice  to  Him  through  the  mediation 
of  the  official  priesthood.  The  mediatorship  of 
priests  derived  its  authority,  not  from  their  moral 
purity  or  personal  worth,  but  from  the  ceremonial 
purity  which  attached  to  their  office.  All  priests 
are  not  on  the  same  level.  A  process  of  graduated 
sanctity  narrows  down  their  number  as  the  approach 
is  made  to  the  Most  Holy  Place,  which  symbolizes 
the  presence  chamber  of  Jeh.  (1)  Out  of  the  sacred 
nation   as   a  whole,   the   priestly   tribe  of   Levi  is 


Mediation 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  HUM  A']  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2020 


elected  and  invested  with  a  special  sanctity  to 
perforin  all  the  subordinate  acts  of  service  within 
the  tabernacle  (Nu  8  19;  18  6).  (2)  Within  this 
sacred  tribe,  the  members  of  the  house  of  Aaron  are 
set  apart  and  invested  with  a  still  higher  sanctity; 
they  alone  officiate  at  the  altar  in  the  Holy  Place  and 
expiate  the  guilt  of  the  people  by  sacrifice  and 
prayer,  thus  representing  the  people  before  God. 
Yet  even  they  are  only  admitted  to  the  proximate 
nearness  of  the  Holy  Place.  (3)  The  gradation  of 
the  hierarchy  is  completed  by  the  recognition  of  a 
single,  supreme  head  of  the  priesthood — the  high 
priest.  He  alone  can  (Miter  the  Holy  of  Holies,  and 
that  alone  once  a  year,  on  the  Day  of  Atonement, 
when  he  makes  propitiation  not  oidy  for  himself 
and  the  priesthood,  but  for  the  entire  congregation. 
The  ritual  of  the  Day  of  Atonement  is  the  highest 
exercise  of  priest  ly  mediatorship.  On  that  day, 
the  whole  community  has  access  to  Jeh  through 
their  representative,  the  high  priest,  and  through 
him  offer  atonement  for  their  sins.  Moreover,  the 
role  of  the  high  priest  as  mediator  is  symbolized 
by  his  wearing  the  breastplate  bearing  the  names 
of  the  children  of  Israel,  whenever  he  goes  into  the 
Holy  Place  (Ex  28  29). 

Something  must  be  said  of  the  sacrificial  system, 
through  which  alone  the  priest  exercised  his  media- 
torial functions.  For  his  mediatorship  did  not 
depend  on  his  direct  personal  influence  with  God, 
exercised,  for  instance,  through  intercessory  prayer 
(intercession  is  not  ment  ioned  by  P  as  a  duty  of  the 
priest,  though  referred  to  by  the  prophets,  Joel  2 
17;  Mai  1  9).  It  depended  rather  on  an  elaborate 
system  of  sacrifice,  of  which  the  priest  was  but  an 
official  agent.  It  was  he  who  derived  his  authority 
from  the  system,  rather  than  the  system  from  him. 
The  most  characteristic  features  in  the  ritual  of  the 
PC  are  the  sin  offering  (hatta'th,  Lev  4;  5;  6  24- 
30)  and  the  guilt  offering  ('asham,  Lev  5-7,  14,  19), 
which  seem  peculiar  to  P.  These  are  meant  to 
restore  the  normal  relat  ion  of  the  people  or  of  indi- 
viduals to  God,  a  relation  which  sin  has  disturbed. 
Hence  these  sacrifices,  when  duly  administered  by 
the  priest,  are  distinctly  mediatorial  or  recon- 
ciliatory  in  character,  i.e.  they  make  atonement 
for  or  "cover"  (kipper)  the  sin  of  the  guilty  com- 
munity or  individuals.  This  seems  the  case  also, 
though  in  a  far  less  degree,  even  with  the  burnt, 
peace,  and  meal  offerings,  which,  though  "not  offered 
expressly,  like  the  sin  and  guilt  offerings,  for  the  for- 
giveness of  sin,  nevertheless  were  regarded  .... 
as  'covering,'  or  neutralizing,  the  offerer's  un- 
worthiness  to  appear  before  God,  and  so,  though 
in  a  much  less  degree  than  the  sin  or  guilt  offering, 
as  effecting  propitiat  ion"  (Driver  in  HDB,IV,  132). 
We  must  beware,  however,  of  reading  the  full  NT 
doctrine  of  sin  and  propitiation  into  the  sacrificial 
law.  Two  important  points  of  difference  may  be 
noted:  (1)  The  law  does  not  provide  atonement 
for  all  sins,  but  only  for  sins  of  ignorance  or  inad- 
vertence, committed  within  the  covenant.  Delib- 
erate sins  fall  out  side  the  scope  of  priestly  mediation. 
(2)  While  sin  includes  moral  impurity,  it  must  be 
admitted  that  the  chief  emphasis  falls  on  ceremonial 
uncleanness,  because  it  is  only  violation  of  physical 
sanctity  that  can  be  fully  rectified  by  ritual  ordi- 
nance. The  law  was  essent  ially  a  civil  code,  and  was 
not  adequate  to  deal  with  inward  sins.  Thus  the 
sacrificial  system  in  itself  is  but  a  faint  adumbration 
of  the  NT  doctrine  of  Christ's  high-priestly  work, 
which  has  reference  to  sin  in  its  widest  and  deepest 
meaning.  Yet,  in  spite  of  these  limitations,  the 
priestly  ritual  was,  as  far  as  it  went,  an  organized 
embodiment  of  the  sin-consciousness,  and  so  pre- 
pared the  way  for  the  coming  of  a  perfect  Mediator. 

On  another  plane  than  that  of  the  priest  is  the 
mediation  of  the  theocratic  king.     Jeh  was  ideally 


the  sole  king  of  Israel.    But  He  governed  the  people 

mediately   through   His   vicegerent    the    theocratic 

king,  the  agent  of  His  will.     The  king 

5.  The  was  regarded  as  "Jeh's  anointed"  (1 
Theocratic  S  16  6,  etc),  and  his  person  as  invio- 
King:  the  Iable.  He  was  the  "visible  representa- 
Messiah        tive    of    the   invisible    Divine   King" 

(Riehm).  The  ideal  of  the  theocratic 
king  was  most  nearly  represented  by  David,  the 
man  after  Jeh's  own  heart  (cf  1  S  13  14).  This 
fact  led  to  Jeh's  covenant-promise  that  David's 
house  should  constitute  a  permanent  dynasty,  and 
his  throne  be  established  forever  (2  S  7  5-17;  cf 
Ps  89  19-37).  The  indestructibility  of  the  Davidic 
dynasty  was  the  basal  conviction  on  which  the  hope 
of  a  Messiah  was  built.  It  led  to  attention  being 
further  concentrated  on  one  preeminent  King  in 
David's  line,  who  should  be  the  Divinely  accredited 
representative  of  Jeh,  and  reign  in  His  name.  As  a 
Divinely  endowed  human  hero,  the  Messiah  will 
possess  attributes  which  will  qualify  Him  to  mediate 
between  God  and  His  people  in  national  life  and 
affairs,  and  so  inaugurate  the  ideal  age  of  peace 
and  righteousness.  He  is  portrayed  esp.  as  the 
Royal  Saviour  of  Israel,  through  whom  the  salva- 
tion of  the  people  is  mediated  and  justice  admin- 
istered (e.g.  Isa  11  1-10;  61  1-3;  Ps  72  4.13; 
Jer  23  5.0;    33  15.16). 

In  the  wonderful  figure  of  exilic  prophecy,  the 

Suffering  Servant  of  Jeh,  the  principle  of  mediation 

is  exemplified  both  in  its  man-ward 

6.  The  and  God-ward  aspects.  In  its  man- 
Suffering  ward  aspect,  his  mission  is  the  pro- 
Servant          phetic   one   of   being   God's   anointed 

messenger  to  men,  His  witness  before 
the  world  (Isa  42  6.19;  43  10;  49  2;  60  4.5; 
61  1-3).  But  the  profound  originality  of  the  con- 
ception of  the  Servant  lies  chiefly  in  the  God-ward 
significance  of  his  suffering  (Isa  53).  The  Servant 
suffered  vicariously  as  an  atonement  for  the  sins 
of  the  people.  His  death  is  even  said  to  be  a  "guilt- 
offering"  ('asham,  ver  10),  and  he  is  represented  as 
making  "intercession  for  the  transgressors"  (ver 
12).  Here  is  the  profoundest  expression  in  the  OT 
of  the  principle  of  mediatorship. 

The  substitution  of  voluntary,  deliberate,  human 
sacrifice  for  that  of  unwilling  beasts  elevates  the  sacrifi- 
cial idea  to  a  new  ethical  plane,  and  brings  it  into  far 
more  vital  and  organic  relation  to  human  life.  The 
basis  of  the  mediatorship  of  the  Servant  seems  to  be  the 
principle  of  the;  solidarity  or  organic  unity  of  the  people, 
involving  the  ideal  unity  of  the  Servant  and  the  people 
he  represents.  In  the  earlier  servant-passages  the 
Servant  is  identical  with  the  whole  nation  (Isa  41  8; 
44  1  f,  and  often),  and  the  unity  is  therefore  actual,  not 
ideal  merely.  In  other  passages,  however,  they  are 
clearly  to  bo  distinguished,  for  while  the  people  as  a 
whole  is  unfaithful  to  its  mission,  the  Servant  remains 
faithful  and  suiters  for  it.  Whether  in  Isa  53  the 
Servant  is  the  pious  remnant  of  the  people  or  is  con- 
ceived of  as  an  individual  we  need  not  here  consider. 
In  either  case,  the  tie  between  the  Servant  and  the  whole 
nation  is  never  completely  broken;  the  idea  of  their 
mystical  union  is  still  the  groundwork  of  the  prophet's 
thought.  In  virtue  of  this  ideal  relation,  the  Servant 
is  the  representative  of  the  nation  before  God,  not  in  a 
mere  official  sense  (as  in  the  case  of  the  priest) ,  but  on  the 
ground  of  personal  merit,  as  the  true  Israel,  the  embodi- 
ment of  the  national  ideal.  On  that  ground  God  can 
accept  his  suffering  in  lieu  of  the  deserved  penalty  of  the 
whole  people.  We  have  here  a  wonderful  adumbration 
of  the  NT  doctrine  of  atonement  through  the  One  Me- 
diator, the  Son  of  Man,  the  representative  of  the  race. 
See  Servant  of  Jehovaii. 

In  later  Judaism,  the  growing  sense  of  God's 

transcendence  favored  the  tendency  to  introduce 

supernatural     intermediaries     between 

7.  Super-       God  and  the  world. 

human  (1)    Angelic    mediation. — Not    until 

Agents  of      post-exilic  times  did  angels  come  to 
Mediation     have     theological     significance.     Pre- 
viously,   when    God    was    anthropo- 
morphically  conceived  as  appearing  periodically  on 


2021 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Mediation 


earth  in  visible  form,  the  need  of  angelic  mediation 
was  not  felt.  The  "angel"  in  early  narrative  (e.g. 
Gen  16  7-11)  did  not  possess  abiding  personality 
distinct  from  God,  but  was  God  Himself  tempora- 
rily manifested  in  human  form.  But  the  more  God 
came  to  be  conceived  as  "the  high  and  lofty  One 
that  inhabiteth  eternity,"  the  greater  was  the  need 
for  mediation  between  God  and  the  world,  and  even 
between  _  God  and  His  servant  the  prophet.  In 
post-exilic  writers  there  is  an  increasing  disposition 
to  fill  up  the  gap  between  God  and  the  prophet  with 
superhuman  beings.  Thus  Zechariah  receives  all 
Divine  instruction  through  angels;  and  similarly 
Daniel  receives  explanations  of  his  dreams.  We 
do  not  in  the  OT  hear  of  angels  interceding  with 
God  (God-ward  mediation),  but  only  as  interme- 
diaries of  revelation  and  of  the  Divine  will  (man-ward 
mediation).  Modern  Jewish  scholars  deny  that 
Judaistic  angelology  implied  that  God  was  tran- 
scendent in  the  sense  of  being  remote  and  out  of 
contact  with  the  world.  So,  e.g.,  Montefiore  (Hib- 
brrt  Lectures,  423-31),  but  even  he  admits  a 
''natural  disinclination  to  bring  the  Godhead  down- 
ward to  human  conditions,"  and  that  "for  super- 
natural conversations  angels  formed  a  convenient 
substitute  for  God"  (p.  430).  The  doctrine  of 
angels  had  no  influence  on  the  NT  doctrine  of 
mediation,  which  moves  on  the  plane  of  the  ethical, 
rather  than  on  the  basis  of  the  merely  physical 
transcendence  of  God. 

(2)  Divine  wisdom. — Of  more  importance  as  a 
preparation  for  the  theology  of  the  NT  is  t  he  doct  rine 
of  Wisdom,  in  which  the  Jews  found  "a  middle  term 
between  the  religion  of  Israel  and  the  philosophy 
of  Greece."  In  Prov  8  22-31  Wisdom  is  depicted 
as  an  individual  energy,  God's  elect  Son,  His  com- 
panion and  master-workman  (ver  30)  in  creation, 
but  whose  chief  delight  is  with  the  children  of  men. 
Though  the  personification  is  here  purely  ideal  and 
poetical,  and  the  ethical  interest  predominates  over 
the  metaphysical,  yet  we  have  in  such  a  passage  a 
clear  proof  of  contact  with  Gr  thought  (esp.  Platon- 
ism  and  Stoicism),  and  of  the  felt  need  of  a  mediator 
between  God  and  the  visible  world.  This  mode  of 
thought,  linked  to  the  Heb  conception  of  the  Divine 
Word  as  the  efficient  expression  of  God's  thought 
and  the  medium  of  His  activity  (Isa  55  11;  Ps 
33  6;  107  20),  has  left  its  mark  on  Philo's  Logos- 
doctrine  and  on  the  NT  Christology.     See  Wisdom. 

///.   In  Semi-  and  Non-canonical  Jewish  Literature. — 

In  the  Apoc,  the  idea  of  mediation  is  for  the  most  part 
absent.  We  have  one  or  two  references  to  angelic  inter- 
cession (Tob  12  12.15),  a  function  not  attributed  to 
angels  in  the  OT,  but  prominent  in  later  apocalyptic 
literature  (e.g.  En  9  10;  15  2;  40  6).  The  tradition 
of  the  agency  of  angels  in  the  promulgation  of  the  law 
is  first  found  in  the  LXX  of  Dt  33  2  (not  in  the  Heb 
original),  but  was  greatly  amplified  in  rabbinical  liter- 
ature (Jos,  Ant,  XV,  v,  3).  In  Wisd  a  bold  advance  is 
made  toward  the  conception  of  Wisdom  as  a  personal 
mediator  of  creation  (esp.  7  22-27).  In  later  Judaism, 
the  idea  of  the  Word  is  further  developed.  The  Tgs 
constantly  refer  the  Divine  activity  to  the  memxnV  or 
"  Word  "  of  God,  where  the  OT  refers  it  to  God  directly, 
and  speaks  of  it  as  Israel's  Intercessor  before  God  and 
as  Redeemer.  This  usage  seems  to  arise  out  of  a  reluc- 
tance to  bring  God  into  immediate  contact  with  the  world; 
hence  God's  self-manifestation  is  represented  as  medi- 
ated through  a  quasi-personal  agent.  The  tendency 
finds  its  full  development,  however,  not  among  the;  Jerus 
Jews,  but  among  the  Jews  of  Alexandria,  esp.  in  Philo's 
Logos-doctrine.  Deeply  influenced  by  the  Platonic 
dualism,  Philo  thought  of  God  as  pure  Spirit,  incapable 
of  contact  with  matter,  so  that  without  mediation  God 
could  not  act  on  the  world.  To  fill  up  the  great  gap  he 
conceived  of  intermediary  beings  which  represented  at 
once  the  Ideas  of  Plato,  the  active  Powers  of  the  Stoics 
and  the  angels  of  the  OT.  The  highest  of  these  was  the 
Divine  Logos,  the  mediator  between  the  inaccessible, 
transcendent  Being  and  the  material  universe.  On  the- 
one  hand,  in  relation  to  the  world,  the  Logos  is  the 
Mediator  of  creation  and  of  revelation;  on  the  other,  in 
his  God-ward  activity,  he  is  the  representative  of  the 
world  before  God,  its  High  Priest,  Intercessor,  and 
Paraclete.  Yet  Philo's  Logos  was  probably  nothing 
more    than    a    high    philosophical     abstraction    vividly 


imaged  in  the  mind.  In  spite  of  Philo's  influence  on 
early  Ghristian  theology,  and  even  perhaps  on  some  XT 
writers,  his  doctrine  of  mediation  moves  on  quite  differ- 
ent lines  from  the  central  NT  doctrine,  which  is  con- 
cerned above  all  with  the  reconciliation  of  Cod  and  man 
on  account  of  sin,  and  not  with  the  metaphysical  recon- 
ciliation of  the  absolute  and  the  finite  world.  The 
Mediator  of  Philo  is  an  abstraction  of  speculative 
•  thought;  the  Mediator  of  the  NT  is  a  concrete  historical 
person  known  to  experience.     See  Philo  Judaeus. 

IV.  Mediation  and  Mediator  in  the  NT.—  The 

relatively  independent  lines  of  development  which 
the  conception  of  mediation  has  hither- 
1.  The  to  taken  now  meet  and  coalesce  in  Jesus 

Synoptic  Christ.  The  traditional  division  of 
Gospels  Christ's  mediatorial  work  into  that  of 
prophet,  priest  and  king  (very  common 
since  Calvin,  but  now  often  discarded)  offers  a  con- 
venient method  of  treating  the  subject,  though  we 
must  avoid  making  the  division  absolute,  as  if 
Christ's  work  fell  apart  into  three  separate  and 
independent  functions.  The  unity  of  the  work  of 
salvation  is  preserved  by  the  fact  that  "no  one  of 
the  offices  fills  up  a  moment  of  time  alone,  but  the 
others  are  always  cooperative,"  although  "Christ's 
mediatorial  work  puts  now  this,  now  that  side  in 
the  foreground."  "The  triple  division  is  of  special 
value,  because  it  sets  in  a  vivid  light  the  continuity 
between  the  OT  theocracy  and  Christianity"  (Dor- 
ner,  System  of  Christian  Doctrine,  ET,  III,  385  ff). 
These  three  aspects  of  Christ  'smediatorship  can  be 
distinguished  in  the  Synoptics,  although  the  formal 
distinction  is  the  work  of  later  analysis. 

(1)  Christ  as  Prophet. — It  was  in  the  character  of 
Prophet  that  He  mainly  impressed  the  common 
mind,  which  was  moved  to  inquire  "Whence  hath 
this  man  this  wisdom?"  and  by  His  reply,  "A 
prophet  is  not  without  honor,"  etc,  He  virtually 
accepts  that  title  (Mt  13  54.57).  As  Prophet, 
Christ  is  the  mediator  of  revelation;  through  Him 
alone  can  men  come  to  know  God  as  Father  (Mt 
11  27)  and  "the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven" 
(13  11).  In  all  His  teaching  we  feel  that  He  speaks 
within  the  center  of  truth,  and  hence  can  teach  with 
authority  and  not  as  the  scribes  (7  29),  who  approach 
the  truth  from  without.  His  teaching  is  part  of 
His  redemptive  work,  and  not  something  extraneous 
to  it,  for  the  sin  from  which  He  redeems  includes 
ignorance  and  error. 

(2)  Christ  as  King. — The  official  name  "Christ" 
(  =  Messiah,  the  anointed  King)  refers  primarily 
to  His  kingship.  The  Messianic  hope  had  taught 
men  to  look  forward  to  the  rule  of  God  on  earth 
instituted  and  administered  through  His  representa- 
tive. Christ  was  the  fulfilment  of  that  hope. 
Though  He  held  an  attitude  of  reserve  in  1  lie  mat  ter, 
there  can  be  no  doubt  that  He  conceived  of  Himself 
as  the  Messiah  (Mk  8  27-30;  14  1(5  f;  cf  His 
entry  into  Jerus  as  a  triumphant  king,  11  1  ff ;  the 
inscription  on  the  cross,  15  26).  But  it  is  also  clear 
that  He  fundamentally  modified  the  Messianic 
idea,  (a)  by  suffusing  it  with  the  thought  of  vicari- 
ous suffering,  and  (6)  by  giving  it  an  ethical  and 
spiritual  rather  than  a  national  and  official  signifi- 
cance. The  note  of  His  kingship  was  that  of 
authority^  (Mk  1  27;  2  10;  Mt  7  29;  28  18) 
exercised  in  the  realm  of  truth  and  conscience.  His 
kingship  includes  the  future  as  well  as  the  present; 
He  is  the  arbiter  of  human  destiny  (Mt  25  31  ff). 

(3)  Christ  as  Priest,  or,  better,  as  Redeemer  (the 
synoptists  do  not  hint  at  the  priestly  analogy) . — ( )ur 
Lord  often  spoke  of  forgiveness  without  mention- 
ing Himself  as  the  one  through  whom  it  was  medi- 
ated, as  if  it  flowed  directly  from  the  gracious  heart 
of  the  Father  (cf  the  parables  of  Lk  15).  But  there 
are  other  passages  which  emphasize  the  close  con- 
nection of  His  person  with  men's  redemption. 
Men's  attitude  to  Him  decides  absolutely  their 
relation  to  God   (Mt  10  32.40).     Rest  of  soul  is 


Mediation 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2022 


mediated  to  tin1  heavy  laden  through  Him  (Ml  11 
28-30).  He  claims  authority  on  earth  to  forgive 
sins  (Mk  2  10).  We  have  no  evidence  that  lie 
spoke  definitely  of  His  death  until  after  Peter's  con- 
fession at  Caesarea  (Mk  8  31,  ''begun  to  teach," 
etc),  though  we  seem  to  have  vague  allusions  earlier 
(e.g.  the  allegory  of  the  bridegroom,  Mk  2  19.20). 
This  may  he  partly  due  to  conscious  reserve,  in 
accordance  with  the  true  pedagogical  method  by 
which  He  adapted  His  teaching  to  the  progressive 
receptivity  of  His  followers.  But  inasmuch  as 
we  must  think  of  Him  as  subject  to  the  ordinary 
laws  of  human  psychology,  the;  idea  of  His  death 
must  have  been  to  Him  a  growth,  matured  partly 
by  outward  events,  and  partly  by  the  development 
of  His  inner  consciousness  as  the  Suffering  Messiah. 
In  His  later  ministry,  He  frequently  taught  that 
He  must  suffer  and  die  (Mk  9  12.31;  10  32  f; 
12  8;  14  8  and  ||  passages;  cf  Mk  10  38;  Lk  12 
49  f).  Then;  are  two  important  passages  which 
expressly  connect  His  death  with  His  mediatorial 
work.  The  first,  is  Mk  10  45  ||  Mt  20  28,  "The 
Son  of  Man  came  not  to  be  ministered  unto  but 
to  minister,  and  to  give  his  life  a  ransom  for 
many."  The  context  shows  that  it  was  while  the 
thought  of  His  approaching  death  filled  His  mind 
that  Our  Lord  uttered  these  words  (cf  Mk  10  33. 
38  f).  As  to  the  exact  meaning  of  ransom  (Ktrpov, 
lutrori)  there  are  two  circles  of  ideas  with  which 
it  may  be  associated,  (a)  It  may  mean  a  sacrificial 
offering,  representing  Ileb  kopher  (lit.  "covering," 
"propitiatorv  gift")  which  it  translates  several 
times  in  LXX  (e.g.  Ex  30  12).  Thus  Ritschl 
defines  it  as  "an  offering  which,  because  of  its 
specific  worth  to  Cod,  is  a  protection  or  covering 
against  sin"  (Rechtfertigung  und  Vcrsohnung,  II, 
68-88).  (b)  It  may  mean  ransom  price,  the  purchase- 
money  paid  for  the  emancipation  of  a  slave.  In 
LXX,  lutron  in  most  cases  stands  for  some  form  of 
the  roots  gattl,  "to  deliver,"  padhdh,  "to  redeem" 
(e.g.  Lev  25  51;  Nu  3  51).  f  Hence  Wendt  ex- 
plains the  "ransom"  as  the  price  by  which  Jesus 
redeemed  His  disciples  from  their  bondage  to  suffer- 
ing and  death  (Teaching  of  Jesus,  II,  226  ft").  This 
analogy  certainly  suits  the  context  better  than  that 
drawn  from  the  Levitical  ritual,  for  it  brings  out  the 
contrast  between  the  liberating  work  of  Christ  and 
the  enslaving  work  of  those;  who  "lord  it  over"  men. 
We  must  not  presa  the  analogy  in  detail  or  seek 
here  an  answer  to  the  question,  who  was  the  recip- 
ient of  the  ransom  price  (e.g.  whether  the  devil,  as 
many  Fathers,  notably  Origen  and  Gregory  of 
Nyssa;  God,  as  Ansclm  anil  later  theologians;  the 
"eternal  law  of  righteousness," _  as  Dale).  The 
purpose  of  the  passage  is  primarily  practical,  not 
speculative.  It  is  certainly  pressing  the  figurative 
language  of  Jesus  too  far  to  insist  that  the  ransom 
price  is  the  exact  quantitative  equivalent  of  the 
lives  liberated,  or  of  the  penalty  they  had  deserved 
regarded  as  a  debt.  This  is  too  prosaic  and  liter- 
alistic  an  interpretation  of  a  passage  which  has  its 
setting  in  the  ethical  rather  than  in  the  commercial 
realm,  and  which  breathes  a  spirit  closely  akin  to 
that  of  Isa  53,  where  suffering  and  service  are,  as 
here,  combined. 

The;  other  passage  in  which  Christ  definitely  con- 
nects His  mediatorship  with  His  death  is  that  which 
reports  His  words  at  the;  Last  Supper  (Mk  14  22- 
24;  Mt  26  26-28;  Lk  22  19  f;  cf  1  Cor  11  24  f). 
The  reported  words  are  not  identical  in  the  several 
narratives.  But  even  in  their  simplest  form  (in 
Mk),  there  is  evidently  a  threefold  allusion,  to  the 
paschal  lamb,  to  the  sacrifice  offered  by  Moses 
at  the  ratification  of  the;  covenant  at  Sinai  (Ex  24 
8),  and  to  Jeremiah's  prophecy  of  a  new  covenant 
(31  31-34).  There  can  be  li'ttle  doubt  that  the 
paschal  feast,  though  it  does  not  conform  in  detail 


to  any  of  the  Levitical  sacrifices,  was  regarded  as  a 
sacrifice,  as  is  indicated  by  the  blood  ceremonial 
(Ex  12  21-27).  The  blood  of  the  covenant,  too, 
is  sacrificial;  and,  as  we  have  seen,  it  is  probable 
that  all  blood  sacrifices,  and  not  those  of  the  sin 
and  guilt  offerings  only,  were  associated  with  pro- 
pitiatory power.  Wendt  denies  that  then;  is  here 
any  reference  to  sin  and  its  forgiveness  (Teachings 
of  Jesus,  II,  211  f).  It  must  be  admitted  that  the 
words  in  Mt,  "unto  remission  of  sins,"  which  have 
no  counterpart  in  the  other  reports,  are  probably 
an  explanatory  expansion  of  the  words  actually 
uttered.  But  they  are  a  true  interpretation  of  their 
meaning,  as  is  attested  by  the  fact  that  the  new 
covenant  of  Jeremiah's  prophecy  was  one  of  for- 
giveness and  justification  (Jer  31  34),  and  that, 
Christ  speaks  of  His  blood  as  shed  for  others. 
And  as  flu;  Passover  signified  deliverance  from 
bondage  to  an  earthly  power  (Egypt),  so  the  Supper 
stands  for  forgiveness  and  deliverance  from  a 
spiritual  power  (sin).  Clearly  Christ  here  repre- 
sents Himself  as  the  Mediator  of  the  new  covenant, 
through  whom  men  are  to  find  acceptance  with 
God,  though  the  exact  modus  operandi  of  His 
sacrifice  is  not  indicated. 

The  Synoptics  give  special  prominence  to  those 
historical  events  which  are  most  intimately  asso- 
ciated with  Christ's  mediatorship — not  only  tin; 
agony  in  the  garden  and  the  crucifixion,  but  also  tin; 
resurrection  and  ascension  (which  make  possible 
His  intercessory  mediation  in  heaven). 

(1)  The  early  speeches  in  Acts  reveal  a  primitive 
stage  of  theological  reflection.     Yet  they  are  essen- 
tially   Christocentric.     (a)    It    is    the 

2.  Primitive  Messianic  Kingship  of  Christ  that  is 
Apostolic  chiefly  emphasized.  The  main  thesis 
Teaching  is  that  Jesus  is  the  Messiah  (tin; 
"anointed  one";  cf  Acts  4  27;  10  38), 
and  that  His  Messiahship  was  realized  in  the  cruci- 
fixion and  attested  by  the  resurrection.  An  im- 
portant feature  is  the  use  of  the  title  "Servant"  for 
Christ  (3  13.26;  4  27.30;  cf  8  30-35),  in  evident 
reference  to  the  Suffering  Servant  of  Deutero-Isa. 
In  the  phrase,  "thy  holy  Servant  ....  whom  thou 
didst  anoint,"  coming  immediately  after  the  Mes- 
sianic quotation,  "against  the  Lord,  and  against 
his  Anointed"  (4  26  f),  we  have  a  concise  instance  of 
that  coalescing  of  the  idea  of  the  Messiah  with  that 
of  the  Suffering  Servant  which  gave  the  Messianic 
idea  an  entirely  new  meaning.  As  Messiah,  Jesus 
was  the  sole  Mediator  of  salvation  (4  12).  (b) 
Another  OT  type  which  finds  its  fulfilment  in  Jesus 
isthatofthe"prop/ienikeunto"Moses(3  22;  7  37; 
cf  Dt  18  15.18).  (c)  But  the  priestly  functions  of 
Christ  are  not  explicitly  touched  on.  The  questions 
are  not  faced,  What  is  the  God-ward  significance  of 
His  death?  How  is  it  effective  for  man's  salvation? 
It  is  rather  the  man-ward  significance  that  is  made 
explicit,  i.e.  Jesus  as  Messiah  mediates  salvation 
to  men  from  His  place  of  exaltation  at  the  right 
hand  of  God.  Yet  the  germs  of  a  God-ward  me- 
diation are  found  in  the  identification  of  the  Messiah 
with  the  Suffering  Servant. 

(2)  Epistles  of  James  and  Jude. — In  these  epp. 
the  doctrine  of  Christ's  mediation  does  not  occupy 
a  prominent  place.  To  James,  Christianity  is 
the  culmination  of  Judaism.  Christ's  mediatorial 
functions  are  set  forth  more  by  way  of  presupposi- 
tion than  by  explicit  statement,  and  the  whole 
weight  is  laid  on  the  kingly  and  prophetic  offices. 
The  Messiahship  of  Jesus  is  assumed  to  such  an 
extent  that  the  title  "Christ"  has  become  part  of 
the  proper  name,  and  His  Lordship  is  also  implied 
(1  1;  2  1).  Nothing  definite  is  said  of  His  function 
in  salvation;  it  is  God  Himself  who  regenerates, 
but  the  medium  of  regeneration  is  "the  word  of 
truth,"    "the   implanted   word"    (1  18.21),    which 


2023 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Mediation 


must  refer  to  the  word  which  Jesus  had  preached. 
This  implies  that  Jesus  as  prophetic  teacher  is  the 
Mediator  of  salvation.  Nothing  is  said  of  the  death 
on  the  cross  or  its  saving  significance.  The  Ep.  oi 
Jude  assumes  the  Lordship  of  Christ,  through  whom 
Cod's  Saviourhood  works,  and  whose  mercy  results 
in  eternal  life  (vs  4. 21.25). 

(3)  1  Peter. — In  1  Pet  we  have  the  early  apostolic 
leaching  touched  with  Paulinism.  The  fact  that 
salvation  is  mediated  through  the  sufferings  and 
death  of  Christ  is  now  explicitly  staled.  Christ 
has  suffered  for  sins  once  for  all,  the  righteous  for 
the  unrighteous  (3  18).  The  suffering  has  sig- 
nificance both  Cod-ward  and  man-ward.  Rela- 
tively to  God  it  is  a  sacrificial  offering  which  opens 
up  a  way  of  access  to  Him;  He  suffered  "that  he 
might  bring  us  to  God"  (3  18),  and  that  through 
Iiis  representative  priesthood  the  ideal  "holy  priest- 
hood" of  all  God's  people  might  be  realized,  for  it 
is  "through  Jesus  Christ"  that  men's  "spiritual 
sacrifices"  become  "acceptable  to  Cod"  (2  5).  So 
the  elect  are  sprinkled  with  the  blood  of  Christ,  i.e. 
brought  into  communion  with  God  by  His  sacrifice 
(1  2).  Relatively  to  man,  it  is  a  means  of  ran- 
soming or  liberating  man  from  the  bondage  cf  sin. 
"Knowing  that  ye  were  redeemed  [i\vrpd>dr)Tet 
elutrothele,  lit.  "ransomed,"  from  lutron,  "ransom," 
an  echo  of  Mk  10  45]  ....  with  precious  blood, 
as  of  a  lamb  without  blemish  and  without  spot" 
(1  18.19).  The  sacrificial  language  is  simple  and 
undeveloped,  and  it  is  not  clear  whether  the  figure 
of  'iamb"  implies  a  reference  to  the  paschal  lamb  or 
to  Isa  53  7,  or  to  both.  The  effect  on  man  is,  how- 
ever, clear.  Christ  "bare  our  sins  in  his  body  upon 
the  tree,  that  we,  having  died  unto  sins,  might  live 
un  to  righteousness;  by  whose  stripes  ye  were  healed" 
(2  24;  see  the  whole  passage,  vs  21-24,  reminiscent 
of  the  figure  of  the  Suffering  Servant  of  Isa  ch  53). 
Christ's  mediatorship  stands  at  the  very  center 
of  Paul's  gospel;  this  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  only 

once  does  he  apply  the  term  "medi- 
3.  Epistles  ator"  to  Christ  (1  Tim  2  5),  and  that 
of  Paul  in  the  only  other  passage  where  he 

uses  the  word,  he  applies  it  to  Moses, 
in  a  sense  which  might  seem  to  be  inconsistent  with 
the  idea  of  Christ's  mediatorship,  viz.  where  he 
discusses  the  relation  of  law  to  promise.  The  law 
was  "ordained  through  angels  by  the  hand  of  a 
mediator.  Now  a  mediator  is  not  ....  of  one; 
but  God  is  one"  (Gal  3  19.20). 

This  passage  has  had  to  undergo  about.  300  different 
interpretations.  The  view  that  the  "mediator"  hero 
is  Christ  (Origen,  Augustine  and  most  of  the  Fathers, 
Calvin,  etc)  is  clearly  untenable.  Modern  exegetes 
agree  that  the  reference  is  to  Moses  (cf  Lev  26  46,  where 
LXX  has  "by  the  hand  of  Moses";  Philo  calls  Moses 
"mediator  and  reconciler,"  De  Vit.  Moys,  iii.  19),  who,  ac- 
cording to  a  rabbinical  tradition,  received  the  Law  through 
the  intermediation  of  angels  (cf  Acts  7  53;  Ho  2  2).  Nor 
is  it  likely  that  Paul  meant  the  reader  to  realize  the  glory 
of  the  law  and  the  solemnity  of  its  ordination  (Meyer). 
The  point  is  rather  the  inferior  it  not  the  lawto  the  evan- 
gelical promise  to  Abraham.  Mediation  implies  at  least 
two  parties  between  whom  it  is  carried  on.  The  law 
was  given  by  a  double  mediatorship,  that  of  the  angels 
and  that  of  Moses,  and  was  thus  two  removes  from  its 
Divine  source.  But  in  relation  to  the  promise  Cod 
stood  alone,  i.e.  acted  freely,  unconditionally,  inde- 
pendently, and  for  Himself  alone.  The  promise  is  no 
agreement  between  two,  but  the  free  gift  of  the  one  Cod 
(so  Schleiermacher,  Lightfoot,  etc).  This  is  by  no  means 
a  denial  of  the  Divine  origin  of  thelaw  (Ritschl),  for  the 
mediation  of  angels  and  of  Moses  was  Divinely  author- 
ized; but  it  does  seem  to  make  the  method  of  mediation 
inferior  to  that  of  the  direct  communication  of  Cod's 
gracious  will  to  man.  Paul  is  not,  however,  treating  of 
i  lie  principle  of  mediation  in  the  abstract,  but  only  that 
form  of  it  which  implies  a  contract  between  two  parties. 
Christ  is  not  Mediator  in  the  same  sense  as  Moses,  for  t  he 
free  and  unconditioned  character  of  the  forgiving  grace 
which  Christ  mediates  is  by  no  means  diminished  by  the 
fact  of  His  mediation. 

What,  then,  is  Paul's  positive  teaching  on  Christ's 
Mediatorship? 


(1)  The  need  of  a  Mediator  arises  out  of  the  fact 
of  sin.  Sin  interrupts  the  harmonious  relation 
between  God  and  man.  It  results  in  a  state  ot 
mutual  alienation.  On  the  one  hand,  man  is  in  a 
state  of  enmity  to  God  (Rom  5  10;  8  7;  Col  1  21). 
On  the  other  hand,  God  is  moved  to  righteous 
wrath  in  relation  to  the  sinner  (Rom  1  18;  5  9; 
Eph  5  6;  Col  3  G).  Hence  the  need  of  a  mutual 
change  of  attitude,  a  removal  of  God's  displeasure 
against  the  sinner  as  well  as  of  the  sinner's  hostility 
to  God.  God  could  not  restore  man  to  favor  by  a 
mere  fiat,  without  some  public  exhibition  of  Divine 
righteousness,  and  vindication  of  His  character  as 
not  indifferent  to  sin  (cf  Rom  3  2f>.2(>).  Such 
exhibition  demanded  a  Mediator. 

(2)  The  qualification  of  Christ  to  be  the  Mediator 
depends  on  His  intimate  relation  to  both  parties 
at  variance. 

(«)  Christ's  relation  to  man:  Firstly,  He  is  Him- 
self a  man,  i.e.  not  merely  "man"  generically,  but 
an  individual  man.  The  "one  mediator  between 
God  and  men"  is  "himself  man,  Christ  Jesus"  (1 
Tim  2  5),  "born  of  a  woman"  (Gal  4  4),  "in  the 
likeness  of  sinful  flesh"  (Horn  8  3,  where  the  word 
"likeness"  does  not  make  "flesh"  unreal,  but 
qualifies  "sinful"),  i.e.  bore  to  the  eye  the  aspect 
of  an  ordinary  man;  secondly,  lb;  bore  a  particular 
relation  to  a  section  of  humanity,  the  Jews  (Rom  1 
3;  9  5);  thirdly,  He  bore  a  universal  relation  to 
mankind  in  general.  He  was  more;  than  an  indi- 
vidual among  many,  like  a  link  in  a  chain.  He 
was  the  Second  Adam,  the  archetypal,  universal, 
representative  Man,  whose  actions  therefore  had 
significance  beyond  Himself  and  were  ideally  the 
actions  of  humanity,  just  as  Adam's  act  had,  on  a 
lower  plane,  a  significance  for  the  whole  race  (Rom 
5  12-21;    1  Cor  15  22,15). 

(/;)  His  relation  to  God:  Paul  very  frequently 
speaks  of  Christ  as  the  "Son  of  God,"  and  that  in  a 
unique  sense.  Moreover,  He  was  the  "image  of 
God"  (2  Cor  4  4;  Col  1  15),  and  subsisted 
originally  "in  the  form  of  God"  (Phil  2  0).  He  is 
set  alongside  with  God  over  against  idols  (1  Cor 
8  5.6),  and  is  coordinated  with  God  in  the  bene- 
diction (2  Cor  13  14).  Clearly  Paul  sets  Him  in 
the  Divine  sphere  over  against  all  that  is  not  God. 
Yet  he  assigns  Him  a  certain  subordination,  and 
even  asserts  that  His  mediatorial  kingship  will  come 
to  an  end,  that  God  may  be  all  in  all  (1  Cor  15 
24.28).  But  this  cessation  of  His  function  as 
Mediator  of  salvation,  when  its  end  shall  have  been 
attained,  cannot  affect  His  Divine  dignity,  "since 
the  mediatorial  sovereignty  which  is  now  ceasing 
was  not  its  cause,  but  its  consequence"  (B.  Weiss, 
II,  396). 

(3)  The  means  of  effecting  the  reconciliation  was 
mainly  the  death  on,  the  cross.  Paul  emphasizes  the 
mediating  value  of  the  death  both  on  its  objective 
(God-ward)  side  and  on  its  subjective  (man-ward) 
side.  First,  it  is  the  objective  ground  of  forgiveness 
and  favor  with  God.  On  the  basis  of  what  Christ 
has  done,  God  ceases  to  reckon  to  men  their  sins 
(2  Cor  5  19).  Paul's  view  of  the  death  may  be 
seen  by  considering  some  of  his  most  characteristic 
expressions.  (a)  It  is  an  act  of  reconciliation.  This 
involves  a  change  of  attitude,  not  only  in  man,  but 
in  God,  a  relinquishing  of  the  Divine  wrath  without 
which  there  can  be  no  restoration  of  peaceful  rela- 
tions (though  this  is  disptited  by  many,  e.g.  Ritschl, 
Lightfoot,  Westcott,  Beyschlag),  but  not  a  change 
of  nature  or  of  intention,  for  the  Divine  wrath  is 
but  a  mode  of  the  eternal  love,  and  moreover  it  is 
the  Father  Himself  who  provides  the  means  of 
reconciliation  and  undertakes  to  accomplish  it 
(2  Cor  5  19;  cf  Col  1  20.21;  Eph  2  16).  (6)  It 
is  an  act  of  -propitiation  (Rom  3  25,  IXao-Tr/piov, 
Jtilastcrion,   from  iXdcrKeadai,   hildskesthai,   "to  ren- 


Mediation 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2024 


der  favorable"  or  "propitious").  Hero  there  is  a 
clear  though  tacit  reference  to  a  change  of  atti- 
tude on  Cod's  part.  He  who  was  not  formerly 
propitious  to  man  was  appeased  through  the  death 
of  Christ.  Yet  the  propitiatory  means  are  pro- 
vided by  Cod  Himself,  who  takes  the  initiative  in 
the  matter  ("whom  God  set  forth,"  etc),  (c)  It  is 
transom.  The  Mediator  "gave  himself  a  ransom 
for  all"  (1  Tim  2  0).  The  idea  of  payment  of  a 
ransom  price  is  clearly  implied  in  the  word  "re- 
demption" (Rom  3  24;  1  Cor  1  30;  Eph  1  7; 
Col  1  14,  awoXuTpwais,  apolutrdsis,  from  lutron, 
"ransom").  It  is  not  alone  the  fact  of  liberation 
(Westcott,  Ritschl),  but  also  the  cost  of  liberation 
that  is  referred  to.  Hence  Christians  are  said  to 
be  "redeemed,"  "bought  with  a  price"  (Gal  3  13; 
4  5;  1  Cor  6  20;  7  23;  ef  1  Pet  1  18  f).  Yet 
the  metaphor  cannot  be  pressed  to  yield  an  answer 
to  the  question  to  whom  the  ransom  was  paid.  All 
that  can  safely  be  said  is  that  it  expresses  the  tre- 
mendous cost  of  our  salvation,  viz.  the  self-surren- 
dered life  ("the  blood")  of  Christ,  (d)  Strong  sub- 
stitutionary language  is  sometimes  used,  notably 
in  Gal  3  13  ("having  become  a  curse  for  us")  and 
in  2  Cor  5  21  ("Him  who  knew  no  sin  he  made  to 
be  sin  on  our  behalf").  But  the  sinless  substitute 
is  not  regarded  as  actually  punished  (that  would  be 
a  moral  contradiction).  His  death  was  not  penal 
substitution,  but  a  substitute  for  penalty.  It  had 
the  value  to  God  of  the  punishment  of  sinners,  in 
virtue  of  His  oneness  with  the  race.  It  was  the 
recognition  from  within  humanity  of  the  sinfulness 
of  sin,  and  expressed  the  Divine  righteousness  as 
fully  as  penalty  would  have  done.  The  secret 
seems  to  be  Christ's  sympathetic  love  by  which 
He  identified  Himself  with  man's  sin  and  doom  of 
death,  (e)  Sacrificial  language  is  used,  as  in  1  Cor 
6  7;  Eph  5  2,  and  in  the  references  to  Christ's 
"blood."  Not  often,  however,  does  Paul  explicitly 
speak  of  the  death  in  terms  of  the  Levitical  ritual, 
which  would  be  less  congenial  to  his  mind  than  the 
prophetic  conception  of  the  Suffering  Servant.  Yet 
he  does  seem  to  regard  the  death  of  Christ  as  the 
culmination  of  all  that  the  sacrifices  of  the  OT  had 
imperfectly  realized.  Secondly,  the  subjective  as- 
pect of  Christ's  work  is  emphasized  quite  as  much 
as  the  objective.  The  death  of  Christ,  being  in- 
wardly assimilated  by  faith,  becomes  to  the  be- 
liever the  principle  of  ethical  transformation,  so 
that  he  may  become  worthy  of  the  Divine  favor 
which  he  now  enjoys.  As  a  result  of  his  subjective 
identity  with  Christ  through  faith,  the  objective 
state  of  privilege  is  changed  into  actual  liberation 
from  sin  (Gal  2  20;  6  14;   Rom  6  6.7;  Col  3  3). 

(4)  The  resurrection  and  exaltation  of  Christ  are 
essential  to  His  mediatorial  work  (1  Cor  15  17). 
It  is  not  alone  that  the  resurrection  "proves  that 
the  death  of  Christ  was  not  the  death  of  a  sinner, 
but  the  vicarious  death  of  the  sinless  Mediator  of 
salvation"  (B.  Weiss,  I,  43G),  but  that  salvation 
cannot  be  realized  except  through  communion  with 
the  living,  glorified  Christ,  without  which  the  sub- 
jective identity  of  the  believer  with  Christ  by  which 
redemption  is  personally  appropriated  would  not 
be  possible  (Gal  2  20;  Rom  6  4.5;  Phil  3  10;  Col 
3  1).  The  exaltation  also  makes  possible  His 
continuous  heavenly  intercession  on  our  behalf 
(Rom  8  34),  which  is  the  climax  of  His  mediatorial 
activities. 

(5)  The  cosmic  aspect  of  Christ's  mediatorship. — 
In  his  later  epp.  (esp.  Col  and  Eph),  Paul  lays 
stress  on  Christ's  mediatorial  activity  in  creation 
and  providence,  though  the  germs  of  his  later  teach- 
ing are  found  in  the  earlier  epp.  (1  Cor  8  6).  He 
is  resisting  a  kind  of  nascent  gnostic  dualism, 
according  to  which  God  could  communicate  with 
the  world  only  through  a  hierarchy  of  intermediate 


powers.  Against  this  he  proclaims  Christ  as  the 
one  and  only  Mediator  between  God  and  the  uni- 
verse, having,  on  the  one  hand,  a  unique  relation  to 
God  ("the  image  of  the  invisible  God,"  Col  1  15; 
in  whom  the  fulness  of  God  dwells,  1  19;  2  9),  and, 
on  the  other  hand,  a  unique  relation  to  the  world, 
as  its  creative  agent,  its  immanent  principle  of 
unity,  and  its  ultimate  goal  (1  15-17).  Here  the 
apostle  shows  affinity  with  the  Logos-doctrine  of 
Philo,  though  the  differences  are  marked  and  funda- 
mental. Corresponding  to  this  wider  view  of 
Christ's  person,  there  is  a  wide  view  of  the  recon- 
ciliation  wrought  through  Him.  It  even  extends 
to  the  world  beyond  man,  and  restores  the  broken 
harmony  of  the  universe  (Col  1  20;   Eph  1  10). 

The  main  thesis  of  He  is  the  absoluteness  and 
finality  of  the  gospel  and  its  superiority  over  Juda- 
ism.    The     finality     of     Christianity 
4.  The  depends  on  the  fact  that  it  has  a  perfect 

Epistle  Mediator,    who   is   the   substance    of 

to  the  which    the    various    Jewish    forms   of 

Hebrews  mediation  were  types  and  shadows. 
He  illustrates  this  by  a  series  of  con- 
trasts between  Christ  and  the  mediators  of  the  old 
system  (by  the  application  of  principles  and  exe- 
getical  methods  which  reveal  the  influence  of  the 
school  of  Philo).  In  each  contrast,  Christ's  supe- 
riority is  based  on  His  Sonship.  (1)  Christ  is 
superior  to  the  prophets  as  Mediator  of  revelation. 
The  OT  revelation  was  fragmentary  and  multiform, 
while  now  God  speaks,  not  through  many  agents, 
but  through  One,  and  that  one  a  Son.  As  Son  He 
is  the  perfectly  adequate  expression  of  the  Father. 
The  author  takes  us  at  once  to  the  high  tran- 
scendental sphere  of  Christ's  relations  to  God  and 
the  universe,  in  virtue  of  which  He  is  God's  Me- 
diator in  creation,  providence,  revelation  and  re- 
demption (1  1-3).  (2)  He  is  superior  to  the 
angels,  through  whose  mediation  the  law  was  given 
(1  4-14).  (3)  He  is  superior  to  Moses,  the  human 
agent  in  the  giving  of  the  law  (3  1-6).  (4)  He  is 
greater  than  Aaron  the  high  priest,  the  people's 
representative  before  God.  This  leads  to  the  cen- 
tral doctrine  of  the  ep.,  the  high-priesthood  of 
Jesus.  The  following  are  the  salient  points  in  the 
elaborate  treatment  of  this  subject: 

(1)  Christ's  qualification  for  the  high-priesthood 
is  twofold:  (a)  His  participation  in  all  human  expe- 
rience (except  sin),  which  guarantees  His  power 
of  sympathy.  Every  high  priest,  as  men's  repre- 
sentative before  God,  must  be  "taken  from  among 
men"  (5  1).'  Hence  the  author  lays  great  stress 
on  the  human  nature  and  experiences  of  Christ 
(cf  2  10.17.18;  4  15;  5  7.8).  (b)  His  Divine 
appointment.  Every  priest  must  have  a  call  from 
God.  So  Christ  has  been  appointed  priest,  not 
indeed  in  the  Aaronic  line,  but  after  the  order  of 
Melchizedek  (5  1-10). 

(2)  The  nature  of  His  priesthood,  its  superiority 
to  the  Levitical  priesthood. — The  priests  of  the  OT 
themselves  needed  atonement,  for  they  were  not 
sinless;  Christ  is  holy,  guileless,  undefiled,  and  need 
not  make  atonement  for  His  own  sins.  They  were 
priests  only  for  a  time,  and  were  many  in  number, 
for  they  were  mortal;  but  He  abideth  forever,  and 
His  priesthood  is  eternal.  They  were  dependent 
on  the  law  of  physical  descent;  He  was  a  priest 
after  the  order  of  Melchizedek,  whose  priesthood 
did  not  depend  on  genealogy  or  pedigree,  and  who 
combined  the  functions  of  king  with  those  of  priest. 
In  a  word,  their  order  was  transient,  temporary, 
shadowy;  His  belonged  to  the  world  of  unchanging 
reality  (ch  7). 

(3)  The  realization  of  His  high-priesthood. — A 
high  priest  implies  a  sacrifice;  hence  Christ  must 
"have  somewhat  to  offer"  (8  3).  In  the  Levitical 
system,  the  priest  and  the  sacrifice  are  distinct  from 


2025 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Mediation 


each  other.  But  Christ  offered  not,  an  external  gift, 
but  Himself.  Much  stress  is  laid  on  Christ's  vol- 
untary obedience  (5  8;  10  7),  progressively  at- 
tained through  suffering,  and  culminating  in  the 
absolute  surrender  of  His  life  ("blood")  in  death. 
His  sacrifice  harmonizes  with  the  principle  that 
"apart  from  shedding  of  blood  there  is  no  remission" 
(9  22),  although  the  principle  is  lifted  from  the 
physical  to  the  spiritual  realm.  In  working  this 
out,  the  author  makes  use  of  analogies  drawn  from 
three  parts  of  the  Levitical  ritual,  (a)  Christ's 
death  was  a  sin  offering.  He  has  offered  one  final 
sacrifice  for  sins  (10  12.18).  As  priest,  he  has 
"made  propitiation  for  the  sins  of  the  people"  (2 
17);  as  victim  He  was  "once  [for  all]  offered  to 
bear  the  sins  of  many"  (9  28).  (b)  The  Sinaitic 
covenant  (Ex  24  8)  is  made  use  of.  Christ  is 
"the  mediator  of  a  new  [better]  covenant"  (8  6; 

9  15;  12  24),  i.e.  the  agent  interposing  between 
God  and  man  in  the  establishment  of  a  new  rela- 
tionship analogous  to  Moses  in  the  old  covenant. 
Even  the  first  covenant  was  dedicated  with  blood, 
and  so  the  blood  of  the  Son  of  God  was  "the  blood 
of  the  covenant"  (10  29;  cf  Mk  14  24).  On  the 
double  meaning  of  the  word  diathtke  ("covenant," 
"testament"),  the  author  bases  a  twofold  argu- 
ment for  the  necessity  of  Christ's  death  (9  15 ff). 
(c)  The  ritual  of  the  Day  of  Atonement  fur- 
nishes another  analogy.  As  the  high  priest  once 
a  year  entered  the  most  holy  place  of  the  earthly 
people,  so  Christ  has  entered  once  for  all  the  true 
spiritual  sanctuary  in  heaven,  and  there  He  presents 
Himself  to  God  as  the  Mediator  able  to  make  inter- 
cession for  us  with  the  Father  (9  12.21-26;  cf 
7  25).  He  is  a  ministering  priest  in  the  true 
tabernacle,  the  immediate  presence  of  God  (8  2). 
Thus  the  ascension  and  session  make  possible  the 
culmination  of  the  mediatorial  work  of  Christ  in 
the  eternal  sacrifice  and  intercession  within  the  veil. 

(4)  The  man-ward  efficacy  of  His  mediator ship. — • 
The  effect  of  Christ's  death  on  man  is  described  by 
the  words  "cleanse,"  "sanctify,"  "perfect"   (9  14; 

10  10.14.20;  13  12),  words  which  have  a  ritualistic 
quite  as  much  as  an  ethical  sense,  meaning  the  re- 
moval of  the  sense  of  guilt,  dedication  to  God,  and 
the  securing  of  the  privilege  of  full  fellowship  with 
Him.  The  ultimate  blessing  that  comes  to  man 
through  the  work  of  Christ  is  the  privilege  of  free, 
unrestricted  access  to  God  bv  the  removal  of  the 
obstacle  of  guilt  (4  16;  10  19  ff). 

(1)  The  Fourth  Gospel. — Aspects  of  Our  Lord's 
teaching  unassimilated  by  the  other  disciples,  and 

therefore  but  meagerly  touched  on  in 
5.  The  the  Synoptics,  find  prominence  in  the 

Johannine  Gospel  of  Jn,  but  colored  by  his  own 
Writings        meditations.     Great   emphasis  is  laid 

on  the  idea  of  salvation  by  revelation 
mediated  through  Jesus  Christ.  The  historical 
revelation  of  God  in  the  person  and  teaching  of 
Jesus  is  the  main  subject  of  the  Gospel.  But  in  the 
Prologue  we  have  the  eternal  background  of  the 
historical  manifestation  in  the  doctrine  of  the  Logos, 
who,  as  Son  in  eternal  fellowship  with  the  Father, 
His  mediator  in  creation,  and  the  immanent  prin- 
ciple of  revelation  in  the  world,  is  fitted  to  become 
God's  Revealer  in  history  (vs  11-18).  His  work 
on  earth  is  to  dispense  light  and  life,  knowledge  of 
God  and  salvation.  Through  Him  God  gives  to 
the  world  eternal  life  (3  16).  He  is  the  Water  of 
Life  (4  14;  7  37),  the  Bread  of  Life  (6  48  ff),  the 
Light  of  the  World  (8  12);  it  is  by  inward  appro- 
priation of  Him  that  salvation  is  mediated  to  men 
(6  52  ff).  He  is  the  perfect  revealer  of  God,  hence 
the  only  means  of  access  to  the  Father  (14  6.9). 
It  is  on  salvation  by  illumination  and  communion, 
rather  than  on  salvation  by  reconciliation  and 
atonement  that  chief  stress  is  laid.     Sacrificial  or 


propitiatory  language  is  not  used  of  Christ's  death. 
Yet  emphasis  is  laid  on  the  voluntary  and  vicarious 
character  of  His  death.  He  lays  down  His  life 
of  Himself  (10  IS);  "The  good  shepherd  layeth 
down  his  life  for  [  =  on  behalf  of]  the  sheep"  (10  11; 
cf  15  13).  Christ's  death  was  the  supreme  example 
of  the  law  that  self-sacrifice  is  necessary  to  the 
highest  and  most  fruitful  life  (12  23  ff).  In  ch  17 
we  have  a  unique  instance  of  Our  Lord's  inter- 
cessory prayer. 

(2)  The  epistles. — In  1  Jn  we  find  more  explicit 
statements  with  regard  to  the  connection  between 
the  death  of  Christ  and  sin.  "The  blood  of  Jesus 
his  Son  cleanseth  us  from  all  sin"  (1  7);  "He  was 
manifested  to  take  away  sins"  (3  5);  "If  any  man 
sin,  we  have  an  Advocate  with  the  Father,'11  i.e.  a 
pleader  who  will  mediate  with  God  on  our  behalf, 
the  ground  of  His  intercessory  efficacy  being  that 
He  is  the  "propitiation  for  our  sins"  (2  2;  4  10,  a 
term  which  links  the  Johannine  doctrine  to  that  of 
Paul,  though  1  Jn  represents  Christ  Himself,  and  not 
merely  His  death  on  the  cross,  as  the  propitiation). 
This  latter  term  shows  that  an  objective  value  is 
attached  to  the  atonement,  as  in  some  way  neutral- 
izing or  making  amends  for  sin  in  the  eyes  of  God, 
yet  in  such  a  way  as  not  to  contradict  the  principles 
of  righteousness  (cf  "Jesus  Christ  the  righteous," 
2  1). 

(3)  The  Apocalypse  presents  both  aspects  of 
Christ's  mediation.  On  the  one  hand,  He  is  asso- 
ciated with  God  in  the  government  of  the  world 
and  in  judgment  (3  21;  7  10;  6  16),  holds  the 
keys  of  death  and  Hades  (1  18),  is  the  Lord  of 
lords  and  King  of  kings  (17  14;  19  16),  and  is  the 
Mediator  of  creation  (3  14).  On  the  other  hand, 
by  His  sacrificial  act  He  represents  men  before  God. 
The  most  characteristic  expression  of  this  is  the 
title  "the  Lamb"  (29  t).  By  His  blood  the  guilty 
are  cleansed  and  made  saints,  purchased  unto  God 
(5  9;  7  14).  The  lamb  is  the  symbol  of  the 
sacrificial  love  which  is  the  heart  of  God's  sover- 
eignty (5  6).  It  is  not  clear  whether  the  allusion 
in  this  title  is  to  the  paschal  lamb  or  to  the  Suffering 
Servant  pictured  as  a  lamb  led  to  the  slaughter 
(Isa  53  7),  or  to  both.  In  any  case  it  contains  the 
idea  of  Christ's  redemptive  sacrifice,  which  is  de- 
clared to  be  an  essential  part  of  God's  eternal 
counsel  (13  8m,  "the  Lamb  that  hath  been  slain 
from  the  foundation  of  the  world"). 

V.  Conclusion. — Our  inquiry  will  have  shown 
how  central  and  prominent  is  the  idea  of  mediation 
throughout  the  Scriptures.  We  might  even  say 
it  supplies  the  key  to  the  unity  of  the  Bible.  In  the 
OT  the  principle  is  given  "in  divers  portions  and  in 
divers  manners,"  but  in  the  NT  it  converges  in  the 
doctrine  of  the  person  and  work  of  the  One  final 
Mediator,  the  Son  of  God.  Amid  all  the  rich  di- 
versity of  the  various  parts  of  the  NT,  there  is  one 
fundamental  conception  common  to  all,  that  of 
Christ  as  at  once  the  interpreter  of  God  to  men  and 
the  door  of  access  for  men  to  God.  Especially  is 
Christ's  self-sacrifice  presented  as  the  effective 
cause  of  our  salvation,  as  a  means  of  removing  the 
guilt  and  sin  which  stand  as  a  barrier  in  the  way 
of  God's  purpose  concerning  man  and  of  man's 
fellowship  with  God.  There  is  a  tendency  in  some 
influential  writers  of  today  to  speak  disparagingly 
of  the  doctrine  of  the  one  Mediator,  on  the  ground 
that  it  injures  the  direct  relationship  of  man  with 
God  (e.g.  R.  Eucken,  Truth  of  Religion,  583  IT). 
Here  we  can  reply  only  that  the  doctrine  properly 
defined  is  attested  in  universal  Christian  experience, 
and  that,  so  far  from  standing  in  the  way  of  our 
personal  approach  to  God,  it  is  a  simple  historical 
fact  that  apart  from  the  work  of  Jesus  we  would  not 
enjoy  that  free  access  to  Him  which  is  now  our 
privilege. 


Medicine 
Megiddo 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


202G 


Litkratiikk.  Besides  the  comms. , such  works  on  OT 
Theology  as  those  of  Oehler,  Schullz.  A.  15.  Davidson, 
and  on  'NT  Theology  liy  U.  Weiss,  Beyschlag,  Ilolt/,- 
inann,  \V.  15.  Stevens,  Wfincl;  Wcndt,  The  Teaching 
of  Jesus;  A.  H.  Bruce,  St.  Paul's  <'<nir<  ption  of  Chris- 
tianity and  The  Ep.  to  the  lie;  J.  Denney,  The  Death  of 
Christ;  l)u  Huso,  The  Gospel  in  the  Gospels,  The  Gospel 
according  to  St.  Paul,  High-Priesthood  and  Sacrifice.  For 
tile  idea  of  medial  ion  in  Jewish  religion,  Oesterley,  The 
Jewish  Doctrine  of  Mediation;  Toy ,  Judaism  and  Chris- 
tianity. Much  material  on  the  Bib.  doctrine  may  lie 
found  in  such  works  as  Dorner,  Si/stem  of  Christian 
Do, -trine;  Ritsehl,  Die  ehristliche  Lehre  von  der  Recht- 
fertiuung  und  Versiihnung,  'A  vols  (vols  I  and  III,  ET); 
Dale,  The  Atonement;  McEeod  Campbell,  The  Nature 
of  the  Atonement;  V.  I).  Maurice,  The  Doctrine  of  Sac- 
rifice; Moberly,  Atonement  and  Personality;  J.  Scott  Lid- 
gel  t.  The  Spiritual  Principle  of  the  Atonement;  G.  H. 
Stevens.  Christian  Doctrine  of  Salvation;  arts,  in  IIDB, 
D(  (!,  and  in  this  Encyclopaedia  on  "Mediation";  "Me- 
diator"; "Atonement";  "Messiah";  "Propitiation"; 
"Prophets";  "Priests";  "Ransom";  "Reconciliation"; 
"Sacrifice";   Salvation,"    etc. 

D.  Miall  Edwards 
MEDICINE,  med'i-sin,  med'i-s'n  (nrti ,  gehah, 
nSVtf-l,  t'ruphdh,  nXB"1 ,  r'phu'dh):  These  words 
are  used  in  the  sense  of  a  remedy  or  remedies  for 
disease.  In  Prov  17  22  AV.  a  merry  heart  is  said 
to  do  good  "like  a  medicine."  There  is  an  alterna- 
tive reading  in  AVm,  "to  a  medicine,"  RV  "is  a 
good  medicine";  RVm  gives  another  rendering, 
"causeth  good  healing,"  which  is  the  form  that 
occurs  in  the  LXX  and  which  was  adopted  by 
Kimchi  and  others.  Some  of  t lie  Tgs,  substituting 
a  wtnv  for  the  first  h  in  gehah,  read  here  "doeth  good 
to  the  body,"  thus  making  this  clause  antithetic  to 
the  hitter  half  of  the  verse.  In  any  case  the 
meaning  is  that  a  cheerful  disposition  is  a  powerful 
remedial  agent. 

In  the  figurative  account  of  the  evil  case  of  Judah 
and  Israel  because  of  their  backsliding  (Jer  30  13), 
the  prophet  says  they  have  had  no  re])Jiu'ah,  or 
"healing  medicines."  Later  on  (Jer  46  11),  when 
pronouncing  the  futility  of  the  contest  of  Neco 
against  Nebuchadrezzar,  Jeremiah  compares  Egypt 
to  an  incurably  sick  woman  going  up  to  Gilead  to 
take  balm  as  a  medicine,  without  any  benefit.  In 
Ezekiel's  vision  of  the  trees  of  life,  the  leaves  are 
said  (AV)  to  be  for  medicine,  RV  reads  "healing," 
thereby  assimilating  the  language  to  that  in  Rev  22 
2,  "leaves  of  the  tree  ....  for  the  healing  of  the 
nations"  (cf  Ezk  47  12). 

Very  few  specific  remedies  are  mentioned  in  the 
Bible.  "Balm  of  Gilead"  is  said  to  be  an  anodyne 
(Jer  8  22;  cf  51  8).  The  love-fruits,  "man- 
drakes" (Gen  30  14)  and  "caperberry"  (Eccl  12 
5  m),  myrrh,  anise,  rue,  cummin,  the  "oil  and  wine" 
of  the  Good  Samaritan,  soap  and  sodic  carbonate 
("natron,"  called  by  mistake  "nitre")  as  cleansers, 
and  Hezekiah's  "fig  poultice"  nearly  exhaust  the 
catalogue.  In  the  Apoc  we  have  the  heart,  liver 
and  gall  of  Tobit's  fish  (Tob  6  7).  In  the  Egyp 
pharmacopoeia  an;  the  names  of  many  plants  which 
cannot  be  identified,  but  most  of  the  remedies  used 
by  them  were  dietetic,  such  as  honey,  milk,  meal, 
oil,  vinegar,  wine.  The  Bab  medicines,  as  far  as 
they  can  be  identified,  are  similar.  In  the  Mish 
we  have  references  to  wormwood,  poppy,  hemlock, 
aconite  and  other  drugs.  The  apothecary  men- 
tioned in  AV  (Ex  30  25,  etc)  was  a  maker  of  per- 
fumes, not  of  medicines.  Among  the  fellahin  many 
common  plants  are  used  as  folk-remedies,  but 
they  put  most  confidence  in  amulets  or  charms, 
which  tire  worn  by  most  Palestinian  peasants  to 
ward  off  or  to  heal  diseases.    Alex.  Macalister 

MEDITATION,  med-i-ta'shun  (H^H,  haghuth, 
nrni" ,  sihah):  "Meditation"  is  the  tr  of  haghuth, 
from  haghah,  "to  murmur,"  "to  have  a  deep  tone," 
hence  "to  meditate"  (Ps  49  3);  of  haghlgh,  "sigh- 
ing," "moaning"  (Ps  5  1;  see  ver2);  of  higgayon, 
"the  murmur"  or  dull  sound  of  the  harp,  hence 


meditation  (Ps  19  14,  "Let  ....  the  meditation 
of  my  heart  be  acceptable  in  thy  sight");  of  slah, 
"speech,"  "meditation"  (Ps  104  31,  "Let  ni\  medi- 
tation be  sweet,  unto  him");  of  si  hah,  a  "bowing 
down,"  "musing"  (Ps  119  97.99;'  2  Esd  10  5). 
"To  meditate"  is  the  tr  of  haghah  (Josh  1  S;  Ps 
12;  63  (i;  Isa  33  IS  AV);  of  sil'%  (Gen  24  63); 
of  siah  (Ps  119  15.23,  etc;  143  5,  AV  "muse"; 
1  Ch  16  9;  Ps  105  2  m).  In  Apoc  we  have  "to 
meditate"  (Ecclus  14  20,  "Blessed  is  the  man  that 
shall  meditate  in  wisdom,"  RVm  "most  authorities 
read  come  to  an  end"  [teleutesei];  39  1,  "meditateth 
in  lite  law  of  the  Most  High"  [dianoeomai]).  The 
Lack  of  meditation  is  a  great  want  in  our  modern 
religious  life.  In  the  NT,  we  have  "to  meditate" 
(Trpo/xcXerdw,  pre  meleldo,  "to  take  care  beforehand"), 
Lk  21  M,and'  meditate;"  (/MeXerdw^meletdo,  "to  take 
care"),  1  Tim  1  15  AV  (RV  "be  diligent");  cf 
Phil  4  8;    Col  3  2.  W.  L.  Walker 

( MEDITERRANEAN,  mod-i-to-ra'ne-an,  SEA 
(tj  8d\acro-a,  he  thdlassa):  To  the  Hebrews  the 
Mediterranean  was  the  sea,  as  was  natural  from  their 
situation. 

Hence  they  speak  of  it  simply  as  "the  sea"  (Qlpli 
ha-yam),  e.g.  Gen  49  13;  Xu  13  29;  34  5;  Jgs  5  17; 
or,  again,  it  is  "the  great  sea"  ("I"";;"  QTli  ha-yam 
ha-gadhol,  e.g.  Xu  34  G.7;  Josh  9  l*;"l5  12.47;  Ezk 
47  10.15.10.20;  48  28);  or,  because  it  lav  to  the  W.  of 
Pal,  as  "the  great  sea  toward  the  going  down  of  the 
sun"  (Josh  ]  4;  23  4),  and,  since  the  west  was  regarded 
as  the  "back,"  in  contrast  to  the  east  as  the  "front,"  as 
"hinder  [or  '•western"  RV,  "uttermost"  or  "utmost"  AV] 
sea"  ("j'HHXn  C^n.  ha-yam  ha-'ahdron),  Dt  11  24;  34 
2;  Zee  14  8;  Joel  2  20,  in  the  last  two  passages  con- 
trasted with  "the  former  [AV,  "eastern"  RV]  sea" 
0;b"T5n  D^n.  ha-yam  ha-ktulhmOnl),  i.e.  the  Dead  Sea. 
See  Former,  That  portion  of  the  Mediterranean 
directly  VV.  of  Pal  is  once  (Ex  23  31)  referred  to  as  "  tin 
sea  of  the  Philis"  G^PTCbs  3"1.  yarn  pelishtim).  AV 
has  "sea  of  Joppa"  (Ezr  3  7)  where  RV  correctly 
renders  "to  the  sea,  nnto  Joppa"  (cf  2  Oh  2  16). 
Similarly,  AV  "the  sea  of  Cilicia  and  Pamphylia"  (Acts 
27  5)  is  better  rendered  "the  sea  which  is  off  Cilicia  and 
Pamphylia"  (RV). 

In  the  NT,  references  to  the  Mediterranean  are 
common,  esp.  in  the  accounts  of  Paul's  voyages,  for 
which  see  Paul.  Jesus  once  (Mk  7  24  ff)  came 
to  or  near  the  sea. 

The  Mediterranean  basin  was  the  scene  of  most 
ancient  civilizations  which  have  greatly  influenced 
that  of  the  western  world,  excepting  those  whose 
home  was  in  the  valleys  of  the  Tigris  and  the 
Euphrates;  and  even  these  continually  thrust 
themselves  into  it,  so  far  as  they  could.  As  its 
name  implies,  it  is  an  inland  area,  united  to  the 
Atlantic  only  by  the  narrow  Straits  of  Gibraltar. 
In  comparatively  recent  geological  time  it  was  also 
joined  to  the  Red  Sea,  the  alluvial  deposits  of  the 
Nile,  which  have  extended  the  line  of  the  Delta, 
having  with  the  aid  of  drifting  desert  sands  sub- 
sequently closed  the  passage  and  joined  the  con- 
tinentsof  Asia  and  Africa.  The  total  length  of  the 
Mediterranean  is  about  2,300  miles,  its  greatest 
breadth  about  1,0S0  miles,  and  its  area  about  1,000,- 
000  sq.  miles.  It  falls  naturally  into  the  western 
and  eastern  (Levant)  halves,  dividing  at  the  line 
running  from  Tunis  to  Sicily,  where  it  is  compara- 
tively shallow;  the  western  end  is  generally  the 
deeper,  reaching  depths  of  nearly  6,000  ft.  On  the 
N.  it  is  intersected  by  the  Italian  and  Balkan 
peninsulas,  forming  the  Gulf  of  Lyons,  the  Adriatic 
and  tin?  Aegean.  In  ancient  times  these  and  other 
divisions  of  the  Mediterranean  bore  specific  names 
given  by  the  Greeks  and  Romans,  but  from  the 
nat  tire  of  the  case  their  limits  were  ill  defined.  The 
temperature  of  the  Mediterranean  is  in  summer 
warmer,  in  winter  about  the  same  as  that  of  the 


2027 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Medicine 
Megiddo 


Atlantic.     Its  water  lias  a  slightly  greater  specific 
gravity,  probably  because  of  a  larger  proportionate 

evaporation. 


William  Arthur  Heidel 


MEEDA,  me-e'da.     See  Meedda. 

MEEDDA,  mS-ed'a  (MeeSSd,  Meedda,  but  Swete, 
AsSSd,  Deddd,  following  B;  AV  Meeda):  The  head 
of  oik1  of  the  families  of  Nethinim  (temple  slaves) 
who  went  up  with  Zerubbabel  from  the  captivity 
(1  Esd  5  32);  identical  with  "Mehida"  of  Ezr  2 
52  and  Nell  7  54. 

MEEKNESS,  mek'nes  (TH??,  xandwah;  irpaor^s, 

praotes,  Trpatn-Tis,  prautes):  "Meekness"  in  the  OT 
('dndwdh,  \inwah)  is  from  *andw,  "suffering,"  "op- 
pressed, "afflicted,"  denoting  the  spirit  produced 
under  such  experiences.  The  word  is  sometimes 
ti">  "poor"  (Job  24  4,  RVm  "meek";  Am  8  4); 
"humble"  (Ps  9  12.18,  RVm  "meek");  "lowly" 
(Prov  3  34;  16  10,  RV  "poor,"  m  "meek").  It 
is  generally  associated  with  some  form  of  oppres- 
sion. The  "meek"  were  the  special  objects  of  the 
Divine  regard,  and  to  them  special  blessings  are 
promised  (Ps  22  20,  "The  meek  shall  eat  and  be 
satisfied";  25  0,  "The  meek  will  he  guide  injustice; 
and  the  meek  will  he  teach  his  way";  37  11,  "The 
meek  shall  inherit  the  land";  147  6,  "Jeh  up- 
holdeth  the  meek";  149  4,  "He  will  beautify  the 
meek  with  salvation,"  RVm  "victory";  cf  Isa  11 
4;  29  10;  61  1,  "Jehovah  hath  anointed  me  to 
preach  good  tidings  unto  the  meek,"  RVm  "poor"; 
Z>ph  2  3;  Ps  45  4,  "because  of  [RVm  "in  behalf 
of"]  truth  and  meekness  and  righteousness").  Of 
Moses  it  is  said  he  "was  very  meek,  above  all  the 
men  that  were  upon  the  face  of  the  earth,"  notwith- 
standing the  Divine  revelations  given  him,  and  in 
the  face  of  opposition  (Nu  12  3;  cf  2  Cor  12  1-6). 
Meekness  is  ascribed  even  to  Jeh  Himself  (2  S  22 
36,  "Thy  gentleness  \'dndirdh]  hath  made  me  great"; 
cf  Ps  18  36  [*&nwah],  RVm  "condescension");  men 
are  exhorted  to  seek  it  (Zeph  2  3,  "Seek  righteous- 
ness, seek  meekness";  cf  Prov  15  1;  16  14;  25 
15;  Eccl  10  4). 

In  the  Apoc  also  "meekness"  holds  a  high  place 
(Ecclus  1  27,  "The  fear  of  the  Lord  is  wisdom  and  in- 
struction: faith  and  meekness  are  his  delight,"  RV  "in 
faith  and  meekness  is  his  good  pleasure";  Ecclus  3  19, 
"Mysteries  are  revealed  unto  the  meek "  [RV  omits];  cf 
10   14). 

"Meekness"  in  the  NT  (praotes,  prautes)  is  not 
merely  a  natural  virtue,  but  a  Christian  "grace"; 
it  is  one  of  the  "fruits  of  the  Spirit"  (Gal  5  23). 
The  conception  of  meekness,  as  it  had  been  defined 
by  Aristotle,  was  raised  by  Christianity  to  a  much 
higher  level,  and  associated  with  the  commonly 
despised  quality  of  humility  (see  s.v.).  It  was  the 
spirit  of  the  Saviour  Himself  (Mt  11  29):  "I  am 
meek  [prdos]  and  lowly  in  heart"  (cf  2  Cor  10  1, 
"by  the  meekness  and  gentleness^  of  Christ");  it 
presupposes  humility,  flows  from  it,  and  finds  ex- 
pression in  moderation  (see s.v.).  (See Trench, Syn. 
of  NT,  145;  WH,  NT  Lexicon,  s.v.)  Christians 
are  exhorted  to  cherish  it  and  show  it  in  their  rela- 
tions to  one  another  (Eph  4  2;  Col  3  12;  1  Tim 
6  11;  Tit  3  2,  "showing  all  meekness  toward  all 
men");  it  ought  to  characterize  Christian  teachers 
or  those  in  authority  in  "instructing  [RV  "cor- 
recting," m  "instructing"]  them  that  oppose  them- 
selves" (2  Tim  2  25)  j  the  saving,  "implanted" 
(RVm  "inborn")  word  is  to  be  received  "with  meek- 
ness" (Jas  1  21);  a  man  is  to  "show  by  his  good 
life  his  works  in  meekness  of  wisdom"  (3  13),  and 
to  give  a  reason  for  the  hope  that  is  in  him,  "with 
meekness  and  fear"  (1  Pet  3  15). 

The  interchangeablencss  of  "meek"  with  "poor,"  etc, 
in  the  OT  ought  to  be  specially  noted.  Our  Lord's  open- 
ing of  His  ministry  at  Nazareth  (Lk  4   is,  "He  anointed 


me  to  preach  good  tidings  to  the1  poor"),  and  His  mes- 
sage to  John  (Mt  11  5.  "The  poor  have  good  tidings 
preached  to  them")  are  in  harmony  therewith. 

W.  L.  Walker 
MEET,  met,  adj.  ("ITE1? ,  yashdr;  &£ios,  dxios): 
Various  words  are  employed  to  express  meetness, 
the  sense  of  what  is  proper,  worthy,  or  fit.  We 
have  yashdr,  "straight,"  "upright,"  "right"  (2  K 
10  3,  "meetest";    Jer  26  14,  RV  "right");    ydshar 

(Jer  27  5,  RV  "rigid");  yosher  (Prov  11  24,  RVm 
"what  is  justlv  due");  'dr'tkh,  Aram,  "meet"  (Ezr 
4  14);  bne,  "sons  of"  (Dt  3  IS,  AV  "meet  for  the 
war,"  m  "Heb  sons  of  power,"  RV  "men  of  valor"); 
kiln,  "to  be  right,"  etc;  (Ex  8  20);  'dsdh,  "to  be 
made,"  "used"  (Ezk  15  5  bis,  RVm  "made  into"); 
cdle"!},  "to  be  good  or  fit  for"  (Ezk  15  4,  RV 
"profitable");  rd'dh,  "seen,"  "looked  out ,"  "chosen" 
(Est  2  9);  axios,  "worthy"  (Mt  3  S;  Acts  26 
20,  RV  ''worthy";  1  Col-  16  4;  2  Thess  1  3); 
dikaios,  "just,"  "right"  (Phil  1  7,  RV  "right"; 
2  Pet  1  13,  RV  "right");  eulhetos,  "well  set'* 
(lb;  6  7);  euchrestos,  "very  useful,"  "profitable" 
(2  Tim  2  21,  "meet  for  the  master's  use");  hi- 
hands,  "sufficient"  (1  Cor  15  0);  hikanod,  "to 
make  sufficient"  (Col  1  12);  kalos,  "beautiful," 
"honest"  (Mt  15  26;  Mk  7  27);  del,  "it  be- 
hooveth"  (Lk  15  32;  Rom  1  27,  RV  "due"). 
Eor  "meet"  (supplied)  (Jgs  5  30),  RV  has  "on"; 
for  "Surely  it  is  meet  to  be  said  unto  Cod"  (Job  34 
31),  "For  hath  any  said  unto  God?"  In  2  Mace 
9  12,  we  have  dikaios,  RV  "right." 

W.  L.  Walker 

,  MEGIDDO,  me-gid'o,  MEGIDDON,  me-gid'on 
(1""^2 ,  meghiddo,  "^j'O  ,  meghiddon;  Ma-yi.88to, 
Magiddd,  Ma-yeSSwv,  Mageddon,  Ma-ySw,  Magdo): 
A  royal  city  of  the  Canaanites,  the  king  of  which 
was  slain  by  Joshua  (Josh  12  21).  It  lay  within 
the  territory  of  Issachar,  but  was  one  of  the  cities 
assigned  to  Manasseh  (Josh  17  11;  1  Ch  7  29). 
Manasseh,  however,  was  not  able  to  expel  the 
Canaanites,  who  therefore  continued  to  dwell  in 
that  land.  Later,  when  the  children  of  Israel  were 
waxen  strong,  the;  Canaanites  we're  put  to  taskwork 
(Josh  17  12f;  Jgs  1  27  f).  The  host  of  Sisera  was 
drawn  to  the  river  Kishon,  and  here,  "by  the  waters 
of  Megiddo,"  the  famous  battle  was  fought  (5  10). 
By  the  time  of  Solomon,  Israel's  supremacy  was 
unquestioned.  Megiddo  was  included  in  one  of 
his  administrative  districts  (1  K  4  12),  and  it  was 
one  of  the  cities  which  he  fortified  (9  15).  Ahaziah, 
mortally  wounded  at  the  ascent  of  Gur,  fled  to 
Megiddo  to  die  (2  K  9  27).  At  Megiddo,  Josiah, 
king  of  Judah,  attempted  to  arrest  Pharaoh-necohand 
his  army  on  their  inarch  to  the  Euphrates  against 
the  king  of  Assyria.  Here  the  Egyp  monarch 
"slew  him  ....  when  he  had  seen  him,"  and  from 
Megiddo  went  the  sorrowful  procession  to  Jerus 
with  Josiah's  corpse  (2  K  23  20  f;  2  Ch  35  20  ff). 
The  sad  tale  is  told  again  in  1  Esd  1  25  ff.  "The 
mourning  of  Hadadrimmon  in  the;  valley  of  Megid- 
don"  became  a  poetical  expression  for  the  deepest 
and  most  despairing  grief  (Zee  12  11).  See  also 
Armageddon. 

The  constant  association  of  Megiddo  with 
Taanach  (Tell  Tcfanek)  points  to  a  position  on  the 
south  edge  of  the  plain  of  Esdraelon.  In  confirma- 
tion of  this,  we  read  (HP,  1st  series,  II,  35-47)  that 
Thothmes  III  captured  Megiddo,  after  having 
defeated  the  Palestinian  allies  who  opposed  him. 
He  left  his  camp  at  Aruna  (possibly  VlrVrra/i),  and, 
following  a  defile  (possibly  Wddy  *Arah),  he  ap- 
proached Megiddo  from  the  S.  We  should  thus 
look  for  the  city  where  the  pass  opens  on  the  plain; 
and  here,  at  Khan  el-Lejjun,  we  find  extensive  ruins 
on  both  sides  of  a  stream  which  turns  several  mills 
before  falling  into  the  Kishon.  We  may  identify 
the  site  with  Megiddo,  and  the  stream  with  "the 


Mehetabel 
Melody 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2028 


waters  of  Megiddo."  Pharaoh-necoh  would  natu- 
rally take  the  same  line  of  march,  and  his  advance 
could  be  nowhere  more  hopefully  opposed  than  at 
d-Lejjun.  Tell  el-Mutasellim,  a  graceful  mound 
hard  by,  on  the  edge  of  the  plain,  may  have  formed 
the  acropolis  of  Megiddo. 

The  name  MujaddaK  attaches  to  a  site  3  miles  S. 
of  Beisdn  in  the  Jordan  valley.  Here  Conder  would 
place  Megiddo.  But  while  there  is  a  resemblance 
in  the  name,  the  site  really  suits  none  of  the  Bib. 
data.  The  phrase  "Taanach  by  the  waters  of 
Megiddo"  alone  confines  us  to  a  very  limited  area. 
No  position  has  yet  been  suggested  which  meets 
all  the  conditions  as  well  as  el-Lejjun. 

The  Khan  here  shows  that  the  road  through  the 
pass  from  Esdraelon  to  the  plain  of  Sharon  and  the 
coast  was  still  much  frequented  in  the  Middle  Ages. 

W.    EWING 

MEHETABEL,    mn-het'a-bel,    MEHETABEEL, 

mG-het'a-bel  (xi<!;}L?"in'52,  mehetabh'el,  "whom  God 
makes  happy"): 

(1)  Daughter  of  Matred,  wife  of  Hadad  or  Hadar, 
the  8th  and  apparently  last  of  the  kings  of  Edom 
(Gen  36  39;   1  Ch  1  50). 

(2)  Grandfather  of  that  Shemaiah  who  played 
a  treacherous  part  against  Nehemiah  at  the  sug- 
gestion of  Tobiah  and  Sanballat,  by  trying  to  per- 
suade Nehemiah  to  commit  sacrilege  (Neh  6  10- 
13). 

MEHIDA,  me-hi'da  (XT'""?,  m^idha\  "re- 
nowned"; "Meeda"  [1  Esd  5  32]):  Ancestor  and 
patronymic  of  a  family  of  Nethinim  who  came  back 
from  Babylon  with  Zerubbabel  (Ezr  2  52;  Neh 
7  54). 

MEHIR,  me'her  HT^,  mehlr,  "price,"  "hire"): 
A  descendant  of  Judah,  son  of  Chelub,  nephew  of 
Shuah  (1  Ch  4  11).  Perug,  a  Chaldee  name  of 
equivalent  meaning,  is  given  for  this  person  in  the 
Tg  of  It.  Joseph. 

MEHOLATHITE,  mo-ho'la-thit  (T^ilTE ,  m'ho- 
lalhl):  The  gentile  designation  of  Adriel,  the  son 
of  Barzillai,  who  married  Merab,  the  daughter  of 
King  Saul  (1  S  18  19;  2  S  21  8),  the  name  Michal 
in  2  S  21  8  being  doubtless  a  copyist's  error.  See 
Abel-meholah. 

MEHUJAEL,  me-hu'ja-el  (bjjPlffip,  m'huya'el, 
bi^rip  ,  mehlya,el,  "smitten  of  God") :  A  descendant 
of  Cain  through  Enoch  and  Irad  (Gen  4  18).  The 
list  in  Gen  6  12  ff  is  a  working-over  of  the  same 
material  of  genealogy  by  another  hand  at  a  differ- 
ent date  of  spelling  (cf  spelling  of  Chaucer  and  that 
of  today).  In  that  case,  Mehalalel  would  be  the 
correspondent  name  to  Mehujael  (see  Expos  T, 
X,  353). 

MEHTJMAN,  me"-hu'man  ("^rDp,  mehuman 
[Est  1  10]):  A  eunuch  of  Ahasuerus,  the  first  of  the 
seven  chamberlains. 

MEHUNIM,  me--hu'nim  (CW5,  me%unlm). 
See  Meunim. 

ME- JARKON,  mc-jar'kon  ("pp^n  ""£,  me 
ha-yarkon;  0dXaa-cra  'Icpdxcov,  thdlassa  Hierdkon) : 
The  Heb  may  mean  "yellow  water."  The  phrase  is 
lit.  "the  waters  of  Jarkon."  LXX  reads  "and  from 
the  river,  Jarkon  and  the  boundary  near  Joppa." 
From  this  possibly  we  should  infer  a  place  called 
Jarkon  in  the  lot  of  Dan;  but  no  name  resembling 
this  has  been  found.  The  text  (Josh  19  46)  ia 
corrupt. 


MEKONAH,  me-ko'na  (n'.b'Q,  m'khondh).  See 
Meconah. 

MELATIAH,  mel-a-ti'a  fTP^tt ,  melatyah,  "Jeh's 
deliverance") :  A  Gibeonite  who  assisted  in  building 
the  wall  of  Jerus  under  Nehemiah  (Neh  3  7). 

MELCHI,  mel'kl  (Tisch.,  Treg.,  WH,  Mt\xd, 
Melchei;  TR,  MeXxC,  Melchl):  The  name  of  two 
ancestors  of  Jesus  according  to  Lk's  genealogy, 
one  being  in  the  4th  generation  before  Joseph,  the 
husband  of  Mary,  the  other  being  in  the  3d  gen- 
eration before  Zerubbabel  (Lk  3  24.28). 

MELCHIAH,  mel-ki'a(n^b)3  ,  malkhlyah,  "Jeh's 
king"):  A  priest  and  father  of  Pashur  (Jer  21  1 
AV);  elsewhere  and  in  RV  called  Malchiah  and 
Malchijah  (q.v.). 

MELCHIAS,  mel-kl'as  (B,  IVUXxeCas,  Melchelas, 
B6A,  -Cas,  -las) :  Name  of  three  men  who  had  taken 

"strange  wives": 

(1)  1  Esd  9  26  =  "Malchijah"  (Ezr  10  25). 

(2)  1  Esd  9  32  =  "Malchijah"  (Ezr  10  31). 

(3)  One  of  those  who  stood  at  Ezra's  left  hand 
when  the  law  was  read  (1  Esd  9  44)  =  "Malchijah" 
(Neh  8  4),  possibly  identical  with  (1)  or  (2). 

MELCHIEL,  mel'ki-el  (MeXx^X,  Melchitl,  B, 
MeXxeiT|X,  Melcheitl) :  The  father  of  Charmis,  one 
of  the  governors  of  Bethulia  (Jth  6  15).  Other 
readings  are  SeXX-^a,  Sellem,  and  MoxkjijX,  Mochisel. 

MELCHISHUA,  mel-ki-shoo'a  (^Itt'ObE,  mal- 
kishua\  "king's  help").     See  Malchishua. 

MELCHIZEDEK,  mel-kiz's-dek,  and  (AV  in 
He)  MELCHISEDEC  (p-^-^b/3,  malkl-cedhek, 
"Cedhek,  or  Cidhik  Jg  my' king"  [Gen  14  18  ff; 
Ps  110  4];  IVUXxio-e'StK,  Melchisedek  [He  6  6.10; 
6  20;  7  1.10.11.15.17]):  The  name  is  explained  in 
He  7  2  as  "king  of  righteousness,"  with  -I  as  the 
old  genitive  ending;  but  the  correct  explanation  is 
no  doubt  the  one  given  above;  cf  Adoni-zedek  in 
Josh  10  1,  where  LXX  with  Jgs  1  5-7  has  Adoni- 
bezek.  M.  was  king  of  Salem  (=  Jerus)  and  'a 
priest  unto  'El  'Elyon'  (Gen  14  18).  He  brought 
bread  and  wine  to  Abraham  after  the  latter's  vic- 
tory over  the  kings,  and  also  bestowed  upon  him 
the  blessing  of _ 'El  'Elyon.  Abraham  gave  him  "a 
tenth  of  all,"  i.e.  of  the  booty  probably,  unless  it 
be  of  all  his  possessions.  Gen  14  22  identifies  Jeh 
with  'El  'Elyon,  the  title  of  the  Deity  as  worshipped 
at  Jerus;  and  so  He  7  1  ff,  following  LXX  of  Gen 
14  18  ff,  calls  M.  "priest  of  God  Most  High,"  i.e.  Jeh. 

Skinner  {Gen,  271,  where  Jos,  Ant,  XVI,  vi,  2,  and  Asm 
M6  1  are  cited)  points  out  that  the  Maccabees  were 
called  "high  priests  of  God  most  high.'  Hence  some 
hold  that  the  story  of  M.  is  an  invention  of  Judaism,  but 
Gunkel  (Gen',  285  ff)  maintains  that  he  is  a  traditional, 
if  not  a  historical,  character. 

Ps  110  4  makes  the  king-priest  who  is  addressed 
there  a  virtual  successor  of  M.,  and  the  kings  of 
Jerus  might  well,  as  Gunkel  suggests,  have  been 
considered  successors  of  M.  in  the  same  way  that 
Charlemagne  was  regarded  as  the  successor  of  the 
Caesars,  and  the  latter  as  successors  of  the  Pharaohs 
in  Egypt.  This  leads  naturally  to  an  early  date 
being  ascribed  to  Ps  110. 

The  thought  of  a  priest  after  the  order  of  M.  is 
taken  up  by  the  author  of  He.  He  wanted  to  prove 
the  claim  of  Christ  to  be  called  priest.  It  was  im- 
possible, even  had  he  so  wished,  to  consider  Jesus 
as  an  Aaronic  priest,  for  He  was  descended  from  the 
tribe  of  Judah  and  not  from  that  of  Levi  (7  14). 
The  words  of  Ps  110  4  are  taken  to  refer  to  Him 


2029 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDL 


(5  5  f),  and  in  7  5  ff  the  order  of  M.  is  held  to  be 
higher  than  that  of  Aaron,  for  the  superiority  of  M 
was  acknowledged  by  Abraham  (a)  when  he  paid 
tit  lies  to  M.  and  (b)  when  he  was  blessed  by  M., 
lor  "the  less  is  blessed  of  the  better."  It  might 
be  added  that  Jesus  can  be  considered  a  priest  after 
the  order  of  M.  in  virtue  of  His  descent  from  David, 
if  the  latter  be  regarded  as  successor  to  AI.  But 
the  author  of  He  does  not  explicitly  say  this. 
Further,  Aaron  is  only  a  "type"  brought  forward  in 
He  to  show  the  more  excellent  glory  of  the  work  of 
Jesus,  whereas  AI.  is  "made  like  unto  the  Son  of 
God"  (7  3),  and  Jesus  is  said  to  be  "after  the  like- 
ness of  Melchizedek"  (7  15). 

He  7  1  ff  presents  difficulties.  Where  did  the 
author  get  the  material  for  this  description  of  AI  ? 
(1)  AI.  is  said  to  be  "without  father,  without 
mother,  [i.e.]  without  genealogy";  and  (2)  he  is 
described  as  "having  neither  beginning  of  days  nor 
end  of  life";  he  "abideth  a  priest  continually ."  The 
answer  is  perhaps  to  be  had  among  the  Am  Tab 
among  which  are  at  least  6,  probably  8,  letters  from 
a  king  of  Urusalim  to  Amenophis  IV,  king  of  Egypt 
whose  "slave"  the  former  calls  himself.  Urusalim 
is  to  be  identified  with  Jerus,  and  the  letters  belong 
to  c  1400  BC.  The  name  of  this  king  is  given  as 
Abd-Khiba  (or  Abd-hiba),  though  Hommel,  quoted 
SLl  A- .Sniith.  Jerus,  II,  14,  n.  7,  reads  Arad- 
Uitba.  Zimmer,  m  ZA,  1891,  240,  says  that  it  can 
be  read  Abditaba,  and  so  Sayce  (II DB,  HI,  3356) 
calls  him'Ebhedh  tobh.  The  king  tells  his  Egyp 
overlord,  "Neither  my  father  nor  my  mother  set  me 
in  this  place:  the  mighty  arm  of  the  king  [or,  accord- 
ing to  Sayce,  "the  arm  of  the  mighty  king"]  es- 
tablished me  in  my  father's  house"  (Letter  102  in 
Berlin  collection,  11.  9-13;  also  no.  103,  11  25-28" 
no.  104  11.  13-15;  see,  further,  II.  Winckler,  Die 
lkontajeln  von  T  ell-el- Amama;  Knudtzon  Bei- 
trage  eur  Assyriologie,  IV,  101  ff,  279  ff,  cited  by 
G.  A.  Smith,  Jerus,  II,  8,  n.  1). 

It  thus  becomes  clear  that  possibly  tradition 
identified  AI.  with  Abd-Khiba.      At  any  rate  the 
idea  that  AI.  was  "without  father,  without  mother 
[i.e.]  without  genealogy"   can  easily  be  explained 
it  the  words  of  Abd-Khiba  concerning  himself  can 
have  been  also  attributed  to  AI.     The  words  meant 
originally  that  he  acknowledged  that  he  did  not 
come   to  the  throne   because   he  had  a  claim  on 
it  through  descent;  he  owed  it  to  appointment, 
But  Jewish  interpretation  explained  them  as  im- 
plying that  he  had  no  father  or  mother.     Ps  110  4 
had  spoken  of  the  king   there  as  being   "a  priest 
for  ever  after  the  order  of  Melchizedek,"  and  this 
seems  to  have  been  taken  to  involve  the  perpetuity 
of  AT.  also  as  priest.     AI.  was  then  thought  of  as 
having    neither    beginning   of    days"  =  "without 
father,  without  mother,  without  genealogv,"   and 
again  as  not  having  "end  of  life"  =  "abideth  a  priest 
continually."     Hence  he  is  "made  like  unto  the  son 
of  Cod,"  having  neither  beginning  of  days  nor  end 
of   life.      We  get  another  NT  example  of  Jewish 
interpretation  in  Gal  4  21  ff.     We  have  no  actual 
proof  that  AI.  is  identical  with  Abd-Khiba;  possibly 
tin;   reference   to   the   former   as    being    "without 
lather,     etc,  is  not  to  be  explained  as  above.     But 
why  should  AL,  and  he  alone,  of  all  the  OT  charac- 
ters be  thought  of  in  this  way? 

Wcstcott,  He  199,  has  a  suggestive  thought  about  M,: 
1  ne  lessons  of  Ins  appearance  lie  in  the  appearance  itself 

Abraham  marks  a  new  departure But  before  the 

fresh  order  is  established  we  have  a  vision  of  the  old  in 
its  superior  majesty;  and  this,  on  the  eve  of  disappear- 
ance, gi  ves  1  ts  blessing  to  the  now. ' '  pp 

On  the  references  to  M.  in  Philo  see  Westcott,  op 
ZulL       ^dall,  He<  App-,  58 ff;  and  esp.  (with  the 


Mehetabel 
Melody 


sages   and   other    authorities    cited  "there 
1  heolouy  of  Ep.  to  the  He,  203  ff. 


cit., 

-,  pas- 

G.   Milligan, 


The  conclusions  we  come  to  are:  (1)  There  was  a 


tradition  in  Jerus  of  AL,  a  king  in  pre-Israelitish 
times,  who  was  also  priest  to  'El  'Elyon.  This  is 
the  origin  of  Gen  14  IS  ff,  where  'El  'Elyon  is 
identified  with  Jeh.  (2)  Ps  110  makes  use  of  this 
tradition  and  the  Psalmist's  king  is  regarded  as 
KS  f  i(:ccssor-  (3)  The  I'd)-  to  t  he  Pie  makes  use 
ot  {a)  Is  110,  winch  is  taken  to  be  a  prophecy  of 
Christ,  (b)  of  Gen  14  18  ff,  and  (c)  of  oral  tradition 
which  was  not  found  in  the  OT.  It  is  this  unwritten 
tradition  that  is  possibly  explained  by  the  Am  Tab. 
bee  further,  arts,  by  Sayce,  Driver,  and  Hommel 
in  Expos  T,  VII,  VIII.  See  also  Jerusalem. 
,,_,„,  David  Francis  Roberts 

MELEA,  me  le-a,  mel'e-a  (MeXea,  Meled) :  An  an- 
cestor oi  Jesus  in  Lk's  genealogy  (Lk  3  31). 

MELECH,  me'lek  ftbtt,  melehh,  "king"):  Great- 
grandson  of  Jonathan,  son  of  Saul,  grandson  of 
Mephibosheth  or  Meribbaal  (1  Ch  8  35;  9  41). 

MELICU,  mel'i-ku  pD"1'??  ,  m'Wchu,  also  ^bft 
nvlukhl,  "regnant"):   Same  as  AIalluchi  (q.v.). 

MELITA,  mel'i-ta  (MtXix-q,  Melite,  Acts  28  1): 
Is  now  generally  identified  with  Malta.  The  former 
error  in  attributing  tin;  reference  to  the  island  of 
Meleda  on  the  E.  coast  of  the  Adriatic  Sea  was 
due  to  the  ancient  practice  of  emploving  the  term 
Adna  to  include  the  Ionian  and  Sicilian  seas. 

Alalta  is  the  largest  of  a  group  of  islands  including 
Gozo  and  the  islets  Comino,  Commotio  and  Filfla, 
lying  about  56  miles  from  the  southern  extremity  of 
Sicily,  174  from  the  mainland  of  Italy,  and  187 
from  the  African  coast.  Alalta  itself  is  17|  miles 
long  and  9|  broad,  and  contains  an  area  of  95  sq 
miles  Its  modern  capital,  Valetta,  is  situated  in 
3o°o4'N.  Lit.  and  14°31'E.  long. 

The  central  position  of  Alalta  in  the  Alediter- 
ranean  Sea  gave  it  great  importance  as  a  naval 
station.     It  was  probably  at  first  a  Phoen  colony, 
and  later  passed  under  the  influence,  if  not  dom- 
ination, of  the  Sicilian  Greeks.     But  the  Romans 
captured  it  from  the  Carthaginians  in  218  BC  (Livy 
xxi.51)  and  attached  it  definitely  to  the  province  of 
Sicily.     Under    Rom    rule    the    inhabitants    were 
famous  for  their  industry,  esp.  in  the  production  of 
textile  fabrics,  probably  of  native  cotton.    The  cele- 
brated  vestis  melitensis  was   a  fine   and  soft  ma- 
terial for  dresses  and  for  the  covering  of  couches 
(Cicero    Vcrr.  ii.72.176;  ii. 74.183;  iv.46.103;  Dio- 
dorus  v.12.22).     At  the  time  when  Paul  visited  the 
island  it  would  seem  that  the  administration  was 
intrusted  to  a  deputy  of  the  propraetor  of  Sicily, 
who  is  referred  to  as  protos  Melitaion  (Acts  28  7; 
CIG,  5754),  or  Melitensium  primus  omnium  (CIL 
x,  7495)  (see  Publius).     A  bay  2±  miles  N.W.  of 
Valetta,  the  mouth  of  which  is  held  by  tradition 
to  be  the  place  when;  the  vessel  that  bore  Paul  ran 
ashore,  tallies  admirably  with  the  description  of  the 
locality  in  Acts.      The  Admiralty  charts  indicate 
places  near  the  west  side  of  the  entrance  to  the  bay, 
where  the  depth  is  first  20  ft.  and  then  15  ft.,  while 
the  rush  of  the  breakers  in  front  of  the  little  island 
of  Salmoneta  and  behind  it  suit  the  reference  to  a 
place   "where  two  seas  met"    (Acts  27  41).     The 
inlet  is   called   the   Bay  of   St.   Paul.     The  topo- 
graphical  question   has   been  exhaustively  treated 
by  Ramsay  in  *S7.  Paul  the  Traveller. 

George  H.  Allen 
MELODY,  mel'6-di:  PTlftT,  zimrah,  a  musical 
piece  or  song  to  be  accompanied  by  an  instrument 
(Isa  51  3);  an  instrument  of  praise  (Am  6  23); 
p.,  naghan,  "to  play  on  a  stringed  instrument," 
"Make  sweet  melody,  sing  many  songs"  (Isa  23 
1G);  i/'aXXoj,  psdllo,  to  celebrate  the  praises  of  God 
with  music  (Eph  5  19).     See  Alusic. 


Melons 
Menahem 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2030 


MELONS,  mol'unz  (CT^nX ,  'abhattjhlm;  ef 
Arab,  ballikh,  the  "water  melon";  imroves,  pe- 
■pones):  In  Nil  11  .r),  the  melon  is  referred  to  as 
common  in  Egypt,  and  there  can  he  no  doubt  that 
the  variety  indicated  is  the  watermelon  (Citrullus 
vulgaris)  which  is  indigenous  in  tropical  Africa. 
It  has  been  cultivated  in  Egypt  since  the  earliest 
times. 

MELZAR,  mel'zar  (IsVflin,  ha-melcar;  LXX 
'A(3uo-8pC,  Abiesdri,   Theod.    B,   'A(x«\crd6,    Hamel- 

sdd):  Possibly  a  transliteration  of  the  Bab  Ainelu- 
usur,  the  officer  to  whom  was  intrusted  the  bringing- 
up  of  Daniel  and  his  three  companions  (Did  1 
11  AV,  RV  "the  steward,"  m  "Heb  Hammelzar"). 
It  has  been  suggested  that  the  name  is  not  the  name 
of  a  person,  but  denotes  the  office  of  guardian,  like 
the  Bab  massaru.  In  this  case  the  Z  would  come 
by  dissimulation  from  the  first  of  the  two  s  sounds, 
which  on  its  side  has  come  from  an  assimilated  n, 
the  root  being  nasaru,  "to  protect,"  "to  guard." 

It.  Dick  Wilson 
MEM,  mam,  mem  (12,  2) :  The  13th  letter  of  the 
Heb  alphabet,  transliterated  in  this  Encyclopaedia 
as  in.     It  came  also  to  be  used  for  the  number  40. 
Lor  name,  etc,  see  Alphabet. 

MEMBER,  mem'ber  ([1]  "1^,  ydcur;  |xe'\oS) 
melos;  [2]  HDDtJ,  shdphekhdh,  "membrum  virile" 
[Dt  23  1]):  The' first  Heb  word  is  derived  from  a 
root  meaning  "to  knead,"  "to  mold  in  clay,"  "to 
create."  It  therefore  denotes  any  feature  or  part  of 
the  body.  "So  the  tongue  also  is  a  little  member, 
and  boasteth  great  things"  (Jas  3  5).  "The  mem- 
bers" is  equivalent  with  "the  body"  (which  see;  cf 
Ps  139  10  AV).  The  members  are  not  self-govern- 
ing, but  execute  the  orders  of  the  mind,  obeying 
either  the  lower  nature  in  the  commission  of  sin  or 
iniquity,  unrighteousness  and  uncleanness  (Rom 
6  13.19),  or  following  the  higher  nature,  the  Divine 
impulses  in  the  fulfilling  of  the  law  of  Christ  (6  19). 

By  nature,  the  "law  in  my  members'*  (Rom  7  23) 
is  opposed  to  the  better  nature  (Jas  4  1)  until  by  "re- 
generation" (which  see)  this  condition  is  changed, 
when  the  Spirit  of  Christ  becomes  the  governing  power, 
using  our  members,  i.e.  all  our  abilities,  in  the  execution 
of  His  plans.  This  is  not  done  while  we  remain  passive, 
but  only  when  we  have  actively  presented  or  yielded 
our  members  to  His  service  (Horn  6  19).  Therefore 
our  bodies  must  not  be  desecrated  by  baser  uses  (1  Cor 
6  15.19.20).  The  Lord  Jesus  illustrates  the  severe 
discipline  which  is  needed  to  subdue  the  members  of 
even  the  regenerate  to  perfect  submission  under  the 
higher  law  of  the  Spirit  by  the  simile  of  the  right  eye, 
which  is  to  be  plucked  out,  and  the  right  hand,  which  is 
to  be  cut  otr  (Mt  5  29. 30),  and  St.  Paul  speaks  of  putting 
to  death  (AV  "mortifying")  the  "members  which  are 
upon  the  earth"   (Col  3  5). 

It  is  the  difference  in  character  and  gifts  of  indi- 
vidual Christians  which  leads  St.  Paul  to  speak  of 
the  variety  of  members,  which,  though  of  manifold 
functions,  are  equally  important  to  the  complete- 
ness of  the  bodv.  It  is  thus  in  the  manifold  variety 
of  the  body  of  Christ  (1  Cor  12  12-27; _  Eph  4 
10),  and  Christians  being  members  of  Christ,  who 
is  the  head  (Eph  1  22;  4  15;  5  23),  are  members 
one  of  another  (Rom  12  5;  Eph  4  25). 

In  Dt  23  1  the  Israelitish  Law  against  emascula- 
tion is  referred  to,  and  a  religious  disability  is  stated 
for  the  eunuch.  Heathen  Semites  and  other  neighbors 
of  Israel  often  castrated  for  religious  purposes  in  the 
temple  service  of  various  divinities  and  for  functions  in 
princely  palaces  and  harems.  Heathen  monarchs  almost 
invariably  had  large  numbers  of  these  unfortunates,  who 
frequently  attained  to  positions  of  high  power  and  re- 
sponsibilitv.  Herodotus  states  their  frequent  occur- 
rence among  the  Persians  (Hist,  vi.32),  and  in  the  light 
of  2  K  20  18  and  Dnl  1  3  it  appears  as  not  impossible 
that  Daniel  and  his  friends  belonged  to  this  class.  In 
later  years  their  existence  is  certain  in  Israel  (1  S  8  15 
KVm;  Jer  38  7;  Mt  19  12).  See  also  Concision; 
Eunuch. 

H.  L.  E.  Luering 


MEMEROTH,  mem'r-roth  (A,  Maptpu.6,  Mare- 
roth;  B  here  omits  Memeroth  and  two  other  names; 
AV  Meremoth):  A  name  in  the  genealogy  of  Ezra 
(I  Esd  8  2)  =  "Meraioth"  in  Ezr  7  3,  also  "Mari- 
moth"  in  2  Esd  1  2. 

MEMMIUS,  mem'i-us,  QUINTUS,  kwin'tus 
(Koivtos  M€|j.|aios,  Kointos  Memmios):  One  of  the 
2  Pom  legates  who  bore  a  letter  to  the  Jews  after 
their  victory  over  Lysias  103  BC  (2  Mace  11  34). 
No  Quint  us  Memmius  is  otherwise  known  to  his- 
tory, and  no  Memmius  among  the  list  of  legates 
sent  to  Asia.  Polybius  (xxxi.18)  mentions  a  Quin- 
tus  and  a  Canuleius  as  sent  to  Egypt,  102  BC, 
and  again  (xxxiii.15)  the  same  Quintus  as  sent  as  an 
ambassador  to  Rhodes,  153  BC.  A  Titus  Mem- 
mius had  been  an  envoy  of  the  senate  to  Achaia  and 
Macedonia  before  the  date  of  this  letter  (Livy 
xliii.5).  None  of  these  is  likely  to  be  the  one  re- 
ferred to  in  2  Mace  11  34,  and  it  is  possible  that 
no  such  person  was  sent  with  the  letter,  which  is 
spurious.     See  Mam  us.  S.  Angus 

MEMORIAL,  me-ind'ri-al,  MEMORY,  mom'o- 
ri  (rnSTX,  'azkdrdh,  "IDT,  zekher,  "CT,  zekher, 
■p13T,  zikkdron;  p-vtuaoo-vvov,  mnemosunon) :  "Me- 
morial" as  the  tr  of  'azkdrdh  is  a  sacrificial 
term,  that  which  brings  the  offerer  into  remem- 
brance before  Cod,  or  brings  Cod  into  favorable 
remembrance  with  the  offerer;  it  is _ used  of  the 
burning  of  a  portion  of  the  meal  offering,  RV  (AV 
"meat-offering");  better,  cereal  offering,  on  the  altar 
(Lev  2  2,  RV  "as  the  memorial";  2  9.10;  5  12, 
RV  "as";  24  7;  Nu  5  20,  RV  "as");  as  the  tr 
of  zekher  (zekher),  zikkdron,  it  is  a  memorial  in  the 
sense  of  a  remembrance  (zekher,  zekher,  Ex  3  15; 
the  memorial  [name]  of  Jeh);  hence  we  have  in  RV 
"memorial  name"  for  "remembrance"  (Ps  30  4 
ARV;  97  12,  ERV  "holy  name,"  m  "Heb  me- 
morial"; 102  12;  135  13;  Isa  26  8;  Hos  12  5, 
ERV  "memorial");  for  "memorial"  (Est  9  28; 
Ps  9  0,  ARV  "remembrance");  zikkdron,  "a  remem- 
brance" (Ex  12  14;  13  9;  Lev  23  24;  Nu  5  15 
[of  the  meal  offering];  Josh  4  7;  Neh  2  20;  Zee 
6  14);  the  Passover  feast  was  to  be  in  this  sense 
"a  memorial  ....  for  ever"  (Ex  12  14;  13  9); 
so  also  the  shemaK  (Dt  6  4f);  "memorial"  occurs  in 
Wisd  4  1  (mnime),  RV  "memory";  4  19;  Ecclus 
45  1  ^mnemosunon);  49  1;  1  Mace  3  7:  12  53, 
RV  "memorial." 

"Memorial"  occurs  in  the  NT  as  the  tr  of  mnemo- 
sunon, "a  token  of  remembrance"  (Mt  26  13;  Mk 
14  9;  Acts  10  4,  "Thy  prayers  and  thine  alms  are 
gone  up  for  a  memorial  before  Cod,"  which  suggests 
the  sense  in  which  "memorial"  was  used  in  the 
sacrificial  ritual,  and  also  the  "better  sacrifices" 
of  the  new  dispensat  ion) . 

Memory  is  the  tr  of  zekher  (zekher)  (Ps  109  15;  145 
7;  Prov  10  7;  Eccl  9  5;  Isa  26  14,  RV  "remem- 
brance"); it  occurs  also  in  1  Mace;  13  29;  2  Mace  7 
20.  Kateehd,  "  to  have,  or  hold  fast,"  is  rendered  in 
1  Cor  15  2  AV  "keep  in  memory,"  m  "hold  fast,"  ARV 
"hold  fast,"  ERV  "hold  it  fast,"  i.e.  the  word  preached 
to  them. 

V\  .    L.     H  ALKER 

MEMPHIS,  mem'fis:  The  ancient  capital  of 
Egypt,  12  miles  S.  of  the  modern  Cairo.     This  Gr 

and  Rom  form  of  the  name  was  derived 
1.  Name        from  the  Coptic  form  Menfi  (now  Arab. 

Menf),  the  abbreviation  of  the  Egyp 
name  Men-nofer,  "the  good  haven."  This_  name 
was  applied  to  the  pyramid  of  Pepy  I,  in  the 
cemetery  above  the  city;  some  have  thought  the 
city  name  to  have  been  derived  from  the  pyramid, 
but  this  is  unlikely,  as  the  city  must  have  had  a 
regular  name  before  that.  It  may  perhaps  mean 
"the  excellence  of  Mena,"  its  founder.  It  appears 
still  more  shortened  in  Hos  (9  0)  as  Moph  (moph), 


2031 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Melons 
Menahem 


and  in  Isa  (19  13),  Jer  (2  16),  and  Ezk  (30  13)  as 
Noph  (noph). 

The  classical  statements  show  that  the  city  in 
Rom  times  was  about  8  miles  long  and  4  miles  wide, 

and  the  indications  of  the  site  agree 
2.  Political  with  this.  It  was  the  sole  capital  of 
Position         Egypt    from    the    1st    to   the  XVIIth 

Dynasty;  it  shared  supremacy  with 
Thebes  during  the  XVIIIth  to  XXVth  Dynasties. 
and  with  S-Lis  to  the  XXXth  Dynasty.     Alexandria 


Statue  of  Rameses  II  at  Memphis. 

then  gradually  obscured  it,  but  the  governor  of 
Egypt  signed  the  final  capitulation  to  the  Arabs  in 
the  old  capital.  While  other  cities  assumed  a  polit- 
ical equality,  yet  commercially  Memphis  probably 
remained  supreme  until  the  Ptolemies. 

The  oldest   center  of  set  t  lenient   was  probably 

the  shrine  of  the  sacred  bull,  Apis  or  Hapy,  which 

was  in  the  S.  of  the  city.     This  wor- 

3.  The  ship  was  doubtless  prehistoric,  so  that 
Founders  when  the  first  king  of  all  Egypt,  Mena, 
and  the  founded  his  capital,  there  was  already 
City  a  nucleus.     His  great  work  was  taking 

in  land  to  the  N.,  and  founding  the 
temple  of  the  dynastic  god  Ptah,  which  was  ex- 
tended until  its  inclosure  included  as  much  as  the 
great  temple  of  Anion  at  Thebes,  about  3  furlongs 
long  and  2  furlongs  wide.  To  the  N.  of  this  was 
the  sacred  lake;  beyond  that,  the  palace  and  camp. 
Gradually  the  fashionable  quarters  moved  northward 
in  Egypt,  in  search  of  fresher  air;  the  rulers  had 
moved  10  miles  N.  to  Babylon  by  Rom  times, 
then  to  Fostat,  then  Cairo,  and  lastly  now  to 
Abbasiyeh  and  Kubkeh,  altogether  a  shift  of  18 
miles  in  8,000  years. 

After  the  shrine  of  Apis  the  next  oldest  center  is 

that  of  Ptah,  founded  by  Mena.    This  was  recently 

cleared    in    yearly    sections    by    the 

4.  Archaeo-  British  School,  finding  principally 
logical  sculptures  of  the  XVIIIth  and  XlXth 
Results  Dynasties.     The  account  of  the  north 

gate  given  by  Herodotus,  that  it  was 
built  by  Amenemhat  III,  has  been  verified  by  find- 
ing his  name  on  the  lintel.  An  immense  sphinx  of 
alabaster  26  ft.  long  has  also  been  found.  To  the 
E.  of  this  was  the  temple  of  the  foreign  quarter, 
the  temple  of  King  Proteus  in  Gr  accounts,  where 
foreign  pottery  and  terracotta  heads  have  been 
found.  Other  temples  that  are  known  to  have 
existed  in  Memphis  are  those  of  Hathor,  Neit, 
Amen,  Imhotep,  Isis,  Osiris-Sokar,  Khnumu, 
Bastel,  Tahut  i,  Anubis  and  Sebek. 

A  large  building  of  King  Siamen  (XXIst  Dynasty) 
has  been  found  S.  of  the  Ptah  temple.  To  the  N. 
of  the  great  temple  lay  the  fortress,  and  in  it  the 
palace  mound  of  the  XXVIth  Dynasty  covered  two 
acres.  It  has  been  completely  cleared,  but  the 
lower  part  is  still  to  be  examined.     The  north  end 


of  it  was  at  least  90  ft.  high,  of  brickwork,  filled  up 
to  half  the  height  by  a  flooring  raised  on  cellular 
brickwork.  The  great  court  was  about  110  ft. 
square,  and  its  roof  was  supported  by  16  columns 
45  ft.  high. 

The  principal  sights  of  Memphis  now  are  the 
great  colossus  of  Rameses  II,  the  lesser  colossus  of 
the  same,  and  the  immense  alabaster  sphinx.  The 
cemetery  of  the  city  is  the  most  important  in  Egypt ; 
it  lies  2  miles  to  the  W.  on  the  desert,  and  is  known 
as  Saqqareh,  from  So-kar,  the  god  of  the  dead. 
SeeSAQQAREH.  W.  M.  Flinders  Petrie 

MEMUCAN,mS-mu'kan  Cftltn? ,  memukhdn;  der- 
ivation unknown  but  probably  of  I'ers  origin  [Est 

1  14.16.21]):  One  of  "the  seven  princes  of  Persia 
and  Media,  who  saw  the  king's  face,  and  sat  first 
in  the  kingdom."  Ahasuerus  consults  these  men, 
as  those  "that  knew  law  and  judgment,"  as  to  the 
proper  treatment  of  the  rebellious  Vashti.  Me- 
mucan  is  the  spokesman  of  the  reply.  He  recom- 
mends Vashti's  deposition  so  that  '"all  the  wives 
will  give  to  their  husbands  honor,  both  to  great  and 
small."  This  advice  is  adopted  and  incorporated 
into  a  royal  decree — with  what  success  is  not  said. 

MENAHEM,  men'a-hem  (ETO1Q,  menahem, 
"one  who  comforts";    MavaT|(i,  Manatm;    2  K  15 

14-22):  Son  of  Gadi  and  16th  king  of 
1.  Acces-  Israel.  He  reigned  10  years.  Mena- 
sion  and  hem  was  probably  the  officer  in  charge 
Reign  of  the  royal  troops  in  Tirzah,  one  of  the 

king's  residences,  at  the  time  of  the 
murder  of  Zechariah  by  Shallum.  Hearing  of  the 
deed,  he  brought  up  his  troops  and  avenged  the 
death  of  his  master  by  putting  Shallum  to  death  in 
Samaria.  He  then  seized  the  vacant  throne.  His 
first  full  year  may  have  been  758  BC  (others,  as 
seen  below,  put  later). 

The  country  at  this  time,  as  depicted  by  Hosea 

and  Amos,  was  in  a  deplorable  condition  of  "anarchy 

and    lawlessness.     Menahem,    with    a 

2.  Early  strong  hand,  enforced  his  occupation  of 
Acts  the  throne.     One  town  only  seems  to 

have  refused  to  acknowledge  him.  This 
was  Tiphsah,  a  place  6  miles  S.W.  of  Shechem,  now 
the  ruined  village  of  Khurbet  Tafsah.  As  Menahem 
is  said  to  have  attacked  this  inclosed  city  from 
Tirzah,  lying  to  its  N.,  it  is  probable  that  he  took 
it  on  the  way  to  Samaria,  before  proceeding  to  do 
battle  with  Shallum.  If  this  was  so,  it  is  some 
explanation  of  the  cruelty  with  which  he  treated  its 
inhabitants  (ver  16).  One  such  instance  of  severity 
was  enough.  The  whole  kingdom  was  at  his  feet. 
He  proved  to  be  a  strong  and  determined  ruler, 
and  during  the  9  or  10  years  of  his  governorship 
had  no  further  internecine  trouble  to  contend  with. 
But  t  here  was  anot  her  source  of  disquiet.  Assyria, 
under  Pul,  had  resumed  her  advance  to  the  W.  and 
threatened  the  kingdoms  of  Palestine. 

3.  Mena-  Menahem  resolved  on  a  policy  of 
hem  and  diplomacy,  and,  rather  than  risk  a  war 
Assyria  with  the  conqueror  of  the  East,  agreed 

to  the  payment  of  a  heavy  tribute  of 
1,000  talents  of  silver.  To  raise  this  sum  he  had 
to  assess  his  wealthier  subjects  to  the  extent  of  50 
shekels  each.  As  there  are  3,000  shekels  in  a  talent 
of  silver,  it  is  obvious  that  some  60,000  persons, 
"mighty  men  of  wealth,"  must  have  been  laid  under 
contribution  in  this  levy — an  indication  at  once  of 
the  enormity  of  the  tribute,  and  of  the  prosperity 
of  the  country  at  the  time.  However  short- 
sighted the  policy,  its  immediate  purpose  was  at- 
tained, which  was  that  the  hand  of  the  Assyrian 
king  "might,  be  with  him  to  confirm  the  kingdom  in 
his  hand"  (ver  19). 


Menan 
Mephibosheth 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2032 


4.  A  Con 
flict  of 
Dates 


A  difficult v  attaches  to  the  dates  of  this  period. 
The  Pul  of  2  K  15  19  and  1  Ch  5  26  is  now 
identified  with  Tiglath-pileser  III, 
who  took  this  title  on  ascending  the 
throne  of  Assyria  in  745  BC.  In  an  in- 
scription of  Tiglath-pileser,  Menahem 
appears  as  Minehimmu  Samarind 
(Menahem  the  Samarian),  together  with  Rasunnu 
(Rezin)  of  Damascus  and  Hirumu  (Hiram)  of  Tyre. 
The  date  given  to  this  inscription  is  73S  BC,  where- 
as t  he  last  year  we  can  give  to  Menahem  is  749,  or 
10  years  earlier. 

The    chronological    difficulty  which  thus    arises 
may  be  met  in  one  of  two  ways.     Either  the  in- 
scription, like  that  on  the  black  obelisk 

5.  Proposed  of  Kurkh  (see  Jehu),  was  written  some 
Solutions       years  after  the  events  to  which  it  refers 

and  contains  records  of  operations  in 
which  Tiglath-pileser  took  part  before  he  became 
king;  or  Pekah — who  was  on  the  throne  of  Israel 
in  738  (?) — is  spoken  of  under  the  dynastic  name 
Menahem,  though  he  was  not  of  his  family.  The 
former  of  these  hypotheses  is  that  which  the  present 
writer  is  inclined  to  adopt.  (By  others  the  dates 
of  Menahem  are  lowered  in  conformity  with  the 
inscription;  see  Chronology  of  the  OT.) 

Menahem  attempted  no  reformation  in  the  na- 
tional religion,  but,  like  all  his  predecessors,  ad- 
hered  to   the  worship   of   the   golden 

6.  Character  calves.     On   this  account,  like  them, 

he  incurs  the  heavy  censure  of  the 
historian.  W.  Shaw  Caldecott 

MENAN,  me'nan.     See  Menna. 

MENE,  MENE,  TEKEL,  UPHARSIN,  me'nS, 
me'ne,  te'kel,  u-far'sin,  men'a,  men'a,  tek'el,  oo- 
far'sin  CpQ"lS*l  bp.I?  8.5ip  SS^,  mene'  mene'  fkel 
upharsin;  Theod.,  Mavf|,  9eK€\,  Rape's,  Mane,  thekel, 
phares):  These  are  the  words  that,  according  to 
Daniel's  reading,  were  inscribed  on  the  walls  of 
Belshazzar's  palace  and  that  caused  the  great  com- 
motion on  the  occasion  of  his  last  feast  (Dnl  5  25). 
As  the  only  authority  that  we  have  for  the  reading 
is  that  of  Daniel,  it  seems  but  fair  that  the  inter- 
pretation of  the  terms  be  left  to  the  person  who 
gave  us  the  text.  According  to  his  interpretation, 
there  is  a  double  sense  to  be  found  in  the  three 
different  words  of  the  inscription  (Dnl  5  26-28). 

Mene',  which,  however  it  is  pointed,  must  be 
taken  from  the  verb  menah  (Heb  manah;  Bab  manu), 
is  said  to  have  indicated  that  God  had  numbered 
(the  days  of)  Belshazzar's  kingdom  and  finished  it 
(or  delivered  it  up).  Both  of  these  meanings  can 
be  shown  to  be  proper  to  the  -j/  mcnah. 

Tckel,  on  the  contrary,  is  interpreted  as  coming 
from  two  roots:  the  first,  tekal,  "to  weigh,"  and 
the  second,  kal,  "to  be  light  or  wanting"  (Heb 
kalal;  Bab  kaldlu). 

Peres  (or  parsin)  also  is  interpreted  as  coming 
from  two  roots:  first,  peras,  "to  divide"  (Heb  paras 
or  pdrash;  Bab  pdrasu),  and  the  second  as  denoting 
the  proper  name  Paras,  "Persia."  Thus  inter- 
preted, the  whole  story  hangs  together,  makes  good 
sense,  and  is  fully  justified  by  the  context  and  by 
the  language  employed.  If  the  original  text  was 
in  Bab,  the  signs  were  ambiguous;  if  they  were  in 
Aram.,  the  consonants  alone  were  written,  and  hence 
the  reading  would  be  doubtful.  In  either  case,  the 
inscription  was  apparent  but  not  readable,  except 
by  Daniel  with  the  aid  of  God,  through  whom  also 
the  seer  was  enabled  to  give  the  proper  interpre- 
tation. That  Daniel's  interpretation  was  accepted 
by  Belshazzar  and  the  rest  shows  that  the  interpre- 
tation of  the  signs  was  reasonable  and  convincing 
when  once  it  had  been  made.     We  see,  therefore, 


no  good  reason  for  departing  from  the  interpreta- 
tion that  the  Book  of  Did  gives  as  the  true  one. 

As  to  the  interpretation  of  the  inscription,  it 
makes  no  difference  wdiether  the  signs  represented 
a  mina,  a  shekel,  and  two  perases,  as  has  been 
recently  suggested  by  M.  Clermont-Ganneau.  In 
this  case  the  meaning  was  not  so  apparent,  but  the 
puns,  the  play  upon  the  sounds,  were  even  better. 
We  doubt,  however,  if  it  can  be  shown  that  t'kel 
means  shekel.  On  the  old  Aram,  documents  of 
Egypt  and  Assyria,  it  is  with  one  exception  spelled 
shekel.  In  the  Tg  of  Onkelos,  shekel  is  always 
rendered  by  sela\  in  the  Pesh  and  Arab.  VSS,  by 
mathkal;  in  the  Samaritan  Tg,  by  mathkal  (except 
only  perhaps  in  Gen  23  16,  where  we  have  ethkel). 
In  the  Tg  of  Onkelos,  wherever  tikld'  occurs,  it 
translates  the  Heb  beka1  (Gen  24  22  and  Ex  38 
26  only).  Mene',  to  be  sure,  may  have  meant  the 
mina,  and  peres,  the  half-mina.  The  pdrash  is 
mentioned  in  the  inscription  of  Panammu  and  in 
an  Aram,  inscription  on  an  Assyr  weight.  Besides 
this,  it  is  found  in  the  New  Heb  of  the  Mish.  It  is 
not  found,  however,  in  the  Tg  of  Onkelos,  nor  in 
Syr,  nor  in  the  OT  Heb;  nor  in  the  sense  of  half- 
shekel  in  the  Aram,  papyri.  While,  then,  it  may 
be  admitted  that  Daniel  may  have  read,  _  "A  mina, 
a  mina,  a  shekel,  and  two  half-minas,"  it  is  alto- 
gether unlikely,  and  there  is  certainly  no  proof  that 
he  did.  Yet,  if  he  did,  his  punning  interpretations 
were  justified  by  the  usage  of  ancient  oracles  and 
interpreters  of  signs,  and  also  by  the  event. 

R.  Dick  Wilson 

MENELAUS,  men-e-la'us  (Mev&aos,  Menelaos): 
According  to  the  less  likely  account  of  Jos  (Ant, 
XII,  v,  1;  XV,  hi,  1;  XX,  x,  3),  Menelaus  was  a 
brother  of  Jason  and  Onias  III,  and  his  name  was 
really  Onias.  But  it  is  very  unlikely  that  there 
should  be  two  brothers  of  the  same  name.  The 
account  of  2  Mace  is  more  credible — that  Menelaus 
was  the  brother  of  the  notorious  Simon  who  sug- 
gested to  the  Syrians  the  plundering  of  the  temple; 
he  was  thus  of  the  tribe  of  Benjamin  (2  Mace  4 
23;  cf  with  3  4)  and  not  properly  eligible  to  the 
high-priesthood.  He  was  intrusted  by  Jason  (171 
BC),  who  had  supplanted  Onias,  with  contributions 
to  the  king  of  Syria,  Antiochus  Epiphanes,  and  by 
outbidding  Jason  in  presents  he  secured  the  office 
of  high  priest  for  himself  (4  23  f),  171  BC.  Mene- 
laus returned  with  "the  passion  of  a  cruel  tyrant" 
to  Jerus,  and  Jason  fled.  But  as  Menelaus  failed 
to  pay  the  promised  amount,  both  he  and  Sostratus, 
the  governor,  were  summoned  to  appear  before  the 
king.  Lysimachus,  the  brother  of  Menelaus,  was 
left  at  Jerus  in  the  meantime  as  deputy  high  priest. 
The  king  was  called  from  his  capital  to  suppress  an 
insurrection  of  Tarsus  and  Mallus.  Menelaus 
took  advantage  of  his  absence  to  win  over  Andro- 
nicus,  the  king's  deputy,  by  rich  presents  stolen 
from  the  temple.  For  this  sacrilege  Onias  III 
sharply  reproved  him  and  fled  to  a  sanctuary, 
Daphne,  near  Antioch.  Andronicus  was  then 
further  persuaded  by  Menelaus  to  entice  Onias  from 
his  retreat  and  murder  him  (4  34  f) — an  act  against 
which  both  Jews  and  Greeks  protested  to  the  king 
on  his  return,  and  secured  deserved  punishment 
for  Andronicus.  Meanwhile,  the  oppression  of 
Lysimachus,  abetted  by  Menelaus,  caused  a  bloody 
insurrection  in  Jerus,  in  connection  with  which  a 
Jewish  deputation  brought  an  accusation  against 
Menelaus  on  the  occasion  of  Antiochus'  visit  to 
Tyre.  Menelaus  bribed  Ptolemy,  son  of  Doryme- 
nes,  to  win  over  the  king  to  acquit  himself  and 
secure  the  execution  of  "those  hapless  men,  who,  if 
they  had  pleaded  even  before  Scythians,  would 
have  been  discharged  uncondemned"  (4  39  ft"). 
Menelaus  returned  in  triumph  to  his  office.  But 
Jason,  taking  advantage  of  Epiphanes'  absence  in 


2033 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Menan 
Mephibosheth 


Egypt  and  a  false  rumor  of  his  death,  made  a  bloody 
but  unsuccessful  attempt  upon  the  city,  in  order  to 
secure  his  office  again;  his  rival  took  "refuge  in  the 
citadel.  The  king  returned  in  fury,  caused  a  three 
days'  slaughter  of  the  citizens,  rifled  the  temple 
with  Menelaus  as  guide,  and  left  him  as  one  of  his 
agents  to  keep  the  Jews  in  subjection  (2  Mace  5 
1  ft' J.  He  appears  next  and  for  the  last  time  in  the 
reign  of  Eupator  in  162  BC.  Lysias,  the  king's 
chancellor,  accused  him  to  the  king  as  the  cause  of 
all  the  troubles  in  Judaea  (2  Mace  13  3-8). 
Eupator  caused  him  to  be  brought  to  Beroea  and 
there — before,  according  to  2  Mace,  loc.  cit.,  or 
after,  according  to  Jos,  Ant,  XII,  ix,  7,  the  invasion 
of  Judaea  by  Eupator  and  Lysias — to  be  put  to 
death  by  being  flung  from  the  top  of  a  high  tower 
into  the  ashes  of  which  it  was  full — a  fitting  end  for 
such  a  wretch.  S.  Angus 

MENESTHEUS,  me-nes't  litis,  me-nes'th5-us 
(M«v€o-6evis,  Menesthetis,  A,  Mevco-Geo-e'tos,  Menes- 
theseds):  The  father  of  Apollonius,  a  general  of 
Epiphanes  (2  Mace  4  21  and  in  2  Mace  4  4  RV, 
following  a  conjecture  of  Hort  [lleveo-etws,  Menes- 
theos,  for  /xaLveadai  <?ws,  mainesthai  heds;  the  latter 
isret  ained  in  Swete  and  Fritzsche]).  "Son  of  Menes- 
theus"  is  added  to  distinguish  this  Apollonius  from 
"A.  son  of  Thrasaeus"  (2  Mace  3  5)  and  "A.  son  of 
Gennaeus"  (12  2).     See  Apollonh  s. 

MENI,  me'ni:  Destiny,  a  god  of  Good  Luck, 
possibly  the  Pleiades  (Isa  65  11  m).  See  Astrol- 
ogy, 10;  Gad. 

MENNA,  men'a  (Mewd,  Mennd,  WH,  Treg., 
Tisch.;    Maivdv,  Ma'indn,    TR;    AV   Menan):    An 

ancestor  of  Jesus,  a  great-grandson  of  David  (Lk 
3  31). 

MENUHAH,  men-u'ha  {TVHK'Q  ,  m'nuhah,  "place 
of  rest";  AV  Menuchah,  men-u'ka):  Rendered  in 
Jgs  20  43  AV  "with  ease,"  RV  "at  their  resting- 
place."  Both,  however,  have  a  marginal  suggest  ion 
which  would  make  the  word  a  place-name,  which 
would  then  more  naturally  read  "from  Nuhah  over 
against  Gibeah,"  thus  describing  the  ground  over 
which  the  slaughter  of  the  Benjamites  occurred.     In 

I  Ch  8  2  the  word  "Nohah"  occurs  as  that  of  a 
Benjamite  clan.  The  place  intended  is  perhaps 
Manahath  (q.v.). 

MENUHOTH,  men-u'hoth  (PlinjTp,  m'nuhoth, 
"dwellings";  AV  ^HJp,  manahti,  Manahethites) : 
The  first  form  is  the  RV  transliterated  in  the  name; 
the  second  form  is  AV  retained  by  RV  in  the  pas- 
sages where  the  word  occurs  (1  Ch  2  52;  cf  ver 
54).  The  people  here  spoken  of  by  AV  as  "half  of 
the  Manahethites"  are  mentioned  as  descendants 
of  Salma  (ver  54),  while  those  mentioned  as  Menu- 
hot  h  are  mentioned  as  descendants  of  Judah  through 
Shobal,  father  of  Kiriath-jearim.  Both  words  are 
from  the  same  root.  AV  keeps  the  same  designa- 
tion for  both  passages,  while  RV  has  marked  the 
difference  in  spelling  by  changing  the  first  passage 
and  following  AV  in  the  second.  Both  sections  of 
the  family  belong  to  the  clan  Caleb,  and  it  would 
seem  that  they  became  the  dominant  people  in  the 
otherwise  unknown  town  of  Manahath,  so  that  it 
came  to  be  regarded  as  belonging  to  Judah.  It  may 
be  connected  with  the  Menuchah  (RV  "Menuhah") 
suggested  as  a  place-name  in  Jgs  20  43  m.  In  the 
LXX  between  vs  59  and  GO  of  Josh  ch  15  the  names  of 

II  cities  are  inserted,  among  them  being  a  Manocho 
whose  Heb  equivalent  gives  the  word.  It  is  diffi- 
cult to  identify,  and  the  Vulg  cuts  the  knot  by  trans- 
lating "dimidium  requietionum"!     See  Manahath. 

Henry  Wallace 


MEONENIM,  mO-on'C-nim,  mC-d'ne-nim,  OAK 
OF:  (ir:;^  flbSt,  'elon  m^on'nlm;  B,  'HW- 
(lawvcueCv,  Elonmaonemein,  A,  8pv6s  diropX.€ir6v- 
twv,  druos  apobleponton;  AV  Plain  of):  This  was 
a  sacred  tree  which  apparently  could  be  seen  from 
the  gate  of  Shechem  (Jgs  9  37).  No  doubt  it  took 
its  name  from  the  soothsayers  who  sat  under  it, 
practising  augury,  etc.  Several  times  mention  is 
made  of  sacred  trees  in  the  vicinity  of  Shechem 
(Gen  35  4;  Josh  24  26;  Jgs  9  6,  etc).  Where 
this  tree  stood  is  not  known.     See  Augurs'  Oak. 

MEONOTHAI,  me-on'6-thi,  me-o'no-thl,  me- 
5-no'thi  Cr-Z^yg,  ?ne*dndthai,  "my  dwellings"):  A 
son  of  Othniel,'  nephew  of  Caleb  (1  Ch  4  14). 
Possibly,  as  AVm  suggests,  and  the  Vulg  and 
Complutensian  LXX  say,  vs  13.14  should  read  "the 
sons  of  Othniel,  Hat  hath  and  Meonothai;  and 
Meonothai  begat  Ophrah,"  etc.  The  latter  may 
be  founder  of  the  town  of  that  name. 

MEPHAATH,  mef'a-ath,  me-fa'ath  (rrStt  and 
nr?"1^,  mepha'ath,  n^DlE,  mopha'ath;  B,  Mai- 
(j>da0,  Maiphdath,  Mi^dae,  Mephdath) :  A  city  of  the 
Amorites  in  the  territory  allotted  to  Reuben.named 
with  Kedemoth  and  Kiriathaim  (Josh  13  18),  and 
given  to  the  Merarite  Levites  (21  37;  1  Ch  6  79). 
It  appears  again  as  a  Moabite  town  in  Jer  48  21. 
It  was  known  to  Eusebius  and  Jerome  {Onom)  as 
occupied  by  a  Rom  garrison,  but  the  site  has  been 
lost. 

MEPHIBOSHETH,  me-fib'6-sheth  (nf^SlG , 
m '  phlbhosheth,  "idol-breaker,"  also  Merib-baal 
[q.v.];    Mep.<J>iP6(re€,  M ' emphibosthe) : 

(1)  Son  of  Saul  by  his  concubine  Rizpah  (q.v.), 
daughter  of  Aiah  (2  S  21  8).     See  also  Armoni. 

(2)  Grandson  of  Saul,  son  of  Jonathan,  and 
nephew  of  Mephibosheth  (1)  (2  S  4  4).  He  was 
5  years  old  when  his  father  and  grandfather  were 
slain.  He  was  living  in  charge  of  a  nurse,  possibly 
because  his  mother  was  dead.  Tidings  of  the  dis- 
aster at  Jezreel  and  the  onsweep  of  the  Philis  terri- 
fied the  nurse.  She  fled  with  her  charge  in  such 
haste  that  a  fall  lamed  the  little  prince  in  both 
feet  for  life.  His  life  is  a  series  of  disasters,  dis- 
appointments, and  anxieties.  It  is  a  weary,  broken, 
dispirited  soul  that  speaks  in  all  his  utterances. 
The  nurse  carried  him  to  Lo-debar  among  the 
mountains  of  Gilead,  where  he  was  brought  up  by 
Machir,  son  _  of  Ammiel  (2  S  9  4).  There  he  evi- 
dently married,  for  he  had  a  son  Mica  when  he 
returned  later  at  David's  request.  When  David 
had  settled  his  own  affairs  and  subdued  his  enemies, 
he  turned  his  inquiries  to  Saul's  household  to  see 
whether  there  were  any  survivors  to  whom  he  might 
show  kindness  for  Jonathan's  sake  (2  S  9  1).  The 
search  caused  the  appearance  of  Ziba,  a  servant  of 
Saul's  house  (ver  2),  who  had  meanwhile  grown 
prosperous  by  some  rapid  process  which  can  only 
be  guessed  at  (vs  9.10).  From  him  David  learned 
about  Mephibosheth,  who  was  sent  for.  His 
humble  bearing  was  consistent  with  his  chronically 
broken  spirit.  David  put  Ziba's  property  (which 
had  belonged  to  Saul)  at  Mephibosheth's  disposal 
and  made  Ziba  steward  thereof.  Mephibosheth 
was  also  to  be  a  daily  guest  at  David's  table  (2  S 
9  11-13).  Seventeen  years  pass,  during  which 
Mephibosheth  seems  to  have  lived  in  Jerus.  Then 
came  Absalom's  rebellion.  David  determined  to 
flee,  so  distraught  was  he  by  the  act  of  his  son.  At 
the  moment  of  flight,  in  great  depression  and  need, 
he  was  opportunely  met  by  Ziba  with  food,  refresh- 
ment and  even  means  for  travel.  Naturally,  the 
king  inquired  for  Ziba's  master.  The  treacherous 
reply  was  made  (2  S  16  1-4)  that  Mephibosheth 


Merab 

Mercy,  Merciful 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2034 


had  remained  behind  for  his  own  ends,  hoping  the 
people  would  give  him,  Saul's  grandson,  the  king- 
dom. David  believed  this  and  restored  to  Ziba 
the  property  lost.  Not-  till  many  days  after  did 
the  lame  prince  get  his  chance  to  give  David  his 
own  version  of  the  story.  He  met  David  on  his 
return  from  quelling  Absalom's  rebellion.  He  had 
not  dressed  his  feet,  trimmed  his  beard  nor  washed 
his  clothes  since  the  hour  of  David's  departure 
(2  S  19  24).  At  David's  anxious  request  Mephib- 
osheth  told  his  story:  his  servant  had  deceived 
him;  he  wanted  to  go  with  David,  had  even  asked 
for  his  beast  to  be  saddled;  but  Ziba  had  left  him, 
and  had  slandered  him  to  the  king.  But  he  would 
not  plead  his  cause  any  more;  David  is  "as  an 
angel  of  Cod";  whatever  Ik;  decides  will  be  well! 
(2  S  19  26.27).  Thus  characteristically  continued 
the  speech  of  this  lame,  broken,  humble  man,  son 
of  a  proud  family  (ver  28).  David  wearily  settled 
the  matter  by  dividing  the  property  between  the 
prince  and  his  servant,  the  prince  expressing  utmost 
content  that  Ziba  should  take  all  so  long  as  David 
remained  friendly  (vs  29.30).  That  David  accepted 
Mephibosheth's  explanation  and  was  drawn  out  in 
heart  toward  the  character  of  the  broken  man  is 
shown  by  the  fact  that  when  some  expiation  from 
Saul's  household  was  considered  necessary  to  turn 
away  the  famine  sent  by  an  offended  deity,  Mephib- 
oshcth  is  spared  when  other  members  of  Saul's 
household  were  sacrificed  (2  S  21  7).  The  char- 
acter of  Mephibosheth  well  illustrates  the  effect  of 
continued  disaster,  suspicion  and  treachery  upon 
a  sensitive  mind.  Henry  Wallace 

MERAB,  me'rab  P"!)?,  merabh,  "increase"; 
MepofJ,  Mcrob):  The  elder  daughter  of  Saul  (1  S 
14  49),  promised,  though  not  by  name,  to  the  man 
who  should  slay  the  Phili  Goliath  (1  S  17  25). 
David  did  this  and  was  afterward  taken  by  Saul 
to  court  (1  S  18  2),  where  he  was  detained  in  great 
honor.  Merab  was  not,  however,  given  to  him  as 
quickly  as  the  incident  would  lead  one  to  expect, 
and  the  sequel  showed  some  unwillingness  on  the 
part  of  some  persons  in  the  contract  to  complete  the 
promise.  The  adulation  of  the  crowd  who  met 
David  on  his  return  from  Phili  warfare  and  gave 
him  a  more  favorable  ascription  than  to  Saul 
(1  S  18  6-16)  awoke  the  angry  jealousy  of  Saul.  He 
"eyed  David  from  that  day  and  forward"  (ver  9). 
Twice  David  had  to  "avoid"  the  "evil  spirit"  in 
Saul  (ver  11).  Saul  also  feared. David  (ver  12), 
and  this  led  him  to  incite  the  youth  to  more  danger- 
ous deeds  of  valor  against  the  Philis  by  a  renewed 
promise  of  Merab.  He  will  have  David's  life,  but 
rather  by  the  hand  of  the  Philis  than  his  own  (ver 
17).  Merab  was  to  be  the  bait.  But  now  another 
element  complicated  matters — Michal's  love  for 
David  (ver  20),  which  may  have  been  the  retarding 
factor  from  the  first.  At  any  rate  Merab  is  finally 
given  to  Adriel  the  Meholathite  (ver  19).  The  pas- 
sage in  2  S  21  8  doubtless  contains  an  error — 
Michal's  name  occurring  for  that  of  her  sister 
Merab — though  the  LXX,  Jos,  and  a  consistent 
Heb  text  all  perpetuate  it,  as  well  as  the  concise 
meaning  of  the  Heb  word  Ydladh,  which  is  a  physio- 
logical word  for  bearing  children,  and  cannot  be 
tr*1  "brought  up."  A  Tg  explanation  reads:  "The 
5  sons  of  Merab  (which  Michal,  Saul's  daughter 
brought  up)  which  she  bare,"  etc.  Another  sug- 
gestion reads  the  word  "sister"  after  Michal  in  the 
possessive  case,  leaving  the  text  otherwise  as  it 
stands.  It  is  possible  that  Merab  died  compara- 
tively young,  and  that  her  children  were  left  in  the 
care  of  their  aunt,  esp.  when  it  is  said  she  herself 
had  none  (2  S  6  23).  The  simplest  explanation 
is  to  assume  a  scribal  error,  with  the  suggestion 
referred  to  as  a  possible  explanation  of  it.     The 


lonely  Michal  (2  S  6  20-23)  became  so  identified 
with  her  (deceased)  sister's  children  that  they 
became,  in  a  sense,  hers.  Henry  Wallace 

MERAIAH,  me-ra'ya,  me-rl'a  (rt^Y)},  m'rayah, 
"contumacious"):  A  priest  in  the  time  of  Joiakim 
son  of  Jeshua,  and  head  of  the  priestly  house  of 
Seraiah  to  which  Ezra  belonged  (Neh  12  12;  cf 
Ezr  7  1). 

MERAIOTH,  me-ra'yoth,  me-ri'oth  (nTHX) , 
merdyoth):   The  name  varies  much  in  the  Or. 

(1)  A  Levite,  a  descendant  of  Aaron  (1  Ch  6  Of; 
Ezr  7  3),  called  "Memeroth"  in  1  Esd  8  2;  and 
"Marimoth"  in  2  Esd  1  2. 

(2)  The  son  of  Ahitub  and  father  of  Zadok  (1  Ch 
9  11). 

(3)  A  priestly  house  of  which,  in  the  days  of 
Joiakim,  Ilelkai  was  head  (Neh  12  15).  In  ver  3 
the  name  is  given  as  "Meremoth." 

MERAN,  me'ran.     See  Merran. 

MERARI,  me-ra'rl  ("H"V5?,  rn'rarl,  "bitter"; 
MapapfC,  Mararei): 

(1)  The  3d  son  of  Levi,  his  brothers,  Gershon  and 
Kohath,  being  always  mentioned  together  with  him 
(Gen  46  11;  Ex  6  16  ff).  He  was  among  those 
70  who  went  down  to  Egvpt  with  Jacob  (Gen  46 
8.11;  cf  ver  26  and  Ex  1  5). 

(2)  The  family  of  Merari,  descendants  of  above, 
and  always — with  one  exception,  for  which  see 
Merarites — spoken  of  as  "sons  of  Merari"  in 
numerous  references,  such  as  1  Ch  6  1.16.19.29, 
which  only  repeat  without  additional  information 
the  references  to  be  found  in  the  body  of  this  article. 
We  early  find  them  divided  into  two  families,  the 
Mahli  and  Mushi  (Ex  6  19;  Nu  3  17.20.33).  At 
the  exodus  they  numbered,  under  their  chief  Zuriel, 
6,200,  and  they  were  assigned  the  north  side  of  the 
tabernacle  as  a  tenting-place  (Nu  3  34.35),  thus 
sharing  in  the  honor  of  those  who  immediately  sur- 
rounded the  tabernacle — the  south  side  being  given 
to  the  Kohathites,  the  west  to  the  Gershonites,  and 
the  east — toward  the  sun-rising — being  reserved  for 
Moses,  Aaron  and  his  sons  (Nu  3  23. 29. 35. 38). 
To  the  Merarites  was  intrusted  the  care  of  the 
boards,  bars,  pillars,  sockets,  vessels,  pins  and  cords 
of  the  tabernacle  (Nu  3  36.37;  4  29-33).  They 
and  the  Gershonites  were  "under  the  hand"  of 
Ithamar,  son  of  Aaron,  the  sons  of  Gershon  having 
charge  of  the  softer  material  of  the  tabernacles — 
curtains,  covers,  hangings,  etc  (Nu  3  25.26). 
When  reckoned  by  the  number  fit  for  service,  i.e. 
between  30  and  50  years,  the  sons  of  Merari  were 
3,200  strong  (Nu  4  42-45).  Because  of  the  weight 
of  the  material  in  their  charge  they  were  allowed  4 
wagons  and  8  oxen  for  carriage  (Nu  7  8).  In 
marching,  when  the  tabernacle  was  taken  down,  the 
standard  of  Judah  went  first  (Nu  10  14) ;  then 
followed  the  Merarites  bearing  the  tabernacle  (ver 
17),  and  after  them  came  the  standard  of  Reuben 
(ver  18).  After  the  settlement  in  Canaan  they  had 
12  cities  assigned  them  out  of  Gad,  Reuben  and 
Zebulun  (Josh  21  7.34-40;  1  Ch  6  63.77-81),  just 
as  the  other  two  branches  of  Levi's  family  had 
their  12  cities  respectively  assigned  out  of  the  other 
tribes  (Josh  21).  The  names  of  these  Merarite  cities 
are  given  (loc.  cit.),  and  among  them  is  Ramoth- 
gilead,  one  of  the  cities  of  refuge  (ver  38).  It  is 
evident  from  1  Ch  6  44-47;  16  41;  25  1.3.6.9.11. 
15.19.21  f;  cf  15  6.17-19  that  they  had  charge 
under  Ethan  or  Jeduthun  of  the  temple  music  in 
the  service.  In  David's  time  Asaiah  was  their 
chief  (1  Ch  15  6).  Himself  and  220  of  the  family 
helped  David  to  bring  up  the  Ark.     David  divided 


203-5 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  £Jerab  ,-     .,  , 
Mercy,  Merciful 


the  Levites  into  courses  among  the  Gershonites, 
Kohathites  and  Merarites  (1  Ch  23  6;  cf  vs  21-23; 

24  26-30).  The  functions  of  certain  Merarites 
are  described  in  1  Ch  26  10-19.  They  also  took 
part  in  cleansing  the  temple  in  Hezekiah's  time 
(2  Ch  29  12)  as  well  as  in  the  days  of  Josiah  (2  Ch 
34  12),  helping  to  repair  the  house  of  the  Lord. 
Among  the  helpers  of  Ezra,  too,  we  find  some  of 
them  numbered  (Ezr  8  IS.  19).  The  family  seems 
to  have  played  a  very  important  part  in  keeping 
steady  and  true  such  faithfulness  as  remained  in 
Israel. 

(3)  The  father  of  Judith  (Jth  8  1;   16  7). 

Henry  Wallace 

MERARITES,  m6-ra'rits  PT^ ,  ?nerarl,  "bitter") : 
The  descendants  of  Merari  (q.v.),  son  of  Levi. 
The  only  place  where  this  form  of  the  word  occurs 
is  Nu  26  57.  Elsewhere  they  are  always  referred 
to  as  "sons  of  Merari." 

MERATHAIM,  mer-a-tha'im  (D"?nn^,  m'ra- 
thaylm,  "double  rebellion"):  A  name  used  for  Baby- 
lon in  Jer  50  21.     According  to  Delitzsch  it  may 

be  equivalent  to  the  Bab  Marratun,  i.e.  land  by  the 
nar  Marratu,  "the  bitter  river"  (Pers  Gulf )  = 
Southern  Babylonia  (OHL,  s.v.). 

MERCHANDISE,  rmVchan-dlz  ([1]  Tgjy,  \lmar, 
[2]  "inC,  sahar,  [3]  *inC,  sahar,  [4]  rnbp,  .fhdrah, 
t5J.n'^1,  rkhullah,  [G]  ^~]"X,  ma'drdbh,  [7] 
^?2")T3,  markoleth;  [8]  tfnropia,  emporla,  [9]  !|a- 
irdpiov,  emporion,  [10]  "yojios,  gomos):  There  seem 
to  be  4  distinct  meanings  of  the  word  according  to 
RV,  viz.:  (1)  The  products,  i.e.  goods  or  things  sold 
or  exchanged,  and  so  merchandise  in  the  present- 
day  usage:  (a)  sahar  is  trd  thus  in  Prov  31  18; 
Isa  23  18;  (&)  §ahar  is  trd  thus  in  Isa  45  14;  these 
two  are  from  a  {/  meaning  to  travel  about  as  a 
peddler;  (c)  rkhulldh,  trd  thus  in  Ezk  26  12,  from 
a  \/  meaning  to  travel  for  trading  purposes;  (d) 
ma'drabh,  trd  thus  in  Ezk  27  9.27.33.34,  from  a  ■/ 
meaning  to  intermix,  to  barter;  (e)  markoleth, 
trd  thus  in  Ezk  27  24  (the  above  5  Heb  words  are 
all  used  to  designate  the  goods  or  wares  which  were 
bartered);  (/)  Kamar,  occurring  in  Dt  21  14;  24  7, 
trd  in  AV  "make  merchandise  of,"  but  in  RV  "deal 
with  as  a  slave,"  or  RVm  "deal  with  as  a  chattel"; 
(g)  emporia,  trd  "merchandise"  in  Mt  22  5;  (h) 
emporion,  likewise  in  Jn  2  16  (the  same  Gr  word  is 
used  in  2  Pet  2  3  for  ARV  "make  merchandise 
of  you");    (i)  gomos,  "merchandise,"  m  "cargo." 

(2)  The  process  of  trade  itself,  i.e.  the  business: 
rekhullah  has  in  it  the  -j/  meaning  of  itinerant  trad- 
ing, and  so  in  Ezk  28  16  the  correct  tr  is  not  "mer- 
chandise," as  in  AV,  but  "traffic,"  "abundance  of 
thy  traffic,"  i.e.  doing  a  thriving  business:  "trade 
was  good." 

(3)  The  place  of  trading,  i.e.  emporium,  mart, 
etc:  fhorah  in  Ezk  27  15  is  trd  "mart."  In  Jn 
2  16  reference  is  made  to  the  "house  of  merchan- 
dise." 

(4)  The  profits  of  trading:  In  Prov  3  14,  sahar 
is  trd  "gaining."  Referring  to  wisdom,  "For  the 
gaining  of  it  is  better  than  the  gaining  of  silver, 
and  the  profit  thereof  than  fine  gold";  AV  "mer- 
chandise." William  Edward  Raffety 

MERCHANT,    mur'chant,    MERCHANTMAN, 

mur'chant-man.     See  Commerce;     Merchandise; 
Trade. 

MERCURY,  mur'ku-ri,  MERCURIUS,  mer-kii'- 
ri-us:  The  tr  of  'Ep/«?s,  H emits,  in  Acts  14  12: 
"They  called  Barnabas,  Jupiter;  and  Paul,  Mercury, 
because  he  was  t  he  chief  speaker."  Hermes  was  the 
god  of  eloquence  (and  also  of  theft),  the  attend- 


ant, messenger  and  spokesman  of  the  gods.  The 
more  commanding  presence  of  Barnabas  (cf  2  Cor 
10  10)  probably  caused  him  to  be  identified  with 
Zeus  (the  Rom  Jupiter),  while  his  gift  of  eloquence 
suggested  the  identification  of  Paul  with  Hermes 
(the  Rom  Mercury).  The  temple  of  Jupiter  was 
before  Lystra,  and  to  him  the  Lycaonians  paid  their 
chief  worship.  Cf  the  legend  of  Baucis  and  Phile- 
mon (Ovid,  Metam.  viii.611  f)  and  see  Hermes; 
Jupiter;  Greece,  Religion  in.       M.  O.  Evans 

MERCY,  mur'si,  MERCIFUL,  mur'si-foe-l  pen, 
hesedh,  Crn ,  raham,  "in,  hanan;  €\eos,  eleos, 
ikiio),  deed,  otKTipfi.6s,  oiktirmos) :  "Mercy"  is  a  dis- 
tinctive Bible  word  characterizing  God  as  revealed 
to  men. 

In  the  OT  it  is  oftenest  the  tr  of  hescdh,  "kindness." 
"loving-kindness"  (sec  Lovingkindn'es's),  bill  rahdm'im, 
lit.  "bowels"  (the  sympathetic  region),  and  hanan,  "to 
be  inclined  to."  "to  be  gracious,"  are  also  frequently  tH 
"mercy";  eleos,  "kindness,"  "beneficence,"  and  eleeo, 
"to  show  kindness,"  are  the  chief  words  rendering 
"mercy"  in  the  NT;  oiktirmos,  "pity,"  "compassion," 
occurs  a  few  times,  also  oiktirmon,  "pitiful,"  cleemon, 
"kind,"  "compassionate,"  twice;  hileos,  "forgiving,"' 
and  tiiilh'ds,  "not  forgiving,"  " without  mercy, "  once 
each  (He  8   12;  Jas  2  13). 

(1)  Mercy  is  (a)  an  essential  quality  of  God  (Ex 
34  6.7;  Dt  4  31;  Ps  62  12,  etc);  it  'is  His  delight 
(Mie  7  18.20;  Ps  52  8);  He  is  "the  Father  of 
mercies"  (2  Cor  1  3),  "rich  in  mercy"  (Eph  2  4), 
"full  of  pity,  and  merciful"  (Jas  5  11);  (b)  it  is 
associated  with  forgiveness  (Ex  34  7;  Nu  14  18; 
1  Tim  1  13.16);  (c)  with  His  forbearance  (Ps  145 
8,  "Jeh  is  gracious  and  merciful,  slow  to  anger 
and  of  great  lovingkindness" ;  cf  Rom  2  4;  11  32); 
{d)  with  His  covenant  (1  K  8  23;  Neh  1  5), 
with  His  justice  (Ps  101  1),  with  His  faithfulness 
(Ps  89  24),  with  His  truth  (Ps  108  4);  mercy  and 
truth  are  united  in  Prov  3  3;  14  22,  etc  (in  Ps 
85  10  we  have  "Mercy  and  truth  are  met  together") ; 
(e)  it  goes  forth  to  all  (Ps  145  9,  "Jeh  is  good  to 
all;  and  his  tender  mercies  are  over  all  his  works"; 
cf  ver  16,  "Thou  openest  thine  hand,  and  satisfiest 
the  desire  of  every  living  thing,"  RVm  "satisfiest 
every  living  thing  with  favor");  (/)  it  shows  itself 
in  pitying  help  (Ex  3  7;  Ezr  9  9f),  supremely  in 
Christ  and  His  salvation  (Lk  1  50.54.58;  Eph  2 
4);  (g)  it  is  abundant,  practically  infinite  (Ps  86 
5.15;  119  64);  (h)  it  is  everlasting  (1  Ch  16  34. 
41;  Ezr  3  11;  Ps  100  5;  136  repeatedly). 

(2)  "Mercy"  is  used  of  man  as  well  as  of  God,  and 
is  required  on  man's  part  toward  man  and  beast 
(Dt  25  4;  Ps  37  21;  109  16;  Prov  12  10;  Dnl 
4  27;  Mic  6  8;  Mt  5  7,  "Blessed  are  the  merciful: 
for  they  shall  obtain  mercy";  25  31-46;  Lk  6  36, 
"Be  ye  merciful,  even  as  your  Father  is  merciful"; 
10  30 f,  the  Good  Samaritan;  14  12-16;  Jas  3  17). 

(3)  In  the  NT  "mercy"  (eleos,  usually  the  LXN 
tr  of  hesedh)  is  associated  with  "grace"  (chdris)  in 
the  apostolical  greetings  and  elsewhere.  Trench 
points  out  that  the  difference  between  them  is  that 
the  freeness  of  God's  love  is  the  central  point  of 
charts,  while  eleos  has  in  view  misery  and  its  relief; 
charts  is  His  free  grace  and  gift  displayed  in  the  for- 
giveness of  sins — extended  to  men  as  they  are 
guilty;  His  eleos  (is  extended  to  them)  as  they  are 
miserable.  The  lower  creation  may  be  the  object 
of  His  mercy  (eleos),  but  man  alone  of  His  grace 
(charts);  he  alone  needs  it  and  is  capable  of  re- 
ceiving it  (Synonyms  of  the  NT,  163  f). 

(4)  From  all  the  foregoing  it  will  be  seen  that 
mercy  in  God  is  not  merely  His  pardon  of  offenders, 
but  His  attitude  to  man,  and  to  the  world  gener- 
ally, from  which  His  pardoning  mercy  proceeds. 
The  frequency  with  which  mercy  is  enjoined  on 
men  is  specially  deserving  of  notice,  with  the  ex- 
clusion of  the  unmerciful  from  sonship  to  the  all- 


Mercy-Seat 
Mesha 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2036 


merciful  Father  and  from  the  benefits  of  His  merci- 
fulness. Shakespeare's  question,  "How  canst  thou 
hope  for  mercy  rendering  none?"  is  fully  warranted 
by  Our  Lord's  teaching  and  by  Scripture  in  general; 
cf  esp.  the  parable  of  the  Unmerciful  Servant  (Mt 
18  21-35). 

(5)  As  the  rule,  ARV  has  "lovingkindness"  for 
"merry"  when  hesedh  is  used  of  God,  and  "kindness" 
when  it  is  used  of  men  in  relation  to  each  other.  "Com- 
passion" (tr  of  rdli it  m)  is  also  in  several  instances  substi- 
tuted for  "  merev  "'  (Isa  9  17;  14  1;  27  11;  Jer  13  14; 
30  18),  also  "goodness"  (tr  of  hesedh  referring  to  man) 
(Hos  4  l;   6  (l). 

W.  L.  Walker 

MERCY-SEAT,  mur'si-set,  THE  (ITIES,  kap- 
poreth;  NT  iXao-Tfjpiov,  hilasttrion,  He  9  5):  The 
name  for  the  lid  or  covering  of  the  ark  of  the  cove- 
nant (Ex  25  17,  etc).  The  OT  term  means 
"covering,"  then,  like  the  NT  word,  "propitiatory" 
(cf  kipper,  "to  cover  guilt,"  "to  make  atonement"). 
The  ark  contained  the  two  tables  of  stone  which 
witnessed  against  the  sin  of  the  people.  The  blood 
of  sacrifice,  sprinkled  on  the  mercy-seat  on  the  great 
day  of  atonement,  intercepted,  as  it  were,  this  con- 
demning testimony,  and  effected  reconciliation  be- 
tween God  and  His  people.  See  Atonement; 
Atonement,  Day  of;  Propitiation;  Ark  op 
Covenant.  In  Rom  3  25,  Jesus  is  said  to  be  set 
forth  as  "a  propitiation  [lit.  "propitiatory"],  through 
faith,  in  his  blood,"  thus  fulfilling  the  idea  of  the 
mercy-seat  (cf  He  9  5.7.11.12,  etc). 

W.  Shaw  Caldecott 

MERED,  me'red  OTTO,  meredh,  "rebellion"; 
LXX  has  at  least  four  variants  in  1  Ch  4  17.18): 
A  descendant  of  Judah  through  Caleb,  and  men- 
tioned as  a  "son  of  Ezrah"  (ver  17). 

RV,  rightly  following  the  orthography  of  the  Heb 
which  has  here  he  (h)  instead  of  ' aleph  (a),  as  in  the  name 
of  tho  well-known  Ezra,  saves  us  from  confusing  this 
Ezrah  with  the  other  by  giving  him  the  correct  termi- 
nal letter.  Moreover,  even  if  the  question  of  spelling 
were  waived,  the  absence  of  the  mention  of  children  in 
any  known  passages  of  the  life  of  the  scribe  Ezra  should 
settle  the  question,  since  this  passage  (ver  17)  is  asso- 
ciated with  progeny. 

A  difficulty  meets  us  in  ver  18,  where  Mered  is 
mentioned  as  taking  to  wife  "Bithiah  the  daughter  of 
Pharaoh."  That  Pharaoh  is  not  the  proper  name 
of  some  individual  but  the  official  title  of  Egypt's 
sovereign  seems  evident  from  the  fact  that  AVm 
and  RV  text  agree  in  translating  the  other  wife  of 
Mered  as  "the;  Jewess,"  rather  than  as  a  proper 
name  Jehudijah,  as  if  to  distinguish  the  "Jewess" 
from  the  Egyptian.  Probably  "Hodiah"  also  is 
a  corruption  of  Jehudijah  in  ver  19,  and  should  be 
trd  again  "the  Jewess."  Tgs  and  traditions  have  so 
changed  and  transposed  and  "interpreted"  this 
passage  that  a  sufficiently  confused  text  has  become 
Worse  confounded,  and  the  only  solid  fact  that 
emerges  is  that  once  a  comparatively  obscure  Judah- 
ite  (though  the  founder  of  several  towns — Gedor, 
Soco,  Eshtemoa,  etc,  ver  18)  married  an  Egyp 
princess,  whether  as  a  captive  or  a  freewoman  we 
do  not  know.     See  Bithiah.    Henry  Wallace 

MEREMOTH,  mer'e-moth,  me-re'moth  (Ditt'TO , 
mfremoth,  "heights";  MepeipiO,  M ereimoth) : 

(1)  Son  of  L'riah  (Ezr  8  33),  who  was  head  of  the 
7th  course  of  priests  appointed  by  David  (1  Ch  24 
10,  Hakkoz  =  Koz;  cf  Neh  3  4.21).  The  family  of 
Koz  were  among  those  unable  to  prove  their  pedi- 
gree on  the  return  from  Babylon,  and  were  therefore 
deposed  as  polluted  (Ezr  2  61. G2).  Meremoth's 
division  of  the  family  must,  however,  have  been 
scatheless,  for  lie  is  employed  in  the  temple  after  the 
return  as  weigher  of  the  gold  and  the  vessels  (Ezr 
8  33),  a  function  reserved  for  priests  alone  (Ezr  8 
24-28).  He  takes  a  double  part  in  the  reconstruc- 
tion under  Nehemiah,  first  as  a  builder  of  the  wall 


of  the  city  (Neh  3  4),  then  as  a  restorer  of  that  part 
of  the  temple  abutting  on  the  house  of  Eliashib  the 
priest  (Neh  3  21);   "Marmoth"  in  1  Esd  8  62. 

(2)  A  member  of  the  house  of  Bani,  and,  like  so 
many  of  that  house,  among  those  who  married  and 
put  away  foreign  wives  (Ezr  10  36).  He  seems  to 
be  named  Carabasion  (!)  in  the  corresponding  list 
of  1  Esd  9  34. 

(3)  The  name  occurs  in  Neh  10  5  among  those 
who  "seal  the  covenant"  with  Nehemiah  (Neh  10  1 ). 
It  may  there  be  the  name  of  an  individual  (in  which 
case  there  were  4  of  the  name),  or  it  may  be  a  family 
name.  Certainly  a  "Meremoth"  came  back  under 
Zerubbabel  100  years  before  (Neh  12  3),  and  the 
signatory  in  question  may  be  either  a  descendant 
of  the  same  name  or  a  family  representative.  The 
name  recurs  later  in  the  same  list  (Neh  12  15)  as 
"Meraioth"  through  a  scribal  error  confusing  the 
two  Heb  letters  yddh  and  holem  for  mem.  A  com- 
parison of  Neh  12  1-3  and  12-15  shows  clearly 
that  it  is  the  same  person.  Note  that  in  ver  15 
"Helkai"  is  the  name  of  the  contemporary  leader. 

(4)  For  Meremoth  (1  Esd  8  2  AV),  see  Meme- 
roth.  Henry  Wallace 

MERIBAH,  mer'i-ba,  me-re'ba.  See  Massah 
and  Meribah. 

MERIB-BAAL,  mer-ib-ba'al  (bySfl"nig ,  mTibh- 
bcfal;  also  b^2.~"'~\"i2 ,  mrrl-bhcfal,  "Baal  contends") : 
The  spelling  varies  in  a  single  verse;  1  Ch  9  40 
contains  the  name  twice:  first,  in  the  first  form 
above;  second,  in  the  second  form.  The  name  is 
given  also  in  1  Ch  8  34.  It  is  the  other  name  of 
Mephibosheth  (2)  (q.v.). 

In  Jer  11  13  and  Hos  9  10  the  terms  "Baal"  and 
"Bosheth"  seem  to  stand  in  apposition,  the  latter  form 
being  a  slightly  contemptuous  alternative  rendered 
"shame."  This  is  akin  to  other  like  changes,  such  as 
Esh-baal  for  lsh-bosheth,  Jerub-besheth  for  Jerub-baal, 
etc.  The  change  in  the  first  part  of  the  name  could  occur 
through  a  clerical  confusion  of  aspirate  pe  and  resh  in 
Hebrew. 

Henry  Wallace 

MERIBATH-KADESH,  mer'i-bath-ka'desh, 
MERIBOTH-KADESH,  mer'i-both-k.  (Ezk  48  28; 
47  19):  The  southern  limit  of  Ezekiel's  ideal  land 
of  Israel.     See  Meribah. 

MERODACH,  me-ro'dak,  mer'6-dak  (m1^,t, 
mTddhakh) :  The  supreme  deity  of  the  Babylonians 
(Jer  50  2);  the  Nimrod  of  Gen  10  8-12;  and  among 
the  constellations,  Orion.  See  Astronomy,  II, 
11;  Babylonia  and  Assyria,  Religion  of; 
Nimrod. 

MERODACH-BALADAN,  mC-r5'dak-bara-dan, 
mer'6-dak-b.  CjTi??3  ^"XTO ,  ?nrro'dhakh  bal'd- 
dhan;  MaptoSax  BoX.a8dv,  Maroddch  Baladdn) :  The 
son  of  Baladan,  is  mentioned  in  Isa  39  1,  as  a  king 
of  Babylon  who  sent  an  embassy  to  Hezekiah,  king 
of  Judah,  apparently  shortly  after  the  latter's  ill- 
ness, in  order  to  congratulate  him  on  his  recovery 
of  health,  and  to  make  with  him  an  offensive  and 
defensive  alliance.  This  Merodach-baladan  was  a 
king  of  the  Chaldaeans  of  the  house  of  Yakin,  and 
was  the  most  dangerous  and  inveterate  foe  of  Sargon 
and  his  son  Sennacherib,  kings  of  Assyria,  with 
whom  he  long  and  bitterly  contested  the  possession 
of  Babylon  and  the  surrounding  provinces.  M.-b. 
seems  to  have  seized  Babylon  immediately  after 
the  death  of  Shalmaneser  in  721  BC;  and  it  was 
not  till  the  12th  year  of  his  reign  that  Sargon  suc- 
ceeded in  ousting  him.  From  that  time  down  to 
the  8th  campaign  of  Sennacherib,  Sargon  and  his 
son  pursued  with  relentless  animosity  M.-b.  and 
his  family  until  at  last  his  son  Nabushumishkun 
was  captured  and  the  whole  family  of  M.-b.  was 


2037 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Mercy-Seat 
Mesha 


apparently  destroyed.  According  to  the  monu- 
ments, therefore,  it  was  from  a  worldly  point  of  view- 
good  politics  for  Hezekiah  and  his  western  allies 
to  come  to  an  understanding  with  M.-b.  and  the 
Aramaeans,  Elamites,  and  others,  who  were  con- 
federated with  him.  From  a  strategical  point  of 
view,  the  weakness  of  the  allied  powers  consisted 
in  the  fact  that  the  Arabian  desert  lay  between  the 
eastern  and  western  members  of  the  confederacy, 
so  that  the  Assyr  kings  were  able  to  attack  their 
enemies  when  they  pleased  and  to  defeat  them  in 
detail.  II.  Dick  "Wilson 

MEROM,  me'rom,  WATERS  OF  (DTlE""*?, 
me-merom;  vStop  Mappwv  or  Meppc&v,  hudur  Marron 
or  Merron):  The  place  which  was  the  scene  of 
Joshua's  victory  over  Jabin  and  his  confederates 
(Josh  11  7),  commonly  identified  with  Lake  Huleh 
in  the  upper  part  of  the  Jordan  valley,  but  with 
doubtful  propriety.  Jos  says  {Ant,  V,  i,  18)  that 
the  camp  of    the  allies    was    at    Beroth  in  upper 


Waters  of  Merom. 

Galilee,  and  that  Beroth  was  not  far  from  Kadesh, 
which  is  upon  the  summit  of  the  Galilean  hills. 
According  to  the  Scriptural  account,  the  pursuit 
was  to  Sidon  and  Hazor  on  the  W.  of  the  mountains 
(see  Hazor),  while  the  names  of  the  confederates 
are  those  of  places  in  lower  Galilee  and  the  mari- 
time plain.  It  seems  improbable  that  a  force  of 
chariots  should  be  brought  over  to  be  hemmed  in 
by  the  rugged  mountains  which  border  the  narrow 
plain  of  Huleh  on  both  sides,  plains  that  are  made 
still  narrower  by  the  swamps  surrounding  the  lake 
(see  Jordan  Valley)  in  Joshua's  time,  when  they 
were  much  larger  than  they  are  now  after  having 
been  filled  with  the  accumulation  of  sediment 
brought  down  by  mountain  streams  for  3,000  years. 
Conder,  with  much  reason,  supposes  the  "waters  of 
Merom"  to  be  the  perennial  stream  Wddy  el-Melek, 
near  Shimrom-Merom  (SemUnieh),  5  miles  W.  of 
Nazareth.  Were  Lake  Huleh  referred  to,  the 
proper  phrase  would  be  Sea  (yam)  of  Merom,  rather 
than  waters  (mayim). 

George  Frederick  Wright 
MERONOTHITE,    mO-ron'o-thlt,    mP-ro'nO-thlt 
pr;-|}2,   merdnothl,    V    meaning  "fertility"):    The 
designation  of  two  persons  in  the  OT: 

(1)  Jehdeiah,  who  was  in  charge  of  the  royal 
asses  under  David  (1  Ch  27  30). 

(2)  Jadon  who  was  among  the  repairers  of  the 
wall  under  Nehemiah  (Neb.  3  7).  No  place  of  the 
name  Meronoth  can  be  identified.  That  Jadon 
worked  on  the  wall  near  Gibeonites  and  Mizpahitcs 
affords  no  clear  clue  to  the  place,  unless  it  be  shown 
that  there  was  some  geographical  rota  in  the  wall 
repairers. 


MEROZ,  me'roz  (FlTE ,  meroz;  B,  Miip<J£,  Mcroz, 
A,  Ma£wp,  Mazor) :  This  name  occurs  only  once  in 
Scripture.  The  angel  of  the  Lord  is  represented  as 
invoking  curses  upon  Meroz  because  the  inhabit- 
ants "came  not  to  the  help  of  Jeh"  on  the  day  of 
Deborah  and  Barak's  victory  (Jgs  5  23).  It  is  a 
strange  fate,  shared  with  Chorazin,  to  be  preserved 
from  oblivion  only  by  the  record  of  a  curse?.  The 
bitterness  in  the  treatment  of  Meroz,  not  found 
in  the  references  to  any  of  the  other  delinquents, 
must  be  due  to  the  special  gravity  of  her  oiTence. 
Reuben,  Gilead  and  Dan  were  far  away.  This, 
however,  is  not  true  of  Asher,  who  was  also  absent. 
Perhaps  Meroz  was  near  the  field  of  battle  and,  at 
some  stage  of  the  conflict,  within  sight  and  hearing 
of  the  strife.  If,  when  Zebulun  "jeoparded  their 
lives  unto  the  death,  and  Naphtali,  upon  the  high 
places  of  the  field,"  they  turned  a  deaf  ear  and  a 
cold  heart  to  the  dire  straits  of  their  brethren,  this 
might  explain  the  fierce  reproaches  of  Deborah. 

Meroz  may  possibly  be  identified  with  el-Murus- 
sus,  a  mud-built  village  about  5  miles  N.W.  of 
Beisan,  on  the  slopes  to  the  N.  of  the  Vale  of  Jez- 
reel.  If  the  Kedesh  where  Heber's  tent  was 
pitched  be  identical  with  Kadish  to  the  W.  of  the 
Sea  of  Galilee,  Sisera's  flight,  avoiding  the  Israelites 
in  the  neighborhood  of  Mt.  Tabor,  may  have  car- 
ried him  past  el-Murussus.  If  the  inhabitants  had 
it  in  their  power  to  arrest  him,  but  suffered  him  to 
escape  (Moore,  "Jgs,"  ICC,  103),  such  treachery  to 
the  nation's  cause  might  well  rouse  the  indignation 
of  the  heroic  prophetess.  W.  Ewing 

MERRAN,  mer'an  (M«ppdv,  Mcrrdn;  AV  Meran) : 
Many  identifications  have  been  suggested  on  the 
assumption  that  the  text  as  it  stands  is  correct. 
Some  of  these  are  the  Sidonian  Meareh  (Grotius), 
Marane,  a  city  of  which  Pliny  speaks  as  being  near 
the  lied  Sea  (Keil),  and  the  desert  of  Mahrah  in 
Arabia  (Fritzsche).  It  is  very  probable,  however, 
that  the  name  represents  an  error  in  transcription 
from  the  original  Sern  text,  confusing  the  "I  with  the 
"1,  so  that  we  should  read  Meddan,  or  Medan,  i.e. 
Midian.  The  phrase  will  then  run,  "the  merchants 
of  Midian  and  Toman"  (Bar  3  23).  The  mer- 
chants of  Midian  are  referred  to  in  Gen  37  28. 

W.    EwiNG 

MERUTH,  me'ruth.     See  Emmeruth. 

MESALOTH,  mes'a-loth  (Mecro-aXtoO,  Messaloth, 
Maiora\w0,  Maisaldth):  A  place  mentioned  in  the 
account  of  the  march  of  Bacchides  and  Alcimus 
into  Judah,  as  "in  Arbela"  (1  Mace  9  2).  If 
Arbela  be  identical  with  Irbil  or  Irbid  on  the  south- 
ern lip  of  Wddy  el-Hamam,  W.  of  the  Sea  of  Galilee, 
this  fixes  the  locality;  but  no  name  resembling 
Mesaloth  has  been  found. 

MESECH,  me'sek.     See  Meshech. 

MESHA,  me'sha: 

(1)  (37T1TT2 ,  mesha';  B,  Mapiad,  Marisd,  A,  Ma- 
piads,  Marisds):  Caleb's  firstborn  son,  the  father 
of  Ziph,  probably  the  ancestor  of  the  Ziphites 
(1  Ch  2  42). 

(2)  (XTL^'Q,  mesha';  B,  M«ra,  Misd,  A,  Mwo-<£, 
Mosd):  A  Benjamite,  son  of  Shaharaim  by  his  wife 
Hodesh,  born  in  the  land  of  Moab  (1  Ch  8  9). 

(3)  {"V^"Q,  meshaK;  Muxrd,  Mosd);  A  king  of 
Moab.  All  the  Bib.  information  regarding  this  mon- 
arch is  contained  in  2  K  3.  Here  we  gather  that 
Mesha  was  contemporary  with  Ahab,  Ahaziah  and 
Jehoram.  He  was  tributary  to  Israel,  his  annual 
contribution  consisting  of  100,000  lambs  and  100,- 
000  rams.  After  the  death  of  Ahab  he  asserted  his 
independence.     Jehoshaphat,   king  of   Judah,   and 


Meshach 
Messiah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2038 


the  king  of  Edom  joined  forces  with  Jehoram  in  an 
attempt  to  quell  the  rebellion.  At  the  instance  of 
Elisha,  who  accompanied  the  host,  water  was 
miraculously  provided  when  the  army  of  the  allies 
was  ready  to  perish  of  thirst.  Mesha  came  out 
against  them  and  fell  upon  the  camp.  His  attack 
was  repulsed  with  heavy  slaughter,  and  the  defeated 
king  was  chased  by  the  victors  until  he  took  refuge 
in  the  great  fortress  of  Kir-hareseth.  A  vigorous 
siege  was  begun.  Seeing  that  his  case  was  des- 
perate, Mesha  attempted,  with  700  men,  to  break 
through  the  lines.  Failing  in  this,  he  offered  his 
firstborn  as  a  burnt  offering  upon  the  wall.  Then 
"there  came  great  wrath  upon  Israel"  (by  which, 
probably,  panic  is  meant),  and  the  besiegers  retired, 
leaving  their  conquest  incomplete. 

In  his  inscription — see  Moabite  Stone — Mesha 
gives  an  account  of  his  rebellion,  naming  the  places 
captured  and  fortified  by  him.  It  is  not  surprising 
that  he  says  nothing  of  his  defeat  by  Jehoram  and 
his  allies.  There  is,  however,  one  serious  dis- 
crepancy. The  time;  Moab  was  under  the  suprem- 
acy of  Israel,  during  the  reign  of  Omri  and  half 
the  reign  of  Ahab,  he  puts  at  40  years.  According 
to  Bib.  chronology,  Omri  and  Ahab  together  reigned 
only  34  years.  If,  with  Mesha,  we  deduct  half  the 
reign_  of  Ahab,  the  period  is  reduced  to  23  years. 
It  is  impossible  to  add  to  the  length  of  either  reign. 
So  great  a  difference  cannot  be  explained  by  the  use 
of  round  numbers.  Why  Mesha  should  wish  to 
increase  the  time  of  his  people's  subjection  is  not 
clear,  unless,  indeed,  he  thought  in  this  way  to 
magnify  the  glory  of  their  deliverer. 

In  Mesha  the  sentiment  of  patriotism  was  wedded 
to  some  measure  of  military  capacity.  Judging 
by  his  inscription,  he  was  also  a  deeply  religious 
man  according  to  his  lights.  Substitute  "Jehovah" 
for  "Chemosh,"  and  his  phraseology  might  be  that 
of  a  pious  Heb  king.  The  sacrifice  of  his  son  is  at 
once  the  mark  of  the  heathen  and  an  index  of  the 
strength  of  his  devotion. 

(4)  (SMp^l,  mesha';  Maacrrj,  Masse):  This  appears 
to  mark  the  western  boundary  of  the  land  occupied 
by  the  descendants  of  Joktan  (Gen  10  30).  No 
certain  identification  is  possible,  but  several  more 
or  less  probable  have  been  suggested:  e.g.  (a)  The 
Gr  Mesene,  on  the  Pers  Gulf,  not  far  from  the  mouth 
of  the  Tigris  and  the  Euphrates;  (/*)  the  Syro- 
Arabian  desert,  called  Mashu  in  the  Assyr  inscrip- 
tions; the  name  here,  however,  could  hardly  cover 
such  a  vast  tract  as  this;  more  probably  it  denoted 
a  place;  (c)  Dillmann  would  alter  the  vowels  and 
identify  it  with  Massa',  a  branch  of  the  Ishmaelite 
stock  (Gen  25  14;  1  Ch  1  30).  This,  however, 
furnishes  no  clue  to  the  locality,  the  territory  of  that 
tribe  being  also  unidentified.  W.  Ewing 

MESHACH,  me'shak  tfV'Q,  meshakh):  Pos- 
sibly the  Sumerian  form  of  the  Bab  Sil-Asharidu, 
"the  shadow  of  the  prince,"  just  as  Shadrach 
probably  means  "the  servant  of  Sin,"  and  Abednego 
the  "servant  of  Ishtar."  Meshach  was  one  of  the 
three  Heb  companions  of  Daniel,  whose  history  is 
given  in  the  first  chapters  of  the  Book  of  Dnl.  See, 
further,  under  Shadrach. 

MESHECH,  me'shek,  MESECH,  me'sek  (!$$ , 
meshekh,  "long,"  "tall";  Moo-ox.,  Mosoch):  Son  of 
Japheth  (Gen  10  2;  1  Ch  1  5;  ver  17  is  a  scribal 
error  for  "Mash";  cf  Gen  10  22.23).  His  de- 
scendants and  their  dwelling-place  (probably  some- 
where in  the  neighborhood  of  Armenia  [Herod. 
iii.94])  seem  to  be  regarded  in  Scripture  as  syno- 
nyms for  the  barbaric  and  remote  (Ps  120  5;  cf 
Isa  66  19,  where  Meshech  should  be  read  instead 
of  "that  draw  the  bow").     It  is  thought  that  the 


"Tibareni  and  Moschi"  of  the  classical  writers  refer 
to  the  same  people.  Doubtless  they  appear  in  the 
annals  of  Assyria  as  enemies  of  that  country  under 
the  names  Tabali  and  Mushki — the  latter  the  de- 
scendants of  Meshech  and  the  former  those  of  Tubal 
to  whom  the  term  "Tibareni"  may  refer  in  the 
clause  above.  This  juxtaposition  of  names  is  in 
harmony  with  practically  every  appearance  of  the 
word  in  Scripture.  It  is  seldom  named  without 
some  one  of  the  others— Tubal,  Javan,  Gog  and 
Magog.  It  is  this  which  forms  a  good  justification 
for  making  the  suggested  change  in  Isa  66  19, 
where  Meshech  would  be  in  the  usual  company  of 
Tubal  and  Javan.  Ezekiel  mentions  them  several 
times,  first,  as  engaged  in  contributing  to  the  trade 
of  Tyre  (Tiras  of  Gen  10  2?),  in  "vessels  of  brass" 
and— very  significantly— slaves;  again  there  is  the 
association  of  Javan  and  Tubal  with  them  (Ezk 
27  13);  second,  they  are  included  in  his  weird 
picture  of  the  under-world :  "t  hem  that  go  down  into 
the  pit"  (32  1S.2G).  They  are  mentioned  again 
with  Gog  and  Magog  twice  as  those  against  whom 
the  prophet  is  to  "set  his  face"  (Ezk  38  2.3;   39  1). 

Henry  Wallace 
MESHELEMIAH,  mft-shel-e-mi'a  (TObtthQ, 
meshelemyah,  "Jeh  repays"):  Father  of  Zechariah,' 
one  of  the  porters  of  the  tabernacle  (1  Ch  9  21; 
26  1.2.9).  In  the  latter  passage  Meshelemiah,  with 
a  final  u,  is  credited  with  "sons  and  brethren, 
valiant  men,  IS."  He  is  the  "Shelemiah"  of  ver  14, 
the  "Shallum"  of  1  Ch  9  17.19.31,  and  the  "Me- 
shullam"  of  Neh  12  25. 

MESHEZABEL,  mr-shez'a-bel  (bx^PTp^,  m'she- 

zebhe'el,   "God  a  deliverer";  AV  Meshezabeel,  me- 

shez'a-bel) : 

t  (1)  A  priest,  ancestor  of  Meshullam,  who  assisted 

Nehemiah  in  rebuilding  the  wall  of  Jerus  (Neh  3  4). 

(2)  One  of  the  chiefs  of  the  people  giving  name  to 
the  family  which  sealed  the  covenant  with  Nehe- 
miah (Neh  10  21). 

(3)  A  descendant  of  Judah  through  Zerah,  and 
father  of  Pethahiah  (Neh  11  24). 

MESHILLEMITH,  me-shil'c-mith  (mt&ttig , 
m'shillemith,  "retribution"):  A  priest,  son  of  Im- 
mer,  ancestor,  according  to  1  Ch  9  12,  of  Adaiah 
and  Pashhur,  and  according  to  Neh  11  13,  of 
Amashai.  In  the  latter  passage  this  name  is  spelled 
Meshillemoth  (q.v.). 

MESHILLEMOTH,  me-shil'o-moth,  mG-shil'S- 
moth   (tVVJG^TPp ,  m'shillembth,   "recompense"): 

(1)  An  Ephraimite  ancestor  of  Berechiah,  chief 
of  the  tribe  in  the  reign  of  Pekah  (2  Ch  28  12). 

(2)  The  "Meshillemith"  of  Neh  11  13. 

MESHOBAB,  mP-sho'bab  (ISitJW,  meshobhabh) : 
A  Simeonite  (1  Ch  4  34).  This  name  heads  the 
list  of  those  who,  for  the  sake  of  wider  pasture- 
lands,  occupied  a  Hamitic  settlement  in  the  neigh- 
borhood of  Gerar  (MT  Gedor  [q.v.]),  and  a  Maonite 
settlement  in  Edomite  territory  (1  Ch  4  39-41). 
The  latter  event  is  dated  in  the  days  of  Hezekiah 
(see  Curtis,  Chron.,  in  loc). 

MESHULLAM,  me-shul'am  (D^flp ,  Wshullam, 
"resigned"  or  "devoted";  cf  Arab.  Muslim;  Mt- 
o-oMdjj.,  Mesolldm):  An  OT  name  very  common  in 
post-exilic  times. 

(1)  The  grandfather  of  Shaphan  (2  K  22  3). 

(2)  A  son  of  Zerubbabel  (1  Ch  3  19). 

(3)  A  Gadite  (1  Ch  5  13). 

(4)  (5)  (6)  Three  Ben jamites  (1  Ch  8  17;  9  7.8). 
(7)  The  father  of  Hilkiah  (1  Ch  9  11;    Neh  11 

11). 


2039 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  MULE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Meshach 
Messiah 


(S)  A  priest,  son  of  Meshillemith  (1  Ch  9  12); 
t  lie  parallel  list   (Neh  11   13)  omits  the  name. 

(9)  A  Kohathite  appointed  by  Josiah  as  one  of  the 
overseers  to  direct  the  repairs  of  the  temple  (2  Ch 
34  12). 

(10)  One  of  the  chief  men  sent  by  Ezra  to  pro- 
cure Levites  to  go  up  with  him  to  Jerus  (Ezr  8  It); 
cf  1  Esd  8  44). 

(11)  A  Levite  opposed  to  Ezra's  regulations 
anent  marriage;  with  foreigners  (Ezr  10  15;  1 
Esd  9  14). 

(12)  One  of  those  who  had  married  foreign  wives 
(Ezr  10  29;  cf  1  Esd  9  30). 

(13)  One  of  the  repairers  of  the  wall  (Neh  3 
4.30).  His  daughter  was  married  to  Jehohanan, 
the  son  of  Tobiah  the  Ammonite  (Neh  6  18). 

(14)  One  of  the  repairers  of  the  Old  Gate  (Neh  3  6). 

(15)  A  supporter  of  Ezra  at  the  reading  of  the 
Law  (Neh  8  4). 

(16)  One  of  those  who  subscribed  the  Covenant 
(Neh  10  20). 

(17)  A  priest  who  subscribed  the  Covenant 
(Neh  10  7). 

(18)  (19)  Two  priests  at  the  time  of  the  high 
priest  Joiakim  (Neh  12  13.16). 

(20)  A  porter  at  the  time  of  the  high  priest 
Joiakim  (Neh  12  25). 

(21)  A  processionist  at  the  dedication  of  the  wall 
of  Jerus  (Neh  12  33).  John  A.  Lees 

MESHULLEMETH,  mf>-shul'e-meth  (MttJ^P , 
mfshullemeth):  The  wife  of  King  Manasseh  and 
mot  her  of  Anion  (2  K  21  19).  She  is  further  desig- 
nated "daughter  of  Haruz  of  Jotbah."  This  is  the 
earliest  instance  of  the  birthplace  being  added  to 
the  designation  of  the  queen  mother.  The  name 
is  properly  the  fern,  of  the  frequently  occurring 
Meshullam  (q.v.). 

MESOBAITE,   mS-so'ba-It.     See    Mezobaite. 

MESOPOTAMIA,  mes-o-p6-ta'mi-a.     See  Syria. 

MESS,  mes  (ntftp'S,  mas'eth):  Any  dish  of  food 
sent  (Lat  missum;  Fr.  messe)  to  the  table.  It  occurs 
in  the  OT  in  Gen  43  34  (bis);  2  S  11  8  EV,  and 
in  the  NT  in  He  12  16,  translating  PpGxris,  brosis. 

MESSENGER,  mes'en-jer:  The  regular  Heb  word 
for  "messenger"  is  =^f£ ,  mal'akh,  the  Gr  tiyyeXos, 
dggclos.  This  may  be  a  human  messenger  or  a 
messenger  of  God,  an  angel.  The  context  must 
decide  the  right  tr.  In  Hag  1  13  the  prophet  is 
called  God's  messenger;  Job  33  23  changes  AV 
to  "angel"  (m  "messenger");  and  Mai  3  1  m,  sug- 
gests "angel"  instead  of  "messenger."  The  Mai 
passages  2  7;  3  1  (bis)  have  caused  a  great  deal 
of  comment.  See  Malachi.  The  Gr  d-n-oo-ToAos, 
apostolus,  "apostle,"  is  rendered  "messenger"  in 
2.  Cor  8  23;  Phil  2  25;  1  S  4  17  tr3  lit.  from  Heb 
"111J3,  bdsar,  "to  tell  good  news,"  "he  that  brought 
the  tidings."  Gen  50  16  reads  "message"  instead 
of  "messenger."  A.  L.  Breslich 

MESSIAH,  me-si'a  (CPtJtt ,  mashlah;  Aram. 
SSfPTE'C  ,  meshiha' ;  LXN  Xpio-ros,  Christos,  "anoint- 
ed";  NT  "Christ"): 

1.  Meaning  and  Use  of  the  Term 

2.  The  Messianic  Hope 

I.     The   Messiah   in   the   OT 

1.  The  Messianic  King 

(1)  Isaiah 

(2)  Jeremiah  and  Ezekiel 

(3)  Later  Prophets 

2.  Prophetic  and  Priestly  Relations 

3.  Servant  of  Jeh 

4.  Transformation  of  the  Prophetic  Hope  into  the 
Apocalyptic 


II.     The   Messiah    in  the  Pre-Christian    Ale 

1.  Post-prophetic  Age 

2.  Maccabean  Times 

.'(.   Apocalyptic  Literature 
III.     The  Messiah  in  the  NT 

1.  The  Jewish  Conception 

(1)  The  Messiah  as  King 

(2)  His  Prophetic  Character 

(3)  The  Title  "Son  of  God" 

2.  Attitude  of  Jesus  to  the  Messiahship 
IS.   The  Christian  Transformation 

4.  New  Elements  Added 

(1)  Future  Manifestation 

(2)  Divine  Personality 

(3)  Heavenly  Priesthood 

5.  Fulfilment  in  Jesus 
Literature 

"Messias"  (Jn  1  41;   4  25  AV)  is  a  transcription 

of   Meo-crtas,  Messias,  the  Gr  representation  of   the 

Aramaic.    "Messiah"  is  thus  a  modifica- 

1.  Meaning  tion  of  the  Gr  form  of  the  word, 
and  Use  of    according  to  the  Heb. 

the  Term  The  term  is  used  in  the  OT  of  kings 

and  priests,  who  were  consecrated  to 
office  by  the  ceremony  of  anointing.  It  is  applied 
to  the  priest  only  as  an  adj. — "the  anointed  priest" 
(Lev  4  3.5.16;  6  22  [Heb  15]).  Its  substantive  use 
is  restricted  to  the  king;  he  only  is  called  "the 
Lord's  anointed,"  e.g.  Saul  (1  S  24"  6.10  [Heb  7.11], 
etc);  David  (2  S  19  21  [Heb  22];  23  1,  "the 
anointed  of  the  God  of  Jacob");  Zedekiah  (Lam 
4  20).  Similarly  in  the  Pss  the  king  is  designated 
"mine,"  "thine,"  "his  anointed."  Thus  also  even 
Cyrus  (Isa  45  1),  as  being  chosen  and  commissioned 
by  Jeh  to  carry  out  His  purpose  with  Israel.  Some 
think  the  sing,  "mine  anointed"  in  Hab  3  13  de- 
notes the  whole  people;  but  the  Heb  text  is  some- 
what obscure,  and  the  reference  may  be  to  the  king. 
The  pi.  of  the  subst.  is  used  of  the  patriarchs,  who 
are  called  "mine  anointed  ones"  (Ps  105  15;  1  Ch 
16  22),  as  being  Jeh's  chosen,  consecrated  servants, 
whose  persons  were  inviolable. 

It  is  to  be  noted  that  "Messiah"  as  a  special  title 
is  never  applied  in  the  OT  to  the  unique  king  of  the 
future,  unless  perhaps  in  Did  9  25  f  (ma$hiah 
ndghidh,  "Messiah-Prince"),  a  difficult  passage,  the 
interpretation  of  which  is  very  uncertain.  It  was 
the  later  Jews  of  the  post-prophetic  period  who, 
guided  by  a  true  instinct,  first  used  the  term  in  a 
technical  sense. 

The  Messiah  is  the  instrument  by  whom  God's 

kingdom  is  to  be  established  in  Israel  and  in  the 

world.     The  hope  of  a  personal  de- 

2.  The  liverer  is  thus  inseparable  from  the 
Messianic  wider  hope  that  runs  through  the  OT. 
Hope  The  Jews  were  a  nation  who  lived  in 

the  future.  In  this  respect  they  stand 
alone  among  the  peoples  of  antiquity.  No  nation 
ever  cherished  such  strong  expectations  of  a  good 
time  coming,  or  clung  more  tenaciously  amid  defeat 
and  disaster  to  the  certainty  of  final  triumph  over 
all  enemies  and  of  entrance  upon  a  state  of  perfect 
peace  and  happiness.  The  basis  of  this  larger  hope 
is  Jeh's  covenant  with  Israel.  "I  will  take  you 
to  me  for  a  people,  and  I  will  be  to  you  a  God" 
(Ex  6  7).  On  the  ground  of  this  promise  the 
prophets,  while  declaring  God's  wrath  against  His 
people  on  account  of  their  sin,  looked  beyond  the 
Divine  chastisements  to  the  final  era  of  perfect  sal- 
vation and  blessedness,  which  would  be  ushered  in 
when  the  nation  had  returned  to  Jeh. 

The  term  "Messianic"  is  used  in  a  double  sense 
to  describe  the  larger  hope  of  a  glorious  future  for 
1  he  nation,  as  well  as  the  narrower  one  of  a  personal 
Messiah  who  is  to  be  the  prominent  figure  in  the 
perfected  kingdom.  It  may  be  remarked  that  many 
writers,  both  prophetic  and  apocalyptic,  who  picture 
the  final  consummation,  make  no  allusion  whatever 
to  a  coming  deliverer. 

This  art.  will  treat  of  the  personal  Messianic  hope 


Messiah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2040 


as  it  is  found  in  the  OT,  in  the  pre-Christian  age, 
and  in  the  NT. 

/.  The  Messiah  in  the  OT. — The  chief  element  in 
the  conception  of  the  Messiah  in  the  OT  is  that 

of  the  king.  Through  him  as  head 
1.  The  of  the  nation  Jeh  could  most  readily 

Messianic      work  out  His  saving  purposes.     But 
King  the  kingdom  of  Israel  was  a  theocracy. 

In  earlier  times  Moses,  Joshua,  and 
the  judges,  who  were  raised  up  by  Jeh  to  guide  His 
people  at  different  crises  in  their  history,  did  not 
claim  to  exercise  authority  apart  from  their  Divine 
commission.  Nor  was  the  relation  of  Jeh  to  the 
nation  as  its  real  ruler  in  any  way  modified  by  the 
institution  of  the  monarchy.  It  was  by  His  Spirit 
that  the  king  was  qualified  for  the  righteous  govern- 
ment of  the  people,  and  by  His  power  that  he  would 
become  victorious  over  all  enemies.  The  passage 
on  which  the  idea  of  the  Messianic  king  who  would 
rule  in  righteousness  and  attain  universal  dominion 
was  founded  is  Nathan's  oracle  to  David  in  2  S  7 
11  IT.  In  contrast  to  Saul,  from  whom  the  kingdom 
had  passed  away,  David  would  never  want  a  de- 
scendant to  sit  on  the  throne  of  Israel.  How  strong 
an  impression  this  promise  of  the  perpetuity  of  his 
royal  house  had  made  on  David  is  seen  in  his  last 
words  (2  S  23);  and  to  this  "everlasting  covenant, 
and  sure,"  the  spiritual  minds  in  Israel  reverted  in 
all  after  ages. 

(1)  Isaiah. — Isaiah  is  the  first  of  the  prophets  to 
refer  to  an  extraordinary  king  of  the  future.  Amos 
(9  11)  foretold  the  time  when  the  shattered  fortunes 
of  Judah  would  be  restored,  while  Hosea  (3  5) 
looked  forward  to  the  reunion  of  the  two  kingdoms 
under  David's  line.  But  it  is  not  till  we  reach  the 
Assyr  age,  when  the  personality  of  the  king  is 
brought  into  prominence  against  the  great  world- 
power,  that  we  meet  with  any  mention  of  a  unique 
personal  ruler  who  would  bring  special  glory  to 
David's  house. 

The  kings  of  Syria  and  Israel  having  entered  into  a 
league  to  dethrone  Ahaz  and  supplant  him  by  an  obscure 
adventurer,  Isaiah  (7  10-17)  announces  to  the  king  of 
Judah  that  while,  by  the  help  of  Assyria,  he  would  sur- 
vive the  attack  of  the  confederate  kings,  Jeh  would,  for 
his  disobedience,  bring  devastation  upon  his  own  land 
through  the  instrumentality  of  his  ally.  But  the 
prophet's  lofty  vision,  though  limited  as  in  the  case  of 
other  seers  to  the  horizon  of  his  own  time,  reaches  be- 
yond Judah's  distress  to  Judah's  deliverance.  To  the 
spiritual  mind  of  Isaiah  the  revelation  is  made  of  a  true 
king,  Immanuel,  "  God-with-us,"  who  would  arise  out  of 
the  house  of  David,  now  so  unworthily  represented  by 
the  profligate  Ahaz.  While  the  passage  is  one  of  the 
hardest  to  interpret  in  all  the  OT,  perhaps  too  much  has 
been  made  by  some  scholars  of  the  difficulty  connected 
with  the  word  'almah,  "virgin."  It  is  the  mysterious 
personality  of  the  child  to  which  prominence  is  given  in 
the  prophecy.  The  significance  of  the  name  and  the 
pledge  of  victory  it  implies,  the  reference  to  Immanuel 
as  ruler  of  the  land  in  8  8  (if  the  present  rendering  bo 
correct),  as  well  as  the  parallelism  of  the  line  of  thought 
in  the  prophecy  with  that  of  eh  9,  would  seem  to  point 
to  the  identity  of  Immanuel  with  the  Prince  of  the  four 
names,  "Wonderful  Counsellor,  Mighty  God,  Father  of 
Eternity,  Prince  of  Peace"  (9  6  RVm).  These  Divine 
titles  do  not  necessarily  imply  that  in  the  mind  of  the 
prophet  the  Messianic  king  is  God  in  the  metaphysical 
sense — the  essence  of  the  Divine  nature  is  not  a  dog- 
matic conception  in  the  OT — but  only  that  Jeh  is  present 
in  Him  in  perfect  wisdom  and  power,  so  that  He  exercises 
over  His  people  forever  a  fatherly  and  peaceful  rule.  In 
confirmation  of  this  interpretation  reference  may  be 
made  to  the  last  of  the  great  trilogy  of  Isaianic  prophe- 
cies concerning  the  Messiah  of  the  house  of  David  (11  2), 
where  the  attributes  with  which  He  is  endowed  by  the 
Spirit  are  those  which  qualify  for  the  perfect  discharge 
of  royal  functions  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  See  Im- 
manuel. 

A  similar  description  of  the  Messianic  king  is 
given  by  Isaiah's  younger  contemporary  Micah 
(5  2ff),  who  emphasizes  the  humble  origin  of  the 
extraordinary  ruler  of  the  future,  who  shall  spring 
from  the  Davidic  house,  while  his  reference  to  her  who 
is  to  bear  him  confirms  the  interpretation  which  re- 
gards the  virgin  in  Isaiah  as  the  mother  of  the  Messiah. 


(2)  Jeremiah  and  Ezekiel. — After  the  time  of 
Isaiah  and  Micah  the  throne  of  David  lost  much 
of  its  power  and  influence,  and  the  figure  of  the 
ideal  king  is  never  again  portrayed  with  the  same 
definiteness  and  color.  Zephaniah,  Nahum,  and 
Habakkuk  make  no  reference  to  him  at  all.  By  the 
great  prophets  Jeremiah  and  Ezekiel,  however,  the 
hope  of  a  Davidic  ruler  is  kept  before  the  people. 
While  there  are  passages  in  both  of  these  writers 
which  refer  to  a  succession  of  pious  rulers,  this  fact 
should  not  dominate  our  interpretation  of  other 
utterances  of  theirs  which  seem  to  point  to  a  par- 
ticular individual.  By  Jeremiah  the  Messiah  is 
called  the  "righteous  Branch"  who  is  to  be  raised 
unto  David  and  be  called  "Jehovah  [is]  our  right- 
eousness," that  is,  Jeh  as  the  one  making  righteous 
dwells  in  him  (Jer  23  5  f ;  cf  30  9).  In  Ezk  lie  is 
alluded  to  as  the  coming  one  "whose  right  it  is" 
(21  27),  and  as  Jeh's  "servant  David"  who  shall  be 
"prince"  or  "king"  forever  over  a  reunited  people 
(34  23  f;  37  24).  It  is  difficult  to  resist  the  im- 
pression which  the  language  of  Ezekiel  makes  that 
it  is  the  ideal  Messianic  ruler  who  is  here  predicted, 
notwithstanding  the  fact  that  afterward,  in  the 
prophet's  vision  of  the  ideal  theocracy,  not  only 
does  the  prince  play  a  subordinate  part,  but  pro- 
vision is  made  in  the  constitution  for  a  possible 
abuse  of  his  authority. 

(3)  Later  prophets. — After  Ezekiel's  time,  during 
the  remaining  years  of  the  exile,  the  hope  of  a  pre- 
eminent king  of  David's  house  naturally  disappears. 
But  it  is  resuscitated  at  the  restoration  when 
Zerubbabel,  a  prince  of  the  house  of  David  and  the 
civil  head  of  the  restored  community,  is  made  by 
Jeh  of  hosts.  His  signet-ring,  inseparable  from  Him- 
self and  the  symbol  of  His  authority  (Hag  2  23). 
In  the  new  theocracy,  however,  the  figure  of  the 
Messianic  ruler  falls  into  the  background  before 
that  of  the  high  priest,  who  is  regarded  as  the  sign 
of  the  coming  Branch  (Zee  3  8).  Still  we  have 
the  unique  prophecy  of  the  author  of  Zee  9  9,  who 
pictures  the  Messiah  as  coming  not  on  a  splendid 
charger  like  a  warrior  king,  but  upon  the  foal  of  an 
ass,  righteous  and  victorious,  yet  lowly  and  peace- 
ful, strong  by  the  power  of  God  to  help  and  save. 
There  is  no  mention  of  the  Messianic  king  in  Joel 
or  Mai;  but  references  in  the  later,  as  in  the 
earlier,  Pss  to  events  in  the  lives  of  the  kings  or  the 
history  of  the  kingdom  prove  that  the  promise 
made  to  David  was  not  forgotten,  and  point  to  one 
who  would  fulfil  it  in  all  its  grandeur. 

The  Messianic  king  is  the  central  figure  in  the 
consummation  of  the  kingdom.     It  is  a  royal  son 

of  David,  not  a  prophet  like  unto 
2.  Prophetic  Moses,  or  a  priest  of  Aaron's  line, 
and  Priestly  whose  personal  features  are  portrayed 
Relations       in    the   picture   of   the    future.     The 

promise  in  Dt  18  15-20,  as  the  con- 
text shows,  refers  to  a  succession  of  true  prophets 
as  opposed  to  the  diviners  of  heathen  nations. 
Though  Moses  passed  away  there  would  always  be 
a  prophet  raised  up  by  Jeh  to  reveal  His  will  to  the 
people,  so  that  they  would  never  need  to  have 
recourse  to  heathen  soothsayers.  Yet  while  the 
prophet  is  not  an  ideal  figure,  being  already  fully 
inspired  by  the  Spirit,  prophetic  functions  are  to 
this  extent  associated  with  the  kingship,  that  the 
Messiah  is  qualified  by  the  Spirit  for  the  discharge 
of  the  duties  of  His  royal  office  and  makes  known 
the  will  of  God  by  His  righteous  decisions  (Isa  11 
2-5).  ,  . 

It  is  more  difficult  to  define  the  relationship  of  the 
priesthood  to  the  kingship  in  the  final  era.  They 
are  brought  into  connection  by  Jeremiah  (30  9.21) 
who  represents  the  new  "David"  as  possessing  the 
priestly  right  of  immediate  access  to  Jeh,  while  the 
Levitical  priesthood,  equally  with  the  Davidic  king- 


2041 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Messiah 


ship,  is  assured  of  perpetuity  on  the  ground  of  the 
covenant  (Jer  33  18  ff).  But  after  the  restoration, 
when  prominence  is  given  to  the  high  priest  in  the 
reconstitution  of  the  kingdom,  Joshua  becomes  the 
type  of  the  coming  "Branch"  of  the  Davidic  house 
(Zee  3  8),  and,  according  to  the  usual  interpreta- 
tion, receives  the  crown — a  symbol  of  the  union  of 
the  kingly  and  priestly  offices  in  the  Messiah  (Zee 
6  11  ff).  Many  scholars,  however,  holding  that  the 
words  "and  the  counsel  of  peace  shall  be  between 
them  both"  can  only  refer  to  two  persons,  would 
substitute  "Zerubbabel"  for  "Joshua"  in  ver  11,  and 
read  in  ver  13,  "there  shall  be  a  priest  upon  his 
right  hand"  (cf  RV,  LXX).  The  prophet  \s  meaning 
would  then  be  that  the  Messianic  high  priest  would 
sit  beside  the  Messianic  king  in  the  perfected  king- 
dom, both  working  together  as  Zerubbabel  and 
Joshua  were  then  doing.  There  is  no  doubt,  how- 
ever, that  the  Messiali  is  both  king  and  priest  in 
Ps  110. 

The  bitter  experiences  of  the  nation  during  the 
exile  originated    a    new    conception,    Messianic  in 
the  deepest  sense,  the  Servant  of  Jeh 
3.  The  (Isachs40-66;  chiefly41  X;  42  1-7. 19f; 

Servant  43  8.10;     44  1  f. 21;"  49  3-0;    50  4-9; 

of  Jehovah.  52  13—53).  As  to  whom  the  prophet 
refers  in  his  splendid  delineation  of 
this  mysterious  being,  scholars  are  hopelessly  di- 
vided. The  personification  theory — that  the  Serv- 
ant represents  the  ideal  Israel,  Israel  as  God  meant 
it  to  be,  as  fulfilling  its  true  vocation  in  the  salvation 
of  the  world — is  held  by  those'  who  plead  for  a  con- 
sistent use  of  the  phrase  throughout  the  prophecy. 
They  regard  it  as  inconceivable  that  the  same  title 
should  be  applied  by  the  same  prophet  to  two 
distinct  subjects.  Others  admit  that  the  chief 
difficulty  in  the  way  of  this  theory  is  to  conceive; 
it,  but  they  maintain  that  it  best  explains  the  use 
of  the  title  in  the  chief  passages  where  it  occurs. 
The  other  theory  is  that  there  is  an  expansion  and 
contraction  of  the  idea  in  the  mind  of  the  prophet. 
In  some  passages  the  title  is  used  to  denote  the  whole 
nation;  in  others  it  is  limited  to  the  pious  kernel;  and 
at  last  the  conception  culminates  in  an  individual, 
the  ideal  yet  real  Israelite  of  the  future,  who  shall 
fulfil  the  mission  in  which  the  nation  failed. 

What  really  divides  expositors  is  the  interpre- 
tation of  52  13 — 53.  The  question  is  not  whether 
this  passage  was  fulfilled  in  Jesus  Christ — on  this 
all  Christian  expositors  are  agreed — but  whether 
the  "Servant"  is  in  the  mind  of  the  prophet  merely 
the  personification  of  the  godly  portion  of  the  na- 
tion, or  a  person  yet  to  come. 

May  not  the  unity  argument  be  pressed  too  hard? 
If  the  Messiah  came  to  be  conceived  of  as  a  specific 
king  while  the  original  promise  spoke  of  a  dynasty, 
is  it  so  inconceivable  that  the  title  "Servant  of 
Jeh"  should  be  used  in  an  individual  as  well  as  in 
a  collective  sense?  It  is  worthy  of  note,  too,  that 
not  only  in  some  parts  of  this  prophecy,  but  all 
through  it,  the  individuality  of  the  sufferer  is  made 
prominent;  the  collective  idea  entirely  disappears. 
The  contrast  is  not  between  a  faithful  portion  and 
the  general  body  of  the  people,  but  between  the 
"Servant"  and  every  single  member  of  the  nation. 
Moreover,  whatever  objections  may  be  urged 
against  the  individual  interpretation,  this  view  best 
explains  the  doctrine  of  substitution  that  runs 
through  the  whole  passage.  Israel  was  Jeh's  elect 
people,  His  messenger  of  salvation  to  the  Cent  iles, 
and  its  faithful  remnant  suffered  for  the  sins  of  the 
mass;  even  "Immanuel"  shared  in  the  sorrows  of 
His  people.  But  here  the  "Servant"  makes  atone- 
ment for  the  sins  of  individual  Israelites;  by  his 
death  they  are  justified  and  by  his  stripes  they  are 
healed.  To  this  great  spiritual  conception  only  the 
prophet  of  the  exile  attains. 


It  may  be  added  that  in  the  Suffering  Servant, 
who  offers  the  sacrifice  of  himself  as  an  expiation 
for  the  sins  of  the  people,  prophetic  activity  and 
kingly  honor  are  associated  with  the  priestly  func- 
tion. After  he  has  been  raised  from  the  dead  he 
becomes  the  great  spiritual  teacher  of  the  world— 
by  his  knowledge  of  Cod  and  salvation  which  he 
communicates  to  others  lie  makes  many  righteous 
(53  11;  cf  42  1  ff;  49  2;  50  4);  and  as  a  reward 
for  his  sufferings  Ik;  attains  to  a  position  of  the 
highest  royal  splendor  (52  156;  53  12m;  cf  49  7). 
See  Servant  of  Jehovah. 

In  the  Book  of  Dnl,  written  to  encourage  the 
Jewish  people  to  stedfastness  during  the  persecution 

of  Antiochus  Epiphanes,  the  Messianic; 
4.  Trans-  hope  of  the  prophets  assumes  a  new 
formation  form.  Here  the  apocalyptic  idea  of 
of  the  Pro-  the  Messiah  appears  for  the  first  time 
phetic  Hope  in  Jewish  literature'.  The  coming 
into  the  ruler  is  represented,  not  as  a  descend- 

Apocalyptic,   ant  of  the  house  of  David,   but  as  a 

person  in  human  form  and  of  super- 
human character,  through  whom  God  is  to  estab- 
lish His  sovereignty  upon  the  earth.  In  the 
prophet's  vision  (Dnl  7  13  f)  one  "like  unto  a  son 
of  man,''  kebhar 'gnash  (not,  as  in  AV,  "like  the  son 
of  man"),  comes  with  the  clouds  of  heaven,  and  is 
brought  before  the  ancient  of  days,  and  receives 
an  imperishable  kingdom,  that  all  peoples  should 
serve  him. 

Scholars  are  by  no  means  agreed  in  their  interpretation 
of  the;  prophecy.  In  support  of  the  view  that  the  "one 
like  unto  a  son  of  man"  is  a  symbol  for  the  ideal  Israel, 
appeal  is  made  to  the  interpretation  given  of  the  vision 
in  vs  is. 22. 27.  according  to  which  dominion  is  given  to 
"the  saints  of  the  Most  High."  Further,  as  the  four 
heathen  kingdoms  are  represented  by  the  brute  creation, 
it  would  be  natural  for  t  he  higher  power,  which  is  to  take 
their  place,  to  be  symbolized  by  the  human  form. 

But  strong  reasons  may  be  urged,  on  the;  other  hand, 
for  the  personal  Messianic  interpretation  of  the  passage. 
A  distinction  seems  to  be  made  between  "one  like  unto  a 
son  of  man"  and  the  saints  of  the  Most  High  in  ver  21, 
the  saints  being  there  represented  as  the  object  of  per- 
secution from  the  little  horn.  The  scene  of  the  judgment 
is  earth,  where  the  saints  already  are,  and  to  which  the 
ancient  of  days  and  the  "one  like  unto  a  son  of  man" 
descend  (vs  22.13).  And  it  is  in  accordance  with  the 
interpretation  given  of  the  vision  in  ver  17,  where  refer- 
ence is  made  to  the  four  kings  of  the  bestial  kingdoms, 
that  t  he  kingdom  of  the  saints,  which  is  to  be  established 
in  their  place,  should  also  be  represented  by  a  royal  head. 

It  may  be  noted  that  a  new  idea  is  suggested 
by  this  passage,  the  preexistence  of  the  Messiah 
before  His  manifestation. 

//.    The   Messiah    in    the   Pre-Christian  Age. — 

After  prophetic  inspiration  ceased,  there  was  little 

in  the  teaching  of  the  scribes,  or  in  the 

1.  Post-  reconstitution  of  the  kingdom  under 
prophetic  the  rule  of  the  high  priests,  to  quicken 
Age-  the   ancient   hope   of   the   nation.     It 

would  appear  from  the;  Apoc  that 
while  the  elements  of  the  general  expectation  were 
still  cherished,  the  specific  hope  of  a  preeminent 
king  of  David's  line  had  grown  very  dim  in  the  con- 
sciousness of  the;  people.  In  Ecclus  (47  11)  men- 
tion is  made  of  a  "covenant  of  kings  and  a  throne 
of  glory  in  Israel  which  the  Lord  gave  unto  David"; 
yet  even  this  allusion  to  the;  everlasting  duration  of 
the  Davidic  dynasty  is  more  of  the;  nature;  of  a 
historical  statement  than  the  e;xpressiem  of  a  con- 
fident hope. 

In  the  earlier  stages  e>f  the  Maccabean  uprising, 
whe'u   the  struggle  was  for  religiems  freeelom,  the 

people  looked  for  heap  to  God  alone, 

2.  Macca-  and  would  probably  have  be>e!n  content 
bean  to  acknowledge  the  political  suprem- 
Times.            acy   e>f   Syria   after  liberty   had   been 

granted  them  in  162  BC  to  worship 
God  accoreling  to  their  own  law  and  ceremonial. 
But  the  successful  e>ffe>rt  of  the  Maccabean  leaders 


Messiah 


THE  INTERNATIONA!,  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2042 


in  achieving  political  independence,  while  it  satis- 
tied  the  aspirations  of  the  people  generally  "until 
there  should  arise  a  faithful  prophet"  (1  Mace  14 
41;  cf  2  57),  brought  religious  and  national  ideals 
into  conflict.  The  "Pious"  {hasldhim),  under  the 
new  name  of  Pharisees,  now  became  more  than 
ever  devoted  to  the  Law,  and  repudiated  the  claim 
of  a  Maecabean  to  be  high  priest  and  his  subse- 
quent assumption  of  the  royal  title,  while  the  Mac- 
cabees with  their  political  ambitions  took  the  side 
of  the  aristocracy  and  alienated  the  people.  The 
national  spirit,  however,  had  been  stirred  into  fresh 
life.  Nor  did  the  hope  thus  quickened  lose  any  of 
its  vitality  when,  amid  the  strife  of  factions  and  the 
quarrels  of  the  ruling  family,  Pompey  captured 
Jerus  in  63  BC.  The  fall  of  the  Hasmonean  house, 
even  more  than  its  ascendancy,  led  the  nation  to 
set  its  hope  more  firmly  on  God  and  to  look  for  a 
deliverer  from  the  house  of  David. 

The  national  sentiment  evoked  by  the  Maccabees 
finds  expression  in  the  Apocalyptic  lit.  of  the  cen- 
tury and  a  half  before  Christ. 
3.  Apoca-         In  the  oMest  partg  of  the  gib  0r  (3 

lyptlC  652-50)  there  occurs  a  brief  prediction  of  a 

Literature  king  whom  God  shall  send  from  the  sun, 
who  shall  "cause  the  whole  earth  to  cease 
from  wicked  war,  killing  some  and  exacting  faithful 
oaths  from  others.  And  this  he  will  do,  not  according 
to  his  own  counsel,  but  in  obedience  to  the  beneficent 
decrees  of  God."  And  in  a  later  part  of  the  same  book 
(3  49)  there  is  an  allusion  to  "a  pure  king  who  will  wield 
the  sceptre  over  the  whole  earth  for  ever.  "  It  may  be  the 
Messiah  also  who  is  represented  in  the  earlier  part  of  the 
Book  of  En  (90  37  f)  as  a  glorified  man  under  the  symbol 
of  a  white  bull  with  great  horns,  which  is  feared  and  wor- 
shipped by  all  the  other  animals  (the  rest  of  the  religious 
community)  and  into  whose  likeness  they  are  trans- 
formed. 

But  it  is  in  the  Ps  Sol,  which  were  composed  in 
the  Pompeian  period  and  reveal  their  Pharisaic 
origin  by  representing  the  Hasmoneans  as  a  race 
of  usurpers,  that  we  have  depicted  in  clear  outline 
and  glowing  colors  the  portrait  of  the  Davidic  king 
(Ps  Sol  17  18).  The  author  looks  for  a  personal 
Messiah  who,  as  son  of  David  and  king  of  Israel, 
will  purge  Jerus  of  sinners,  and  gather  together  a 
holy  people  who  will  all  be  the  "sons  of  their  God." 
He  "shall  not  conquer  with  earthly  weapons,  for  the 
Lord  Himself  is  his  King;  he  shall  smite  the  earth 
with  the  breath  of  his  mouth;  and  the  heathen  of 
their  own  accord  shall  come  to  see  his  glory,  bring- 
ing the  wearied  children  of  Israel  as  gifts.  His 
throne  shall  be  established  in  wisdomand  justice, 
while  he  himself  shall  be  pure  from  sin  and  made 
strong  in  the  Holy  Spirit. 

It  is  evident  that  in  these  descriptions  of  the 
coming  one  we  have  something  more  than  a  mere 
revival  of  the  ancient  hope  of  a  preeminent  king  of 
David's  house.  The  repeated  disasters  that  over- 
took the  Jews  led  to  the  transference  of  the  national 
hope  to  a  future  world,  and  consequently  to  the 
transformation  of  the  Messiah  from  a  mere  earthly 
king  into  a  being  with  supernatural  attributes. 
That  this  supernatural  apocalyptic  hope,  which 
was  at  least  coming  to  be  cherished,  exercised  an 
influence  on  the  national  hope  is  seen  in  the  Ps 
Sol,  where  emphasis  is  laid  on  the  striking  indi- 
viduality of  this  Davidic  king,  the  moral  grandeur 
of  his  person,  and  the  Divine  character  of  his 
rule. 

We  meet  with  the  apocalyptic  conception  of  the 
Messiah  in  the  Similitudes  of  Enoch  (chs  37-71) 
and  the  later  apocalypses.  Reference  may  be 
made  at  this  point  to  the  Similitudes  on  account  of 
their  unique  expression  of  Messianic  doctrine, 
although  their  pre-Christian  date,  which  Charles 
puts  not  later  than  64  BC,  is  much  disputed.  The 
Messiah  who  is  called  "the  Anointed,"  "the  Elect 
one,"  "the  Righteous  one,"  is  represented,  though 
in  some  sense  man,  as  belonging  to  the  heavenly 


world.  His  preexist ence  is  affirmed.  He  is  the 
supernatural  Son  of  Man,  who  will  come  forth  from 
His  concealment  to  sit  as  Judge  of  all  on  the  throne 
of  His  glory,  and  dwell  on  a  transformed  earth  with 
the  righteous  forever.  For  further  details  in  the 
conceptions  of  this  period,  see  Apocalyptic  Lit- 
erature (Jewish);    Eschatology  of  the  OT. 

///.  The  Messiah  in  the  NT. — To  the  prevalence 
of  the  Messianic  hope  among  the  Jews  in  the  time 
of  Christ  the  Gospel  records  bear  ample  testimony. 
We  see  from  the  question  of  the  Baptist  that  "the 
coming  one"  was  expected  (Mt  11  3  and  ),  while 
the  people  wondered  whether  John  himself  were 
the  Christ  (Lk  3  15). 

(1)  The  Messiah  as  king. — In  the  popular  con- 
ception the  Messiah  was  chiefly  the  royal  son  of 

David  who  would  bring  victory  and 
1.  The  prosperity  to  the  Jewish  nation  and 

Jewish  set  up  His  throne  in  Jerus.     In  this 

Conception   capacity   the   multitude   hailed   Jesus 

on  His  entry  into  the  capital  (Mt  21 
9  and  ||);  to  the  Pharisees  also  the  Messiah  was  the 
son  of  David  (Mt  22  42).  It  would  seem  that 
apocalyptic  elements  mingled  with  the  national 
expectation,  for  it  was  supposed  that  the  Messiah 
would  come  forth  suddenly  from  concealment  and 
attest  Himself  by  miracles  (Jn  7  27.31). 

But  there  were  spiritual  minds  who  interpreted 
the  nation's  hope,  not  in  any  conventional  sense, 
but  according  to  their  own  devout  aspirations. 
Looking  for  "the  consolation  of  Israel,"  "the  re- 
demption of  Jerus,"  they  seized  upon  the  spiritual 
features  of  the  Messianic  king  and  recognized  in 
Jesus  the  promised  Saviour  who  would  deliver  the 
nation  from  its  sin  (Lk  2  25.30.38;  cf  1  68-79). 

(2)  His  prophetic  character. — From  the  state- 
ments in  the  Gospels  regarding  the  expectation  of 
a  prophet  it  is  difficult  to  determine  whether  the 
prophetic  function  was  regarded  as  belonging  to  the 
Messiah.  We  learn  not  only  that  one  of  the  old 
prophets  was  expected  to  reappear  (Mt  14  2;  16 
14  and  |l),  but  also  that  a  preeminent  prophet  was 
looked  for,  distinct  from  the  Messiah  (Jn  1  21.25; 
7  40  f).  But  the  two  conceptions  of  prophet  and 
king  seem  to  be  identified  in  Jn  6  14  f,  where  we 
are  told  that  the  multitude,  after  recognizing  in 
Jesus  the  expected  prophet,  wished  to  take  Him  by 
force  and  make  Him  a  king.  It  would  appear  that 
while  the  masses  were  looking  forward  to  a  temporal 
king,  the  expectations  of  some  were  molded  by 
the  image  and  promise  of  Moses.  And  to  the 
woman  of  Samaria,  as  to  her  people,  the  Messiah 
was  simply  a  prophet,  who  would  bring  the  full  light 
of  Divine  knowledge  into  the  world  (Jn  4  25).  On 
the  other  hand,  from  Philip's  description  of  Jesus 
we  would  naturally  infer  that  he  saw  in  Him  whom 
he  had  found  the  union  of  a  prophet  like  unto 
Moses  and  the  Messianic  king  of  the  prophetical 
books  (Jn  1  45). 

(3)  The  title  "Son  of  God."— It  cannot  be  doubted 
that  the  "Son  of  God"  was  used  as  a  Messianic  title 
by  the  Jews  in  the  time  of  Our  Lord.  The  high 
priest  in  presence  of  the  Sanhedrin  recognized  it 
as  such  (Mt  26  63).  It  was  applied  also  in  its 
official  sense  to  Jesus  bv  His  disciples:  John  the 
Baptist  (Jn  1  34),  Nathanael  (1  49),  Mary  (11  27), 
Peter  (Mt  16  16,  though  not  in  ||).  This  Messianic 
use  was  based  on  Ps  2  7;  cf  2  S  7  14.  The  title 
as  given  to  Jesus  by  Peter  in  his  confession,  "the 
Son  of  the  living  God,"  is  suggestive  of  something 
higher  than  a  mere  official  dignity,  although  its  full 
significance  in  the  unique  sense  in  which  Jesus 
claimed  it  could  scarcely  have  been  apprehended 
by  the  disciples  till  after  His  resurrection. 

(1)  His  claim. — The  claim  of  Jesus  to  be  the 
Messiah  is  written  on  the  face  of  the  evangelic  his- 
tory.    But  while  He  accepted  the  title,  He  stripped 


2043 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Messiah 


it  of  its  political  and  national  significance  and  filled 

it   with    an    ethical    and    universal    content.     The 

Jewish    expectation    of   a    great    king 

2.  Attitude  who  would  restore  the  throne  of  David 
of  Jesus  to  and  free  the  nation  from  a  foreign 
the  Mes-  yoke  was  interpreted  by  Jesus  as  of  one 
siahship         who  would  deliver  God's  people  from 

spiritual  foes  and  found  a  universal 
kingdom  of  love  and  peace. 

(2)  His  delay  in  making  it. — To  prepare  the  Jew- 
ish mind  for  His  transformation  of  the  national 
hope  Jesus  delayed  putting  forth  His  claim  before 
the  multitude  till  His  triumphal  entry  into  Jerus, 
which,  be  it  noted,  He  made  in  such  a  way  as  to 
justify  His  interpretation  of  the  Messiah  of  the 
prophets,  while  He  delayed  emphasizing  it  to  His 
disciples  till  the  memorable  scene  at  Caesarea 
Philippi  when  He  drew  forth  Peter's  confession. 

(3)  "  The  San  of  Man." — But  he  sought  chiefly  to 
secure  the  acceptance  of  Himself  in  all  His  lowliness 
as  the  true  Messianic  king  by  His  later  use  of  His 
self-designation  as  the  "Son  of  Man."  While 
"Son  of  Man"  in  Aram.,  bar  nashd',  may  mean 
simply  "man,"  an  examination  of  the  chief  passages 
in  which  the  title  occurs  shows  that  Jesus  applied 
it  to  Himself  in  a  unique  sense.  That  He  had  the 
passage  in  Did  in  His  mind  is  evident  from  the 
phrases  He  employs  in  describing  His  future  coming 
(Mk  8  38;  13  26  and  !| ;  14  (52  and  ||).  By  this 
apocalyptic  use  of  the  title  He  put  forward  much 
more  clearly  His  claim  to  be  the  Messiah  of  national 
expectation  who  would  come  in  heavenly  glory. 
But  He  used  the  title  also  to  announce  the  tragic 
destiny  that  awaited  Him  (Mk  8  31).  This  He 
could  do  without  any  contradiction,  as  He  regarded 
His  death  as  the  beginning  of  His  Messianic  reign. 
And  those  passages  in  which  He  refers  to  the  Son 
of  Man  giving  His  life  a  ransom  "for  many"  (Mt 
20  28  and  ||)  and  going  "as  it  is  written  of  him" 
(Mt  26  24  and  ||),  as  well  as  Lk  22  37,  indicate 
that  He  interpreted  Isa  53  of  Himself  in  His  Mes- 
sianic character.  By  His  death  He  would  complete 
His  Messianic;  work  and  inaugurate;  the  kingdom  of 
God.  Thus  by  the  help  of  the  title  "Son  of  Man" 
Jesus  sought,  toward  the  close  of  His  ministry,  to 
explain  the  seeming  contradiction  between  His 
earthly  life  and  the  glory  of  His  Messianic  kingship. 

It  may  be  added  that  Our  Lord's  use  of  the  phrase 
implies  what  the  Gospels  suggest  (Jn  12  31),  that 
the  "Son  of  Man,"  notwithstanding  the  references 
in  Did  and  the  Similitudes  of  Enoch  (if  the  pre- 
Christian  date  be  accepted),  was  not  regarded  by 
the  Jews  generally  as  a  Messianic  title.  For  He 
could  not  then  have  applied  it,  as  He  does,  to  Him- 
self before  Peter's  confession,  while  maintaining 
His  reserve  in  regard  to  His  claims  to  be  the  Mes- 
siah. Many  scholars,  however,  hold  that  the  "Son 
of  Man"  was  already  a  Messianic  title  before  Our 
Lord  employed  it  in  His  conversation  with  the 
disciples  at  Caesarea  Philippi,  and  regard  the  earlier 
passages  in  which  it  occurs  as  inserted  out  of 
chronological  order,  or  the  presence  of  the  title  in 
them  either  as  a  late  insertion,  or  as  due  to  the 
ambiguity  of  the  Aramaic.     See  Son  op  Max. 

The  thought  of  a  suffering  Messiah  who  would 

atone  for  sin  was  alien  to  the  Jewish  mind.     This 

is  evident  from  the  conduct,  not  only 

3.  The  of  the  opponents,  but  of  the  followers 
Christian  of  Jesus  (Mt  16  22;  17  23).  While 
Trans-  His  disciples  believed  Him  to  be  the 
formation       Messiah,   they  could  not  understand 

His  allusions  to  His  sufferings,  and 
regarded  His  death  as  the  extinction  of  all  their 
hopes  (Lk  18  34;  24  21).  But  after  His  resur- 
rection and  ascension  they  were  led,  by  the  im- 
pression His  personality  and  teaching  had  made 
upon  them,  to  see  how  entirely  they  had  miscon- 


ceived His  Messiahship  and  the  nature  and  extent 
of  His  Messianic  kingdom  (Lk  24  31;  Acts  2  36. 
38  f).  They  were  confirmed,  too,  in  their  spiritual 
conceptions  when  they  searched  into  the  ancient 
prophecies  in  the  light  of  the  cross.  In  the  mys- 
terious form  of  the;  Suffering  Servant  they  beheld 
the  Messianic  king  on  His  way  to  His  heavenly 
throne,  conquering  by  the  power  of  His  atoning 
sacrifice  and  bestowing  all  spiritual  blessings  (Acts 
3  13.18-21.26;  4  27.30;  8  35;  10  36-43). 

(1)  Future  manifestation. — New  features  were 
now  added  to  the  Messiah  in  accordance  with  Jesus' 

own   teaching.     He   had   ascended   to 

4.  New  His  Father  and  become  the  heavenly 
Elements  king.  But  all  things  were  not  yet 
Added            put  under  Him.     It  was  therefore  seen 

that  the  full  manifestation  of  His 
Messiahship  was  reserved  for  the  future,  that  He 
would  return  in  glory  to  fulfil  His  Messianic  office 
and  complete  His  Messianic  reign. 

(2)  Divine  -personality. — Higher  views  of  His 
personality  wen1  now  entertained.  He  is  declared 
to  be  the  Son  of  God,  not  in  any  official,  but  in  a 
unique  sense,  as  coequal  with  the  Father  (Jn  1  1; 
Rom  1  4.7;  1  Cor  1  3,  etc).  His  preexistence 
is  affirmed  (Jn  1  1;  2  Cor  8  9);  and  when  He 
comes  again  in  his  Messianic  glory,  He  will  exercise 
the  Divine  function  of  Universal  Judge  (Acts  10 
42;  17  30 f,  etc). 

(3)  Heavenly  -priesthood. — The  Christian  con- 
ception of  the  Messianic  king  who  had  entered  into 
His  glory  through  suffering  and  death  carried  with 
it  the  doctrine  of  the  Messianic  priesthood.  But  it 
took  some  time  for  early  Christian  thought  to  ad- 
vance from  the  new  discovery  of  the  combination 
of  humiliation  and  glory  in  the  Messiah  to  concen- 
trate upon  His  heavenly  life.  While  the  preaching 
of  the  first  Christians  was  directed  to  show  from  the 
Scriptures  that  "Jesus  is  the  Christ"  and  necessarily 
involved  the  ascription  to  Him  of  many  functions 
characteristic  of  the  true  priest,  it  was  reserved  for 
the  author  of  the  Ep.  to  the  He  to  set  forth  this 
aspect  of  His  work  with  separate  distinctness  and 
to  apply  to  Him  the  title  of  our  "great  high  priest" 
(He  4  14).  As  the  high  priest  on  the  Day  of 
Atonement  not  only  sprinkled  the  blood  upon  the 
altar,  but  offered  the  sacrifice,  so  it  was  now  seen 
that  by  passing  into  the  heavens  and  presenting  to 
God  the  offering  He  had  made  of  Himself  on  earth, 
Jesus  had  fulfilled  the  high-priestly  office. 

Thus  the  ideal  of  the  Heb  prophets  and  poets  is 

amply  fulfilled  in  the  person,  teaching  and  work  of 

Jesus   of   Nazareth.     Apologists   may 

5.  Fulfil-  often  err  in  supporting  the  argument 
ment  in  from  prophecy  by  an  extravagant 
Jesus  symbolism  and  a  false  exegesis;    but 

they  an;  right  in  the  contention  that 
the  essential  elements  in  the  OT  conception — the 
Messianic  king  who  stands  in  a  unique  relation  to 
Jeh  as  His  "Son,"  and  who  will  exercise  universal 
dominion;  the  supreme  prophet  who  will  never  be 
superseded;  the  priest  forever — are  gathered  up 
and  transformed  by  Jesus  in  a  way  the  ancient  seers 
never  dreamed  of .  As  the  last  and  greatest  prophet, 
the  suffering  Son  of  Man,  and  the  sinless  Saviour 
of  the  world,  He  meets  humanity's  deepest  longings 
for  Divine  knowledge,  human  sympathy,  and 
spiritual  deliverance;  and  as  the  unique  Son  of 
God,  who  came  to  reveal  the  Father,  He  rules  over 
the  hearts  of  men  by  the  might  of  eternal  love. 
No  wonder  that  the  NT  writers,  like  Jesus  Himself, 
saw  references  to  the  Messiah  in  OT  passages  which 
would  not  be  conceded  by  a  historical  interpretation. 
While  recognizing  the  place  of  the  old  covenant  in 
the  history  of  salvation,  they  sought  to  discover 
in  the  light  of  the  fulfilment  in  Jesus  the  meaning 
of  the  OT  which  the  Spirit  of  God  intended  to  con- 


Metal 
Micah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2044 


vey,  the  Divine,  saving  thoughts  which  constitute 
its  essence.  And  to  us,  as  to  the  early  Christians, 
"the  testimony  of  Jesus  is  the  spirit  of  prophecy" 
(Rev  19  10).  To  Him,  hidden  in  the  bosom  of  the 
ages,  all  the  scattered  rays  of  prophecy  pointed; 
and  from  Him,  in  His  revealed  and  risen  splendor, 
shine  forth  upon  the  world  the  light  and  power  of 
God's  love  and  truth.  And  through  the  history 
and  experience  of  His  people  He  is  bringing  to 
larger  realization  the  glory  and  passion  of  Israel's 
Messianic  hope. 

Literature. — Drummond,  The  Jewish  Messiah; 
Stanton,  The  Jewish  and  the  Christian  Messiah;  Kichin, 
Messianic  Prophecy;  Delitzsc.h,  Messianic  Prophecies; 
von  Orelli,  OT  Prophecy;  A.  B.  Davidson,  OT  Prophecy; 
Schultz,  OT  Theology;  Schurer,  II J P,  div  II,  vol  il.  sec. 
29,  "The Messianic  Hope";  Westcott,  Intro  to  the  Study 
of  the  Gospels,  cli  ii,  "The  Jewish  Doctrine  of  Messiah"; 
Bdersheim,  The  Life  and  Times  of  Jesus  the  Messiah, 
book  II,  ch  v,  "What  Messiah  Did  the  Jews  Expect?"; 
E  F.  Scott,  The  Kingdom  and  the  Messiah;  Fairweather, 
The  Background  of  the  Gospels;  arts,  in  DB,  HUB.  KB, 
DCG.  For  further  list  see  Riehm  and  Schurer;  see  also 
Apocalyptic  Literature. 

James  Crichton 
METAL,  met'al  (Vaipn,  hashmal;  -fiXtKTpov, 
ttektron;  AV  amber;  Ezk  8  2,  RVm  "amber"): 
The  substance  here  intended  is  a  matter  of  great 
uncertainty.  In  Egypt  bronze  was  called  hesmen, 
which  may  be  connected  with  the  Heb  hashmal; 
the  Gr  elektron  too  has  generally  been  accepted  as  an 
alloy  of  gold  or  silver  or  other  metals,  but  this  is 
far  from  certain.  Professor  Ridgeway  (EB,  1,  cols. 
134-3G)  has  conclusively  shown,  however,  that 
amber  was  well  known  in  early  times  and  that  there 
is  nothing  archaeologically  improbable  in  the  read- 
ing of  AV. 

Amber  is  a  substance  analogous  to  the  vegetable 
resins,  and  is  in  all  probability  derived  from  extinct 
coniferous  trees.  The  best  or  yellow  variety  was  obtained 
by  the  ancients  from  the  coasts  of  the  Baltic  where  it  is 
still  found  more  plentifully  than  elsewhere.  A  red 
amber  has  been  found  in  South  Europe;  and  in  Phoenicia. 
From  earliest  times  amber  has  been  prized  as  an  orna- 
ment; Homer  apparently  refers  to  it  twice;.  Amber 
bracelets  and  necklaces  art;  highly  prized  by  the  Orientals 
— esp.  Jewesses — today,  and  they  an;  credited  with 
medicinal  properties.  See  Electru.m;  Stones,  Pre- 
cious. 

E.  W.  G.  Masterman 
METALLURGY,  met'al-ur-ji:  There  are  numer- 
ous Bib.  references  which  describe  or  allude  to  the 
various  metallurgical  operations.  In  Job  28  1 
occurs  pp.T,  zakak,  trd  "refine,"  lit.  "strain."  This 
undoubtedly  refers  to  the  process  of  separating  the 
gold  from  the  earthy  material  as  pictured  in  the 
Egyp  sculptures  (Thebes  and  Bcni  Hassan)  and 
described  by  Diodorus.  The  ore  was  first  crushed 
to  the  size  of  lentils  and  then  ground  to  powder  in  a 
handmill  made  of  granite  slabs.  This  powder  was 
spread  upon  a  slightly  inclined  stone  table  and 
water  was  poured  over  it  to  wash  away  the  earthy 
materials.  The  comparatively  heavy  gold  particles 
were  then  gathered  from  the  table,  dried,  and 
melted  in  a  closed  crucible  with  lead,  salt  and  bran, 
and  kept  in  a  molten  condition  for  5  days,  at  the 
end  of  which  time  the  gold  came  out  pure. 

The  alloying  of  gold  and  silver  with  copper,  lead 
or  tin,  and  then  removing  the  base  metals  by 
cupellation  is  used  figuratively  in  Ezk  22  18.22 
to  denote  the  coming  judgment  of  Jeh.  Again  in 
Isa  1  25  it  indicates  chastening.  The  fact  that  the 
prophets  used  this  figure  shows  that  the  people 
were  familiar  with  the  common  metallurgical  oper- 
ations.    See  Refiner.  James  A.  Patch 

METALS,  met'alz  (Lat  metallum,  "metal," 
"mine";  Gr  ixfraXXov,  metallon,  "mine"):  The 
metals  known  by  the  ancients  were  copper,  gold, 
iron,  lead,  silver  and  tin.  Of  these  copper,  gold  and 
silver  were  probably  first  used,  because,  occurring 
in  a  metallic  state,  they  could  be  separated  easily 


from  earthy  materials  by  mechanical  processes. 
Evidence  is  abundant  of  the  use  of  these;  three 
metals  by  the  people  of  remotest  antiquity.  Lead 
and  tin  were  later  separated  from  their  ores.  Tin 
was  probably  used  in  making  bronze  before;  it  was 
known  as  a  separate  metal,  because  the  native' 
oxide,  cassiterite,  was  smelted  together  with  the' 
copper  ore1  to  ge't  bronze.  Because'  of  the1  difficul- 
ties in  ge'tting  it  separated  from  its  compounds,  iron 
was  the  last  in  the;  list  to  be  employed.  In  regard 
to  the  sounds  of  these  metals  in  Bible;  time's  we'  have 
few  Bib.  references  to  guide  us.  Some  writers  point 
te>  Dt  8  9,  "a  land  whose  stones  are  iron,"  etc,  as 
referring  te>  Pal.  Pal  can  be;  disregareled,  however, 
as  a  source  of  me'tals,  for  it  pe>sse'ssevs  no  mineral 
depexsits  of  any  importance.  If  it  was  expected 
that  Israel  wenilel  pe>sse'ss  Lebanon  alse>,  then  the 
description  would  be  more  true.  The>re  is  some' 
iron  ore  which  was  ane'ie'ntly  worked,  although 
present-day  engineers  have  declared  it  not  to  be 
extensive  enough  to  pay  for  working.  There  is  a 
little  copper  ore  (chaleopyrite,  malachite1,  azurite). 
In  the  Anti-Le'banon  and  Northern  Syria,  esp.  in 
the  e'emntry  E.  of  Aleppo  now  openevl  up  by  the' 
Bagdael  Railroad  and  its  braneLcs,  there  are  abun- 
dant deposits  of  copper.  This  must  have  been  the' 
land  of  Nuhasse  referred  to  in  the  Am  Tab.  If 
Zee  6  1  is  really  a  reference  to  copper,  which  is 
doubtful,  then  the  last-mentioned  source  was  prob- 
ably the  one  refe>rred  to.  No  doubt  Cyprus  (Alasia 
in  Am  Tab  [?])  furnisheel  the  ancients  with  much 
copper,  as  did  also  the  Sinaitic  peninsula. 

Tarshish  is  mentioned  (Ezk  27  12)  as  a  source 
of  silver,  iron,  tin,  anel  lead.  This  name  may  belong 
to  Southern  Spain.  If  so  it  corresponds  to  the  gen- 
eral belief  that  the  Phoenie'ians  brought  a  consider- 
able proportion  of  the  metals  used  in  Pal  from  that 
country.  Havilah  (Gen  2  ll),Ophir(l  K  10  11), 
Sheba  (Ps  72  15)  are  mentioned  as  sources  of  gold. 
These  names  probably  refer  to  districts  of  Arabia. 
Whether  Arabia  produceel  all  the  ge>lel  or  simply 
passe;d  it  on  from  more  remote  source's  is  a  ejuestion 
(see  Gold). 

From  the  monuments  in  Egypt  we  learn  that  that 
country  was  a  produceT  of  geilel  and  silve'r.  In  fact, 
the  ancient  mine's  and  the  ruins  of  the  miners'  huts 
are  still  to  be  seen  in  the  desert  regions  of  upper 
Egypt.  In  the  Sinaitic  pe'ninsula  are  deposits  of 
copper,  lead,  gold,  and  silve'r.  The  most  remark- 
able of  the  ancient  Egyp  mines  are  situated  here 
(J.  Sarabit  el  Khadim,  U.  Sidreh,  W.  Magharah). 
The  early  Egyp  kings  (Sneferu,  Amenemhat  II, 
and  others)  not  only  mined  the  metals,  but  cut  on 
the  walls  of  the  mines  inscriptions  describing  their 
methods  of  mining.  Here,  as  in  upper  Egypt,  are 
remains  of  the  builelings  where  miners  lived  or 
carrieel  out  thoir  metallurgical  operations.  It  is 
hardly  to  be  conceived  that  the  large  deposits  of 
lead  (galena)  in  Asia  Minor  we're  unworked  by  the 
ancients.  No  nearer  deposits  of  tin  than  those  in 
Southeastern  Europe  have  yet  been  found.  (Fe>r 
further  information  on  metals  see  separate  articles.) 

James  A.  Patch 

METAL  WORKING.     See  Crafts,  10;  Mining. 

METE,  met  (""">? ,  madhadh):  "To  measure," 
either  with  a  utensil  of  dry  measure,  as  in  Ex  16 
18,  or  to  measure  with  a  line  or  measure  of  length, 
as  in  Ps  60  0;  108  7;  Isa  40  12.  In  Isa  18  2.7 
it  is  the  rendering  of  kaw,  kaiv,  lit.  "line-line,"  i.e. 
measuring  line,  referring  to  the  Ethiopians  as  a 
nation  that  measured  off  other  peoples  for  destruc- 
tion and  trod  them  down,  as  in  RV.  It  is  regarded 
by  some  as  signifying  strength,  being  cognate  with 

the  Arab.     ^Js,    kawi,    "strong."     For   mete   of 


204") 

Ml  7  2  .mikI 
Mkasukk. 

METERUS, 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Metal 
Micah 


<agos  in  Mk  4  24;    Lk  6  38,  so 

II      PORTER 

te'rus.     Sec  Baiterus. 


METEYARD,  met'yiird  (STT^,  ?»i(Wa/;,  "a  meas- 
ure," Lev  19  35):  Has  this  meaning  in  AV  and 
RV,  but  in  ARV,  "measures  of  length." 

METHEG-AMMAH,  me-theg-am'a,  meth-eg- 
am'a  (npxn  jnp,  methegh  hu-ammah,  "bridle  of 
the  metropolis";  LXX  tt^v  &4>opi.a-fA€VT]v,  ten  apho- 
rismencn):  It  is  probable  that  the  place-name  M. 
in  2  S  8  1  AV  should  be  rendered  as  in  RV,  "the 
bridle  of  the  mother  city,"  i.e.  Oath,  since  we  find 
in  the  \  passage  in  1  Ch  18  1  PPnb;W  n|,  gath 
ubhcndtheha,  "(rath  and  her  daughters,"  i.e.  daughter 
towns.  The  LXX  lias  an  entirely  different  read- 
ing: "and  David  took  the  tribute  out  of  the  hand 
ol  the  Philis,"  showing  that  they  had  a  different 
text  from  what  we  now  have  in  the  Heb.  The 
text  is  evidently  corrupt.  W  a  place  is  intended  its 
site  is  unknown,  but  it  must  have  been  in  the  Phili 
plain  and  in  the  vicinity  of  Gath.        II.  Porter 

METHUSAEL,  me-thQ'sa-el.     See  Methushael. 

METHUSELAH,  mr-thu'sr-la,  me-thu'se-la 
(rutiJIHJJ,  m'thushelah,  ''man  of  the  javelin"):  A 
descendant  of  Seth,  the  son  of  Enoch,  and  father  of 
Lamech  (Gen  5  21  ff;  1  Ch  1  3;  Lk  3  37). 
Methuselah  is  said  to  have  lived  969  years;  he  is 
therefore  the  oldest  of  the  patriarchs  and  the  oldest 
man.  It  is  doubtful  whether  these  long  years  do 
not  include  the  duration  of  a  family  or  clan. 

METHUSHAEL,  m&--thu'sha-el  (bgflWnS,  m°- 
thusha'el):  A  descendant  of  Cain,  and'  father  of 
Lamech  in  the  Cainite  genealogy  (Gen  4  18).  The 
meaning  of  the  name  is  doubtful.  Dillmann  sug- 
gested "suppliant  or  man  of  God." 

MEUNIM,  me-u'nim  (AV  Mehunim) .    See  Maon. 

MEUZAL,  me-Q'zal  (bjlfcttp ,  vv'uzdl,  or  bTISttp, 
me'uzal):  A  word  which  occurs  only  in  AVm  of 
Ezk  27  19.  The  rendering  in  AV  text  is  "going 
to  and  fro,"  in  RV  text  "with  yarn,"  but  in  RVm,  in 
agreement  with  BDB  and  most  modern  authorities, 
Meuzal  is  regarded  as  a  proper  noun  with  a  prefixed 
preposition,  and  is  rendered  "from  I'zal."    See  Uzal. 

ME-ZAHAB,  mez'a-hab,  me-za'hab  (1HT  1$, 
me  zahabh,  "waters  of  gold";  B,  Mai^oiip,  Maizoob 
A,  M€£o6|3,  Mezoob):  Grandfather  of  Mehetabel, 
the  wife  of  Hadar,  the  last-mentioned  "duke"  of 
Edom  descended  from  Esau  (Gen  36  39).  The 
Jewish  commentators  made  much  play  with  this 
name.  Abarbanel,  e.g.,  says  he  was  "rich  and 
great,  so  that  on  this  account  he  was  called  Meza- 
hab,  for  the  gold  was  in  his  house  as  water."  The 
name,  however,  may  denote  a  place,  in  which  case 
it  may  be  identical  with  Dizahab. 

MEZARIM,  mez'a-rim  (NORTH).  See  As- 
tronomy, II,  13,  (1). 

MEZOBAITE,  me-zo'ba-It  (rPZfrQH ,  ha-m'- 
cobhayah) :  The  designation  of  Jaasiel,  one  of  Da- 
vid's heroes  (1  Ch  11  47). 

MIAMIN,  ml'a-min.     See  Mijamin;   Miniamin. 

MIBHAR,  mib'har  ("inZl-Q  ,  mibhhur,  "choice"!  ?]) : 
According  to  1  Ch  11  38,  the  name  of  one  of  David  s 


heroes.  No  such  name,  however,  occurs  in  the  || 
passage  (2  S  23  36).  A  comparison  of  the  two 
records  makes  it,  probable  that  mibhhar  is  a  cor- 
ruption of  micedbhah  =  "from  Zobah,"  which  com- 
pletes the  designation  of  the  former  name,  Nathan 
ol  Zobah.  The  concluding  words  of  the  verse 
Ben-  Hagrl  =  " the  son  of  Hagri,"  will  then  appear 
as  a  misreading  of  Bani  ha-gadhl=  "Bani,  the  Gad- 
lte,     thus  bringing  the  two  records  into  accord. 


per- 


MIBSAM,    mib'sam    (DEW,    mibhsam, 
fume"[?]): 

(1)  A  son  of  Ishmael  (Gen  25  13;    1   Ch  1  29) 

(2)  ASimeonite(l  Ch  4  25). 

MIBZAR,  mib'zar  ("ttW ,  mibhgar,  "a  fortress";: 
An  Edomite  chief,  AV  "duke"  (Gen  36  42;  1  Ch 
1  53).  According  to  Eusebius,  Mibzar  is  connected 
with  Mibsara,  a  considerable  village  subject  to 
Petra  and  still  existing  in  his  time.  Cf  Holzinger 
and  Skinner  in  respective  conims.  on  Gen. 

MICA,  ini'ka  («pT0 ,  mikha'):  A  variant  of  the 
name  Micah,  and  probably  like  it  a  contracted 
form  of  Micaiah  (q.v.).  In  AV  it  is  sometimes 
spelled  "Micha." 

(1)  A  son  of  Merib-baal  or  Mephibosheth  (2  S 

«»!?'  ,AX  "Micha")-     In   1  Ch  8  34,   he  is  called 
Micah. 

(2)  The  son  of  Zichri  (1  Ch  9  15).  In  Neh  11 
17  (AV  "Micha"),  he  is  designated  "the  son  of 
Zabdi,  and  in  Neh  12  35,  his  name  appears  as 
"Micaiah  [AV  "Michaiah"],  the  son  of  Zaccur." 

(3)  One  of  the  signatories  of  the  Covenant  (Neh 
10  11,  AV  "Micha").  John  A.  Lees 

MICAH,  mi'ka  (TCPID,  mlkhah,  contracted  from 
^n^"1^  ,  mlkhayah  u,  "who  is  like  Jeh?" ;  B,  Maxaias, 
Meichaias,  A,  MiXa,  Micha;  sometimes  in  AV 
spelled  Michah): 

(1)  The  chief  character  of  an  episode  given  as  an 
appendix  to  the  Book  of  Jgs  (Jgs  17,  18).  Micah, 
a  dweller  in  Mt.  Ephraim,  was  the  founder  and 
owner  of  a  small  private  sanctuary  with  accessories 
for  worship  (17  1-5),  for  which  he  hired  as  priest 
a  Judaean  Levite  (17  7-13).  Five  men  sent  in 
quest  of  new  territory  by  the  Danites,  who  had 
failed  to  secure  a  settlement  upon  their  own  tribal 
allotment,  visited  Micah's  shrine,  and  obtained 
from  his  priest  an  oracle  favoring  their  quest  (18 
1-6).  They  then  went  on  until  they  reached  the 
town  of  Laish  in  the  extreme  N,  and  deeming  it 
suitable  for  their  purpose,  they  returned  to  report 
to  their  fellow-tribesmen.  These  at  once  dis- 
patched thither  600  armed  men,  accompanied  by 
their  families  (18  7-12).  Passing  Micah's  abode, 
they  appropriated  his  idols  and  his  priest,  and  when 
their  owner  pursued,  he  was  insulted  and  threat- 
ened (18  13-26).  They  took  Laish,  destroyed  it 
with  its  inhabitants  and  rebuilt  it  under  the  name 
of  Dan.  There  they  established  the  stolen  images, 
and  appointed  Micah's  Levite,  Jonathan,  a  grand- 
son of  Moses  (AV  "Manasseh"),  priest  of  the  new 
sanctuary,  which  was  long  famous  in  Israel  (18  27- 
31). 

The  purpose  of  the  narrative  is  evidently  to  set 
forth  the  origin  of  the  Danite  shrine  and  priesthood. 
A  few  peculiarities  in  the  story  have  led  some  critics 
—e.g.,  Moore,  "Judges,"  in  ICC  and  "Judges"  in 
SHOT;  Budde,  Richter — to  regard  it  as  composite. 
Wellhausen,  however,  considers  that  the  peculiarities 
are  editorial  and  have  been  introduced  for  the  pur- 
pose of  smoothing  or  explaining  the  ancient  record. 
Most  authorities  are  agreed  that  the  story  is  nearly 
contemporary  with  the  events  which  it  narrates,  and 
that  it  is  of  the  highest  value  for  the  study  of  the 


Micah 
Michael 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2040 


history   of    Israelitish  worship.     See   also   Judges; 
Dan;  Priesthood. 

(2)  A  Reubenite,  whose  descendant  Becrah  was 
carried  into  exile  by  Tibial  h-pileser  (1   Ch  5  5). 

(3)  A  son  of  Merib-baal  (1  Ch  8  34  f;  9  40  f). 
See  Mica,  (1). 

(4)  A  Kohathite  Levite  (1  Ch  23  20;    24  24  f). 

(5)  The  father  of  Abdon,  one  of  Josiah's  messen- 
gers to  the  prophetess  Huldah  (2  Ch  34  20).  In 
the  !!  passage  (2  K  22  12),  the  reading  is  "Achbor 
the  son  of  Micaiah,"  AV  "Michaiah." 

(0)   A  Simeonite  mentioned  in  the  Book  of  Jth 

'  (7)  The    prophet,    called,    in    Jer  26  IS    (Heb), 
"Micaiah  the  Morashtite."     See  special  article. 
(8)  The  son  of  Imlah.     See  Micaiah,  (7). 

John  A.  Lees 
MICAH   (np"1'52,  mlkhah;    Mti\aLa.'s,  Meichaias; 
an  abbreviation  for  Micaiah  [Jer  26  18],  and  this 
again  of  the  longer  form  of  the  word 

1.  Name        in    2  Ch  17  7;     cf    1  K  22  S):   ^The 
and  Person   name  signifies  "who  is  like  Jeh?";  cf 

Michael,  equal  to  "who  is  like  El?" 
(i.e.  God).  As  this  name  occurs  not  infrequently, 
he  is  called  the  "Morashtite,"  i.e.  born  in  More- 
sheth.  He  calls  his  native  city,  in  1  14,  More- 
sheth-gath,  because  it  was  situated  near  the  Phili 
city  of  Oath.  According  to  Jerome  and  Eusebius, 
this  place  was  situated  not  far  eastward  from  Eleu- 
theropolis.  The  prophet  is  not  to  be  confounded 
with  Micah  ben  Imla,  in  1  K  22  8,  an  older  prophet 
of  the  Northern  Kingdom. 

According  to  Jer  26  IS,  Micah  lived  and  prophe- 
sied in  the  reign  of  Hezekiah;  according  to  Mic  1  1, 

he   labored    also    under    Jotham    and 

2.  Time         Ahaz.      This     superscription     has,     it 
of  Micah        must  be  said,  great   similarity  to  Isa 

1  1  and  is  probably  of  a  later  date. 
Yet  the  contents  of  his  first  discourse  confirm  the 
fact  that  he  prophesied,  not  only  before  the  de- 
struction of  Samaria,  but  also  before  the  reforma- 
tion of  Hezekiah  (cf  Mic  1  5).  Accordingly,  ch 
1  is  probably  a  discourse  spoken  already  under 
Ahaz,  and  chs  2  to  5  under  Hezekiah.  No  mention 
is  any  longer  made  of  Samaria  in  chs  2  to  5.  This 
city  has  already  been  destroyed;  at  any  rate,  is 
being  besieged.  Accordingly,  these  discourses  were 
pronounced  after  the  year  722  BC,  but  earlier  than 
701  BC,  as  the  reformation  of  Hezekiah  had  not  yet 
been  entirely  completed.  It  is  impossible  to  date 
exactly  these  discourses,  for  this  reason,  that  all 
the  separate  sentences  and  addresses  were  after- 
ward united  into  one  well-edited  collection,  prob- 
ably by  Micah  himself.  The  attacks  that  have 
been  made  by  different  critics  on  the  authenticity 
of  chs  4  and  5  have  but  a  poor  foundation.  It  is  a 
more  difficult  task  to  explain  the  dismal  picture  of 
the  conditions  of  affairs  as  described  in  chs  6  and  7 
as  originating  in  the  reign  of  Hezekiah.  lor  this 
reason,  scholars  have  thought  of  ascribing  them  to 
the  reigns  of  Jotham  and  Ahaz.  But  better  reasons 
speak  for  placing  them  in  the  degenerate  reign  of 
Manasseh.  There  is  no  reason  for  claiming  that 
Micah  no  longer  prophesied  in  the  times  of  this 
king  It  is  true  that  a  number  of  critics  declare 
that  Micah  did  not  write  these  chapters,  esp.  the 
so-called  psalm  in  7  7-20,  which,  it  is  claimed, 
clearly  presupposes  the  destruction  of  Jerus  (7  11)! 
But  it  is  a  fact  that  Micah  did  really  and  distinctly 
predict  this  destruction  and  the  exile  that  followed 
this  event  in  3  12;  and  accordingly  he  could  in  this 
concluding  hymn  very  easily  have  looked  even 
beyond  this  period. 

Micah  is,  then,  a  younger  contemporary  of  Isaiah, 
and,  like  the  latter,  he  prophesied  in  Judah,  per- 
haps also  in  Jerus.  To  the  writings  of  this  great 
prophet  his  book  bears  a  close  resemblance  both  in 


form  and  in  contents,  although  he  did  not,  as  was 

the   case   with    Isaiah,  come  into  personal   contact 

with  the  kings  and  make;  his  influence 

3.  Relation  felt  in  political  affairs.  The  statement 
to  Isaiah        in  Mic  4  1  ff  is  found  almost  literally 

in  Isa  2  2  ff .  Opinions  differ  as  to 
who  is  to  be  credited  with  the  original,  Isaiah  or 
Micah.  In  the  latter,  the  passage  seems  to  suit 
better  into  the  connection,  while  in  Isa  2  it  begins 
the  discourse  abruptly,  as  though  the  prophet 
had  taken  it  from  some  other  source.  However, 
Mic  4  4  f  is  certainly  a  sentence  added  by  Micah, 
who,  accordingly,  was  not  the  first  to  formulate  the 
prophecy  itself.  It  is  possible  that  both  prophets 
took  it  from  some  older  prophet.  But  it  is  also 
conceivable  that  Isaiah  is  the  author.  In  this 
case,  he  placed  this  sentence  at  the  head  of  his 
briefer  utterances  when  he  composed  his  larger 
group  of  addresses  in  chs  2-4,  for  the  purpose  of 
expressing  the  high  purposes  which  God  has  in 
mind  in  His  judgments. 

Micah  combats  in  his  discourses,  as  does  Isaiah, 

the  heathenish  abuses  which  had  found  their  way 

into  the  cult,  not  only  in  Samaria,  but 

4.  Contents  also  in  Judah  and  Jerus,  and  which 
of  the  the  reformation  of  Hezekiah  could 
Prophecies    counteract    only   in   part   and   not   at 

all  permanently  (cf  1  5-7;  5  11-13; 
6  7. 10).  Further,  he  rebukes  them  for  the  social 
injustice,  of  which  particularly  the  powerful  and 
the  great  in  the  land  were  guilty  (2  1  ff ;  3  2  f  .10  f) ; 
and  the  dishonesty  and  unfaithfulness  in  business 
and  in  conduct  in  general  (cf  6  10  ff;  7  2  ff).  At 
all  times  Micah,  in  doing  this,  was  compelled  to 
defend  himself  against  false  prophets,  who  slighted 
these  charges  as  of  little  importance,  and  threat- 
ened and  antagonized  the  prophet  in  his  announce- 
ments of  impending  evil  (cf  2  5ff.ll  ff).  In  pro- 
nounced opposition  to  these  babblers  and  their  pre- 
dictions of  good  things,  Micah  announces  the 
judgment  through  the  enemies  that  are  approach- 
ing, and  he  even  goes  beyond  Isaiah  in  the  open 
declaration  that  Jerus  and  the  temple  are  to  be 
destroyed  (3  12;  4  10;  5  1).  The  first-mentioned 
passage  is  also  confirmed  by  the  event  reported  in 
Jer  26  17  ff.  The  passage  4  10,  where  in  a  sur- 
prising way  Babylon  is  mentioned  as  the  place  of 
the  exile,  is  for  this  reason  regarded  as  unauthentic 
by  the  critics,  but  not  justly.  Micah  predicts  also 
the  deliverance  from  Babylon  and  the  reestabhsh- 
ment  of  Israel  in  Jerus,  and  declares  that  this  is  to 
take  place  through  a  King  who  shall  come  forth 
from  the  deepest  humiliation  of  the  house  of  David 
and  shall  be  born  in  Bethlehem,  and  who,  like 
David,  originally  a  simple  shepherd  boy,  shall 
later  become  the  shepherd  of  the  people,  and  shall 
make  his  people  happy  in  peace  and  prosperity. 
Against  this  King  the  last  great  onslaught  of  the 
Gentiles  will  avail  nothing  (4  11-13;  6  4ff).  As 
a  matter  of  course,  he  will  purify  the  country  of  all 
heathen  abuses  (5  9  ff).  In  the  description  of  this 
ruler,  Micah  again  agrees  with  Isaiah,  but  without 
taking  the  details  from  that  prophet. 

The  form  of  the  prophecies  of  Micah,  notwith- 
standing their  close  connection  with  those  of  his 

great  contemporary,  has  nevertheless 
5.  Form  Its  unique  features.  There  is  a  pro- 
of the  nounced  formal  similarity  between 
Prophecies     Mic  1  10  ff    and    Isa  10  28  ff.     Still 

more  than  is  the  case  in  Isaiah,  Micah 
makes  use  of  the  names  of  certain  places.  Witty 
references,  which  we  can  understand  only  in  part,  are 
not  lacking  in  this  connection;  e.g.  Lachish,  the  "city 
of  horses,"  is  made  the  object  of  a  play  on  words. 
(Recently  in  the  ruins  of  this  city  a  large  wall  has 
been  unearthed.)  The  style  of  Micah  is  vigorous 
and  vivid.     He  loved  antitheses.     It  is  a  peculiarity 


2047 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  RIRLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Micah 
Michael 


of  his  style  that  he  indulges  in  dramatic  interrup- 
tions and  answers;  e.g.  2  ,5.12;  3  1;  6  6-8;  7 
1-4  f.  He  also  loves  historical  references;  as  e.g. 
1  13.15;  5  5;  6  4  f.0.16;  7  20.  He  makes  fre- 
quent use  of  the  image  of  the  shepherd,  2  12;  3  2f; 
4  6;  5  3ff;  7  14.  The  fact  that  these  peculiarities 
appear  in  all  parts  of  his  little  hook  is  an  argument 
in  favor  of  its  being  from  one  author.  He  is  superior 
to  Isaiah  in  his  tendency  to  idyllic  details,  and  esp. 
in  a  deeper  personal  sympathy,  which  generally  finds 
expression  in  an  elegiac  strain.  His  lyrical  style 
readily  takes  the  form  of  a  prayer  or  of  a  psalm  (cf 
ch  7). 

Literature. — C.  P.  Caspari,  Uvber  Micha  den  Moras- 
thiten,  1851;  T.  K.  Cheyne,  Micah  with  Notes  ami  Intro- 
duction, 1882;  V.  Ryssel,  Untersuchunyen  iXber  Textgestalt 
unit  Echtheit  den  Baches  Micha,  1887.  See  the  comms.  oil 
tlie  1-2  minor  prophets  by  Hitzig,  Ewald,  ('.  P.  Keil,  1\ 
Kleinert,  YV.  Nowaek,  O.  v.  Orelli,  K.  Marti;  Paul  Haupt, 
The  Book  of  Micah,  1910;  Pusey,  The  Minor  Prophets, 
1860. 

C.    VON   OllELLI 

MICAIAH,  mi-ka'ya,  ml-ki'a  (irPO"1^ ,  vu- 
khdyahu,  "who  is  like  Jeh?";  Mei^aias,  Meichalas): 
A  frequently  occurring  OT  name  occasionally  con- 
tracted to  Mica  or  Micah  (q.v.).  In  AY  it  is 
usually  spelled  "Michaiah." 

(1)  The  mother  of  Abijah  (2  Ch  13  2,  AV 
"Michaiah").  _  The  |  passage  (1  K  15  2;  cf  2 
Ch  11  20)  indicates  that  Michaiah  here  is  a  cor- 
ruption of  Maacah  (q.v.)  (so  LNX). 

(2)  The  father  of  Achbor  (2  K  22  12,  AV 
"Michaiah").     See  Micah,  (5). 

(3)  A  prince  of  Judah  sent  by  Jehoshaphat  to 
teach  in  the  cities  of  Judah  (2  Ch  17  7,  AV 
"Michaiah"). 

(4)  The  son  of  Zaccur,  a  priestly  processionist 
at  the  dedication  of  the  wall  (Neh  12  35,  AV 
"Michaiah"). 

(5)  A  priestly  processionist  at  the  dedication  of 
the  wall  (Neh  12  41;   wanting  in  LNX). 

(6)  The  canonical  prophet.  See  Micah,  (7), 
and  special  article. 

(7)  The  son  of  Imlah,  tin;  chief  character  of  an 
important  episode  near  the  end  of  the  reign  of  Ahab 
(I  K  22  4-28  2  Ch  18  3-27).  In  the  Heb,  his 
name  appears  once  in  the  contracted  form  "Micah" 
(2  Ch  18  14).  Ahab  had  suggested  to  his  visitor, 
Jehoshaphat,  king  of  Judah,  that  they  should  under- 
take a  joint  campaign  against  Ilamoth-gilead. 
Jehoshaphat  politely  acquiesced,  but  asked  that 
the  mind  of  Jeh  should  first  be  ascertained.  Ahab 
forthwith  summoned  the  official  prophets,  to  the 
number  of  400,  into  the  royal  presence.  Obse- 
quious to  their  master,  they,  both  by  oracular 
utterance  and  by  the  symbolic  action  of  their 
leader,  Zedekiah,  the  son  of  Chenaanah,  gave  the 
king  a  favorable  answer.  Their  ready  chorus  of 
assent  seems  to  have  made  Jehoshaphat  suspicious, 
for  he  pleaded  that  further  guidance  be  sought. 
Micaiah,  for  whom  Ahab,  then,  with  evident- 
reluctance,  sent,  at  first  simply  repeated  the  favor- 
able response  of  the  400;  but  adjured  by  the  king 
to  speak  the  whole  truth,  he  dropped  his  ironical 
♦  one,  and  in  sad  earnest  described  a  vision  of 
disaster.  Ahab  endeavored  to  lessen  the  effect  of 
this  oracle  by  pettishly  complaining  that  Micaiah 
was  always  to  him  a  prophet  of  evil.  The  latter 
thereupon  related  an  impressive  vision  of  the 
heavenly  court,  whence  he  had  seen  a  lying  spirit 
dispatched  by  Jeh  to  the  prophets  in  order  to 
bring  about  Ahab's  delusion  and  downfall.  In 
answer  to  a  rude  challenge  from  Zedekiah,  who 
acted  as  spokesman  for  the  400,  Micaiah  confident- 
ly appealed  to  the  issue  for  proof  of  the  truth  of 
his  prediction,  and  was  promptly  committed  to 
prison  by  the  king. 


The  narrative  is  exceedingly  vivid  and  of  the  utmost 
interest  to  students  of  Israelitish  prophecy.  Several  of  its 
details  have  given  rise  to  discussion,  and  the  questions: 
How  far  were  the  prophet's  visions  objective?  How- 
far  did  he  admit  the  inspiration  of  his  opponents?  Is 
the  Divine  action  described  consistent  with  the  holy 
character  of  Jeh?  have  occasioned  difficulty  to  many 
But  their  difficulty  arises  largely  either  because  of  their 
Christian  viewpoint,  or  because  of  their  hard  and  me- 
chanical theory  of  prophetic  inspiration.  Micaiah's 
position  was  a  delicate  one.  Foreboding  or  foreseeing 
disaster,  he  did  his  best  to  avert  it.  This  lie  could  do 
only  by  weaning  the  king  from  the  influence  of  the  400 
time-serving  prophets,  lb-  sought  to  gain  his  end  ;  first 
by  an  ironical  acquiescence  in  their  favorable  answer- 
then,  by  a  short  oracle  forecasting  disaster  esp  to  Ahab' 
and,  these  means  having  failed,  by  discrediting  in  the 
most  solemn  manner  (lie  courtly  prophets  opposed  to 
him  Thus  regarded,  his  vision*  contains  no  admission 
of  their_  equal  inspiration;  rather  is  it  an  emphatic 
declaration  that  these  men  were  uttering  falsehood  in 
Jeh's  name,  thereby  endangering  their  country's  safety 
and  their  king's  life.  Their  obsequious  time-service 
made  them  fit  forerunners  of  the  false  prophets  denounced 
by  Jeremiah  (Jer  23  !»  40)  and  by  Kzekiel  (Ezk  13 
1-15).  The  frank  anthropomorphism  of  the  vision 
need  be  no  stumbling-block  if  allowed  to  drop  into  its 
proper  place  as  the  literary  device  of  a  prophet  intensely 
conscious  of  his  own  inspiration  and  as  whole-heartedly 
patriotic  as  those  opposed  to  him. 

The  record  ends  very  abruptly,  giving  no  account 
of  Micaiah's  vindication  when  at  length  the  course 
of  events  brought_  about  the  fulfilment  of  his  pre- 
diction. The  closing  words,  "Hear,  ye  peoples,  all 
of  you"  (1  K  22  28  ||  2  Ch  18  27),  a  quotation  of 
Mic  1  2,  are  an  evident  interpolation  by  some  late 
scribe  who  confused  the  son  of  Imlah  with  the 
contemporary  of  Isaiah. 

For  fuller  treatment  see  EB,  JIDB,  and  comms.  on 
K  and  Ch. 


MICE,  mis.     See  Mouse. 


John  A.  Lf.es 


MICHA,  ml'ka,  MICHAH,  mi'ka.  Sec  Mica; 
Micah. 

MICHAEL,  nii'ka-el,  ml'kel  (bxrPB ,  mlkha'el, 
"who  is  like  Cod?"   MixaT|\,  Michael) : ' 

(1)  The  father  of  Sethur  the  Asherite  spy  (Nu 
13   13). 

(2)  (3)  Two  Gadites  (1  Ch  5  13.14). 

(4)  A  name  in  the  genealogy  of  Asaph  (1  Ch  6 
40  [Heb  25]). 

(5)  A  son  of  Izrahiah  of  Issachar  (1  Ch  7  3) 
(0)  A  Renjamite  (1  Ch  8  16). 

(7)  A  Manassite  who  ceded  to  David  at  Ziklae 
(1  Ch  12  20). 

(8)  The  father  of  Omri  of  Issachar  (1   Cli  27  18). 

(9)  A  son  of  King  Jehoshaphat  (2  Ch  21  2). 

(10)  The  father  of  Zebediah,  an  exile  who  re- 
turned with  Ezra  (Ezr  8  8  j|  1  Esd  8  34). 

(11)  "The  archangel"  (Jude  ver  9).  Rrobably 
also  the  unnamed  archangel  of  1  Thess  4  10  is 
Michael.  In  the  OT  lie  is  mentioned  by  name  only 
in  Dnl.  He  is  "one  of  the  chief  princes"  (Dnl  10  13), 
the  "prince"  of  Israel  (10  21),  "the  great  prince" 
(12  1);  perhaps  also  "the  prince  of  the  host" 
(8  11).  In  all  these  passages  Michael  appears 
as  the  heavenly  patron  and  champion  of  Israel;  as 
the  watchful  guardian  of  the  people  of  Cod  against 
all  foes  earthly  or  devilish.  In  the  uncanonical 
apocalyptic  writings,  however,  Jewish  angelology 
is  further  developed.  In  them  Michael  frequently 
appears  and  exercises  functions  similar  to  those 
which  are  ascribed  to  him  in  Dnl.  He;  is  the  first 
of  the  "four  presences  that  stand  before  Cod" — 
Michael,  Gabriel,  Raphael  and  Uriel  or  Phanuel 
(En  9  1;  40  9).  In  other  apocryphal  books  and 
even  elsewhere  in  En,  the  number  of  archangels  is 
given  as  7  (En  20  1-7;  Tob  12  15;  cf  also  Rev 
8  2).  Among  the  many  characterizations  of 
Michael  the  following  may  be  noted:  He  is  "the 
merciful   and   long-suffering"    (En  40  9;     68  2.3), 


Michah 
Midianitish 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2048 


"the  mediator  and  intercessor"  (Asc  Isa,  Lat  VS 
9  23;  Test.  XII  P,  Levi  5;  Dan  6).  It  is  he  who 
opposed  the  devil  in  a  dispute  concerning  Moses' 
body  (Jude  ver  9).  This  passage,  according  to 
most  modern  authorities,  is  derived  from  the 
apocryphal  Asm  M  (see  Charles's  ed,  105-10).  It 
is  Michael  also  who  leads  the  angelic  armies  in  the 
war  in  heaven  against  "the  old  serpent,  he  that  is 
called  the  Devil  and  Satan"  (Rev  12  7  IT).  Accord- 
ing to  Charles,  the  supplanting  of  the  "child"  by 
the  archangel  is  an  indication  of  the  Jewish  origin 
of  this  part  of  the  book. 

The  earlier  Protestant  scholars  usually  identified 
Michael  with  the  preincarnate  Christ,  finding  sup- 
port for  their  view,  not  only  in  the  juxtaposition  of 
the  "child"  and  the  archangel  in  Rev  12,  but  also 
in  the  attributes  ascribed  to  him  in  Dnl  (for  a  full 
discussion  see  Hcngstenberg,  Offenbarung,  I,  611- 
22,  and  an  interesting  survey  in  English  by  Dr. 
Douglas  in  Fairbairn's  BD).  John  A.  Lees 

MICHAH,  mi'ka.     See  Micah. 

MICHAIAH,  ml-ka'ya,  ml-kl'a.     See  Micaiah. 

MICHAL,  mi'kal  (^"Q,  mlkhal,  contracted  from 
bS0">P,  mikha'el,  "Michael"  [q.v.];  MtXxoX,  Mel- 
chol):  Saul's  younger  daughter  (1  S  14  49),  who, 
falling  in  love  with  David  after  his  victory  over 
Goliath  (1  S  18  20),  was  at  last,  on  the  payment  of 
double  the  dowry  asked,  married  to  him^  (1  S  18 
27) .  Her  love  was  soon  put  to  the  test.  When  Saul 
in  his  jealousy  sent  for  David,  she  was  quick  to  dis- 
cern her  husband's  danger,  connived  at  his  escape, 
and  not  only  outwitted  and  delayed  the  messengers, 
but  afterward  also  soothed  her  father's  jealous 
wrath  (1  S  19  11-17).  When  David  was  out- 
lawed and  exiled,  she  was  married  to  Palti  or  Paltiel, 
the  son  of  Laish  of  Gallim  (1  S  25  44),  but  was, 
despite  Palti' s  sorrowful  protest,  forcibly  restored 
to  David  on  his  return  as  king  (2  S  3  14-16). 
The  next  scene  in  which  she  figures  indicates  that 
her  love  had  cooled  and  had  even  turned  to  disdain, 
for  after  David's  enthusiastic  joy  and  ecstatic 
dancing  before  the  newly  restored  Ark  of  the 
Covenant,  she  received  him  with  bitter  and  scorn- 
ful mockery  (2  S  6  20),  and  the  record  closes  with 
the  fact  that  she  remained  all  her  life  childless  (2  S 

6  23;  cf2  S  21  8  where  Michal  is  an  obvious  mis- 
take'for  Merab).  Michal  was  evidently  a  woman 
of  unusual  strength  of  mind  and  decision  of  char- 
acter. She  manifested  her  love  in  an  age  when  it 
was  almost  an  unheard-of  thing  for  a  woman  to 
take  the  initiative  in  such  a  matter.  For  the  sake 
of  the  man  whom  she  loved  too  she  braved  her 
father's  wrath  and  risked  her  own  life.  Even  her 
later  mockery  of  David  affords  proof  of  her  courage, 
and  almost  suggests  the  inference  that  she  had 
resented  being  treated  as  a  chattel  and  thrown  from 
one  husband  to  another.  The  modern  reader  can 
scarce  withhold  from  her,  if  not  admiration,  at  least 
a  slight  tribute  of  sympathy.  John  A.  Lees 

MICHEAS,  mi-ke'as  (MICHAEAS) :  In  2  Esd  1 
39  =  the  prophet  Micah. 

MICHMAS,  mik'mas  (O2?'0 ,  mikhmas;  B, 
Maxixas,  Machmas,  A,  Xafi^s,  Chammds) :  The  form 
of  the  name  "Michmash"  found  in  Ezr  2  27;   Neh 

7  31.     In  1  Esd  5  21  it  appears  as Macalon  (q.v.). 

MICHMASH,  mik'mash  (TZJpp'C ,  mikhmash; 
MaxH-as,  Machmds):  A  town  in  the  territory  of 
Benjamin,  apparently  not  of  sufficient  importance 
to  secure!  mention  in  the  list  of  cities  given  in  Josh 
18  21  ff.     It  first  appears  as  occupied  by  Saul  with 


2,000  men,  when  Jonathan,  advancing  from  Gibeah, 
smote  the  Phili  garrison  in  Geba  (1  S  13  2).  To 
avenge  this  injury,  the  Philis  came  up  in  force  and 
pitched  in  Michmash  (ver  5).  Saul  and  Jonathan 
with  600  men  held  Geba,  which  had  been  taken 
from  the  Phili  garrison  (ver  16).  It  will  assist  in 
making  clear  the  narrative  if,  at  this  point,  the 
natural  features  of  the  place  are  described. 


,    .           '■.'•-:! 

*«     .  *  '-1  -»  * 

^^i^MKSSl&l 

Bii^MHHi»  ^^^•■B'i™^ 

Pass  of  Michmash. 

Michmash  is  represented  by  the  mod.  Mukhmas, 
about  7  miles  N.  of  Jerus.  From  the  main  road 
which  runs  close  to  the  watershed,  a  valley  sloping 
eastward  sinks  swiftly  into  the  great_ gorge  of  Wddy 
es-Suweinlt.  The  village  of  Mukhmas  stands  to  the 
N.  of  the"gorSe>  about  4  miles  E.  of  the  carriage 
road.  The  ancient  path  from  Ai  southward  passes 
to  the  W.  of  the  village,  goes  down  into  the  valley 
by  a  steep  and  difficult  track,  and  crosses  the  gorge 
by  the  pass,  a  narrow  defile,  with  lofty,  precipitous 
crags  on  either  side — the  only  place  where  a  crossing 
is  practicable.  To  the  S.  of  the  gorge  is  Geba,  which 
had  been  occupied  by  the  Philis,  doubtless  to  com- 
mand the  pass.  Their  camp  was  probably  pitched 
in  a  position  E.  of  Mukhmas,  where  the  ground 
slopes  gradually  northward  from  the  edge  of  the 
gorge.  The  place  is  described  by  Jos  as  "upon  a 
precipice  with  three  peaks,  ending  in  a  small,  but 
sharp  and  long  extremity,  while  there  was  a  rock 
that  surrounded  them  like  bulwarks  to  prevent  the 
attack  of  the  enemy"  (Ant,  VI,  vi,  2).  Conder 
confirms  this  description,  speaking  of  it  as  "a  high 
hill  bounded  by  the  precipices  of  Wddy  es-Suweinit 
on  the  S.,  rising  in  three  flat  but  narrow  mounds, 
and  communicating  with  the  hill  of  Mukhmas, 
which  is  much  lower,  by  a  long  and  narrow  ridge." 
The  Philis  purposed  to  guard  the  pass  against 
approach  from  the  S.  On  the  other  hand  they  were 
not  eager  to  risk  an  encounter  with  the  badly  armed 
Israelites  in  a  position  where  superior  numbers 
would  be  of  little  advantage.  It  was  while  the 
armies  lay  thus  facing  each  other  across  the  gorge 
that  Jonathan  and  his  armor-bearer  performed  their 
intrepid  feat  (14  Iff).     See  Bozkz;  Seneh. 

It  will  be  noted  that  the  Philis  brought  their 
chariots  to  Michmash  (1  S  13  5).  In  his  ideal 
picture  of  the  Assyr  advance  on  Jerus,  Isaiah  makes 
the  invader  lay  up  his  baggage  at  Michmash  so 
that  he  might  go  lightly  through  the  pass  (10  28). 
A  company  of  the  men  of  Michmash  (see  Mich- 
mar)  returned  with  Zerubbabel  from  exile  (Ezr 
2  27;  Neh  7  31).  Michmash  produced  excellent 
barley-  According  to  the  Mish,  "to  bring  barley 
to  Michmash"  was  equivalent  to  our  Eng.  "to 
carry  coal  to  Newcastle."  Michmash  was  the  seat 
of  government  under  Jonathan  Maccabaeus  (1 
Mace  9  73). 

The  modern  village  is  stone-built.     There   are 


2049 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Michah 
Midianitish 


rock-cut  tombs  to  the  N.  Cisterns  supply  the 
water.  There  are  foundations  of  old  buildings, 
arge  stones,  and  a  vaulted  cistern.        W.  Ewing 

MICHMETHAH,  mik'me-tha  (nr^^H ,  ha- 
mikhirVthah;  B,  'lKao-p.u>v,  Hikasmdn,  A,  Max6">9, 
Machthoth):  A  place  named  in  defining  the  terri- 
tory of  Ephraim  and  Manasseh  (Josh  16  G;  17  7). 
It  is  said  to  lie  "before,"  i.e.  to  the  E.  of  Shechem. 
In  the  name  itself,  the  meaning  of  which  is  obscure, 
there  is  nothing  to  guide  us.  The  presence  of  the 
art.,  however  ("the  Michmethah"),  suggests  that 
it  may  not  be  a  proper  name,  but  an  appellative, 
applying  to  some  feature  of  the  landscape.  Conder 
suggests  the  plain  of  Makhneh,  which  lies  to  the  E. 
of  Nablus  (Shechem),  in  which  there  may  possibly 
be  an  echo  of  the  ancient  name. 


MICHRI,  mik'rl  CH?$,  mikhrl): 
dweller  in  Jems  (1  Ch  9  S). 

MICHTAM,  mik'tam.     See  Psalms. 


A  Bcnjamitc 


MIDDAY,  mid'da  (DTn  rPSfrTg ,  mah&gith 
ha-yom,  Cn"ini ,  gohdrayim;  r\\i.4pa  \i.e<rr\,  hemera 
me.se) :  The  Heb  mahaglth  ha-yom  (Neh  8  3)  and 
the  Gr  hemeras  mescs  (Acts  26  13)  are  strictly  the 
middle  of  theday,  but  the  Heb  gohdrayim  is  a  dual 
form  from  "in£ ,  gohar,  meaning  "light,"  hence  light 
or  brightness,  i.e.  the  brightest  part  of  the  day  (1  K 
18  29).     See  Noon. 

MIDDIN,  mid'in  ("pTE,  middin;  in  GB,  Atv(iv, 
Ainon,  "springs"):  One  of  the  six  cities  in  the 
wilderness  of  Judah  (Josh  15  Gl).  There  are  not 
many  possible  sites.  The  Heb  name  may  possibly 
survive  in  Kh.  Mini,  a  very  conspicuous  site  with 
many  ancient  cisterns  overlooking  the  plateau  el 
Bukea*,  above  which  it  towers  to  a  height  of  1,000 
ft. ;  it  is  the  Mons  Mardes  of  early  Christian  pil- 
grims; the  existing  remains  are  Byzantine.  It  is  a 
site  of  great  natural  strength  and  was  clearly  once 
a  place  of  some  importance.  The  Gr  reading 
Ainon,  "place  of  springs,"  suggests  the  neighbor- 
hood of  the  extensive  oasis  of  KA in  Feshkhah  at  the 
northwest  corner  of  the  Dead  Sea  where  there  are 
at  Kh.  Kumrdn  remains  of  buildings  and  a  rock-cut 
aqueduct.     See  PEF,  III,  210,  212,  Sh  XVIII. 

E.  W.  G.  Masteuman 

MIDDLE  WALL.     See  Partition. 

MIDIAN,   mid'i-an,  MIDIANITES,   mid'i-an-Its 

("p~72 ,  midhyan,  n"l»^l~'G ,  midhyanim;  MaSidn, 
Madidm,  MaSi^vaioL,  Madienaioi) : 
1.  The  Seed  Midian  was  a  son  of  Abraham  by  his 
of  Abraham  concubine  Keturah.  To  him  were 
to  the  Time  born  5  sons,  Ephah,  Epher,  Hanoch, 
of  the  Abida    and    Eldaah    (Gen  25  2.4;    1 

Judges  Ch  1  32  f).     Bearing  gifts  from  Abra- 

ham, he  and  his  brothers,  each  with 
his  own  household,  moved  off  from  Isaac  into  "the 
east  country"  (Gen  25  G).  The  first  recorded  in- 
cident in  the  history  of  the  tribe  is  a  defeat  suffered 
"in  the  field  of  Moab"  at  the  hands  of  Hadad,  king 
of  Edom.  Of  this  nothing  beyond  the  fact  is  known 
(36  35;  1  Ch  1  4G).  The  Midian  it  es  next  ap- 
pear as  merchantmen  traveling  from  Gilead  to 
Egypt,  with  "spicery  and  balm  and  myrrh,"  with 
no  prejudice  against  a  turn  of  slave-dealing  (Gen 
37  25  ff).  Moses,  on  fleeing  from  Egypt,  found 
refuge  in  the  land  of  Midian,  and  became  son-in- 
law  of  Jethro,  the  priest  of  Midian  (Ex  2  15.21). 
In  Midian  Moses  received  his  commission  to  Israel 
in  Egypt  (4  19).  A  Midianite,  familiar  with  the 
desert,  acted  as  guide  ("instead  of  eyes")  to  the 
children  of  Israel  in  their  wilderness  wanderings 


(Nu  10  29  ff).  The  friendly  relations  between 
Israel  and  Midian,  which  seem  to  have  prevailed 
at  first,  had  been  ruptured,  and  we  find  the  elders  of 
Midian  acting  with  those  of  Moab  in  calling 
Balaam  to  curse  Israel  (22  4-7).  Because  of  the 
grievous  sin  into  which  they  had  seduced  Israel  on 
the  shrewd  advice  of  Balaam,  a  war  of  vengeance  was 
made  against  the  Midianites  in  which  five  of  their 
chiefs  perished;  the  males  were  ruthlessly  slain, 
and  Balaam  also  was  put  to  death  (25  15.17;  31 
2  ff).  We  next  hear  of  Midian  as  oppressing  Israel 
for  7  years.  Along  with  the  Amalekites  and  the 
children  of  the  East  they  swarmed  across  the  Jor- 
dan, and  their  multitudinous  beasts  swept  up  the 
produce  of  the  earth.  Overwhelming  disaster  be- 
fell this  horde  at  the  onset  of  Gideon's  chosen 
men.  In  the  battle  and  pursuit  "there  fell  a 
hundred  and  twenty  thousand  men  that  drew 
sword";  their  kings,  Zebah  and  Zalmunna,  and 
their  princes,  Oreb  and  Zeeb,  sharing  the  common 
fate  (Jgs  6-8).  Echoes  of  this  glorious  victory— 
"the  day  of  Midian" — are  heard  in  later  lit.  (Ps 
83  9;  Isa  9  4;  10  2G;  Hab  3  7). 

The  Kenites  appear  to  have  been  a  branch  of  the 

Midianites.     Jethro  could  hardly  have;  attained  the 

dignity  of   the  priesthood   in    Midian 

2.  The  had  he  been  of  alien  blood  (Jgs  1  1G). 
Kenite  See  Kenites.  Again,  the  tribesmen 
Branch  are  named  indifferently  Ishmaelitcs  and 

Midianites  (Gen  37  25.28. 3G;  Jgs  8 
22.24).  They  must  therefore  have  stood  in  close 
relations  with  the  descendants  of  Hagar's  son. 

The  representations  of   Midian  in   Scripture  arc 

consistent   with  what   we  know  of  the   immemorial 

ways  of  Arabian  tribes,    now   engaged 

3.  Modern  in  pastoral  pursuits,  again  as  carriers 
Arabs  of     merchandise,    and    yet    again    as 

freebooters.  Such  tribes  often  roam 
through  wide  circles.  They  appear  not  to  have 
practised  circumcision  (Ex  4  25),  which  is  now 
practically  universal  among  the  Arabs.  The  men 
wore  golden  ornaments,  as  do  the  modern  nomads 
(Jgs  8  24  ff). 

The  name  of  "Midian"  is  not  found  in  Egyp  or 
Assyr  documents.     Delitzsch    (Wo  lag  das    I'ara- 

diesi  304)  suggests  that  Ephah  (Gen 

4.  Histori-  25  4)  may  be  identical  with  IJayapa 
cal  Refer-  of  the  cuneiform  inscriptions.  If  this 
ences  is  correct  the  references  point  to  the 

existence  of  this  Midianite  tribe  in  the 
N.  of  el-IIijdz  in  the  times  of  Tiglath-pileser  and 
Sargon  (745-705  BC).  Isaiah  speaks  of  Midian 
and  Ephah  apparently  as  separate  tribes,  whose 
dromedaries  bear  gold  and  frankincense  to  Zion 
(60  6);  but  he  gives  no  hint  of  the  districts  they 
occupied.  The  tribe  of  Ghifar,  found  in  the  neigh- 
borhood of  Medina  in  Mohammed's  day,  Knobel 
would  identify  with  Epher,  another  of  Midian'ssons. 
No  boundaries  can  now  be  assigned  to  "the  land 
of   Midian."     It  included  territory  on  the  W.   as 

well  as  on  the  E.  of  the  Gulf  of  'Akaba 

5.  Territory  (Ex  4  19).     It     lay    between     Edom 

and  Paran  (1  K  11  IS).  In  the  time 
of  the  Judges  their  district  seems  to  have  extended 
northward  to  the  E.  of  Gilead  (8  10). 

A  trace  of  the  ancient  name  is  found  in  that  of 
Madyan,  a  place  mentioned  by  the  Arab,  geog- 
raphers, with  a  plentiful  supply  of  water,  now 
called  Maghair  Sho'aib.  It  lies  E.  of  the  Gulf  of 
'Akaba,  some  miles  from  the  coast,  almost  opposite 
the  point  of  the  Sinaitic  peninsula.  The  name 
Sho'aib,  given  by  Mohammed  to  Jethro,  may  here 
be  due  to  ancient  Midianite  tradition. 

W.  Ewing 

MIDIANITISH,  mid'i-an-it-ish,  WOMAN 
(m:n~n2n  ,  ha-midhyanith,  "the  Midianitess"):  The 


Midnight 
Milk 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2050 


designation  given  to  the  daughter  of  Zur,  Cozbi, 
whom  Zimri  the  son  of  Salu  brought  into  the  camp 
of  Israel  (Xu  25  6-18).  Both  were  of  noble 
parentage  (25  14.15).  The  majority  of  the  people 
strongly  resented  this  act  of  profanation  (25  6). 
A  pestilence  was  raging  in  the  camp,  and  Phinehas, 
the  son  of  Eleazar,  in  an  outburst  of  zeal  pursued 
the  two  delinquents  and  slew  them  by  a  spear- 
thrust  through  their  bodies  (25  8).  He  obtained 
as  a  reward  the  immediate  st  aying  of  the  plague  and 
the  promise  of  perpetual  priesthood  to  his  family 
(25  8.13).  John  A.  Lees 

MIDNIGHT,  mid'nlt  (nb^b  Tfim ,  h&goth 
laylah,  "middle  of  the  night"  [Ex  11  4;  Job  34  20; 
Ps  119  62],  nb^n  ^H,  hagl  ha-laylah,  "the  half 
of  the  night"' [Ex  12  29;  Jgs  16  3;  Ruth  3  8], 
•~lb"]3n  :pFl,  tokh  ha-laylah,  "the  division  of  the 
night"  and  hence  the  middle  point  [1  K  3  20]; 
(j.e'o-Tis  vvktos,  meses  nuktos  [Alt  25  6],  or  pio-ov  rfjs 
vvktos,  meson  tes  nuktos,  "the  middle  of  the  night" 
[Acts  27  27],  nea-ovvKTuos,  mesonuktios,  "midnight"; 
WH,  mesonuktion  [Acts  16  25,  etc]):  In  the  period 
before  the  exile  midnight  does  not  seem  to  have 
been  very  accurately  determined.  The  division  of 
the  night  was  into  three  watches,  the  middle  one  of 
which  included  midnight.  In  NT  times  the  four- 
watch  division  was  used  where  midnight  must  have 
been  more  or  less  accurately  determined.  See 
Time;  Watch.  H.  Porter 

MIDRASH,  mid'rash  (tOTfla  ,  midhrash) :  The 
Heb  word  corresponding  to  AV  "story"  and  RV 
"commentary"  in  2  Ch  13  22;  24  27.  A  mid- 
rash  is  properly  a  story  developed  for  purposes  of 
edification.     See  Commentary. 

MIDWIFE,  mid'wlf  (ni^tt,  m'yalledheth) : 
Those  who  in  patriarchal  times  attended  mothers 
at  childbirth  are  so  named  in  Gen  35  17;  38  28; 
Ex  1  15-22.  Such  attendants  were  probably  then 
(1  S  4  20),  as  they  usually  are  now,  the  older 
female  relatives  and  friends  of  the  mother.  The 
duties  which  they  had  to  perform  are  enumerated 
in  Ezk  16  4:  division  of  the  cord,  washing  the 
infant  in  water,  salting  with  salt  and  swathing  in 
swaddling  clothes.  During  the  Egyp  bondage 
there  were  two  midwives  who  attended  the  Heb 
women;  from  their  names,  they  were  probably  He- 
brews, certainly  they  were  not  Egyptians.  From 
this  passage  it  appears  that  they  used  a  certain 
double-round  form  of  birthstool  called  'obhnayim, 
concerning  which  there  are  several  rabbinical  com- 
ments. It  probably  was  like  the  kurd  elwilddeh, 
or  "birth-seat,"  still  used  by  the  Egyp  fellahtn. 
I  have  not  found  any  record  of  its  use  among  the 
Palestinian  fellahin.  There  is  a  curious  passage  in 
the  Tahn  (Sotah  2  b)  in  which  it  is  said  that  the  two 
midwives  had  different  duties,  Shiphrah  being  the 
one  who  dressed  the  infant,  Puah,  the  one  who  whis- 
pered to  it.  One  Jewish  commentator  on  this  sup- 
poses that  Puah  used  artificial  respiration  by  blow- 
ing into  the  child's  mouth.  The  midwives  must  have 
had  considerable  skill,  as  a  case  like  that  of  Tamar 
required  some  amount  of  operative  manipulation. 

The  Eng.  word  means  originally  the  woman  who 
is  "with  the  mother"  (cf  "the  women  that  stood  by," 
in  1  S  4  20),  but  very  early  became  applied  to 
those  who  gave  skilled  assistance,  as  in  Raynold's 
Birth  of  Mankind,  1565.  Alex.  Macalister 

MIGDAL-EDER,  mig-dal-e'der.     See  Eder. 

MIGDAL-EL,  mig'dal-el  (biTb'TOP,  mighdal-'el; 
B,    Me-ya\aape£(A,    Megalaarelm,   A,  Ma-y8a\.iT]<opdp., 


Magdalieordm):  The  name,  which  means  "tower 
of  God,"  occurs  between  Iron  and  Horem  in  the  list 
of  the  fenced  cities  of  Naphtali  (Josh  19  38). 
Onom  places  it  9  miles  from  Dora  (Tanturah),  on 
the  way  to  Ptolemais,  which  points  to  Athlit.  But 
this  is  far  from  the  territory  of  Naphtali.  It  is 
probably  to  be  identified  with  either  Khirbet 
Mejdel,  3  miles  N.  of  Kedes,  or  Mejdel  Islim,  5  miles 
farther  to  the  N.W. 

MIGDAL-GAD,  mig'dal-gad  (""IjTb'^'P  ,  mighdal- 
gadh,  "tower  of  Gad"):  One  of  a  group  of  16  cities 
of  Judah  situated  in  the  "lowland"  (Josh  15  37). 
Of  these,  only  Lachish,  Eglon,  Beth-dagon  and 
Naamah  have  been  identified  with  any  certainty. 
This  would  indicate  a  site  in  the  Phili  plain,  and 
the  modern  flourishing  town  of  Mejdel,  2|  miles 
N.E.  of  Ashkelon,  appears  to  be  a  possible  identi- 
fication. It  is  the  most  important  town  in  the  dis- 
trict which  is  named  after  it  Nahiet  el- Mejdel.  It 
must,  however,  be  admitted  that  it  is  difficult  to 
see  how  Judah  could  have  held  a  site  so  close  to  the 
great  Phili  strongholds.  It  is  very  probable  that 
Mejdel  ("tower")  is  the  tower  mentioned  in  Jos, 
BJ,  III,  ii,  3,  as  close  to  Ashkelon,  and  it  or  Migdal- 
gad  (or  both  if  they  are  the  same  sites)  may  be 
identical  with  the  Magtal  of  the  Am  Tab  (Petrie, 
Hist.  Egypt,  II,  329).  For  Mejdel  see  PEF,  II, 
410,  Sh  XVI.  E.  W.  G.  Masterman 

MIGDOL,  mig'dol,  mig'dol  (bl'HIJ'O ,  mighdol; 
Ma-y8(6\ov,  Magdolon):  This  name  ("the  tower")  is 
applied  to  two  places  on  the  east  frontier  of  Egypt. 

(1)  In  Ex  14  2;   Nu  33  7,  the  Heb  camp,  on  the 
march  fromEtham  after  they  had  "turned"  (appar- 
ently to  the  S.),  is  defined  as  'facing 

1.  Ex  14:2;  Pi-hahiroth,  between  Migdol  and  the 
Nu  33:7        sea,    over    against    Baal-zephon.'      It 

is  thus  to  be  sought  (see  Exodus)  W. 
of  the  Bitter  Lakes,  and  may  have  been  a  watch- 
tower  on  the  spur  of  Jebel  'Atakah.  Israel  was 
supposed  to  be  "entangled  in  the  land,"  and  shut 
in  in  the  "wilderness,"  between  this  range  and  the 
Bitter  Lakes,  then  forming  the  head  of  the  Red  Sea. 
The  exact  site  is  unknown.  In  about  385  AD,  St. 
Silvia,  traveling  from  Clysma  (Suez),  was  shown  the 
sites  above  mentioned  on  her  way  to  Heroopolis, 
but  none  of  these  names  now  survive., 

(2)  In  Jer  44  1;  46  14,  a  Migdol  is  noticed  with 
Memphis,  and  with  Tahpanhes  (LXX  "Taphnas"), 

this  latter  being  supposed  to  be  the 

2.  Jer  44:1;  Daphnai  of  Gr  writers,  now  Tell 
46:14  Defcneh,  W.  of  Kantarah.     The  same 

place  is  probably  intended  in  Ezk  29 
10;  30  6  (cf  vs  15-18),  the  borders  of  Egypt  being 
denned  as  reaching  "from  Migdol  to  Syene"  (see 
RVm),  as  understood  by  the  LXX  translators. 
The  Antonine  Itinerary  places  Migdol  12  miles  S. 
of  Pelusium,  and  the  site  appears  to  have  been  at 
or  near  Tell  es  SamiU,  the  Egyp  name,  according  to 
Brugsch  (Hist,  II,  351),  being  Samut.  This  Mig- 
dol was  thus  apparently  a  "watchtower"  on  the 
main  road  along  the  coast  from  Pal,  which  is  called 
(Ex  13  17)  "the  way  of  the  land  of  the  Philis,"  enter- 
ing Egypt  near  Daphnai. 

These  sites  not  identical. — We  are  specially  told 
that  this  was  not  the  route  taken  at  the  exodus, 
and  this  Migdol  cannot  therefore  be  the  same 
as  (1),  though  Brugsch,  in  consequence  of  a  theory 
as  to  the  exodus  which  has  not  been  accepted  by 
other  scholars,  has  confused  the  two  sites,  as  ap- 
parently does  the  Antonine  Itinerary  when  placing 
Pithom  on  the  same  route  leading  to  Zoan.  Brugsch 
(Geography,  III,  19)  supposes  the  Egyp  town  name 
Pa-Ma  kdl  (with  the  determinative  for  "wall"  added) 
to  stand  for  Migdol,  but  the  prefix   Pa    ("city") 


2051 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Midnight 
Milk 


seems  to  show  that  this  word  is  purely  native,  and 
not  Sem,  to  say  nothing  of  philological  objections. 
This  town  may,  however,  have  lain  in  the  required 
direction,  according  to  a  scribe's  report  of  the  time 
of  Seti  II  (or  about  1230  BC). 

As  much  confusion  has  been  created  by  quoting  this 
report  as  illustrative  of  the  exodus,  the  actual  words 
according  to  Brugsch's  tr  may  be  given  (Hist,  II,  132): 
"I  set  out  from  the  hall  of  the  royal  palace  on  the  9th  day 
of  Epiphi,  in  the  evening,  after  the  two  servants.  I 
arrived  at  the  fortress  Thuku  (T-k-u)  on  the  10th  of 
Epiphi.  I  was  informed  that  the  men  had  resolved  to 
take  their  way  toward  the  S.  On  the  12th  I  reached 
Khetam.  There  I  was  informed  that  grooms  who  had 
come  from  the  neighborhood  [of  the  "sedge  city"]  re- 
ported that  the  fugitives  1  ad  already  passed  the  ram- 
part (Anbu  or  "wall"),  to  the  N.  of  the  Ma'ktal  of  King 
Seti  Minepthah."  As  to  the  position  of  this  "wall," 
see  Shuu. 

C.  R.  Conder 
MIGRON,    mig'ron    (pljflp,    mighrun;    Ma-ya>v, 
Magori) : 

(1)  A  place  in  the  uttermost  part  of  Geba — which 
read  here  instead  of  Gibeah — marked  by  a  pome- 
granate tree,  where  Saul  and  his  GOO  men  encamped 
over  against  the  Philis,  who  were  in  Michmash  (1  S 
14  2).  Jos  describes  the  distress  of  Saul  and  his 
company  as  they  sat  on  a  high  hill  (bounds  hupsclos) 
viewing  the  widespread  desolation  wrought  by  the 
enemy.  There  is,  however,  nothing  to  guide  us  as 
to  the  exact  spot.  Many  suppose  that  the  text  is 
corrupt;  but  no  emendation  suggested  yields  any 
satisfactory  result.  The  place  was  certainly  S.  of 
Michmash. 

(2)  (B,  Mayedib,  Magedd,  A,  llaye56d>,  Mageddo): 
The  Migron  of  Isa  10  28  is  mentioned  between 
Aiath  (Ai)  and  Michmash.  If  the  places  are  there 
named  in  consecutive  order,  this  Migron  must  be 
sought  to  the  N.  of  Michmash.  It  may  with  some 
confidence  be  located  at  Makrun,  a  ruined  site  to  the 
N.  of  the  road  leading  from  Michmash  to  Ai. 

There  is  nothing  extraordinary  in  two  places 
having  the  same  name  pretty  close  to  each  other. 
The  two  Beth-horons,  although  distinguished  as 
upper  and  lower,  are  a  case  in  point.  So  also  are 
the  two  Bethsaidas.  There  is  therefore  no  need  to 
try  to  identify  the  two  with  one  another,  as  some 
(e.g.  Robertson  Smith  in  Journal  of  Philol.,  XIII, 
62  ff)  have  attempted  to  do  with  no  success. 

W.    EwiNG 

MIJAMIN,  mij'a-min  Op'^'a,  miyamin;  AV 
Miamin) : 

(L)  One  of  those  who  had  married  foreign  wives 
(Ezr  10  25).    He  is  also  called  Maelus  (1  Esd  9  26). 

(2)  The  one  to  whom  fell  the  lot  for  the  6th 
priestly  course  (1  Ch  24  9).  His  family  returned 
with  Zerubbabel  and  Joshua  (Neh  12  5). 

(3)  A  signatory  of  the  Covenant  (Neh  10  7). 

MIKLOTH,  mik'loth,  mik'Ioth  (ttibplp ,  mikloth) : 

(1)  A   Benjamite,   son   of   Jeiel    (1  Ch  8  32;    9 

37.38).  A  comparison  of  the  two  passages  shows 
that  the  name  Mikloth  has  been  dropped  at  the 
end  of  1  Ch  8  31. 

(2)  An  officer  designated  "the  ruler,"  appointed 
in  the  priestly  course  for  the  2d  month  (1  Ch  27  4). 

MIKNEIAH,  mik-ne'ya,  mik-nl'a  OrPDj^a , 
mikucyahu):  A  Lcvite  doorkeeper  (1   Ch  15   18). 

MILALAI,  mil-a-la'l,  mil'a-li  C^b^ ,  mildlay) :  A 
Levite  musician  (Neh  12  36). 

MILCAH,  mil'ka  (Pl^'q ,  milkah;  MtXxa,  Melchd) : 

(1)  Daughter  of  Haran,  wife  of  Nahor,  and  grand- 
mother of  Rebekah  (Gen  11  29;  22  20-23;  24 
15.24.47). 

(2)  Daughter  of  Zelophehad  (Nu  26  33;  27  1;  36 
11;    Josh  17  3).     Many  recent  authorities  are  of 


opinion  that  Milcah  is  an  abbreviation  of  Bethmilcah, 
and  is  a  geographical  rather  than  a  personal  name. 

MILCOM,  mil'kom,  mil'kom.     See  Molech. 

MILDEW,  mil'du  CppTi ,  yerakon;  LXX  usually 
tKT€pos,_  ikteros,  lit.  "jaundice"):  In  the  5  passages 
where  it  occurs  it  is  associated  with  shiddaphon, 
"blasting"  (Dt  28  22;  1  X  8  37;  2  Ch  6  28;  Am 
4  9;  Hag  2  17).  In  Jer  30  6,  the  same  word  is 
trd  "paleness,"  the  yellow  color  of  one  with  ab- 
dominal  disease.      The  root-meaning  is   "greenish 

yellow";    cf  the   Arab,    ,jli£>,  yarkan,  meaning 

both  '/jaundice"  and  "blight."  Mildew  or  "rust"  in 
corn  is  due  to  a  special  fungus,  Puccinia  graminis, 
whose  life  is  divided  between  the  barberry  and 
cereals.  Many  other  varieties  of  fungi  which 
flourish  upon  other  plants  are  also  designated  "mil- 
dew."    See  Blasting.       E.  W.  G.  Masterman 

MILE,  mil  (uttuov,  milion,  Lat  millc  passus, 
milia  pnssuum):  A  thousand  paces,  equal  to  1,618 
Eng.  yds.  (Mt  5  41).  See  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures. 

MILETUS,  ml-le'tus  (M.L\i\Tos,Mlletos) :  A  famous 
early  Ionian  Gr  city  on  tin;  coast  of  Carta,  near  the 
mouth  of  the  Meander  River,  which,  according  to 
Acts  20  15—21  1,  and  2  Tim  4  20  (AV  "Mile- 
turn"),  Paid  twice  visited.  In  the  earliest  times  it 
was  a  prominent  trading  post,  and  it  is  said  that 
75  colonies  were  founded  by  its  merchants.  Among 
them  were  Abydos,  Cyzicus  and  Sinope.  In  494 
BC,  the  city  was  taken  by  the  Persians;  it  was 
recovered  by  Alexander  the  Great,  but  after  his 
time  it  rapidly  declined,  yet  it  continued  to  exist 
until  long  after  the  Christian  era.  In  the  history 
of  early  Christianity  it  plays  but  a  little  part. 
The  Meander  brings  down  a  considerable  amount 
of  sediment  which  it  has  deposited  at  its  mouth, 
naturally  altering  the  coast  line.  The  gulf  into 
which  the  river  flows  has  thus  been  nearly  filled 
with  the  deposit.  In  the  ancient  gulf  stood  a  little 
island  called  Lade;  the  island  now  appears  as  a 
mound  in  the  marshy  malarial  plain,  and  Palatia, 
the  modern  village  which  stands  on  the  site  of 
Miletus,  is  6  miles  from  the  coast.  Without  taking 
into  account  the  great  changes  in  the  coast  line  it 
would  be  difficult  to  understand  Acts  20  15-21, 
for  in  the  days  of  Paul,  Ephesus  could  be  reached 
from  Miletus  by  land  only  by  making  a  long  detour 
about  the  head  of  the  gulf.  To  go  directly  from  one 
of  these  cities  to  the  other,  one  would  have  been 
obliged  to  cross  the  gulf  by  boat  and  then  continue 
by  land.  This  is  what  Paul's  messenger  probably 
did.  The  direct  journey  may  now  be  made  by 
land.  Miletus  has  been  so  ruined  that  its  plan 
can  no  longer  be  made  out.  Practically  the  only 
remaining  object  of  unusual  interest  is  the  theater, 
the  largest  in  Asia  Minor,  which  was  not  built  in  a 
hollow  of  the  hillside,  as  most  ancient  theaters  wrere, 
but  in  the  open  field.  E.  J.  Banks 

MILK,  milk  pbn ,  hdlabh;  yaika,  gala;  Lat  lac 
[2  Esd  2  19;  8  10]):  The  fluid  secreted  by  the 
mammary  glands  of  female  mammals  for  the  nourish- 
ment of  their  young.  The  word  is  used  in  the  Bible 
of  that  of  human  beings  (Isa  28  9)  as  well  as  of 
that  of  the  lower  animals  (Ex  23  19).  As  a  food  it 
ranked  next  in  importance  to  bread  (Ecclus  39  26). 
Pal  is  frequently  described  as  a  land  "flowing  with 
milk  and  honey"  (Ex  3  8.17;  Nu  13  27;  Dt  6  3; 
Josh  5  6;  Jer  11  5;  Ezk  20  6.15).  Milk  was  among 
the  first  things  set  before  the  weary  traveler  (Gen 
18  8).  In  fact,  it  was  considered  a  luxury  (Jgs  5 
25;  Cant  5  1).     The  people  used  the  milk  of  kine 


Mill,  Millstone 
Millennium 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2052 


and  also  thai  of  sheep  (Dt  32  14),  and  esp.  that  of 
goats    (Prov  27  27).      l!     was    received    in    pails 

Cdthilm,  Job  21  24),  and  kept,  in  leather  bottles 
(no  <lh,  Jgs  4  19),  where  it  turned  sour  quickly  in 
the  warm  climate  of  Pal  before  being  poured  out 
thickly  like  a  melting  substance  (nathakh;  cf  Job 
10  10).  Cheese  of  various  kinds  was  made  from  it, 
(grbhlnah  and  harlqe  he-haldbh,  lit.  "cuts  of  milk"); 
or  the  curds  (hem'dh)  were  eaten  with  bread,  and 
possibly  also  made  into  butter  by  churning  (Prov 
30  33).  See  Food,  II.  It  is  possible  that  milk  was 
used  for  seething  other  substances;  at  least  the 
Israelites  were  strictly  forbidden  to  seethe  :i  kid  in 
its  mother's  milk  (Ex  23  P.);  34  26;  Dt  14  21), 
and  by  a  very  general  interpretation  of  these  pas- 
sages Jews  have  come  to  abstain  from  the  use  of 
mixtures  of  meat  and  milk  of  all  kinds. 

Figuratively  the  word  is  used  (1)  of  abundance 
(Gen  49  12);  (2)  of  a  loved  one's  charms  (Cant  4 
11);  (3)  of  blessings  (Isa  55  1;  Joel  3  18);  (4)  of 
the  (spiritual)  food  of  immature  people  (1  Cor  3  2; 
He  5  12.13);    (5)  of  purity  (1   Pet  2  2). 

Nathan  Isaacs 

MILL,  mil,  MILLSTONE,  mil'ston  (niTl , 
reheh;  p.v\os,  nailos,  [ivX.u>v,  muldri):  The  two  most 
primitive  methods  of  grinding  grain  were  (1)  by 
pounding  it  in  a  mortar,  and  (2)  by  rubbing  it  be- 
tween two  stones.  In  Nu  11  8  both  methods  are 
mentioned  as  used  for  rendering  the  manna  more 
fit  for  cooking.      Numerous  examples  of  both  mill 


Women  at  a  Modern  Mill. 

and  mortar  have  been  found  in  ancient  excavations. 
Bliss  and  Macalister  in  their  excavations  at  Gezer 
and  other  places  have  found  specimens  of  what  is 
called  the  saddle-quern  or  mill,  which  consists  of 
two  stones.  The  "nether"  stone,  always  made  of 
hard  lava  or  basalt  from  the  district  of  the  Hauran, 
was  a  large  heavy  slab  varying  in  length  from  1^ 
ft.  to  2\  ft.,  and  in  width  from  10  in.  to  1  \  ft.  Its 
upper  surface  was  hollowed  out  slightly,  which 
made  it  look  a  little  like  a  saddle  and  may  have 
suggested  the  name  of  "riding  millstone"  applied 
by  the  Hebrews  to  the  upper  stone  which  rested  on 
it  (Jgs  9  53).  The  "upper  stone"  or  "rider"  was 
much  smaller,  4  in.  to  8  in.  long  and  2|  in.  to  0  in. 
wide,  and  of  varying  shapes.  This  could  be  seized 
with  the  two  hands  and  rubbed  back  and  forth  over 
the  nether  stone  much  the  same  as  clothes  are 
scrubbed  on  a  wash-board.  Such  a  stone  could  be 
used  as  a  weapon  (Jgs  9  53;  2  S  11  21),  or  given 
as  a  pledge  (Dt  24  0). 

Macalister  goes  so  far  as  to  say  that  "the  rotary  hand- 
quern  in  the  form  used  in  modern  Pal  and  in  remote 
European  regions,  such  as  the  Hebrides,  is  quite  un- 
known throughout  the  whole  history,  even  down  to  the 
time  of  Christ"  (Excavations  at  Gezer).  The  same  writ  <r. 
however,  describes  some  mills  belonging  to  the  3d  and 
4th  Sem  periods  which  are  much  like  the  present  rotary 
quern,  except  smaller  (4  in.  to  (>  in.  in  diameter),  and 
with  no  provision  for  a  turning  handle.  Schumacher 
describes  these  as  paint  grinders.  The  only  perforated 
upper  millstones  found  in  the  excavations  at  Gezer 
belong  to  the  early  Arab,  period. 


If  the  above  assertions  tire  substantiated  then  we 
must  alter  somewhat  the  familiar  picture  of  the  two 
women  at  the  mill  (Mt  24  41),  commonly  illus- 
trated by  photographs  of  the  mills  still  used  in 
modern  Pal.  These  latter  consist  of  two  stone 
discs  each  IS  in.  to  20  in.  in  diameter,  usually  made 
of  Hauran  basalt.  The  upper  one  is  perforated  in 
the  center  to  allow  it  to  rotate  on  a  wooden  peg 
fixed  in  the  nether  stone,  and  near  t  he  circumference 
of  the  upper  stone  is  fixed  a  wooden  handle  for 
turning  it.  The  grain  to  be  ground  is  fed  into  the 
central  hole  on  the  upper  stone  and  gradually  works 
down  between  the  stones.  As  the  grain  is  reduced 
to  flour,  it  flies  out  from  between  the  stones  on  to  a 
cloth  or  skin  placed  underneath  the  mill.  To  make 
the  flour  fine  it  is  reground  and  sifted.  Larger 
stones  4  ft.  to  5  ft.  in  diameter,  working  on  the 
principle  of  the  handmill,  are  still  used  for  grind- 
ing sesame  seed.  These  are  turned  by  asses  or 
mules.  Another  form  of  mill,  which  is  possibly 
referred  to  in  Mt  18  0;  Mk  9  42;  Rev  18  21.22, 
consisted  of  a  conical  nether  stone  on  which  "rode" 
a  second  stone  like  a  hollowed-out  capstan.  The 
upper  stone  was  probably  turned  with  handspikes 
in  much  the  same  way  as  an  old-fashioned  ship's 
capstan  was  turned.  The  material  to  be  ground 
was  fed  into  the  upper  cone  which  formed  the 
hopper  and  from  which  it  was  delivered  to  the  grind- 
ing surfaces  between  the  "rider"  and  the  nether 
stone.  This  form  of  null  must  have  been  known  in 
late  Bib.  t  hues,  because  many  examples  of  the  upper 
stone  elating  from  the  Gr-Rom  period  have  been 
found.  One  may  be  seen  in  the  museum  of  the 
Syrian  Protestant  College  at  Beirut.  Another 
large  one  lies  among  the  ruins  at  Pctra,  etc.  In  Mt 
18  0;  Mk  9  42,  the  mill  is  described  as  a  uv\os 
6i>ik6s}  mulos  onikos,  lit.  a  mill  turned  by  an  ass, 
hence  a  great  millstone.  It  is  not  at  all  unlikely 
that  the  writers  have  confused  the  meaning  of  ovos, 
6nos  ("TCI"!,  hdmor),  a  term  commonly  applied  to  the 
upper  millstone  of  a  handmill,  thinking  it  referred 
instead  to  the  animal  which  turned  the  mill.  This 
explanation  would  make  Christ's  words  of  con- 
demnation more  applicable.  The  upper  millstone 
of  a  handmill  would  be  more  than  sufficient  to  sink 
the  condemned,  and  the  punishment  would  be  more 
easily  carried  out.  A  few  years  from  now  hand- 
mills  will  have  disappeared  from  the  Syrian  house- 
holds, for  the  more  modern  gristmills  turned  by 
water  or  other  motor  power  are  rapidly  replacing 
them.     See  Crafts,  II,  8. 

Figuratively:  (1)  Of  firmness  and  undaunted 
courage  (Job  41  24).  "The  heart  of  hot-blooded 
animals  is  liable  to  sudden  contractions  and  expan- 
sions, producing  rapid  alternations  of  sensations; 
not  so  the  heart  of  the  great  saurians"  (Canon 
Cook  ad  loc).  (2)  To  "grind  the  face  of  the  poor" 
(Isa  3  15)  is  cruelly  to  oppress  and  afflict  them. 
(3)  The  ceasing  of  the  sound  of  the  millstone  was 
a  sign  of  desolation  (Jer  25  10;    Rev  18  22). 

James  A.  Patch 

MILLENNIUM  (POSTMILLENNIAL  VIEW). 
See  Pschatology  of  the  NT. 

MILLENNIUM,  mi-len'i-um  (PREMILLENNIAL 
VIEW) : 

Divergent  Views — Scope  of  Article 
I.     The   Teaching   of  Jesus 

The  Millennium  Not  before  the  Advent 

(1)  Parable  of  the  Wheat  and  Tares 

(2)  Parable  of  the  Pounds 
II.     Teaching  op  the  Apostles 

1.  Expectation  of  the  Advent 

2.  Possibility  of  Survival — Its  Implications 

3.  Prophecy  of  "Man  of  Sin" 

4.  No  Room  for  Millennium 

5.  Harmony  of  Christ  and  Apostles 
Liter  a  thru 


2053 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Mill,  Millstone 
Millennium 


Divergent 
Views — ■■ 
Scope  of 
Article 


The  Mil- 
lennium 
Not  before 
the  Advent 


The  great  majority  of  evangelical  Christians 
believe  that  the  kingdom  of  God  shall  have  uni- 
versal sway  over  the  earth,  and  that 
righteousness  and  peace  and  the 
knowledge  of  the  Lord  shall  every- 
where prevail.  This  happy  time  is 
commonly  called  the  Millennium,  or 
the  thousand  years'  reign.  Divergent 
views  are  entertained  as  to  how  it  is  to  be  brought 
about.  Many  honest,  and  faithful  men  hold  that 
it  will  be  introduced  by  the  agencies  now  at  work, 
mainly  by  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  of  Christ  and 
the  extension  of  the  church  over  the  world.  An 
increasing  number  of  men  equally  honest  teach 
that  the  Millennium  will  be  established  by  the 
visible  advent  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  The  aim 
of  this  brief  article  is  to  set  forth  some  of  the 
Scriptural  grounds  on  which  this  latter  view  rests. 
No  reference  will  be  made  to  objections,  to  counter- 
objections  and  interpretations;  the  single  point, 
namely,  that  the  Millennium  succeeds  the  second 
coming  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  it  does  not  pre- 
cede it,  will  be  rigidly  adhered  to.  Those  who 
hold  this  view  believe  that  neither  Christ  nor 
His  apostles  taught,  on  fair  principles  of  interpreta- 
tion, that  the  Millennium  must  come  before  His 
advent. 

/.  The  Teaching  of  Jesus. — The  Lord  Jesus  said 
nothing  about  world-wide  conversion  in  His  in- 
structions to  His  disciples  touching 
their  mission  (Mt  28  19.20;  Mk  16 
15;  Lk  24  4(5-48;  _  Acts  1  8).  They 
were  to  be  His  witnesses  and  carry 
His  message  to  the  race,  but  He  does 
not  promise  the  race  will  receive  their 
testimony,  or  that  men  will  generally  accept  His 
salvation.  On  the  contrary,  He  explicitly  fore- 
warns them  that  they  shall  be  hated  of  all  men,  that 
sufferings  and  persecutions  shall  be  their  lot,  but 
if  they  are  faithful  to  the  end  their  reward  will 
be  glorious.  But  world-wide  evangelism  does  not 
mean  world-wide  conversion.  The  universal  offer 
of  salvation  does  not  pledge  its  universal  acceptance. 
In  His  instructions  and  predictions  the  Lord  does 
not  let  fall  a  hint  that  their  world-wide  mission  will 
result  in  world-wide  conversion,  or  that  thereby 
the  longed-for  Millennium  will  be  ushered  in.  But 
there  is  a  time  to  come  when  the  knowledge  of 
the  Lord  shall  cover  the  earth  as  the  waters  the 
sea,  when  teaching  shall  no  longer  be  needed, 
for  all  shall  know  Him  from  the  least  to  the 
greatest.  Our  dispensation,  accordingly,  cannot 
be  the  last,  for  the  effects  stated  in  that  are  not, 
contemplated  in  the  instructions  and  the  results  of 
this.  To  the  direct  revelation  of  Christ  on  the 
subject  we  now  turn.  In  two  parables  He  explicitly 
announces  the  general  character  and  the  consumma- 
tion of  the  gospel  age,  and  these  we  are  briefly  to 
examine. 

(1)  Parable,  of  the  Wheat  and  Tares  (Mt  13  2/t- 
80.36-43). — Happily  we  are  not  left,  to  discover 
the  meaning  and  scope  of  this  parable.  We  enjoy 
the  immense  advantage  of  having  Our  Lord's  own 
interpretation  of  it,  Out,  of  His  Divine  explana- 
tion certain  most  important  facts  emerge:  (a)  The 
parable  covers  the  whole  period  between  the  first 
and  second  advents  of  the  Saviour.  The  Sower  is 
Christ  Himself.  He  began  the  good  work;  He 
opened  the  new  era.  (b)  The  field  is  the  world. 
Christ's  work  is  no  longer  confined  to  a  single 
nation  or  people  as  once;  it  contemplates  the 
entire  race,  (c)  His  people,  the  redeemed,  begotten 
by  His  word  and  Spirit,  are  the  good  seed.  Through 
them  the  gospel  of  His  grace  is  to  be  propagated 
throughout  the  whole  world,  (d)  The  devil  is  also 
a  sower.  He  is  the  foul  counterfeiter  of  God's  work. 
He  sowed  the  tares,  the  sons  of  the  evil  one.     (e) 


The  tares  are  not  wicked  men  in  general,  but  a  par- 
ticular class  of  wicked  brought  into  close  and  con- 
taminating association  with  the  children  of  God. 
"Within  the  territory  of  the  visible  church  the 
tares  are  deposited"  (Dr.  David  Brown).  It  is  the 
corruption  of  Christendom  that  is  meant,  a  gi- 
gantic fact  to  which  we  cannot  shut  our  eyes. 
if)  The  mischief,  once  done,  cannot,  be  corrected. 
"Let  both  grow  together  until  the  harvest,"  Chris- 
tendom once  corrupted  remains  so  to  the  end. 
iff) .The-  harvest  is  the  consummation  of  the  age. 
This  is  the  culmination  of  our  age;  it  terminates 
with  the  advent  and  judgment  of  the  Son  of  God. 
He  will  send  forth  His  angels  who  will  "gather  out, 
of  his  kingdom  all  things  that  cause  stumbling,  and 
them  that  do  iniquity,  and  shall  cast  them  into  the 

furnace   of   fire Then   shall    the   righteous 

shine  forth  as  the  sun  in  tin-  kingdom  of  their 
Father." 

Here,  then,  we  have  the  beginning,  progress  and 
consummation  of  our  age.  Christ  Himself  intro- 
duced it,  and  it  was  distinguished  for  its  purity  and 
its  excellence.  But  the  glorious  system  of  truth 
was  soon  marred  by  the  cunning  craftiness  of  Satan. 
No  after-vigilance  or  earnestness  on  the  part  of  the 
servants  could  repair  the  fatal  damage.  They  were 
forbidden  to  attempt  the  removal  of  the  tares,  for 
by  so  doing  they  would  endanger  the  good  grain,  so 
intermixed  had  the  two  become!  The  expulsion  of 
the  tares  is  left  for  angels'  hands  in  the  day  of  the 
harvest.  This  is  Our  Lord's  picture  of  our  age: 
a  Zizanian  field  wherein  good  and  bad,  children  of 
God  and  children  of  the  evil  one,  live  side  by  side 
down  to  the  harvest  which  is  the  end.  In  spite  of 
all  efforts  to  correct  and  reform,  the  corruption  of 
Christendom  remains,  nay,  grows  apace.  To 
expel  the  vast  crop  of  false  doctrine,  false  professors, 
false  teachers,  is  now  as  it  has  been  for  centuries 
an  impossibility.  Christ's  solemn  words  hold  down 
to  the  final  consummation,  "Let  both  grow  together 
until  the  harvest."  In  such  conditions  a  millen- 
nium of  universal  righteousness  and  knowledge  of 
the  Lord  seems  impossible  until  the  separation 
takes  place  at  the  harvest. 

(2)  Parable  of  the  Pounds  (Lk  19  11-27).— 
Jesus  was  on  His  last  journey  to  Jerus,  and  near 
the  city.  The  multitude  was  eager,  expectant. 
They  supposed  the  Kingdom  of  God  was  imme- 
diately to  appear.  The  parable  was  spoken  to 
correct  this  mistake  and  to  reveal  certain  vital 
features  of  it,  "A  certain  nobleman  went  into  a 
far  country,  to  receive  for  himself  a  kingdom,  and 
to  return."  There  is  little  difficulty  in  grasping 
the  main  teaching  of  this  suggestive  narrative. 
The  nobleman  is  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  Himself; 
the  far  country  is  heaven;  the  kingdom  He  goes  to 
receive  is  the  Messianic  kingdom,  for  the  victorious 
establishment  of  which  all  God's  people  long  and 
pray.  The  servants  are  those  who  sustain  respon- 
sible relation  to  the  Lord  because  of  the  trust  com- 
mitted to  them.  The  rebellious  citizens  are  those 
who  refuse  subjection  to  His  will  and  defy  His 
authority.  His  return  is  His  second  coming.  The 
parable  spans  the  whole  period  between  His  ascen- 
sion and  His  advent.  It,  measures  across  our  entire; 
age.  It  tells  of  Christ 's  going  away,  it  describes 
the  conduct  of  His  servants  and  of  the  citizens 
during  His  absence;  it  foretells  His  return  and  the 
reckoning  that  is  to  follow.  Mark  tin;  words,  "And 
it  came  to  pass,  when  he  was  come  back  again, 
having  received  the  kingdom."  It  is  in  heaven  He 
receives  the  invest  it  me  of  the  kingdom  (Rev  6  6). 
It  is  on  earth  that  He  administers  it.  The  phrase, 
"having  received  the  kingdom,  cannot  by  any 
dexterity  of  exegesis  be  made  to  denote  the  end  of 
time  or  the  end  of  the  Millennium,  or  of  His  re- 
ceiving it,  at  the  end  of  the  world;    it  is  then  He 


Millennium 
Mincing 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2054 


delivers  it  up  to  Cod,  even  the  Father  (1  Cor  15 
24-28). 

The  order  and  sequence  of  events  as  traced  by 
the  Lord  disclose;  the  same  fact  made  prominent 
in  the  parable  of  the  Wheat  and  Tares,  namely, 
that  during  the  whole  period  between  His  ascension 
and  His  return  there  is  no  place  for  a  Millennium 
of  world-wide  righteousness  and  prosperity.  But 
Scripture  warrants  the  belief  that  such  blessedness 
is  surely  to  fill  the  earth,  and  if  so,  it  must  be  real- 
ized after  Christ's  second  coming. 

//.    Teaching    of    the    Apostles. — There     is    no 

unmistakable  evidence  that  the  apostles  expected 

a   thousand   years   of   prosperity   and 

1.  Expecta-  peace  during  Christ's  absence  in 
tion  of  the  heaven.  In  Acts  1  11  we  read  that 
Advent  the    heavenly    visitants    said    to    the 

apostles,  "Ye  men  of  Calilee,  why 
stand  ye  looking  into  heaven?"  This  attitude  of  the 
men  of  Calilee  became  the  permanent  attitude  of 
the  primitive  church.  It  was  that  of  the  uplifted 
gaze.  Paul's  exultant  words  respecting  the  Thessa- 
lonians might  well  be  applied  to  all  believers  of  that 
ancient  time,  that  they  ''turned  unto  Cod  from  idols, 
to  serve  a  living  and  true;  Cod,  and  to  wait  for 
his  Son  from  heaven"  (1  Thess  1  9.10).  It  is  the 
prominent  theme  of  the  NT  epp.  In  the  NT  it 
is  mentioned  318  t.  Oik;  verse  in  every  thirty,  we 
are  told,  is  occupied  with  it.  It  is  found  shining 
with  a  glad  hope  in  the  first  letters  Paul  wrote,  those 
to  the  Thessalonians.  It  is  found  in  the  last  he 
wrote,  the  second  to  Timothy,  gleaming  with  the 
bright  anticipation  of  the  crown  he  was  to  receive 
at  the  Redeemer's  appearing.  James  quickens  the 
flagging  courage,  and  reanimates  the  drooping  spirits 
of  believers  with  this  trumpet  peal:  "Be  ye  also 
patient;  establish  your  hearts:  for  the  coming  of 
the  Lord  is  at  hand"  (5  8).  Peter  exhorts  to  all 
holy  conversation  and  godliness  by  the  like  motive: 
"Looking  for  and  hastening  the  coming  of  the  day 
of  God"  (2  Pet  3  12  m).  Amid  the  deepening 
gloom  and  the  gathering  storms  of  the  last  days, 
Jude  (ver  14)  cheers  us  with  the  words  of  Enoch, 
the  seventh  from  Adam,  'Behold,  the  Lord  cometh 
with  ten  thousand  of  his  saints,  to  execute  judgment 
upon  ....  the  ungodly.'  John  closes  the  Canon 
with  the  majestic  words,  "Behold,  he  cometh  with 
the  clouds,"  "Behold,  I  come  quickly."  These  men, 
speaking  by  the  Spirit  of  the  living  God,  know  there 
can  be  no  reign  of  universal  righteousness,  no  de- 
liverance of  groaning  creation,  no  redemption  of  the 
body,  no  binding  of  Satan,  and  no  Millennium  while 
the  tares  grow  side  by  side  with  the  wheat;  while 
the  ungodly  world  flings  its  defiant  shout  after  the 
retiring  nobleman,  "We  will  not  have  this  man  to 
reign  over  us";  and  while  Satan,  that  strong, 
fierce  spirit,  loose  in  this  age,  deceives,  leads  cap- 
tive, devours  and  ruins  as  he  lists.  Therefore  the 
passionate  longing  and  the  assurance  of  nearing 
deliverance  at  the  coming  of  Christ  fill  so  large 
a  place  in  the  faith  and  the  life  of  the  primitive 
disciples. 

In    1  Thess  4  17    Paul    speaks   of    himself    and 

others   who   may   survive   till   the   Lord's   coming: 

"Then  we  that  are  alive,  that  are  left, 

2.  Possi-  shall  together  with  them  be  caught 
bility  of  up  in  the  clouds,  to  meet  the  Lord  in 
Survival—     the  air"  (cf  1  Cor  15  51.52). 

Its  Impli-  This  impljes  fairiy  that  the  apostle  did 

cations  not  know  that  long  ages  would  elapse  be- 

tween his  own  day  and  Christ's  advent. 
There  was  to  his  mind  the  possibility  of  His  coming  in 
his  lifetime;  in  fact,  he  seems  to  have  an  expectation 
that  he  would  not  pass  through  the  gates  of  death  at  all, 
that  In;  would  live  to  see  the  Lord  in  His  glorious  return, 
for  the  day  and  the  hour  of  the  advent  is  absolutely 
concealed  even  from  inspired  men.  The  inference  is 
perfectly  legitimate  that  Paul  and  his  fellow-disciples  did 


not  anticipate  that  a  thousand  years  should  intervene 
between  them  and  the  coming. 

Furthermore,    the    Thessalonians    had    fallen    into    a 

serious   mistake    (2  Thess  2   1-12).     By    a   false   spirit, 

or  by  a  forged  ep.  as  from  Paul,  they  were 

3.  Prophecy  1°(1  lo  believe  that  "the  day  of  the  Lord  is 
f  <<i\/rfin  now  Present"  (ERV),  ver  2.     The  apostle 

u*   c.    ,,  sets  them  right  about  this  solemn  matter. 

of  Sin  He  assures  them  that  some  things  must 

precede  that  day,  namely,  "tin;  falling 
away,"  or  apostasy,  and  the  appearing  of  a  powerful 
adversary  whom  he  calls  "the  Man  of  Sin,"  and  de- 
scribes as  "the  Son  of  Perdition."  Neither  the  one  nor  the 
other  of  these  two,  tin;  apostasy  and  the  Man  of  Sin,  was 
then  present.  But  the  road  was  fast  getting  ready  for 
them.  There  was  the  "  mystery  of  lawlessness"  already 
at  work  at  the  time,  and  although  a  certain  restraint 
held  it  in  check,  nevertheless  when  the  check  was  re- 
moved it  would  at  once  precipitate  the  apostasy,  and  it 
would  issue  in  the  advent  of  the  Man  of  Sin,  and  he 
should  be  brought  to  nought  by  the  personal  coming  of 
Jesus  Christ.  This  appears  to  be  the  import  of  the 
passage. 

Here  was  the  appropriate  place  to  settle  forever  for 
these  saints  and  for  all  others  the  question  of  a  long 
period  to  intervene  before  the  Saviour's  advent.  How 
easy  and  natural  it  would  have  been  for  Paul  to  write, 
"  Brethren,  there  is  to  be  first  a  time  of  universal  blessed- 
ness for  the  world,  the  Millennium,  and  after  that  there 
will  be  an  apostasy  and  the  revelation  of  the  Man  of  Sin 
whom  Christ  will  destroy  by  the  brightness  of  His  com- 
ing." But  Paul  intimated  nothing  of  the  sort.  Instead, 
he  distinctly  says  that  the  mystery  of  lawlessness  is  already 
working,  that  it  will  issue  in  "the  falling  away,"  and 
then  shall  appear  the  great  adversary,  the  Lawless  One, 
who  shall  meet  his  doom  by  the  advent  of  Christ.  The 
mystery  of  lawlessness,  however,  is  held  in  restraint, 
we  are  told.  May  it  not  be  possible  that  the  check 
shall  be  taken  off,  then  the  Millennium  succeed,  and 
after  that  the  apostasy  and  the  Son  of  Perdition  ?  No, 
for  its  removal  is  immediately  followed  by  the  coming 
of  the  great  foe,  the  Antichrist.  For  this  foe  has  both 
an  apocalypse  and  a  parousia  like  Christ  Himself.  Hence, 
the  lifting  of  the  restraint  is  sudden,  by  no  means  a 
prolonged  process. 

The  apostle  speaks  of  the  commencement,  prog- 
ress, and   close  of   a  certain  period.     It  had  com- 
menced when  he  wrote.     Its  close  is 

4.  No  Room  at  the  coming  of  Christ.     What  inter- 
for  Millen-    venes?     The  continuance  of  the  evil 
nium  secretly  at  work  in  the  body  of  pro- 
fessing   Christians,    and    its    progress 

from  the  incipient  state  to  the  maturity  of  daring 
wickedness  which  will  be  exhibited  in  the  Man  of 
Sin.  This  condition  of  things  fills  up  the  whole 
period,  if  we  accept  Paul's  teaching  as  that  of  in- 
spired truth.  There  appears  to  be  no  place  for  a 
Millennium  within  the  limits  which  the  apostle 
here  sets.  The  only  escape  from  this  conclusion, 
as  it  seems  to  us,  is,  to  deny  that  the  coming  of 
Christ  is  His  actual,  personal  second  coming.  But 
the  two  words,  epiphdncia  and  parousia,  which 
elsewhere  are  used  separately  to  denote  His  advent, 
are  here  employed  to  give  "graphic  vividness"  and 
certainty  to  the  event,  and  hence  they  peremptorily 
forbid  a  figurative  interpretation.  The  conclusion 
seems  unavoidable  that  there  can  be  no  Millen- 
nium on  this  side  of  the  advent  of  Christ. 

Our  Lord's  Olivet  prophecy  (Mt  24,  25;  Mk  13; 

Lk  21)    accords   fully    with    the    teaching    of    the 

apostles  on  the  subject.     In  that  dis- 

5.  Harmony  course  He  foretells  wars,  commotions 
of  Christ  among  the  nations,  Jerusalem's  cap- 
and  ture  and  the  destruction  of  the  temple, 
Apostles         Israel's    exile,    Christians    persecuted 

while  bearing  their  testimony  through- 
out the  world,  cosmic  convulsions,  unparalleled 
tribulation  and  sufferings  which  terminate  only 
with  His  advent.  From  the  day  this  great  prophecy 
was  spoken  down  to  the  hour  of  His  actual  coming 
He  offers  no  hope  of  a  Millennium.  He  opens  no 
place  for  a  thousand  years  of  blessedness  for  the 
earth. 

These  are  some  of  the  grounds  on  which  Bib. 
students  known  as  Premillennialists  rest  their 
belief  touching  the  coming  of  the  Lord  and  the 
Millennial  reign. 


2055 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Millennium 
Mincing 


Literature. — Premillenarian :  H.  Bonar,  The  Coming 
of  the  Kingdom  of  the  Lord  Jesus;  Wood,  The  Last 
Things;     Guinness,     The    Approaching    End    of  the    Age; 

Sciss,  The  Lust  Times;  Gordon,  Leee  Venit;  Pit  millen- 
nial Essays;  Peters,  The  Theocratic  Kingdom;  West, 
The  Thousand  Years  in  Both  Testaments;  Trotter,  Plain 
Papers  on  Proplietic  Subjects;  Brookes,  Maranatha; 
Andrews,  Christianity  and  Antichrislianitij;  Kellogg, 
Prediction  and  Fulfilment. 

William  G.  Moorehead 

MILLET,   mil'et,   mil'it   ("H" ,   dohan;   Ke'yxpos, 

kegchros):  One  of  the  ingredients  of  the  prophet's 

bread   (Ezk  4  9).     The  Aral),  equivalent  is  dukhn, 

the  common  millet,  Parricum  miliaceum,  an  annual 


Millet  {Sorghum  vulgare). 

grass  3  or  4  ft.  high  with  a  much-branched  nodding 
panicle.  Its  seeds  are  as  small  as  mustard  seeds 
and  are  used  largely  for  feeding  small  birds,  but 
arc  sometimes  ground  to  flour  and  mixed  with  other 
cereals  for  making  bread.  The  Italian  millet, 
setaria  Italica,  known  as  Bengal  grass,  is  also  called 
in  Arab,  dukhn,  and  has  a  similar  seed.  A  somewhat 
similar  grain,  much  more  widely  cultivated  as  a 
summer  crop,  is  the  Indian  millet — also  called 
"Egyp  maize" — the  Sorghum  annuum.  This  is 
known  as  dhurah  in  Arab.,  and  the  seed  as  dhurah 
beidn,  "white  dourra."  It  is  a  very  important  crop, 
as  it,  like  the  common  millet,  grows  and  matures 
without  any  rain.  It  is  an  important  breadstuff 
among  the  poor. 

Both  the  common  millet  and  the  dourra  were 
cultivated  in  Egypt  in  very  ancient  times;  the  Heb 
dohan  was  certainly  the  first,  but  may  include  all 
three;  varieties.  E.  W.  G.  Masterman 

MILLO,  mil'o  (fcttVp,  millo',  generally  inter- 
preted to  mean  a  "filling,"  e.g.   a  solid  tower  or 


an  earth  embankment;   in  Jgs  9  6.20;   2  K  12  20, 

we  get  KibE  rPSl,  both  millo',  trd  in  EV   "House 

of  Millo,"  which  Winckler  thinks  may 

1.  OT  have  been  the  original  Jebusite  temple- 
References    shrine     of    Jerus     [see     Betii-.milloJ; 

LXX  reads  Bn0(iaa\iiv,  Belhmaalon, 
also  Maalon  and  oikos  Maallon):  It  is  gen- 
erally supposed  that  "The  Millo"  was  some  kind 
of  fortress  or  other  defence,  but  many  speculations 
have  been  made  regarding  its  position.  In  2  S  5 
9,  we  read  that  David  built  round  about  from  the 
Millo  and  inward,  or  (in  LXX)  "he  fortified  it,  the 
city,  round  about  from  the;  Millo  and  his  house" 
(cf  1  Ch  11  8).  In  connection  with  Solomon's 
strengthening  of  the  fortifications,  there  are  several 
references  to  Millo.  In  1  K  9  15,  Solomon  raised 
a  levy  "to  build  the  house;  of  Jeh,  and  his  own  house, 
and  Millo,  and  the  wall  of  Jerus,"  etc;  in  ver  24, 
"Pharaoh's  daughter  came  up  out  of  the  city  of 
David  unto  her  house;  which  Solomon  had  built  for 
her:  then  did  he  build  Millo";  in  1  K  11  27, 
Solomon  "built  Millo,  and  repaired  the  breach  of 
the  city  of  David  his  father."  At  a  later  time  Heze- 
kiah  "took  courage,  and  built  up  all  the  wall  that 
was  broken  down,  and  raised  it  up  to  the  towers, 
and  the  other  wall  without,  and  strengthened  .Millo 
in  the  city  of  DavkT  (2  Ch  32  5;  2  K  12  20); 
Joash  was  slain  by  his  servants  "at  the  house  of 
Millo,  on  the  way  that  goeth  down  to  Silla,"  but 
possibly  this  may  have  been  in  Shechem  (cf  Jgs  9  6). 
The  mention  of  the  site  in  the  days  of  David  and 
the;  reference  to  it  in  connection  with  the  city  of 

David     (1  K  11  27)    point    to    some 

2.  Identical  part  of  the  southeastern  hill  S.  of  the 
with  the  temple.  It  is  suggestive  that  Millo 
Akra  Site       is    in    LXX    always    tr'1    by    "Akra." 

It  seems  to  the  present  writer  very 
probable;  that  it  was  a  fortress  crowning  the  hill  on 
which  at  a  later  time'  stoexl  the;  Syrian  Akra,  which 
hill,  if  we  are;  to  believe  Jos  (BJ,  V,  iv,  1,  etc),  was 
cut  down  because  its  commanding  situation  elom- 
inated  the  temple.  This  hill  cannot  have  been  the 
site  of  Zion  afterward  known  as  "David's  Burg" 
(City  of  David),  because  the  tombs  of  the  Judaean 
kings  we're  within  its  walls,  and  that  alone  would 
have  maele  the  complete  le:ve'ling  e>f  the;  site  impos- 
sible, but  whereas  the  Jebusite  fortress  was  probably 
not  far  from  Gihon,  this  fortified  summit  may  have" 
been,  as  Watson  suggests  for  the;  Akra,  as  far  north 
as  where  the  present  Al  Aksa  mosque  is  situated. 
In  David's  time  it  may  have  been  an  isolated  and 
detached  fort  guarding  the  north  approach,  but  if 
it  was  originally  a  Jebusite  high  place  (Winckler) 
partly  e>f  sun-dried  brick  like'  similar  constructions 
in  Babylonia,  the  account  of  its  be'ing  leveled  would 
be  much  more  credible.  The  importance  of  this 
site  in  the;  elays  of  Seilennem  is  fully  explicable  if  this 
was  the;  citadel  guarding  the  newly  built  temple  and 
royal  palaces. 

Dr.  G.  A.  Smith  is  inclined  to  think  that  Millo 
may  have  been  a  fortress  "e>ff  the;  south  end  of 
Ophel,  to  retain  and  protect  the  old  pool,"  tend 
Vincent  suggests  that  the  site  of  Millo  is  that  now 
occupied  by  the;  gre'at  causeway  connecting  the 
Western  and  Eastern  hills  along  which  runs  the 
tarlkbab  es  silsileh.  E.  W.  G.  Masterman 

MILLSTONE,  mil'ston.     See  Mill. 

MINA,  mi'na.     See  Maneh. 

MINCING,  min'sing  (3Bt3 ,  laphaph):  "Taking 
short  steps,"  "walking  trippingly."  Only  in  Isa 
3  16,  "walking  and  mincing  as  they  go,  and  making 
a  tinkling  [a  jingling  of  the'  metal  anklets]  with  their 
feet."     CiOIIL. 


Mind 
Ministry 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


205G 


MIND,  mind  (vovs,  noiis,  Siavoia,  dianoia,  o-vv«ris, 
m'mcsis):  We  look  in  vain  in  the  OT  and  NT  for 
anything  like  scientific  precision  in  the 
1.  No  Pre-  employment  of  terms  which  arc  meant 
cision  in  the  to  indicate  mental  operations. 
Terms  Used  In  the  OT  lebh  is  made  to  stand  for 
the  various  manifestations  of  our  in- 
tellectual and  emotional  nature.  We  are  often 
misled  by  the  different  renderings  in  the  different 
versions,  both  early  and  late. 

Sometimes  nephesh  or  "soul"  is  rendered  by  "mind" 
(I)t  18  6  AV,  "  desire  of  his  soul "  or"  mind");  sometimes 
ruah  or  "spirit"  (Gen  26  35,  "grief  of  mind."  ru"h). 
Here  Luther  renders  the  term  fferzeleid  ("grief  of  heart  '), 
and  the  Vulg  an i mum.  Sometimes  lebh  is  used,  as  in 
lsa  46  8,  "  bring  it  to  mind"  (lit.  "heart"),  or  in  Ps  31 
12,  "i  am  forgotten  as  a  dead  man  out  of  mind"  (lit. 
"heart"),  as  in  LXX,  kardia,  and  in  Vulg,  a  corde, 
Luther,  im  Herzen,  new  Dutch  tr,  uit  de  gedachtenis 
(i.e.  "memory"). 

In  the  Apoc  this  precision  is  equally  lacking. 
Thus  we  read  in  Wisd  9  15,  "For  the  corruptible 
body  [.soma]  presseth  down  the  soul  [psucM]  and 
the  earthly  tabernacle  weigheth  down  the  mind 
[nous]  that  museth  upon  many  things."  But  these 
distinctions  are  alien  to  the  letter  and  spirit  of 
revelation,  a  product  of  the  Gr  and  not  of  the  Heb 
mind. 

In  the  NT  the  words  nous  and  dianoia  are  used, 
but  not  with  any  precision  of  meaning. 

Here  too  several  terms  are  rendered  by  the  same  word. 
Thus  the  Hob  ru"h  is  rendered  by  nous  in  1  Cor  2  16 
("  mind  of  the  Lord,"  with  reference  to  lsa  40  13,  where 
"  ruah  YHWH  [Jell]"  occurs).  No  us  evidently  means 
here  "  the  organ  of  spiritual  perception — a  word  bor- 
rowed from  the  LXX,  where  it  is  sometimes  made  to 
stand  for  lebh  (Job  7  17;  lsa  41  22);  sometimes  for 
ru'xh  (lsa  40  13).  In  Lk  24  45 — the  solitary  text, 
where  nous  occurs  in  the  Gospels — it  is  rendered  "  under- 
standing" in  AV,  "mind"  in  RV. 

For  a  true  solution  we  must  turn  to  the  Epp.  of 

Paul,  where  the  word  frequently  occurs  in  an  ethical 

sense — sometimes  in   connection  with 

2.  Ethical       (sinful)  flesh  as  in  Col  2  18,   "puffed 
Sense  up  by  his  fleshly  mind,"  sometimes  in 

direct  contrast  to  it,  as  in  Rom  7  25, 
'with  my  mind  I  serve  the  law  of  God;  with  the 
flesh  the  law  of  sin.'  In  Tit  1  15  it  is  brought  into 
parallelism  with  conscience  ("Their  mind  and  their 
conscience  are  defiled").  Phrases  like  "a  reprobate 
mind,"  "corrupted  in  mind"  occur  elsewhere  (Rom  1 
28;  1  Tim  6  5).  F rom  this  state  of  "reprobation" 
and  "corruption"  man  must  be  saved.  Hence  the 
necessity  of  complete  transformation  and  renewal 
of  the  inner  man  (Rom  12  2),  "transformed  by  the 
renewing  of  your  mind  [nous]." 

Another  word,  with  possibly  a  deeper  meaning,  is 

sometimes  employed,  viz.  dianoia,  which  lit.  means 

"meditation,"  "reflection."    It  is  found 

3.  Dianoia    as  synonymous   with  nous  in  a  good 
and  Nous      sense,  as  e.g.  in  1  Jn  5  20  (He  "hath 

given  us  an  understanding,  that  we 
know  him  that  is  true").  Evidently  the  sense  here 
is  the  same  as  in  Rom  12  2,  a  renovated  mind  ca- 
pable of  knowing  Christ.  It  may  also  bear  a  bad 
sense,  as  in  Eph  4  18,  where  the  Gentiles  are  repre- 
sented as  having  "a  darkened  understanding,"  or  in 
parallelism  with  sdrx:  "the  desires  of  the  flesh  and 
of  the  mind"  (Eph  2  3),  and  with  nous:  'walking 
in  vanity  of  mind  \nou.s]  and  a  darkened  understand- 
ing [dianoia]'  in  Eph  4  18.  At  times  also  "heart" 
and  "mind"  an;  joined  to  indicate  human  depravity 
(Lk  1  51:  "He  hath  scattered  the  proud  in  the 
imagination  [dianoia]  of  their  heart").  It  is  inter- 
esting also  to  know  that  the  Great  Commandment 
is  rendered  in  Mt  22  37— "Thou  shalt  love  the 
Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy 
soul  [psuche],  and  with  all  thy  understanding 
[dianoia]  [EV  "mind"]"— though  Mk  has  two  render- 


ings in  oik1  of  which  dianoia  occurs,  and  in  the  other 
sum. six  (Mk  12  30.33),  though  possibly  without  any 
psychological  refinement  of  meaning,  for  the  term 
sunesis  occurs  elsewhere  in  conjunction  with  pneu- 
matikos  ("spiritual  understanding,"  Col  1  9).  It 
also  stands  alone  in  the  sense  of  an  "understanding 
enlightened  from  above"  (2  Tim  2  7AV:  "The  Lord 
give  thee  understanding  [sunesis]  in  all  things"). 
The  history  of  these  terms  is  interesting,  but  not  of 
great  theological  significance. 

It  seems  to  us  that  Godet's  interpretation  of  the  Great 
Commandment    in   Lk  10  -7  is  somewhat    far-fetched. 
He    considers    the    heart    as    "the    central 
4.  The  focus  from  which  all  rays  of  the  moral  life 

pr„„f  Cr,m  K<)  forth,  and  that  in  their  three  principal 
vjie<u  v^um-  dirc^ions;  tn(>  powt,rs  0f  feeling,  or  the 
mandment  affections,  nephesh  ('soul')  in  the  sense 
of  feeling;  the  active  powers,  the;  impul- 
sive aspirations,  the  might  ('with  all  thy  might'),  the 
will;  and  in  the  intellectual  powers,  analytical  or  con- 
templative, dianoia  ('with  all  thy  mind').  The  differ- 
ence between  the  heart,  winch  resembles  the  trunk  and  the 
three  branches,  feeling,  will,  understanding,  is  emphati- 
cally marked  in  the  Alexandrian  variation,  by  the  substi- 
tution of  the  preposition  en  ('in')  for  ek  ('with,'  'from') 
in  the  three  last  members.  Moral  life  proceeds  from  the 
heart  and  manifests  itself  without,  in  the  three  forms  of 
activity.  The  impulse  God-ward  proceeds  from  the  heart , 
and  is  realized  in  the  life  through  the  will,  which  conse- 
crates itself  actively  to  the  accomplishment  of  His  will; 
and  through  the  mind,  which  pursues  the  track  of  His 
thought  in  all  His  works"  (Godet,  Comm.  on  the  Gospel 
of  Lk,  II,  38,  39). 

J.  I.  Marais 
MINE,  min,  MINING,  mln'ing:  In  Job  28  1-11 
we  have  the  only  Bib.  reference  to  mines.  The 
writer  very  likely  derived  his  information  either  from 
personal  observation  or  from  a  description  by  an 
eyewitness,  of  the  mining  operations  of  Sinai  (sec; 
Metals).  No  traces  of  ancient  mines  have  yet 
been  found  in  Pal  and  Syria.  What  metals  were 
taken  out  came  from  the;  superficial  strata.  The 
mines  of  Upper  Egypt  have  already  been  mentioned. 
Burton  and  other  travelers  in  Northern  Arabia  and 
the  Red  Sea  country  have  found  there  evidences  of 
ancient  mining  operations. 

The  usual  Egyp  method  of  mining  was  to  follow 
the  vein  from  the  surface  as  far  as  it  was  practicable; 
with  tools  corresponding  to  our  pick  and  hoc,  ham- 
mer and  chisel.  The  shafts  frequently  extended 
into  the  ground  a  distance  of  180  to  200  ft.  The 
rock  when  too  hard  to  be  dug  out  was  first  cracked 
by  having  fires  built  on  it.  The  metal-bearing 
stone  was  carried  in  baskets  to  the  surface,  where 
the  crushing  and  separating  took  place.  The 
mining  operations  were  performed  by  an  army  of 
slaves  who  were  kept  at  their  work  day  and  night, 
driven  with  the  lash  until  they  died,  when  their 
places  were  taken  by  others.  See  Metals;  Crafts, 
II,  10.  James  A.  Patch 

MINERALS,  min'er-alz.  See  Metals;  Stones, 
Precious. 

MINGLED  PEOPLE,  min'g'ld  pe'p'l  (MIXED 
MULTITUDE) : 

(1)  "Mixed  multitude"  occurs  in  Nu  11  4  as 
a  tr  of  C1D5CS?,  'dsaphsuph,  "collection,"  "rabble." 
The  same  phrase  in  Ex  12  38;  Neh  13  3  is  tin; 
rendition  of  2")?,  'erebh.  "Mingled  people"  is 
used  also  to  translate  Kerebh,  and  is  found  in  Jer 
25  20.24;  50  37;  Ezk  30  5,  and  in  1  K  10  15 
RV  (AV  "Arabia";  cf  ARVm).  In  the  last  case 
both  revised  VSS  have  followed  the  pointing  of  the 
MT,  and  this  pointing  alone  distinguishes  "mingled 
people"  Qerebh)  from  "Arabia"  Qarabh);  in  the 
unpointed  text  both  words  are  equally  3"l".  Now 
"the  traffic  of  the  merchants,  and  of  all  the  kings  of 
the  mingled  people,  and  of  the  governors  of  the 
country"  is  very  awkward,  and  the  correction  into 
"Arabia,"  as  in  the  MT  (and  EV)  of  the  ||  2  Ch  9 
14,  is  indicated.     Probably  the  same  change  should 


2057 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Mind 
Ministry 


be  made  in  Ezk  30  5,  reading  "Ethiopia,  and  Put, 
and  Lud,  and  Arabia,  and  Cub."  A  similar  textual 
confusion  seems  to  be  responsible  for  either  "and 
all  the  kings  of  Arabia"  or  "and  all  the  kings  of  the 
mingled  people"  in  Jer  25  24.  On  all  these  verses 
see  the  comms. 

(2)  In  Jer  25  20;  50  37,  "mingled  people"  is  a 
term  of  contempt  for  the  hybrid  blood  of  certain 
of  Israel's  enemies.  Something  of  this  same  con- 
tempt may  be  contained  in  Ex  12  38,  where  a 
multitude  of  non-lsraelitish  camp-followers  are 
mentioned  as  accompanying  the  children  of  Israel 
in  the  exodus,  and  in  Nu  11  4  it  is  this  motley 
body  that  seduced  Israel  to  sin.  But  who  they  were, 
why  they  wished  or  were  permitted  to  join  in  the 
exodus,  and  what  eventually  became  of  them  or  of 
their  descendants  is  a  very  perplexing  puzzle.  In 
Neh  13  3,  the  "mixed  multitude"  consists  of  the 
inhabitants  of  Pal  whom  the  Jews  found  then;  after 
the  return  from  the  exile  (see  Samaria).  In  accord 
with  the  command  of  Dt  23  3-5,  the  Jews  with- 
drew from  all  religious  intercourse  whatever  had 
been  established  with  these. 

Note. — Tin'  Hcb  noun  for  "mingled  people"  may  or 
may  not  be  connected  with  the  vb.  trJ  "mingle"  in  Ezr 
9  2;   IN   106  35;   Dnl  2  43.     On  this  see  the  lexicons. 

Burton  Scott  Easton 
MINIAMIN,   min'ya-min,    mi-nl'a-min  ("("'^""G  , 
minydtriin) : 

(1)  A  Levite  who  assisted  Kore,  the  son  of 
Imnah,  in  tin;  distribution  of  the  freewill  offerings 
(2  Ch  31  15). 

(2)  A  priestly  family  of  the  time  of  the  high 
priest  Joiakim  (Neh  12  17),  probably  =  Mijamin  (2). 

(3)  A  priestly  participant  in  the  ceremony  of  the 
dedication  of  the  wall  (Neh  12  41). 

MINISH,  min'ish  (AV  and  ERV  Ex  5  19;  Ps 
107  39;  ERV  lsa  19  6;  Hos  8  10):  The  vb. 
"ininish,"  "make  small,"  is  now  obsolete,  being 
replaced  by  its  derivative  "diminish"  (cf  ARV  in 
all  vs  above). 

MINISTRY,  min'is-tri: 

1.     'Pin:  Word  "Ministry" 

Use  of  the  Word  in  This  Article 
II.     Two  Kinds  of  Ministry 

1.  Thi>,  Prophetic  Ministry 

(1)  Apostles 

(2)  Prophets 
(:5)   Teachers 

2.  The  Local  Ministry 
Origin 

III.     Threefold  Congregational  Ministry 

1.  Insistence  on  Organization 
(1)   Selecting  a  Bishop 

(.! )   Bishops  and  Presbyters 

2.  Multiplication    of    Orders:   Growth   of   a    Hier- 
archy 

IV.     Synods 
Literature 

/.  The  Word  "Ministry." — The  common  NT 
term  for  the  ministry  is  diakonia  (diaKovia),  and 
along  with  it  we  find  didkonos  (SccLkovos),  "minister," 
ho  diakondn  (b  5lo.kouQ>v)}  "he  who  ministers,"  and 
diakonein  (oiaKoveiv),  "to  minister."  All  these  words 
have  a  very  extensive  application  within  the  NT 
and  are  by  no  means  restricted  to  denote  service 
within  the  Christian  church;  even  when  so  re- 
stricted the  words  are  used  in  a  great  variety  of 
meanings:  e.g.  (1)  diseipleship  in  general  (.In  12 
26);  (2)  service  rendered  to  the  church  because  of 
the  "gifts"  bestowed  (Rom  12  7;  1  Cor  12  5), 
and  hence  all  kinds  of  service  (Acts  6  2;  Mt  20  26); 
(3)  specifically  the  "ministry  of  the  Word"  (Eph  4 
12),  and  most  frequently  the  "apostleship"   (Acts 

1  17;  20  24;  21  19;  Rom  11  13,  etc);  (4)  such 
services  as  feeding  the  poor  (Acts  6  1;  11  29;  12 
25),  or  organizing  and  providing  the  great  collec- 
tion   for    the    poor    saints   at   Jerus    (Rom  15  25; 

2  Cor  8  4.19,  etc);     (5)    such     services    as    those 


rendered  by  Stephanas  (I  Cor  16  15),  by  Arehip- 
pus  (Col  4  17),  by  Tychicus  (Eph  6  21;  Col  4  7), 
etc. 

h\  this  art.  the  word  has  to  do  with  the  guidance 
and  government  of  a  united  community,  fellowship, 
or  brotherhood  of  men  and  women 
Use  of  the  whose  inward  bond  of  union  was  the 
Word  in  sense  of  fellowship  with  Jesus  their 
This  Article  Risen  Lord.  In  all  ages  of  Christian- 
ity the  call  to  become  the  follower  of 
Jesus,  while  it  is  the  deepest  of  all  personal  things 
and  conies  to  each  one  singly,  never  comes  solita- 
rily. The  devout  soul  must  share  his  experiences 
with  those  like-minded,  and  the  fellowship  thus 
formed  must  be  able  to  take;  outward  shape,  which 
cannot  fail  to  render  necessary  some  sort  of  rule 
and  guidance.  The  very  thought  of  the  church 
with  articulate  expression  of  a  common  faith,  ad- 
ministration of  the  sacraments,  meetings  and  their 
right  conduct,  aid  given  to  the  spiritual  and  bodily 
needs  of  their  fellow-members,  implies  a  ministry 
or  executive  of  some  kind.  To  endeavor  to  explain 
what  was  the  character  of  the  ministry  of  the  Chris- 
tian church  in  the  earliest  centuries  of  its  existence 
and  how  it  came  into  being  is  the  aim  of  this  article. 
//.  Two  Different  Kinds  of  Ministry. — The 
earliest  fact  we  have  about  the  organization  of  the 
Christian  church  is  given  in  Acts  6,  where  we  are 
told  that  "seven"  men  were  appointed  to  what  is 
called  a  "ministry  of  tables"  (diakonein  trapezais), 
which  is  distinguished  from  the  "ministry  of  the 
word"  (diakonia  tod  logou).  This  distinction  be- 
tween two  different  kinds  of  "ministry"  which 
appears  at  the  very  beginning  is  seen  to  exist  all 
through  the  apostolic  church  and  beyond  it  into  the 
sub-apostolic.  It  can  be  traced  in  the  Epp.  of  St. 
Paul  and  in  other  parts  of  the  NT.  It  is  seen  in  the 
Didache,  in  the  Pastor  of  Hernias,  in  the  Epp.  of 
Barnabas,  in  the  Apology  of  Justin  Martyr,  in  the 
writings  of  Irenaeus  and  elsewhere.  (For  a  full 
list  of  authorities,  cf  Ilarnack,  Texte  u.  Unter- 
suchungen,  II,  ii,  111  if.)  The  one  ministry  differs 
from  the  other  in  function,  and  tin;  distinction 
depends  on  a  conception  to  be  afterward  examined 
— that  of  "gifts."  The  common  name,  in  apostolic 
and  sub-apostolic  literature,  for  the  members  of 
the  one  kind  of  ministry  is  "those  who  speak  the 
Word  of  God"  (lalountes  ton  logon  toil  Theou). 
Modern  writers  have  called  it  the  charismatic, 
but  perhaps  the  better  term  is  the  prophetic  min- 
istry; while  to  the  other  class  belong  all  the;  names 
which  are  given  to  denote  office-bearers  in  the 
local  churches.  The  two  existed  side  by  side. 
The  great  practical  distinction  between  them  was 
that  the  members  of  the  former  were  in  no  sense 
office-bearers  in  any  one  Christian  community; 
they  were  not  elected  or  appointed  to  any  office; 
they  were  not  set  apart  for  duties  by  any  ecclesi- 
astical ceremony.  The  "Word"  came  to  them  and 
they  were  compelled  by  inward  impulsion  to  speak 
the  message  given  them  to  deliver.  Some  were 
wanderers;  others  confined  themselves  to  their  own 
community.  They  were  responsible  to  no  ecclesi- 
astical authority.  Churches  were  encouraged  to 
test  them  and  their  message;  for  the  "gift"  of  dis- 
cerning whether  a  so-called  prophet  spoke  a  truly 
Divine  message  was  always  presupposed  to  be 
within  the  local  church.  But  once  accepted  they 
took  a  higher  place  than  the  office-bearers,  they 
presided  at  the  Lord's  Supper,  and  their  judgment 
in  cases  of  discipline  could  overbear  ordinary 
ecclesiastical  rules.  The  contest  of  Cyprian  writh 
the  "confessors"  at  Carthage  was  the  last  stage  of 
the  long  struggle  which  arose  in  the  2d  cent,  be- 
tween the  two  ministries.  Out  of  the  other  kind  of 
ministry  came,  by  ordinary  development,  all  the 
various  kinds  of  ecclesiastical   organization   which 


Ministry 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2058 


now  exist.  Its  members  were  office-bearers  in  the 
strictest,  sense  of  the  word;  they  were  selected  to 
do  ecclesiastical  work  in  a  given  community,  they 
were  set  apart  for  it  in  a  special  way,  and  they  were 
responsible  to  the  church  for  its  due  performance. 

But  it  is  important  to  remember  that  while  the 
two  kinds  of  ministries  are  thoroughly  distinct  from 
each  other,  the;  same  individuals  might  belong  to 
both  kinds.  The  "prophetic  gift"  might  fall  on 
anyone,  private  member  or  office-bearer  alike. 
Office-holding  did  not  prevent  the  "gift."  Poly- 
carp,  of  lice-bearer  at  Smyrna,  was  a  prophet;  so 
was  Ignatius  of  Antioch,  and  many  others.  The; 
"gift"  of  speaking  the  Word  of  God  was  a  personal 
and  not  an  official  source  of  enlightenment. 

In  the  'prophetic  ministry  we  find  a  threefold 
division — apostles,  prophets  and  teachers.  Some 
would  add  a  fourth,  evangelists,  i.e. 
1.  The  men  like  the  apostles  in   all  respects 

Prophetic  save  in  having  seen  the  Lord  in  the 
Ministry  flesh.  The  distinction  may  hold  good 
for  the  apostolic  period,  though  that 
appears  to  be  very  doubtful;  it  disappears  utterly 
in  the  sub-apostolic;  evangelist  and  apostle  seem 
to  be  one  class.  This  triple  division  may  be  traced 
through  early  Christian  literature  from  1  Cor 
down  to  the  Clementine  Homilies,  which  can  scarcely 
be  earlier  than  200  AD.  It  is  hardly  possible  to 
define  each  class  in  any  mechanical  fashion;  speak- 
ing generally,  the  first  were  the  missionary  pioneers 
whose  message  was  chiefly  to  the  unconverted,  while 
to  the  second  and  third  classes  belonged  exhortation 
and  instruction  within  the  Christian  communities. 

(1)  Apostles. — In  the  NT  and  in  the  other  lit. 
of  the  early  church  the  word  "apostle"  is  used  in  a 
narrower  and  in  a  wider  sense,  and  it  is  the  more 
extensive  use  of  the  word  which  denotes  the  first 
division  of  the  prophetic  ministry.  The  Lord 
selected  the  Twelve,  "whom  also  he  named  apostles" 
(Mk  3  14,  RVm),  to  be  trained  by  personal  fellow- 
ship with  Him  and  by  apprentice  mission  work 
among  the  villages  of  Galilee  for  that  proclamation 
of  His  gospel  which  was  to  be  their  future  life-work. 
Two  things  strictly  personal  and  excluding  every 
thought  of  successors  separated  the  "Eleven"  from 
all  other  men :  long  personal  fellowship  with  Jesus 
in  the  inner  circle  of  His  followers,  and  their  selec- 
tion by  Himself  while  still  in  the  flesh.  They  were 
the  "Apostles"  in  the  narrow  sense  of  the  word. 
But  the  name  was  given  to  many  others.  Matthias, 
who  had  enjoyed  personal  intercourse  with  Jesus 
both  before  and  after  the  resurrection,  was  called 
by  the  disciple  company,  confirmed  by  decision  of 
the  lot,  to  the  same  'service  and  sending  forth' 
(diakonia  kai  apostole)  (Acts  1  25).  _  Paul  was 
called  by  the  Lord  Himself,  but  in  vision  and  in- 
ward experience,  and  took  rank  with  those  before 
mentioned  (Rom  1  1  ff;  Gal  2  7-9).  Others, 
called  apostles,  are  mentioned  by  name  in  the  NT. 
Barnabas  is  not  only  an  apostle  but  is  recognized 
to  have  rank  equal  to  the  "Eleven"  (Acts  14  14; 
Gal  2  7-9).  The  correct  rendering  of  the  text 
(Rom  16  7)  declares  that  Andronicus  and  Junias 
were  apostles  who  had  known  Christ  before  Paul 
became  a  believer.  Chrysostom,  who  thinks  that 
Junias  or  Junia  was  a  woman,  docs  not  believe  that 
her  sex  hindered  her  from  being  an  apostle.  Silas 
or  Silvanus  and  Timothy,  on  the  most  natural  in- 
terpretation of  the  passage,  are  called  apostles  by 
St.  Paul  in  1  Thess  1  1.6.  The  title  can  hardly 
be  denied  to  Apollos  (1  Cor  4  6.9).  St.  Paul 
praises  men,  whom  he  calls  "the  apostles  of  the 
churches,"  and  declares  them  to  be  "the  glory  of 
Christ"  (2  Cor  8  23m).  One  of  them,  Epaphrodi- 
tus,  is  mentioned  by  name — "your  apostle,"  says 
Paul  writing  to  the  Christians  of  Philippi  (Phil  2 
25  m);    and  there  must  have  been  many  others. 


"Apostles"  are  distinguished  from  the  "Twelve" 
by  St.  Paul  in  the  rapid  summary  he  gives  of  the 
appearances  of  Jesus  after  the  resurrection  (1  Cor 
15  5.7).  Besides  those  true  apostles  the  NT  men- 
tions others  who  are  called  "false  apostles"  (2  Cor 
11  13),  and  the  church  of  Ephesus  is  praised  for 
using  its  "gift"  of  discrimination  to  reject  men  who 
"call  themselves  apostles,  and  they  are  not"  (Rev 
2  2).  This  wider  use  of  the  word  has  descended  to 
the  present  day;  "apostles"  or  "holy  apostles"  isstill 
the  name  for  missionaries  and  missioners  in  some 
parts  of  the  Greek  church.  The  double  use  of  the 
word  to  denote  the  "Twelve"  or  the  "Eleven"  is 
seen  in  the  sub-apostolic  age  in  the  Didache,  which 
recognizes  the  narrower  use  of  the  word  in  its  title 
("The  Teaching  of  the  Twelve  Apostles"),  and  in 
the  text  portrays  the  itinerant  missionaries  to 
whom  the  name  in  its  widest  use  belonged. 

Those  "apostles,"  to  whatever  class  they  be- 
longed, had  one  distinguishing  characteristic:  they 
had  chosen  as  their  life-work  to  be  the  missionary 
pioneers  of  the  gospel  of  the  Kingdom  of  Christ. 
They  were  all  engaged  in  aggressive  work,  and  were 
distinguished  from  others  not  so  much  by  what 
they  were  as  by  what  they  did.  They  were  wander- 
ers with  no  fixed  place  of  residence.  The  require- 
ments of  their  work  might  make  them  abide  for 
long  periods  in  some  center  (as  did  Paul  at  Corinth 
and  at  Ephesus,  or  some  of  the  "Eleven"  at  Jerus), 
but  they  had  no  permanent  home  life.  As  the 
earlier  decades  passed,  their  numbers  increased 
rather  than  diminished.  They  are  brought  vividly 
before  us  in  such  writings  as  the  Didache.  They 
were  to  be  highly  honored,  but  as  severely  tested. 
They  were  not  expected  to  remain  longer  than  three 
days  within  a  Christian  community,  nor  to  fare 
softly  when  there  (Did. ,  ii.4-6).  The  vindication 
of  their  call  was  what  they  were  able  to  accom- 
plish, and  to  this  St.  Paul,  the  greatest  of  them, 
appeals  over  and  over  again. 

(2)  Prophets. — Prophets  had  been  the  religious 
guides  of  Israel  of  old,  and  the  spirit  of  prophecy 
had  never  entirely  died  out.  John  the  Baptist 
(Mt  11  9),  Simeon  (Lk  2  25.26),  and  Anna  (Lk 
2  36)  had  the  gift  in  the  days  of  Christ.  It  was 
natural  for  the  Sam  woman  to  believe  that  the 
stranger  who  spoke  to  her  by  the  well  was  a  prophet 
(Jn  4  19).  The  reappearance  of  prophecy  in  its 
old  strength  was  looked  on  as  a  sign  of  the  nearness 
of  the  coming  of  the  Messiah.  Jesus  Himself  had 
promised  to  send  prophets  among  His  followers 
(Mt  10  41;  23  34;  Lk  11  49).  The  promise  was 
fulfilled.  Christian  prophets  appeared  within  the 
church  from  its  beginning.  Nor  were  they  con- 
fined to  communities  of  Jewish  Christians;  prophecy 
appeared  spontaneously  wherever  Christianity 
spread.  We  are  told  of  prophets  in  the  churches  of 
Jerus  and  Caesarea  where  the  membership  was 
almost  purely  Jewish;  at  Antioch  where  Jews  and 
Gentiles  united  to  make  one  congregation;  and 
everywhere  throughout  the  gentile  churches— in 
Rome,  Corinth,  Thessalonica  and  in  the  Galatian 
churches  (Acts  11  27;  15  32;  21  9.10;  Rom  12 
6.7;  1  Cor  14  32.36.37;  1  Thess  5  20;  Gal  3 
3-5).  Prophets  are  mentioned  by  name — Agabus 
(Acts  11  28;  21  10),  Symeon  and  others  at  An- 
tioch (Acts  13  1),  Judas  and  Silas  in  Jerus  (Acts 
15  32).  Nor  was  the  "gift"  confined  to  men; 
women  prophesied — the  four  daughters  of  Philip 
among  others  (Acts  21  9).  From  the  earliest 
times  down  to  the  close  of  the  2d  cent,  and  later, 
an  uninterrupted  stream  of  prophets  and  prophet- 
esses appeared  in  the  Christian  churches.  The 
statements  of  NT  writers,  and  esp.  of  St.  Paul,  im- 
ply that  prophets  abounded  in  the  earliest  churches. 
St.  Paul,  for  example,  expected  the  prophetic  gift 
to    appear    in    every    Christian    community.     He 


2059 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Ministry 


recognized  that  they  had  a  regular  place  in  the  meet- 
ing for  public  worship  (1  Cor  14);  he  desired  that 
every  member  in  the  Corinthian  church  should 
possess  the  "gift"  and  cultivate  it  (1  Cor  14  1.5. 
39);  he  exhorted  the  brethren  at  Thessalonica  to 
'cherish  prophesyings'  (1  Thess  5  20),  and  those  in 
Koine  to  make  full  use  of  prophecy  (Rom  12  0). 
If  he  criticized  somewhat  severely  the  conduct  of 
the  "prophets"  in  the  Corinthian  church,  it  was  to 
teach  them  how  to  make  full  use  of  their  "gift" 
for  the  right  edifying  of  the  brethren. 

Prophecy  was  founded  on  revelation;  the  prophets 
were  men  esp.  "gifted"  with  spiritual  intuition  and 
magnetic  speech.  Sometimes  their  "gift"  took  the 
form  of  ecstasy,  but  by  no  means  always;  St.  Paul 
implies  that  prophets  have  a  real  command  of  and 
can  control  their  utterances.  Sometimes  their  mes- 
sage came  to  them  in  visions,  such  as  we  find  in  the 
Apocalypse  and  in  Hennas;  but  this  was  not  a 
necessary  means.  The  prophets  spoke  as  they 
were  moved,  and  the  Spirit  worked  on  them  in 
various  ways. 

The  influence  of  those  prophets  seems  Co  have  in- 
creased rather  than  diminished  during  the  earlier  dec- 
ades of  the  I'd  cent.  While  the  duty  of  the  apostle 
was  to  the  unbelievers,  Jewish  or  heathen,  the  sphere;  of 
the  activity  of  the  prophet  was  within  the  Christian 
congregation.  It  was  his  business  to  edify  the  brethren. 
Prophets  had  a  recognized  place  in  the  meeting  for  the 
public  worship  of  the  congregation;  if  oik;  happened  to 
be  present  at  the  dispensation  of  the  Lord's  Supper,  he 
presided  to  the  exclusion  of  the  office-bearers,  and  his 
prayers  were  expected  to  be  extempore  {Did.,  x.7); 
lie  had  special  powers  when  matters  of  discipline  were 
discussed,  as  is  plain  from  a  great  variety  of  evidence 
from  Hernias  down  to  Tertullian.  From  St.  Paul's 
statements  it  seems  that  the  largest  number  of  the 
prophets  he  speaks  of  were  members  of  the  communi- 
ties within  which  they  used  their  "gift"  of  prophecy; 
but  many  of  the  more  eminent  prophets  traveled  from 
community  to  community  edifying  each.  When  such 
wandering  prophets,  with  their  wives  and  families, 
dwelt  for  a  time  in  any  Christian  society,  preaching  and 
exhorting,  it  was  detuned  to  be  the  duty  of  that  society 
to  support  them,  and  regulations  were  made  for  such 
support.  According  to  the  Diduclie  (chxiii):  "Every 
true  prophet  who  shall  settle  among  you  is  worthy  of 
his  support Every  first-fruit  then  of  the  prod- 
ucts of  the  winepress  and  threshing-floor,  of  oxen  and 

of  sheep,  thou  shalt  take  and  give  to  the  prophets 

In  like  manner  also  when  thou  openest  a  jar  of  wine  or 
oil,  take  the  first  of  it  and  give  it  to  the  prophets;  and 
of  money  and  clothing  and  every  possession  take  the 
first  as  may  seem  right  to  thee,  and  give  according  to 
the  commandment."  Only,  the  receivers  were  to  be 
true  prophets.  Each  congregation  had  to  exercise  the 
"gift"  of  discrimination  and  .sift  the  true  from  the  false; 
for  "false"  prophets  confronted  the  true  in  early  Chris- 
tianity as  well  as  in  the  old  Judaism. 

(3)  Teachers. — While  the  third  class  of  the  pro- 
phetic ministry,  the  teachers,  is  found  joined  to  the 
other  two  both  in  the  NT  and  in  sub-apostolic  lit,, 
and  while  St.  Paul  assigns  a  definite  place  for  their 
services  in  the  meeting  for  edification  (1  Cor  14 
20),  we  hear  less  about  them  and  their  work.  They 
seem,  however,  to  have  lingered  much  longer  in 
active  service  in  the  early  church  than  did  the 
apostles  and  the  prophets. 

As  has  been  said,  the  first  notice  we  have  of  organi- 
zation within  a  local  church  is  in  Acts  6,  where  at 

the  suggestion  of  the  apostles  seven 
2.  The  men   were   selected   to   administer   the 

Local  charity  of  the  congregation. 

Ministry  rpj10  fonepptjon  that  "the  Seven"  were 

a  special  order  of  office-bearers,  deacon*,  is 
a  comparatively  late  suggestion.  These  men  are  nowhere 
called  deacons;  the  official  designation  is  "The  Seven." 
It  may  be  that  the  appointment  of  those  men  was  only 
a  temporary  expedient,  but  it  is  more  probable  that  "  the 
Seven"  of  Acts  6  are  the  elders  of  Acts  11;  for  we  find 
those  "elders "  performing  the  duties  which  "  the  Seven  " 
were  appointed  to  fulfil.  If  so,  we  have  in  Acts  6  the  narra- 
tive of  the  beginnings  of  local  organization  as  a  whole. 
When  we  turn  to  the  expansion  of  Christian  communities 
outside  Jerus,  we  have  no  such  distinct  picture  of  be- 
ginnings; but  as  all  the  churches  in  Pal  evidently  re- 
garded the  society  in  Jerus  as  the  mother  church,  it  is 
likely  that  their  organization  was  the  same.     Acts  tells 


us  that  Paul  and  Barnabas  left  behind  them  at  Derbe 
lustra  and  Iconium  societies  of  brethren  with  "elders" 
at  their  head.  The  word  used  suggests  an  election  bv 
popular  you;  and  was  probably  the  same  as  had  been 
used  in  the  selection  of  the  "Seven"  men. 

When  we  examine  the  records  of  the  distinctively 
Pauline  churches,  there  is  not  much  direct  evidence 
for  the  origins  of  the  ministry  there,  but  a  great  deal 
about  the  existence  of  some  kind  of  rule  and  rulers  ■ 
For  one  thing,  we  can  see  that  these  churches  had 
and  were  encouraged  to  have  feelings  of  independ- 
ence and  of  self-government;  a  great  deal  is  said 
about  the  possession  of  "gifts"  which  imply  the 
presence  and  power  of  the  Spirit  of  Jesus  within 
the  community  itself.  We  find  names  applied  to 
men  who,  if  not  actually  office-bearers,  are  at  least 
leaders  and  perforin  the  functions  of  office-bearers 
— proistdmenoi,  poimenes,  episkopoi,  didkonoi — and 
where  special  designations  are  lacking  a  distinction 
is  always  drawn  between  those  who  obey  and  those 
who  are  to  be  obeyed.  In  all  cases  those  leaders  or 
ministers  are  mentioned  in  the  plural. 

It  may  be  said  generally  that  about  the  close  of 
the  1st  cent,  every  Christian  community  was  ruled 
by  a  body  of  men  who  are  sometimes  called  pres- 
byters (elders),  sometimes  but  more  rarely  bishops 
(overseers),  and  whom  modern  church  historians 
are  inclined  to  call  presbyter-bishops.  Associated 
with  them,  but  whether  members  of  the  same  court 
or  forming  a  court  of  their  own  it  is  impossible  to 
say,  were  a  number  of  assistant  rulers  called 
deacons.  See  Bishop;  Church  Government; 
Deacon;  Elder.  The  court  of  elders  had  no 
president  or  permanent  chairman.  There  was  a  two- 
fold not  a  threefold  ministry.  During  the  3d  cent,, 
rising  into  notice  by  way  of  geographical  distribu- 
tion rather  than  in  definite  chronological  order,  this 
twofold  congregational  ministry  became  threefold 
in  the  sense  that  one  man  was  placed  at  the  head 
of  each  community  with  the  title  of  pastor  or 
bishop  (the  titles  are  interchangeable  as  late  as  the 
4th  cent,  at  least).  In  the  early  centuries  those 
local  churches,  thus  organized,  while  they  never 
lacked  the  sense  that  they  all  belonged  to  one  body, 
were  independent  self-governing  communities  pre- 
serving relations  to  each  other,  not  by  any  political 
organization  embracing  them  all,  but  by  fraternal 
fellowship  through  visits  of  deputies,  interchange 
of  letters,  and  in  some  indefinite  way  giving  and 
receiving  assistance  in  the  selection  and  setting 
apart  of  pastors. 

Origins  of  local  ministry. — The  question  arises, 
How  did  this  organization  come  into  being  ?  We 
may  dismiss,  to  begin  with,  the  idea  once  generally 
accepted  among  the  Reformed  churches,  that  the 
Christian  society  simply  took  over  and  made  use  of 
the  synagogue  system  of  organization  (Yitringa, 
De  synagoga  vetere).  The  points  common  to  both 
reveal  a  superficial  resemblance,  but  no  more. 
The  distinctive  differences  are  great,  When  we 
add  to  them  the  decisive  statement  of  Epiphanius 
(Haeresis,  xxx'.lS),  that  the  Jewish  Christians 
(Judaizing)  organized  their  communities  with 
archons  and  an  archisynagogos  like  t  he  Jewish  syna- 
gogues of  the  Dispersion  and  unlike  the  Christian 
churches,  all  the  evidence  makes  it  impossible  to 
believe  that  the  earliest  Christian  organization  was 
simply  taken  over  from  the  Jewish.  On  the  other 
hand,  there  is  little  evidence  that  the  apostles  (the 
Twelve  and  St.  Paul)  received  a  special  commission 
from  Our  Lord,  to  appoint  and  ordain  the  office- 
bearers of  the  earliest  Christian  communities,  so 
exclusive  that  there  could  be  no  legitimate  or- 
ganization without  this  apostolic  authority  and 
background.  We  find,  on  the  contrary,  the  church 
in  Rome  exercising  all  the  disciplinary  functions  of 
a  congregation  without  this  apostolic  ecclesiastical 


Ministry 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2060 


rule  supposed  to  be  essential.  Even  in  the  mother- 
church  in  Jerus,  the  congregational  meeting  exer- 
cised rule  over  the  apostles  themselves,  for  we  find 
apostles  summoned  before  it  and  examined  on  their 
conduct  (Acts  11  1-4).  The  whole  question  de- 
mands the  recognition  of  several  facts: 

(1)  Evidence  abounds  to  show  that  the  local 
churches  during  the  apostolic  and  sub-apostolic 
age  were  self-governing  communities  and  that  the 
real  background  of  the  ministry  was  not  apostolic 
authority  but  the  congregational  meeting.  Its 
representative  character  and  its  authority  are  seen 
in  the  apostolic  and  sub-apostolic  lit.  from  St.  Paul 
to  Cyprian. 

(2)  The  uniquely  Christian  correlation  of  the 
three  conceptions  of  leadership,  service  and  "gifts"; 
leadership  depended  on  service,  and  service  was 
possible  by  the  possession  and  recognition  of  special 
"gifts"  which  were  the  evidence  of  the  presence  and 
power  of  the  Spirit  of  Jesus  within  the  community. 
These  "gifts"  gave  the  church  a  Divine  authority 
to  exercise  rule  and  oversight  apart  from  any  special 
apostolic  direction. 

(3)  The  general  evidence;  existing  to  show  that 
there  was  a  gradual  growth  of  the  principle  of  asso- 
ciation from  looser  to  more  compact  forms  of  or- 
ganization (Gayford,  art.  "Church"  in  HDB;  also 
Harnack,  Expos,  1887,  January  to  June,  322-24), 
must  not  be  forgotten;  only  one  must  remember 
that  in  young  communities  the  growth  is  rapid. 

(4)  We  must  also  bear  in  mind  that  the  first 
Christians  were  well  acquainted  with  various  kinds 
of  social  organization  which  entered  into  their  daily 
life  and  which  could  not  fail  to  suggest  how  they 
might  organize  their  new  societies. 

Examples  occur  readily:  (a)  Every  Jewish  village 
community  was  ruled  by  its  "seven  wise  men."  and  it 
is  probable  that  the  appointment  of  the  "Seven"  in  the 
primitive  Jewish  church  was  suggested  by  familiarity 
with  this  example  of  social  polity,  (b)  It  was  and  is  an 
almost  universal  oriental  usage  that  the  "next  of  kin" 
to  the  founder  was  recognized,  after  the  founder's  death, 
to  be  the  head  of  the  new  religious  community  founded, 
and  this  usage  accounts  for  the  selection  of  James,  the 
eldest  male  surviving  relative  of  Our  Lord,  to  be  the 
recognized  and  honored  head  of  the  church  in  Jerus. 
James  has  been  called  the  first  bishop;  but  when  we 
read  in  Eusebius  (HE,  III,  11,  1.2;  32.4;  IV,  22,  4;  III, 
20,  1-8)  how  his  successors  were  chosen,  the  term  seems 
inappropriate.  A  succession  in  the  male  line  of  the 
kindred  of  Jesus,  where  the  selection  to  office;  is  mainly 
in  the  hands  of  a  family  council,  and  where  two  (James 
and  Zoker)  can  rule  together,  has  small  analogy  to 
episcopal  rule,  (e)  The  relation  of  "patron"  to  "client," 
which  in  one  form  or  other  had  spread  throughout  the 
civilized  world,  is  suggested  by  a  series  of  kindred  words 
used  to  denote  rulers  in  local  churches.  We  find  pro- 
istdmenoi  (irpoia-Tixixiivoi) ,  prostatic  (npocrTaTis),  prostdtes 
(Trpoo-Tai-Tj?),  procstds  (Trpoeo-Tw?) ,  in  various  writers,  and 
the  last  was  used  as  late  as  the  middle  of  the  2d  cent, 
to  denote  ministry  in  the  Rom  church  (Rom  12  8; 
16  2;  1  Thess  5  12;  Hernias,  Pastor.  Vis.  2,  4;  Justin, 
Apol,  i.65).  (d)  The  Rom  empire  was  honeycombed 
with  "gilds."  some  recognized  by  law,  most  of  them 
without  legal  recognition  and  liable  to  suppression. 
These  confraternities  were  of  very  varied  character — 
trades  unions,  burial  clubs,  etc,  but  a  large  proportion 
were  for  the  purpose  of  practising  special  religious  rites. 
The  Jewish  synagogues  of  the  Dispersion  seemed  to 
have  been  enrolled  among  those  confraternities,  and 
certainly  appeared  to  their  heathen  neighbors  to  be  one 
kind  of  such  private  associations  for  the  practice  of  a 
religion  which  had  been  legalized.  Many  scholars  have 
insisted  that  the  gentile  Christian  churches  simply 
copied  the  organization  of  such  confraternities  (Renan, 
Les  Apotres;  Heinrici,  Zeitschrift  f.  wissensch.  Theol., 
1876-77);  Hatch,  Organization  of  the  Early  Christian 
Churches).  There  must  have  been  some  external 
resemblances.  Pliny  believed  that  the  Christian 
churches  of  Bithynia  were  illicit  confraternities  (Ep.  9(>; 
cf  Lucian,  Peregrinus  Proteus).  They  had,  in  common 
with  the  churches,  a  democratic  constitution;  they 
shared  a  "common  meal"  at  stated  times;  they  made  a 
monthly  collection;  they  were  ruled  by  a  committeo  of 
office-bearers;  and  they  exercised  a  certain  amount  of 
discipline  over  their  members.  Multitudes  of  Chris- 
tians must  have  been  members  of  such  confraternities, 
and  many  continued  to  be  so  after  accepting  Chris- 
tianity (Cyprian,  Ep.,  lxvii.  (>). 


But  while;  the  Christian  churches  may  have 
learned  much  about  the  general  principles  of  asso- 
ciated life  from  all  those  varied  forms  of  social 
organization,  it  cannot  be  said  that  they  copied 
any  one  of  them.  The  primitive  Christian  societies 
organized  themselves  independently  in  virtue;  of 
the  new  moral  and  social  life  implanted  within 
them;  and  though  they  may  have  come  to  it  by 
various  paths,  they  all  in  the;  end  arrived  at,  erne' 
common  form — a  society  ruled  by  a  body  eif  office;- 
bearers  who  possessed  the  "gifts"  of  government 
and  of  subordinate  service  embodied  in  the  e>ffices 
of  presbyter  and  deacon. 

///.  The  Threefold  Congregational  Ministry. — 
During  the;  2d  cent,  the;  ministry  was  subject  to  a 
change.  The  ruling  body  of  office-bearers  in  eve;ry 
congregation  received  a  permanent  president,  who 
was  calle;d  the  pastor  or  bishop,  the;  latter  term  be'ing 
the  commoner.  The  ethange  came;  gradually.  It, 
provoked  no  strong  exposition.  By  the  beginning 
of  the  3d  cent,  it  was  everywhere  accepted. 

When  we  seek  to  trace  the  e;auscs  why  the  college  of 
elders  received  a  pre>side;nt,  who  became  the  center  of 
all  the  ecclesiastical  life  in  the  local  church  and  the  one; 
potent  office-bearer,  we  are  reduced  to  conjecture.  This 
only  can  be  said  with  confidence',  that  the;  change;  be'gan 
in  the  East  and  gradually  spread  to  the;  West,  and  that 
there  are  hints  of  a  gradual  evolution  (Lindsay,  The 
Church  and  tlie  Ministry  in  the  Early  Centuries,  180, 
183-85).  Scholars  have' brought  forward  many  reasons 
for  the  change;  the  need  for  an  undivided  leadership  in 
times  e)f  danger  from  external  persecution  or  from  the 
introduction  of  gnostic  speculations  which  disturbed  the 
faith  of  the  members;  the  convenience  of  being  repre- 
sented to  other  local  churches  by  one  man  who  could 
charge  himself  with  the  administratiein  of  the  external 
affairs  of  the  congregation;  the  neeel  of  one  man  to 
preside  at  the  solemn  and  crowning  act  of  worship,  the 
administration  of  the  Lord's  Supper;  the  sense  of  con- 
gregational unity  implied  in  the  possession  e>f  one  leafier 
— each  or  all  are  probable  ways  in  which  the  churches 
were  influenceel  in  making  this  change  in  their  ministry. 

This  threefold  congregatiemal  ministry  is  best- 
seen  in  the  Epp.  of  Ignatius  of  Antioch.  They  pe>r- 
tray  a  Christian  community  having  at  its  head  a 
bishop,  a  presbyterium  or  session  of  elders,  and  a 
body  of  deacems.  The;se;  form  the  ministry  or 
ejffice-bevarers  of  the  cemgregation  to  whom  obe- 
dience is  elue.  Nothing  is  to  be  done;  without  the 
consent  of  the  bishop,  neither  love-feast,  nor  sacra- 
ment, ne>r  anything  congregational.  The  ruling 
body  is  a  court  where  the  bishop  sits  as  chairman 
surrounded  by  his  council  or  session  of  elders;  and 
the  one;  is  helpless  without  the;  other,  for  if  the 
bisheip  be  the  lyre>,  the  elders  are  the  chords,  and 
both  are  needed  to  produce  melody.  Ignatius 
ce)mpare:s  the  bishop  to  Je;sus,  anel  the  elders  to  the 
apostles  who  surrounded  Him.  The;re  is  no  trace 
of  sacerdotalism,  apostolic  successkm,  one-man 
government,  diocesan  rule  in  those  letters  e>f  Ig- 
natius; and  what  they  portray  is  unlike  any  form 
eif  elieicesan  episce)pae'y. 

It  is  interesting  to  remark  how  all  throughout 
the  3d  cent,  and  later  e;very  boely  e>f  Christians, 
even  if  consisting  of  fewer  than  twelve 
1.  Insist-  families,  is  instructed  to  organize  itself 
ence  on  into  a  church  uneler  a  ministry  eif  eiffice- 

Organiza-  bearers,  consisting  of  a  bishop  or 
tioti  under  pastor,  at  least  two  elelers  and  at  least 
a  Ministry  three;  deacons.  Should  the  bishop 
be  illiterate — for  character  more  than 
erudition  determined  his  chence — the  congregatiem 
was  told  to  elegt  a  reader,  and  provision  was  made 
for  a  ministry  of  women.  It  was  possible  to  obey 
such  instructions,  because  the  ministry  of  the 
early  church  received  no  stipends.  The  ministry 
were  office-bearers,  to  whom  ecclesiastical  obedience 
was  due  in  virtue  of  their  call  anel  election  and  their 
being  set  apart  by  prayer,  and  perhaps  by  laying  on 
of  hands,  for  sacred  office;  but  they  were;  at  the 
same  time  merchants,  artisans,  or  engaged  in  other 


200 1 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Ministry 


secular  callings,  and  supported  themselves.  Build- 
ings, set  apart  for  public  worship,  did  not  exist 
until  the  very  close  of  the  2d  cent,.,  and  then  only 
in  a  few  populous  centers  in  towns  which  had  felt 
persecution  but,  slightly.  The  only  property  which  a 
church  possessed,  besides  its  copies  of  the  Scriptures, 
its  congregational  records  and  perhaps  a  place  of 
burial,  wen'  the  offerings  which  were  presented  by 
members  of  the  congregation,  mostly  in  kind,  after 
the  Eucharist;  and  these  offerings  were  distributed 
to  the  poor  of  the  congregation.  If  office-bearers 
received  a  share,  it  was  only  on  account  of  their 
poverty  and  because  they  were  on  the  roll  of  widows, 
orphans  and  helpless  poor. 

This  threefold  congregational  ministry  lias  been 
called  by  some  scholars  "monarchical  episcopacy." 
a  title  as  high-sounding  as  it  is  misleading.  The 
kingdom  over  which  those  so-called  monarchs  pre- 
sided might  and  often  did  consist  of  less  than 
twelve  families,  and  their  rule  was  fenced  in  with 
many  restrictions.  We  can  collect  from  the  Epp. 
of  Ignatius  what  were  the  powers  and  what  the 
limitations  [Ep.  to  Polycarp)  of  the  bishop.  He 
administered  the  finances  of  the  church;  he  was 
president  of  the  court  of  Elders;  he  had  the  right 
to  call  and  presumably  to  preside  over  the  court  of 
discipline;  and  he  had  the  regulation  of  the  sacra- 
ments m  his  hands.  On  the  other  hand.it  is  very 
doubtful  whether  he,  or  even  he  in  conjunction  with 
the  elders,  could  excommunicate;  that  appears  to 
have  remained  in  the  hands  of  the  congregational 
meeting.  The  bishop  might  convoke  the  congre- 
gational meeting  for  the  purpose,  but  it  belonged  to 
the  meeting  and  not  to  the  bishop  to  appoint  dele- 
gates and  messengers  to  other  churches;  and  the 
meeting  had  the  power  to  order  the  bishop  to  go 
on  such  a  mission. 

(1)  Aid  given  in  selecting  a  bishop. — From  what 
has  been  said  it  is  plain  that,'  the  selection  of  a  bishop 
became  one  of  the  most  important  acts  a  congre- 
gation was  called  upon  to  perform.  Accordingly, 
provision  was  madefor  its  assistance.  It  is  declared 
in  the  Apostolic  Canons  that  if  a  congregation  con- 
tains fewer  than  twelve  men  competent  to  vote 
at  the  election  of  a  bishop,  neighboring,  "well- 
established"  churches  are  to  be  written  to  in  order 
that,  three  men  may  be  sent  to  assist  the  congrega- 
tion m  selecting  their  pastor  (Sources  of  the  Apos- 
tolic Canons,  7,  8).  This  is  evidently  the  origin  of 
what  afterward  became  the  custom  and  later  a  law, 
that  the  consecration  of  a  bishop  required  the 
presence  of  three  neighboring  bishops — a  rule 
which  has  given  occasion  to  the  saying  that  "all 
Christendom  becomes  Presbyterian  on  a  conse- 
cration day."  This  custom  and  rule,  which  in  its 
beginnings  was  simply  practical  assistance  given 
to  a  weak  by  stronger  congregations,  came  to  bear 
the  meaning  that  the  bishop  thus  consecrated  was 
an  office-bearer  in  the  church  universal  as  well  as 
the  pastor  of  a  particular  congregation.  It  is  also 
more  than  probable  that  this  practice  of  seeking 
assistance  in  an  emergency  is  the  germ  out,  of  which 
grew  the  Synod — the  earliest  recorded  synods 
being  congregational  meetings  assisted  in  times  of 
difficulty  by  advice  of  experienced  persons  from 
other  churches. 

(2)  Bishops  and  presbyters. — When  a  small 
group  of  villagers  had  been  won  to  Christianity 
through  the  efforts  of  the  Christian  congregation 
in  a  neighboring  town,  they  commonly  were  dis- 
inclined to  separate  from  it,  and  came  from  their 
villages  into  town  to  join  in  the  public  worship. 
"On  the  day  called  Sunday,"  says  Justin  Martyr, 
"all  who  live  in  the  city  and  in  the  country  gather 
together  into  one  place"  (Ap.,  i.67).  The  earliest 
collections  of  canons  show  that  the  bishop  was  able 


in  time  of  absence  or  sickness  to  delegate  his  duties 
to  elders  or  even  to  deacons;   and  thisenabled  him 
when  occasion  for  it,  arose,  to  be,  through  his  office- 
bearers, the  pastor  of  several  congregations.      We 
can  see  the  same  process  at  work  more  clearly  in 
urge  towns  when;  tin;  number  of  Christians  had 
become  very  large.     The  bishop  was    always  held 
to  be  the  head  of  the  Christian  community,  however 
large,  in  one  place.     He  was  the  pastor;  he  baptized- 
he   presided    at    the    Holy    Supper;     he    admitted' 
catechumens  to  the  full  communion  of  the  brother- 
hood     By  the  middle  of  the  3d  cent,  the  work  in 
most  large  towns  was  more  than  one  man  could  do. 
-No  record  exists  of  the  number  of  members  belong- 
ing to  the  Rom  church  at  this  time,  but  some  idea 
of  itssizemaybe  obtained  from  the  fact  that  it  had 
more  than  1,500  persons  on  its  poor-roll;  and  before 
the  close  of  the  century  the  Rom  Christians  wor- 
shipped m  over  40  separate  places  of  meeting.     It, 
is  obvious  that  one   man   could   not   perform   the 
whole  pastoral  duties  for  such  a  multitude,  and  that 
most  of  the  pastoral  work  must  have  been  delegated 
to  the  elders  or  presbyters.     The  unity  of  the  pas- 
torate was  for  long  strictly  preserved  by  the  custom 
that  the  bishop   consecrated   the  communion   ele- 
ments in  one  church,  and  these  were  carried  round 
to  the  other  congregations.     The  bishop  was  thus 
the  pastor  in  every  congregation;    the  elders  and 
deacons  belonged  to  the  whole  Christian  community; 
they  served   all   the   congregations   and   wen;   not 
attached  to  one  distinctively.     In  Alexandria,  on 
the  other  hand,  something  like  a  parochial  system 
gathered   round   the   bishop,    for  individual   pres- 
byters  were  set   over   the   separate   congregations 
within  the  city.     But   always  and  without  excep- 
tion the  original  pastoral  status  of  the  bishop  was 
preserved  by  the  fact  that  one  portion  of  the  pas- 
toral duties  was  invariably  left  in  his  hands — the 
rite   of   confirmation    whereby   catechumens    were 
admitted  to  full  communion. 

The  middle  of  the  3d  cent,  witnessed  two  changes  in 
the  ministry  of  the  church.  One  was  a  multiplication  of 
«•.«-,.  orders  and  t  lie  other  the  growth  of  a  hier- 

2.  Multipli-  archy;  and  while  many  causes  went  to  pro- 
cation  of  !,"'  thl'S('  changes  it  can  hardly  be  doubted 
OrrWc  anH  ■  aP  *they  V™  at  least  Partly  due  to  the 
uraersana  imitation  of  pagan  religions  organization, 
the  Growth  Although  we  find  the  distinction  between 
of  a  those  wno  are  to  be  obeyed  and  those  who 

Hierarchv      a^V,°  &boy  cl('arl-V  laid  down  in  the  Epp. 
tlierarcny       of   St.    Paul,    we   do   not    find   a  common 
t  *-,  .,  te,rm  m  general   use  to  denote  the  former 

class  until  the  beginning  of  the  3d  cent.  In  the  west 
tlie  word  was  ordo,  and  in  the  east  clerus,  from  which 
come  our  ''orders"  and  "clergy."  Ordo  was  the  desig- 
nation for  the  municipality  in  towns  or  for  the  committee" 
which  presided  over  a  confraternity;  and  clerus  denoted 
rank  or  class.  The  introduction  of  ministerial  stipends 
and  the  implication  that  a  paid  ministry  was  expected 
to  give  its  whole  time  to  the  service  of  the  church  made 
the  distinction  between  clergy  and  laity  more  emphatic 
When  we  investigate  the  matter,  it  is  evident  that  the 
fact  that  the  clergy  arc;  paid  complicates  the  question; 
for  the  earliest  lists  are  evidently  those  who  are  entitled 
to  share  in  the  funds  of  the  church,  and  widows  and 
orphans  figure  as  members  of  the  ordo  or  clerus.  Setting 
this  disturbing  element  aside  we  find  that  the  earliest 
division  of  the  ministry  in  the  3d  cent,  is  into  bishops 
presbyters  and  deacons  (all  congregational);  but  bishops' 
and  presbyters  are  sometimes  said  to  form  the  special 
ordo  ecclesiasticus.  The  earliest  addition  to  those  three 
orders  is  the  reader,  and  there  follows  soon  the  sub- 
deacon.  Then  come  such  persons  as  exorcists,  acolyths 
singers,  door-keepers  and  even  grave-diggers;  and  to 
such  the  name  "minor  orders"  is  given.  All  are  included 
within  the  clergy,  all  receive  a  proportionate  share  of 
the  revenues  of  the  congregational  funds.  The  presence 
of  bishops,  presbyters  and  deacons  needs  no  explanation 
Headers,  as  we  have  seen,  were  needed  at  first  to  assist 
illiterate  bishops  or  pastors;  their  retention  and  the 
insertion  of  exorcists  have  been  plausibly  accounted  for 
by  the  idea  that  they  represented  the  absorption  of  the 
old  prophetic  ministry.  But  in  instituting  the  other 
minor  orders  the  Christian  church  evidently  copied  the 
pagan  temple  usages  where  persons  who  performed  corre- 
sponding services  were  included  among  the  temple  min- 
istry and  had  due  share  of  tho  temple  revenues.  In  the 
institution  of  a  graded  hierarchy  including  metropolitans 


Minni 
Miracle 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2062 


and  patriarchs,  the  churches  probably  followed  the 
example  of  the  great  pagan  organization  called  forth  by 
the  imperial  cult  of  the  Divi  and  Divae  (Lindsay,  The 
Church  and  the  Ministry,  335  IT).  As  Mommsen remarks, 
"The  conquering  Christian  church  took  its  hierarchic 
weapons  from  the  arsenal  of  the  enemy." 

IV.   Synods. — Synods  to  begin  with  were  essen- 
tially democratic   assemblies.     They  were,  in  their 
primitive  form,  congregational  meetings  assisted  in 
times  of   emergency  by  delegates   (not  necessarily 
bishops)  from  "well-established  churches,"  and  they 
grew  to  be  the  instrument  by  which  churches  grouped 
round  one  center  became  united  into  one  compact 
organization.     The    times    were    not    democratic, 
and  gradually  the  presence  of  the  laity  and  even  of 
presbyters  and  deacons  and  their  combined  assent 
to  the  decisions  of  the  assembly  became  more  and 
more  a  matter  of  form  and  gradually  ceased  alto- 
gether.    The  synods  consisted  exclusively  of  bishops 
and  became  councils  for  registering  their  decisions; 
and  this  implied  that  each  local  church  was  fully 
and  completely  represented  by  its  pastor  or  bishop, 
who  had  become  very  much  of  an  autocrat,  respon- 
sible, not  to  his  congregation  nor  even  to  a  synod, 
but  to  God  alone.     Before  the  end  of  the  3d  cent, 
and   onward,    synods   or    councils   had   become    a 
regular  part  of  the  organization  of  the  whole  church, 
and  the  membership  was  confined  to  the  bishops  of 
the  several  churches  included  within  the  group.     It 
was  natural  that  such  assemblies  should  meet  in 
the  provincial  capitals,  for  the  roads  converged  to 
the  cities  which  were  the  seats  of  the  Rom  pro- 
vincial administration.     A  synod  required  a  chair- 
man, and  various  usages  obtained  about  the  natural 
chairman.     At  first  the  oldest  bishop  present  was 
placed  in  the  chair,  and  this  continued  long  to  be 
the  practice  in  several  parts  of  the  empire.     Grad- 
ually it  became  the  habit  to  put  into  the  chair  the 
bishop  of  the  town  in  which  the  council  met,  and 
this  grew  to  a  prescriptive  right.     It  was  then  that 
the  bishops  of  the  towns  which  were  the  meeting- 
places  of  synods  came  to  be  called  metropolitans. 
The  title  was  for  long  one  of  courtesy  only  and  did 
not  carry  with  it  any  ecclesiastical  rank  and  author- 
ity.    But  by  the  middle  of  the  4th  cent,  the  metro- 
politans  had   acquired   the  right   to   summon   the 
synods  and  even  to  exercise  some  authority  over  the 
bishops  of  the  bounds,  esp.  in  the  matter  of  election 
and   consecration.      When   Christianity   was   thor- 
oughly established  as  the  religion  of  the  empire,  the 
more  "important  bishops  secured  for  themselves  the 
civil  precedence  and  privileges  which  had  belonged 
to  the  higher  priests  of  the  abandoned  Imperial 
Cult,  and  the  higher  ranks  of  the  Christian  ministry 
came  into  the  possession  of  a  lordship  strangely  at 
variance  with  their  earlier  position  of  service. 

Literature. — C.  Vitringa,  De  synagoge  vetere  libri 
tres,  Leucopetrae  (Weissenfels),  1720;  Bingham, 
Antiquities  of  the  Christian  Church,  1708-32;  Banner- 
mann,  The  Scripture  Doctrine  of  the  Church;  Hort,  The 
Christian  Ecclesia;  Lightfoot,  Coram,  on  the  Ep.  to 
the  Phil  (dissertation  on  the  ministry);  Hatch,  The 
Organization  of  the  Early  Christian  Church,  and  arts,  on 
"Orders"  in  Smith's  Diet,  of  Christian  Antiquities; 
Harnack,  Expos  for  January  to  Juno,  1887,  and  Ent- 
stehung  u.  Entwicklung  der  Kirchenverfassung  .  .  .  .  in  d. 
zwei  ersten  Jahrhunderten  (1910)  (ET  The  Constitution 
and  Law  of  the  Church);  Lindsay,  The  Church  and  the 
Ministry  in  the  Earli/  Centuries;  Schmiedcl,  art.  "Min- 
istry" in  EB;  Gayford,  art.  "Church"  in  HDB. 

T.  M.  Lindsay 
MINNI,  min'I  PSP,  minni):  A  kingdom  men- 
tioned in  Jer  51  27,  along  with  Ararat  and  Ash- 
kenaz,  as  assailants  of  Babylon.  It  is  identified 
with  the  Minnai  of  the  Assyr  inscriptions,  in  close 
relation  with,  or  part  of,  Armenia. 

MINNITH,  min'ith  {TOTC, ,  minnith;  B,  a.\pi<s 
'Apvwv,  dchris  Arnon,  A,  els  2€jj.u€i0,  eis  Se- 
moeith) :  After  Jephthah  defeated  the  Ammonites, 
he  is  said  to  have  smitten  them  from  Aroer  "until 


thou  come  to  Minnith"  (Jgs  11  33).  Onom  men- 
tions a  place  called  Maanith,  4  Rom  miles  from 
Ileshbon,  on  the  road  to  Philadelphia  C Amman), 
and  locates  Abel-cheramim,  which  is  mentioned 
with  Minnith,  7  miles  from  Philadelphia,  without 
indicating  the  direction.  Some  travelers  have 
spoken  of  a  Menjah,  7  miles  E.  of  Ileshbon,  but  of 
this  place  Tristram  {Land  of  Moab,  140)  could  find 
no  trace.  The  same  place  appears  to  be  mentioned 
in  Ezk  27  17  as  supplying  wheat,  which  figures  in 
the  trade  between  Judah  and  Tyre.  There  are 
really  no  reliable  data  on  which  to  suggest  an  identi- 
fication, while  there  are  grave  reasons  to  suspect  the 
integrity  of  the  text.  W.  EwiNG 

MINSTREL,  min'strel.     See  Music. 

MINT,  mint  (TjSxiocrfiov,  hedilosmon) :  Mentioned 
(Mt  23  23;  Lk  11  42)  as  one  of  the  small  things 
which  were  tithed.  The  cultivated  variety  {Mentha 
piperita),  "peppermint,"  was  doubtless  primarily 
intended,  but  the  wild  M.  silvestris  or  horsemint, 
which  flourishes  all  over  the  mountains  of  Pal,  is 
probably  included. 

MIPHKAD,  mif'kad,  GATE  OF  (-IJ5BTOT  12E , 
sha'ar  ha-miphkadh;  RV  "Hammiphkad"  [Neh 
3  31]) :  A  gate  in,  or  near,  the  north  end  of  the  east 
wall  of  Jerus,  rebuilt  under  Nehemiah.  Its  exact 
position  is  uncertain.     See  Jerusalem. 

MIRACLE,  mir'a-k'l: 

1.     Nature   of  Miracle 

1.  General  Idea 

2.  Biblical  Terms  Employed 
II.     Miracle   in   the   NT 

1.  Miracles  in  Gospel  History 

2.  Special  Testimony  of  St.  Luke 

3.  Trustworthiness  of   Evidence   in    Gospels   and 
Acts 

III      Miracle  and  Laws  of  Nature 

1.  Prejudgment  of  Negative  Criticism 

2.  Sir  George  Stokes  Quoted 

3.  Effects  on  Nature  of  New  Agencies 

4.  Agreement  with  Biblical  Idea  and  Terms 

5.  J.  S.  Mill  on  Miracle 

6.  Miracle  as  Connected  with  Command 
IV.     Evidential  Value  of  Miracle 

1.  Miracles  as  Proofs  of  Revelation 

2.  Miracles  of  Christ  in  This  Relation 

3.  Miracles  Part  of  Revelation 
V.     Miracles  in  the  OT 

1.  Analogy  with  NT  Miracles 

2.  The  Mosaic  Miracles 

3.  Subsequent  Miracles 

4.  Prophecy  as  Miracle 
VI.     Ecclesiastical  Miracles 

1.  Probability  of  Such  Miracles 

2.  Pascal  Quoted 

VII.     Miracle  in  Works  of  Grace 
Literature. 

/.  Nature  of  Miracle.— "Miracle"  is  the  general 
term  for  the  wonderful  phenomena  which  accom- 
panied the  Jewish  and  Christian  revela- 

1.  General    tion,    esp.    at    critical    moments,  and 
Idea  which  are  alleged  to  have  been  con- 
tinued,   under   certain    conditions,    in 

the  history  of  the  Christian  church.  The  miracle 
proper  is  a  work  of  God  (Ex  7  3  ff;  Dt  4  34.35, 
etc;  Jn  3  2;  9  32.33;  10  38;  Acts  10  38,  etc); 
but  as  supernatural  acts  miracles  are  recognized 
as  possible  to  evil  agencies  (Mt  24  24;  2  Thess  2 
9;   Rev  13  14;   16  14,  etc). 

The  Bib.  idea  of  miracle  as  an  extraordinary  work 
of  God,  generally  though  not  invariably   ("provi- 
dential"  miracles — see  below,   II,   6), 

2.  Biblical  transcending  the  ordinary  powers  of 
Terms  Nature,  wrought  in  connection  with  the 
Employed      ends  of  revelation,   is  illustrated   by 

the  terms  used  to  describe  miracles 
in  the  OT  and  NT.  One  class  of  terms  brings  out 
the  unusual,  exceptional,  and  striking  character  of 
the  works,  as  Xbs ,  pele',  niX^E? ,  niphla'oth  (Ex 


2063 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Minni 
Miracle 


3  20;  15  11,  etc),  re'pas,  (eras,  lit.  "a  portent"  (in 
pi.  Mt  24  24;  Acts  2  22.43,  etc);  another  lays 
stress  on  the  power  displayed  in  them,  as  T\y\23t , 
gcbhurah,  5wa,ius,  dunamis  (in  pi.  "mighty  works  " 
RVm  "powers,"  Alt  11  20.21.23;  13  54;  14  2; 
2  Cor  12  12,  etc);  a  third  gives  prominence  to 
their  teleological  significance  —  their  character  as 
"signs,"  as  MS,  'dth  (pi.  RV  "signs,"  Nu  14  22; 
Dt  11  3,  etc),  0-np.ecov,  semeion  (pi.  RV  "signs," 
Jn  2  11.23,  and  frequently;  Acts  4  16.22;  6  8" 
Rev  13  14,  etc).  .Another' OT  word  for  "wonder"' 
or  "miracle"  is  riS1£,  mopheth  (Ex  7  9;  Dt  29  3). 
See,  further,  below,  111,  4. 

//.  Miracle  in  the  NT.— The  subject  of  miracles 
has  given  rise  to  much  abstract  discussion;  but  it 
is  best  approached  by  considering  the 
1.  Miracles  actual  facts  involved,  and  it  is  best 
in  Gospel  to  begin  with  the  facts  nearest  to  us: 
History  those  which  are    recorded  in  the  NT. 

Our    Lord's    ministrv    was    attendee! 
from  first  to   last   by  events  entirely  beyond  the 
ordinary  course  of  Nature.     He  was  born  of  a  Virgin, 
and    His   birth  was  announced  by  angels,  both  to 
His  mother,  and  to  the  man  to  whom  she  was  be- 
trothed  (Mt  and   Lk).     He  suffered  death  on  the 
cross  as  an  ordinary  man,  but  on  the  third  day  after 
His  crucifixion  He  rose  from  the  tomb  in  which  He 
was  buried,  and  lived  with  His  disciples  for  40  days 
(Acts  1  3),   eating   and   drinking   with   them,   but 
with  a  body  superior  to  ordinary  physical  condi- 
tions.    At  length  He  ascended  to  tin-  heavens,  and 
a   cloud   received   Him   out    of    their  sight.     But 
besides  these  two  great  miracles  of  His  birt  h  and  His 
resurrection,     Jesus    was    continually     performing 
miracles    during    HLs    ministrv.     His    own    words 
furnish  the  best  description  of  the  facts.     In  reply 
to  the  question  of  John  the  Baptist,  His  predecessor, 
He  said,  "Go  and  tell  John  the  things  which  ye  hear 
and  see:   the  blind  receive  their  sight,  and  the  lame 
walk,  the  lepers  are  cleansed,  and  the  deaf  hear,  and 
the  dead  are  raised  up,  and   the  poor  have  good 
tidings   preached    to    them"    (Alt  11  4.5).     Speci- 
mens of  these  miracles  are  given  in  detail  in  the 
Gospel  narratives;    but  it  is  a  mistake  to  consider 
the  matter,  as  is  too  often  done,  as  though  these  par- 
ticular miracles   were   the   only   ones   in   question. 
Even  if  they  could  be  explained  away,  as  has  often 
been   attempted,    there    would    remain    reiterated 
statements  of  the  evangelists,  such  as  St.  Alatthew's 
that  He  "went  about  in  all  Galilee,  teaching  in  their 
synagogues,  and  preaching  the  gospel  of  the  king- 
dom,  and   healing   all  manner  of  disease   and   all 
manner  of  sickness  among  the  people"   (4  23),  or 
St.  Luke's  "And  a  great  number  of  the  people  from 
all  Judaea  and  Jerus,  and  the  seacoast  of  Tyre  and 
Sidon,  who  came  to  hear  him,  and  to  be  healed  of 
their  diseases;    and  they  that  were  troubled  with 
unclean  spirits  were  healed.     And  all  the  multitude 
sought  to  touch  him;    for  power  came  forth  from 
him,  and  healed  them  all"  (6  17-19). 

It  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  if  there  is  any 
assured  result  of  modern  criticism,  it  is  that  these 
accounts  proceed  from  contemporaries 
2.  Special  and  eyewitnesses,  and  with  respect 
Testimony  to  the  third  evangelist  there  is  one 
of  St.  Luke  unique  consideration  of  great  import. 
The  researches  of  Dr.  Hobart  have 
proved  to  the  satisfaction  of  a  scholar  like  Harnack, 
that  St.  Luke  was  a  trained  physician.  His  testi- 
mony to  the  miracles  is  therefore  the  nearest  thing 
possible  to  the  evidence  which  has  often  been 
desired — that  of  a  man  of  science.  When  St.  Luke, 
e.g.,  tells  us  of  the  healing  of  a  fever  (4  38.39),  he 
uses  the  technical  term  for  a  violent  fever  recog- 
nized in  his  time  (cf  Aleyer,  in  loc);  his  testimony 
is  therefore  that  of  one  who  knew  what  fevers  and 


the  healing  of  them  meant.  This  consideration  is 
esp.  valuable  in  reference  to  the  miracles  recorded 
of  St.  Paul  in  the  latter  part  of  Acts,  it  should 
always  be  borne  in  mind  that  they  are  recorded  by 
a  physician,  who  was  an  eyewitness  of  them. 

It  seems  to  follow  from  these  considerations  that 
the  working  of  miracles  by  Our  Lord,  and  by  St. 
Paul  in  innumerable  cases,  cannot 
3.  Trust-  be  questioned  without  attributing  to 
worthiness  the  evangelists  a  wholesale  untrust- 
of  Evidence  worthiness,  due  either  to  wilful,  or  to 
in  Gospels  superstitious  misrepresentation,  and 
and  Acts  this  is  a  supposition  which  will  cer- 
tainly never  commend  itself  to  a  fair 
and  competent  judgment.  It  would  involve,  in 
tact,  such  a  sweeping  condemnation  of  the  evangel- 
ists, that  it  could  never  be  entertained  at  all  except 
under  one  presupposition,  viz.  that  such  miraculous 
occurrences,  as  being  incompatible  with  the  estab- 
lished laws  of  Nature,  could  not  possibly  have  hap- 
pened, and  that  consequently  any  allegations  of 
them  must  of  necessity  be  attributed  to  illusion  or 
fraud. 

///.   Miracle  and  Laws  of  Nature.—  This,  in  fact 

is  the  prejudgment  or  prejudice  which  has  prompted! 

either  avowedly  or   tacitly,    the  great 

1.  Pre-  mass  of  negative  criticism'  on  t  his  sub- 
judgment  of  ject,  and  if  it  could  be  substantiated, 
Negative  we  should  be  confronted,  in  the  Gos- 
Cnticism       pels,    with    a   problem   of   portentous 

difficulty. 
On   this   question   of  the  abstract  possibility  of 
miracles,  it  seems  sufficient  to  quote  the  following 
passage  from  the  Gifford  Lectures  for 

2.  Sir  1891  of  the  late  eminent  man  of 
George  science,  Professor  Sir  George  Stokes. 
Stokes  On  p.  23  Professor  Stokes  says:  "We 
(Quoted            know  very  well  that  a  man  may  in  general 

act  uniformly  according  to  a  certain  rule, 
..     ,  .  and  yet  for  a  special  reason  may  on  a  par- 

ticular occasion  act  quite  differently.  We  cannot  refuse 
to  admit  the  possibility  of  something  analogous  taking 
place  as  regards  the  action  of  the  Supreme  Being  If 
we  think  of  the  laws  of  Nature  as  self-existent  and  un- 
caused, then  we  cannot  admit  any  deviation  from  them, 
liut  if  wo  think  of  them  as  designed  by  a  Supreme  Will, 
then  we  must  allow  the  possibility  of  their  being  on  some 
particular  occasion  suspended.  Xor  is  it  even  necessary 
in  order  that  some  result  out  of  the  ordinary  course  of 
Nature  should  be  brought  about,  that  they  should  even 
be  suspended;  it  may  be  that  some  different  law  is 
brought  into  action,  whereby  the  result  in  question  is 
brought  about,  without  any  suspension  whatever  of  the 
laws  by  which  the  ordinary  course  of  Nature  is  regu- 
lated. ....  It  may  be  that  the  event  which  we  call  a 
miracle  was  brought  about,  not  by  any  suspension  of  the 
laws  in  ordinary  operation,  but  by  the  superaddition 
of  something  not  ordinarily  in  operation,  or,  if  in  oper- 
ation, of  such  a  nature  that  its  operation  is  not  perceived." 

Only  one  consideration  need  be  added  to  this 
decisive  scientific  statement,  viz.  that  if   there  be 

agencies  and  forces  in  existence  out- 
3.  Effects  side  the  ordinary  world  of  Nature, 
on  Nature  and  if  they  can  under  certain  circum- 
of  New  stances    interpose    in    it,    they    must 

Agencies        necessarily  produce  effects  inconsistent 

with  the  processes  of  that  world  when 
left  to  itself.  Life  under  the  surface  of  the  water 
has  a  certain  course  of  its  own  when  undisturbed; 
but  if  a  man  standing  on  the  bank  of  a  river  throws 
a  stone  into  it,  effects  are  produced  which  must  be 
as  unexpected  and  as  unaccountable  as  a  miracle 
to  the  creatures  who  live  in  the  stream.  The  near- 
ness of  two  worlds  which  are  absolutely  distinct 
from  one  another  receives,  indeed,  a  striking  illus- 
tration from  the  juxtaposition  of  the  world  above 
the  water  and  the  world  below  its  surface.  There 
is  no  barrier  between  them;  they  are  actually  in 
contact;  yet  the  life  in  them  is  perfectly  distinct. 
The  spiritual  world  may  be  as  close  to  us  as  the  air 
is  to  the  water,  and  the  angels,  or  other  ministers 


Miracle 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2064 


4.  Agree- 
ment with 
Biblical 
Idea  and 
Terms 

powers' 


of  God's  will,  may  as  easily,  at  His  word,  interpose 

in  it  as  a  man  can  throw  a  stone  into  the  water. 
When  a  stone  is  thus  thrown,  there  is  no  suspension 
or  modification  of  any  law;  it  is  simply  that,  as 
Sir  George  Stokes  supposes  in  the  ease  ot  a  miracle, 
a  new  agency  has  interposed. 

This  indeed,  is  the  main  fact  of  which  miracles 
are  irresistible  evidence.  They  show  that  some 
power  outside  Nature,  some  super- 
natural  power,  has  intervened.  They 
are  exactly  described  by  the  three 
words  in  the  XT  already  mentioned. 
They  are  terata,  "prodigies"  or  "won- 
ders'"; they  are  also  dunameis,  vir- 
tutes,  "powers,"  or  "manifestation  of 
and  finally  they  are  scmeia,  "signs." 
The  three  conceptions  arc1  combined,  and  the  source 
of  such  manifestations  stated  with  them,  in  a 
pregnant  verse  of  He:  "God  also  bearing  witness 
with  them,  both  by  signs  and  wonders,  and  by  mani- 
fold powers,  and  by  gifts  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  accord- 
ing to  his  own  will"  (2  4). 

The  words  of  J.  S.  Mill  on  the  question  of  the  possi- 
bility of  miracles  may  also  be  quoted.  Dealing  with  the 
objection  of  Hume  in  his  Essay  on  Mira- 
6.  T.  S.Mill  cles,  Mill  observes:  "  In  order  that  any 
on  Miracle  alleged  fact  should  be  contradictory  to  a 
onmiracie  lawBof  causation,  the  allegation  must  be, 
not  simply  that  the  cause  existed  without  being  followed 
by  the  effect,  for  that  would  be  no  uncommon  occurrence; 
but  that  tins  happened  in  the  absence  of  any  adequate 
counteracting  cause.  Now  in  the  case  of  an  alleged 
miracle,  the  assertion  is  the  exact  opposite"  of  this.  It 
is  that  the  effect  was  defeated,  not  in  the  absence  but 
in  consequence,  of  a  counteracting  cause  namely,  a 
direct  interposition  of  an  act  of  the  will  of  some  being 
who  has  power  oyer  Nature;  and  in  particular  of  a  Being, 
whose  will  being  assumed  to  have  endowed  all  the  causes 
with  the  powers  by  which  they  produce  their  effects 
may  well  be  supposed  able  to  counteract  them.  A 
miracle  (as  was  justly  remarked  by  Brown)  is  no  con- 
tradiction to  the  law  of  cause  and  effect ;  it  is  a  new  effect, 
supposed  to  be  produced  by  the  introduction  of  a  new 
cause  Of  the  adequacy  of  that  cause,  if  present,  there 
can  be  no  doubt ;  and  the  only  antecedent  improbability 
which  can  be  ascribed  to  the  miracle  is  the  improbability 
that  any  such  cause  existed"  (.System  of  Logic,  11,  lol-OJ). 

There   is,   however,   one   other  important   char- 
acteristic of  miracles— of  those  at  least  with  which 
we  are  concerned — viz.  that  they  occur 
6    Miracle     at  the  command,  or  at  the  prayer,  of 
as  Con-  the  person  to  whom  they  are  attrib- 

nectedwith  tited.  This  is  really  their  most  sig- 
Command  nificant  feature,  and  the  one  upon 
which  their  whole  evidential  value 
depends.  One  critic  has  compared  the  fall  of  the 
fortifications  of  Jellalabad,  on  a  critical  occasion, 
with  the  fall  of  the  walls  of  Jericho,  as  though  the 
one  was  no  more  a  miracle  than  the  other.  But  the 
fall  of  the  walls  of  Jericho,  though  it  may  well  have 
been  produced  by  some  natural  force,  such  as  an 
earthquake,  bears  the  character  of  a  miracle  because 
it  was  predicted,  and  was  thus  commanded  by  God 
to  occur  in  pursuance  of  the  acts  prescribed  to 
Joshua.  Similarly  the  whole  significance  of  Our 
Lord's  miracles  is  that  they  occur  at  His  word  and 
in  obedience  to  Him.  "What  manner  of  man  is 
this,"  exclaimed  the  disciples,  "that  even  the  winds 
and  the  sea  obey  him?"  (Mt  8  27). 

IV.  Evidential  Value  of  Miracle.— This  leads 
us  to  the  true  view  of  the  value  of  miracles  as  proofs 
of  a  revelation.  This  is  one  of  the 
1.  Miracles  points  which  has  been  discussed  in 
as  Proofs  far  too  abstract  a  manner.  Argu- 
of  Reve-  ments  have  been,  and  still  are,  emu- 
lation structed  to  show  that  there  can  be  no 
real  revelation  without  miracles,  that 
miracles  are  the  proper  proof  of  a  revelation,  and 
so  on.  It  is  always  a  perilous  method  of  argument, 
perhaps  a  presumptuous  one,  to  attempt  to  de- 
termine whether  God  could  produce  a  given  result 
in  any  other  way  than  the  one  which  He  has  actually 


adopted.  The  only  safe,  and  the  sufficient,  method 
of  proceeding  is  to  consider  whether  as  a  matter 
of  fact,  and  in  what  way,  the  miracles  which  are 
actually  recorded  do  guarantee  the  particular  reve- 
lation in  question. 

Consider  Our  Lord's  miracles  in  this  light. 
Assuming,  on  the  grounds  already  indicated,  that 
they  actually  occurred,  they  prove 
2.  Miracles  beyond  doubt  that  He  had  supreme 
of  Christ  command  over  Nature;  that  not  only 
in  This  the  winds  and  the  sea,  but  the  human 

Relation  soul  and  body  obeyed  him,  and  in  the 
striking  words  of  the  Eng.  service  for 
the  Visitation  of  the  Sick,  that  He  was  "Lord  of 
life  and  death,  and  of  all  things  thereto  pertaining, 
as  youth,  strength,  health,  ago,  weakness  and  sick- 
ness." This  is  the  grand  fact  which  the  miracles 
establish.  They  are  not  like  external  evidence, 
performed  in  attestation  of  a  doctrine.  They  an; 
direct  and  eloquent  evidence  of  the  cardinal  truth 
of  our  faith,  that  Our  Lord  possessed  powers  which 
belong  to  God  Himself.  But  they  are  not  less 
direct  evidence  of  the  special  office  He  claimed 
toward  the  human  race— that  of  a  Saviour.  He  did 
not  merely  work  wonders  in  order  that  men  might 
believe  His  assertions  about  Himself,  but  His 
wonderful  works,  His  powers — virtutes — wen;  direct 
evidence  of  their  truth.  He  proved  that  He  was 
a  Saviour  by  doing  the  works  of  a  Saviour,  by 
healing  men  and  women  from  their  diseases  of  both 
body  and  soul.  It,  is  well  known  that  salvation  in 
the  true  sense,  viz.  saving  men  out  of  evils  and  cor- 
ruptions into  which  they  have  fallen,  is  an  idea 
which  was  actually  introduced  into  the  world  by  the 
gospel.  Then;  was  no  word  for  it  in  the  Rom  lan- 
guage. The  ancients  know  of  a  servator,  but  not 
of  a  salvator.  The  essential  message  of  the  miracles 
is  that  they  exhibit  Our  Lord  in  this  character- 
that  of  one  who  has  alike  the  will  and  the  power  to 
save.  Such  is  Our  Lord's  own  application  of  them 
in  His  answer,  already  quoted,  to  the  disciples  of 
John  the  Baptist  (Mt  11  4.5). 

It  is  t  herefore  an  extraordinary  mistake  to  suppose 
that  the  evidence  for  our  faith  would  not  be  dam- 
aged  if   the   miracles   were   set   aside. 
3.  Miracles  We  should  lose  the  positive  evidence 
Part  of  we  now  possess  of  Our  Lord's  saving 

Revelation  power.  In  this  view,  the  miracles  are 
not  the  mere  proofs  of  a  revelation; 
they  are  themselves  the  revelation.  They  reveal 
a  Saviour  from  all  human  ills,  and  there  has  been 
no  other  revelation  in  the  world  of  such  a  power. 
The  miracles  recorded  of  the  apostles  have  a  like 
effect.  They  are  wrought,  like  St.  Peter's  of  the 
impotent  man,  as  evidence  of  the  living  power  of  the 
Saviour  (Acts  3,  4).  "Be  it  known  unto  you 
all,  and  to  all  the  people  of  Israel,  that  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Nazareth,  whom  ye  crucified, 
whom  God  raised  from  the  dead,  even  in  him  doth 
this  man  stand  here  before  you  whole.  .  .  .  .  And 
in  none  other  is  there  salvation:  for  neither  is 
there  any  other  name  under  heaven,  that  is  given 
among  men,  wherein  we  must  be  saved"  (4  10.12). 
In  a  word,  the  miracles  of  the  NT,  whether  wrought 
by  Our  Lord  or  by  His  apostles,  reveal  a  new  source 
of  power,  in  the  person  of  Our  Lord,  for  the  salva- 
tion of  men.  Whatever  interference  they  involve 
with  the  usual  order  of  Nature  is  due,  not  to  any 
modification  of  that  order,  but  to  the  intervention 
of  a  new  force  in  it.  The  nature  of  that  force  is 
revealed  by  them,  and  can  only  be  ascertained  by 
observation  of  them.  A  man  is  known  by  his  words 
and  by  his  deeds,  and  to  these  two  sources  of  reve- 
lation, respecting  His  person  and  character,  Our 
Lord  expressly  appealed.  "If  I  do  not  the  works 
of  my  Father,  believe  me  not.  But  if  I  do  them, 
though  ye  believe  not  me,  believe  the  works:  that 


20(3.", 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Miracle 


ye  may  know  and  understand  that  the  Father  is 
in  me,  and  I  in  the  Father"  (Jn  10  37.38). 

It  is  t  lien 'fore  a  mistake  to  try  to  put  the  evidenee 
of  the  miracles  into  a  logically  demonstrative  argu- 
ment. Paley  stated  the  case  too  much  in  this  almost 
anathematized  form. 

"It  is  idle,"  ho  said,  "to  say  that  a  future  state  had 
been  discovered  already.  It  had  been  discovered  as  the 
Copernican  system  was;  it  was  one  guess  among  many. 
He  alone  discovers  who  proves;  and  no  man  can  prove 
tin's  point  but  the  teacher  who  testifies  by  miracles  that 
Ins  doctrine  conies  from  God"  (Moral  ami  Polit.  Phi- 
losophy, book  V,  ch  ix,  close). 

Coleridge,  in  the  Aids  to  Reflection,  criticizes  the 
above  and  puts  the  argument  in  a  juster  and  more 
human  form. 

"  Most  fervently  do  I  contend,  that  the  miracles  worked 
by  Christ,  both  as  miracles  and  as  fulfilments  of  prophecy, 
both  as  signs  and  as  wonders,  made  plain  discovery,  aiid 
gave  unquestionable  proof,  of  His  Divine  character  and 
authority;  that  they  were  to  the  whole  Jewish  nation 
true  and  appropriate  evidences,  that  He  was  indeed 
come  who  had  promised  and  declared  to  their  fore- 
fathers, Behold  your  God  will  come  with  vengeance,  even 
God,  with  a  recompense!  lie  will  come  and  save  you. 
I  receive  them  as  proofs,  therefore,  of  the  truth  of  every 
word  which  lie  taught  who  was  Himself  the  Word:  and 
as  sure;  evidences  of  the  final  victory  over  death  and  of 
the  life  to  come,  in  that  they  were  manifestations  of 
Him  who  said:  /  am  the  resurrection  and  thelife!"  (note 
prefatory  to  Aphorism  CXXIII). 

This  seems  the  fittest  maimer  in  which  to  con- 
template the  evidence  afforded  by  miracles. 

V.   Miracles  in  the  OT. — -If  the  miracles  ascribed 

to  Our  Lord  and  His  apostles  are  established  on  the 

grounds  now  stated,   and   are  of  the 

1.  Analogy  value  just  explained,  then;  can  be 
with  NT  little  difficulty  in  principle  in  accepting 
Miracles        as  credible  and  applying  the  miracles 

of  the  OT.  They  also  are  obviously 
wrought  as  manifestations  of  a  Divine  Being,  and 
as  evidences  of  His  character  and  will. 

This,  e.g.,  was  the  great  purpose  of  the  miracles 

wrought  for  the  deliverance  of  the  people  of  Israel 

out   of   Egypt.     The   critical   theories 

2.  The  which  treat  the  narrative  of  those 
Mosaic  events  as  "unhistorical"  are,  I  am 
Miracles        convinced,    unsound.     If    they    could 

be  established,  they  would  deprive 
us  of  some  of  the  most  precious  evidences  we  possess 
of  the  character  of  God.  But,  in  any  case,  the 
purpose  to  which  the  alleged  miracles  are  ascribed 
is  of  the  same  character  as  in  the  case  of  the  NT 
miracles.  "For  ask  now,"  says  Moses,  "of  the 
days  that  are  past  ....  whether  there  hath  been 
any  such  thing  as  this  great  thing  is,  or  hath  been 
heard  like  it?  Did  ever  a  people  hear  the  voice 
of  God  speaking  out  of  the  midst  of  the  fire,  as  thou 
hast  heard,  and  live?  Or  hath  God  assayed  to  go 
and  take  him  a  nation  from  the  midst  of  another 
nation,  by  trials,  by  signs,  and  by  wonders,  and 
by  war,  and  by  a  mighty  hand,  and  by  an  out- 
stretched arm,  and  by  great  terrors,  according  to 
all  that  Jeh  jour  God  did  for  you  in  Egypt  before 
your  eyes?  Unto  thee  it  was  showed,  that  thou 
might  est  know  that  Jeh  he  is  God;  there  is  none 
else  besides  him';  (Dt  4  32-35).  The  God  of  the 
Jews  was,  and  is,  the  God  manifested  in  those 
miraculous  acts  of  deliverance.  Accordingly,  the 
Ten  Commandments  are  introduced  with  the 
declaration:  "I  am  Jeh  thy  God,  who  brought  thee 
out  of  the  land  of  Egypt,  out  of  the  house- of  bond- 
age," and  on  this  follows:  "Thou  shalt  have  no 
other  gods  before  me"  (Ex  20  2.3).  Without 
these  miracles,  the  God  of  the  Jews  would  be  an 
abstraction.  As  manifested  in  them,  He  is  the 
living  God,  with  a  known  character,  "a  just  God 
and  a  Saviour"  (Isa  45  21),  who  can  be  loved 
with  all  the  heart,  and  soul,  and  mind,  and 
strength. 


The  subsequent  miracles  of  Jewish  history,  like 
those  wrought  by  Elijah,  serve  the  same  great  end, 
and  reveal  more  and  more  both  of  the 
3.  Subse-      will  and  the  power  of  God.     They  are 
quent  not  mere  portents,  wrought  as  an  ex- 

Miracles  ternal  testimony  to  a  doctrine.  They 
are  the  acts  of  a  living  Being  wrought 
through  lbs  ministers,  or  with  their  cooperation, 
and  He  is  revealed  by  them.  If  the  miracles  of  the 
NT  were  possible,  those  of  the  OT  were  possible, 
and  as  those  of  the  NT  reveal  the  nature  and  will 
of  Christ,  by  word  and  deed,  so  those  of  the  OT 
reveal  the  existence-,  the  nature,  and  the  will  of  Cod. 
Nature,  indeed,  reveals  God,  but  the  miracles  reveal 
new  and  momentous  acts  of  God;  and  the  whole 
religious  life  of  the  Jews,  as  the  Pss  show,  is  indis- 
solubly  bound  up  with  them.  The  evidence  for 
them  is,  in  fact,  the  historic  consciousness  of  a  great 
and  tenacious  nation. 

It  should  be  added  that  the  Jewish  Scriptures 
embody  one  of  the  greatest  of  miracles— that  of 
prophecy.  It  is  obvious  that  the 
4.  Prophecy  destiny  of  the  Jewish  people  is  pre- 
as  Miracle  dieted  from  the  commencement,  in  the 
^  narrative  of  the  life  of  Abraham  and 
onward.  There  can,  moreover,  be  no  question 
that  the  office  of  the  Christ  had  been  so  distinctly 
foreshadowed  in  the  Scriptures  of  the  OT  that  the 
people,  as  a  whole,  expected  a  Messiah  before  He 
appeared.  Our  Lord  did  not,  like  Buddha  or  Mo- 
hammed, create  a  new  office;  He  came  to  fill  an 
office  which  had  been  described  by  the  prophets, 
and  of  which  they  had  predicted  the  functions  and 
powers.  \\  e  are  told  of  the  Saviour,  "And  beginning 
from  Moses  and  from  all  the  prophets,  he  inter- 
preted to  them  in  all  the  scriptures  the  things  con- 
cerning himself"  (Lk  24  27).  That,  again,  is  a 
revelation  of  Clod's  nature,  for  it  reveals  Him  as 
"knowing  the  end  from  the  beginning,"  and  as  the 
Ruler  of  human  life  and  history. 

VI.  Ecclesiastical  Miracles.'Somc,  notice,  finally , 
must  be  taken  of  the  question  of  what  are  called 
ecclesiastical    miracles.     There    seems 
1.  Proba-       no  sufficient  reason  for  assuming  that 
bihty  of  miracles  ceased  with  the  apostles,  and 

Such  there  is  much  evidence  that  in  the  early 

Miracles  church  miraculous  cures,  both  of  body 
and  soul,  were  sometimes  vouchsafed. 
There  were  occasions  and  circumstances  when  the 
manifestation  of  such  miraculous  power  was  as 
appropriate  as  testimony  of  the  living  power  of 
Christ,  as  in  the  scenes  in  the  Acts.  But  they  were 
not  recorded  under  inspired  guidance,  like  the 
miracles  of  the  Apostolic  Age,  and  they  have  in 
many  cases  been  overlaid  by  legend. 

The  observation  in  Pascal's  Thoughts  eminently  applies 
to  this  class  of  miracles :  "  It  has  appeared  to  me  that  the 
o  d  i  real  causc  [that  there  are  so  many  false 
A.  rascal  miracles,  false  revelations,  etc]  is  that 
Quoted  there  are  true  ones,  for  it  would  not  be 
possible  that  there  should  be  so  manv 
false  miracles  unless  there  were  true,  nor  so  many  falsi; 
religions  unless  there  were  one  that  is  true.  For  if  all 
this  had  never  been,  it  is  impossible  that  so  manv  others 
should  have  believed  it Thus  instead  of  con- 
cluding that  there  are  no  true  miracles  since  there  are 
so  many  false,  we  must  on  the  contrary  say  that  there 
are  true  miracles  since  there  are  so  many  false,  and  that 
false  miracles  exist  only  for  the  reason  that  there  are 
true;  so  also  that  there  are  false  religions  only  because 
there  is  one  that  is  true  "  (On  Miracles). 

VII.  Miracle  in  Works  of  Grace. — It  has  lately 
been  argued  with  much  earnestness  and  force  in 
Germany,    particularly    by    J.    Wendland,    in    his 

Miracles  and  Christianity,  that  belief  in  miracles 
is  indispensable  to  our  apprehension  of  a  real 
living  God,  and  to  our  trust  in  Plis  saving  work  in 
our  own  souls.  The  work  of  grace  and  salvation, 
indeed,  is  all  so  far  miraculous  that  it  requires  the 
influence  upon  our  nature  of  a  living  power  above 


Miracles,  Gift  of 
Mitre 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2066 


that  nature.  It  is  not  strictly  correct  to  call  it 
miraculous,  as  these  operations  of  Cod's  Spirit  are 
now  an  established  part  of  His  kingdom  of  grace. 
But  they  none  the  less  involve  the  exercise  of  a  like 
supernatural  power  to  that  exhibited  in  Our  Lord's 
miracles  of  healing  and  casting  out  of  devils;  and 
in  proportion  to  the  depths  of  man's  Christian  life 
will  he  be  compelled  to  believe  in  the  gracious 
operation  on  his  soul  of  this  Divine  interposition. 

On  the  whole,  it  is  perhaps  increasingly  realized 
that  miracles,  so  far  from  being  an  excrescence  on 
Christian  faith,  are  indissolubly  bound  up  with  it, 
and  that  there  is  a  complete  unity  in  the  mani- 
festation of  the  Divine  nature,  which  is  recorded  in 
the  Scriptures. 

Literature. — Trench,  Notes  on  the  Miracles;  Moz- 
ley,  Bampton  Lectures  (Mozley's  argument  is  perhaps 
somewhat  marred  by  its  too  positive  and  controversial 
tone,  but,  if  the  notes  be  read  as  well  as  the  Lectures,  the 
reader  will  obtain  a  comprehensive  view  of  the  main 
controversies  on  the  subject) ;  A.  B.  Bruce,  The  Miracu- 
lous Element  in  the  Gospels.  For  modern  German  views 
see  J.  Wendland,  Miracles  and  Christianity;  Christlieb, 
Modern  Doubt  and  Christian  Belief.  Paley's  Evidences 
and  Butler's  Analogy  may  profitably  be  consulted.  On 
continuance  of  miracles,  sec  Bushnell,  Nature  and  the 
Supernatural,  ch  xiv,  and  Christlieb,  as  above,  Lecture  V. 

H.  Wacb 
MIRACLES,  GIFT  OF.     See  Spiritual  Gifts; 
Miracle. 

MIRAGE,     me-nizh'     (1"1EJ ,    sharabh,     "heat- 


Arab.  i_j!ya*/,  sarab,  from  vb. 


to 


mirage     ,    nj.au.  i     i'^w  .  ou,;  u,u,  Hum    vtj.  i  _iw, 

go  forth,"  "to  flow";  hence  "flowing  of  water"): 
"The  glowing  sand  shall  become  a  pool,  and  the 
thirsty  ground  springs  of  water"  (Isa  35  7);  AV  has 
"parched  ground"  and  RVrm  "mirage."  The  same 
Heb  word  is  also  used  in  Isa  49  10,  "Neither  shall 
the  heat  [m  "mirage"]  nor  sun  smite  them."  These 
are  the  only  uses  of  the  word  in  the  Scriptures, 
although  mirages  are  very  common  in  the  drier 
parts  of  the  country.  However,  the  context  in 
both  cases  seems  to  justify  the  tr  usually  given, 
rather  than  "mirage."  Alfred  H.  Joy 

MIRE,  mlr.     See  Chalkstone;   Clay;    Marsh. 

MIRIAM,  mir'i-am  (D'J'TQ,  mirydm;  LXX  and 
the  NT  Mapidn,  Maridm;  EVof  the  NT  "Mary"): 

(1)  Daughter  of  Amram  and  Jochebed,  and  sister 
of  Aaron  and  Moses.  It  is  probable  that  it  was 
she  who  watched  the  ark  of  bulrushes  in  which  the 
child  Moses  was  laid  (Ex  2  4).  She  associated 
herself  with  her  brothers  in  the  exodus,  is  called 
"the  prophetess,"  and  led  the  choir  of  maidens  who 
sang  the  triumph-song  after  the  crossing  of  the 
Red  Sea  (Ex  15  20 f).  Along  with  Aaron,  she  op- 
posed Moses  at  Hazeroth  (Nu  12  1-5).  She  was 
smitten  with  leprosy  in  punishment,  but  on  Aaron's 
intercession  was  pardoned  and  healed  (Nu  12 
10-15).  She  died  and  was  buried  at  Kadesh  (Nu 
20  1).  In  the  Deuteronomic  Law  respecting 
leprosy,  Miriam  is  mentioned  as  a  warning  to  the 
Israelites  (Dt  24  Sf).  In  Mic  6  4,  she  is  referred 
to  along  with  Moses  and  Aaron  as  a  leader  of  God's 
people. 

(2)  Son  (or  daughter)  of  Jether  (1  Ch  4  17). 
The  latter  half  of  the  verse  is  in  its  present  situation 
unintelligible;  it  should  probably  follow  ver  18 
(see  Curtis,  Chron.,  in  loc).  John  A.  Lees 

MIRMAH,  mur'ma  (TVQTVU ,  mirmah,  "deceit"): 
A  Benjamite  (1  Ch  8  10).* 

MIRROR,  mir'er.     See  Looking-glass. 

MISAEL,  mis'a-el,  ml'sa-el  (A,  Mio-otjX,  Misatl, 
B,  Meio-a^A.,  Meisati) : 


(1)  One  of  those  who  stood  on  Ezra's  left  hand 
as  he  expounded  the  Law  (1  Esd  9  44  =  "Mishael," 
Neh  8  4). 

(2)  In  Three  ver  00  (LXX  Dnl  3  88),  for  "Mis- 
hael,"  one  of  Daniel's  companions  in  captivity. 

MISAIAS,  mi-sa'yas,  mi-si'as:    RVm  =  "Masias." 

MISCHIEF,  mis'chif:  The  word,  in  the  sense  of 
"hurt"  or  "evil"  befalling,  plotted  against,  or  done 
to,  anyone,  represents  a  variety  of  Heb  terms  (e.g. 
'a§on,  AV  Gen  42  4;  44  29;  Ex  21  22;  ra\  1  S 
23  9;  2  S  16  S;  1  K  11  25,  etc;  %amal,  Ps  7  14. 
16;  10  7.14;  Prov  24  2,  etc).  Sometimes  RV 
changes  the  word,  as  to  "evil"  (Ex  32  12.22);  in 
Acts  13  10,  to  "villany"  (padiovpyla,  rhadiourgia). 

In  RV  Apoc  the  word  is  used  for  /ca/cd,  kakd,  "evils, " 
Ad  Est  13  5  (cf  Sir  19  28);  Kada,  kakia,  "evil," 
1  Mace  7  2:5;  and  Lat  malum,  "evil,"  2  Esd  15  56. 
"Mischievous"  is  used,  Ad  Est  14  19,  for  Trovr)pevoiJ.a.i, 
ponereuomai,  "to  be  evil."  The  use  in  AV  Apoc  is 
considerably  more  extended  (Sir  11  33;  19  27;  27 
27,  etc).  James  Orr 

MISGAB,  mis'gab  p5ipTQn,  ha-misgdbh;  B, 
'A(xd0,  Amdth,  A,  to  KpaTaCcop.a,  Id  krataioma): 
Named  with  Nebo  and  Kiriathaim  in  the  denuncia- 
tion of  doom  against  Moab  (Jer  48  1).  No  trace 
of  any  name  resembling  this  has  been  found.  Pos- 
sibly we  should  take  it,  not  as  a  place-name,  but  as 
an  appellation  of  some  strong  fortress,  perhaps  of 
Kir-moab  itself.  The  term  is  elsewhere  tr'J  "high 
fortress"    (Isa  25   12,  etc). 

MISHAEL,  mish'a-cl,  ml'sha-el  (bxttj^ ,  ml- 
shd'el,  perhaps  =  "who  is  equal  to  God?"): 

(1)  A  Kohathite,  4th  in  descent  from  Levi  (Ex 
6  22).  He  and  his  brother  Elzaphan  carried  out 
Moses'  order  to  remove  from  the  sanctuary  and  the 
camp  the  corpses  of  Nadab  and  Abihu  (Lev  10  4  f). 

(2)  A  supporter  of  Ezra  at  the  reading  of  the  Law 
(Neh  8  4). 

(3)  The  Heb  name  of  one  of  Daniel's  3  compan- 
ions (Dnl  1  6.7.11.19;  2  17).  His  Bab  name  was 
Meshach  (q.v.). 

MISHAL,  ml'shal  (5XTJJT2 ,  mish'dl) :  A  town  in 
the  territory  of  Asher  (josh  19  26,  AV  "Misheal," 
~Slaa<rd,  Maasd),  assigned  to  the  Gershonite  Levites 
(21  30;  B,  Bao-<re\\di>,  Basselldn,  A,  MacradA,  Ma- 
.saaZ="Mashal"  of  1  Ch  6  74).  Onom  (s. v.  "Ma- 
Ran")  places  it  near  Carmel  by  the  sea.  It  is  not 
identified. 

MISHAM,  ml'sham  (D^E,  mish'dm):  A  Ben- 
jamite, son  of  Elpaal  (1  Ch  8  12). 

MISHEAL,  mish'0-al.     See  Mishal. 

MISHMA,  mish'ma  (212VV  ,  mishma*) : 

(1)  A  son  of  Ishmael  (Gen  25  14;    1  Ch  1  30). 

(2)  A  Simeonite  (1  Ch  4  25). 

MISHMANNAH,  mish-man'a  (nr'ai'r  ,  mish- 
manndh):  A  Gadite  warrior  who  joined  David  at 
Ziklag  (1  Ch  12  10). 

MISHNA,  mish'na.     See  Talmud. 

MISHNEH,  mish'ne  (HJlpDn,  ha-mishneh;  2  K 
22  14;  2  Ch  34  22,  AV '"college,"  RV  "second 
quarter,"  m  "Heb  Mishneh";  Zeph  1  10,  AV  "the 
second,"  RV  "second  quarter,"  m  "Heb  Mishneh"): 
A  part  of  Jerus,  apparently  not  far  from  the  Fish 
Gate  (q.v.)  and  the  Maktesh  (q.v.).  The  tr 
"college"  is  due  to  Tg  Jon  on  2  K  22  14.     The 


2067 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Miracles,  Gift  of 
Mitre 


RV  interpretation  of  Mishneh  is  connected  with 
the  belief  that  Hezekiah,  when  lie  built  "the  other 
wall  without"  (1  Ch  32  5),  made  the  second  wall 
on  the  N.  There  seems  little  evidence  of  this  (see 
Jerusalem,  VI,  11),  and  the  "second"  may  refer  to 
the  district  of  the  city  on  the  west  hill  or  perhaps  to 
the  hill  itself.     See  College. 

E.  W.  G.  Masterman 
MISHOR,  ml'shor.     See    Plain,  and    also   note 
in  HUB,  HI,  309. 

MISHRAITES,  mish'ra-Its  pyjfTSn ,  ha-mish- 
ruH):  One  of  the  families  of  Kiriath-iearim  (1  Ch 
2  53). 

MISPAR,  mis'par  (""lEy'E,  mis  par):  An  exile 
who  returned  with  Zerubbabel  (Ezr  2  2).  AV 
spells  the  name  "Mizpar."  In  the  verse  of  Neh 
it  appears  as  "Mispereth"  (Neh  7  7). 

^  MISPERETH,  mis'po-reth  (nnBQP ,  mispereth). 
See  Mispar. 

MISREPHOTH-MAIM,  miz-rg-foth-ma'im 
(p^'Q  niS'^tp'P ,  viisr'plwth  mayim;  LXX  Mao-cpciv, 
Maserdn,  Mao-ep«0  Mt(j.cj)co(Aai(x,  Masereth  Mempho- 
maim):  A  place  to  which  Joshua  chased  the  various 
tribes,  which  were;  confederated  under  Jabin,  after 
their  defeat  at  the  waters  of  Merom  (Josh  11  8). 
It  follows  the  mention  of  great  Sidon,  as  though  it 
was  a  place  in  the  same  region  but  farther  from  the 
point  of  departure.  In  Josh  13  0,  it  is  also  men- 
tioned in  connection  with  the  Sidonians,  as  though 
it  was  included  in  their  territory,  so  it  must  have 
been  in  the  coast  district,  or  Phoenicia,  which  was 
in  that  period  dominated  by  Sidon.  The  Canaan- 
ites  who  were  among  the  tribes  forming  the  hosts 
of  Jabin  would  naturally  seek  refuge  among  their 
brethren  in  Sidon  and  its  territory.  They  fled 
across  the  hill  country  which  lies  between  the  waters 
of  Merom  and  the  coast,  but  as  Sidon  is  situated 
considerably  to  the  N.  of  Merom,  some  would  seek 
the  coast  by  a  more  southerly  route;,  and  we  may 
look  for  Misrephoth-maim  there.  Dr.  Thomson 
(LB,  II,  266-07,  ed  1882)  locates  it  at  Ras  el-Mu- 
sheirifeh,  some  13  miles  S.  of  Tyre,  where  there  was 
a  stronghold,  and  where  the  fugitives  might  find 
refuge  (see  Ladder  of  Tyre).  Though  the  name 
hardly  suggests  Misrephoth-maim,  the  identifica- 
tion may  be  accepted  until  some  better  one  is 
found.  H.  Porter 

MIST  (IX  ,  'edh;  a\\vs,  achMs,  ojuxXt],  homichle): 
Mist  is  caused  by  particles  of  water  vapor  filling 
the  air  until  it  is  only  partially  transparent.  Mist 
and  haze  produce  much  the  same  effect,  the  one 
being  due  to  moisture  in  the  atmosphere  and  the 
other  to  dust  particles.  Mist  or  fog  is  not  common 
on  the  plains  of  Pal  and  Syria  at  sea-level,  but  is 
of  almost  daily  occurrence  in  the  mountain  valleys, 
coming  up  at  night  and  disappearing  with  the  morn- 
ing sun  (Wisd  2  4).  It  is  nothing  else  than  a  cloud 
touching  the  land.  In  the  account  of  creation,  "there 
went  up  a  mist  from  the  earth,"  giving  a  descrip- 
tion of  the  warm  humid  atmosphere  of  the  carbon- 
iferous ages  which  agrees  remarkably  with  the 
teaching  of  modern  science  (Gen  2  6).  The  word 
is  used  fig.  in  Acts  13  11  to  describe  the  shutting- 
out  of  light.  Those  who  bring  confusion  and  un- 
certainty are  compared  to  "mists  driven  by  a  storm" 
(2  Pet  2  17).     See  Vapor.  Alfred  H.  Joy 

MISTRESS,  mis'tres  (Slby? ,  baYildh,  JT^-J , 
(fbhereth) :  Is  the  tr  of  ba^aldh,  "lady,"  "owner" 
(1  K  17  17;  Nah  3  4);  in  1  S  28  7,  "a  woman 
that  hath  a  familiar  spirit"  is  lit.  "the  mistress  of 


a  familiar  spirit";  of  q'bherclh  (Gen  16  4.8.9;   2  K 
5  3;   Ps  123  2;   Prov  30  23;   Isa  24  2);  in  Isa  47 

5.7,  we  have  AV  and  ERV  "lady,"  ARV  "mistress." 

MITE,  mit  (XeirTov,  Upton):  The  smallest  copper 
or  bronze  coin  current  among  the  Jews.  They  were 
first  struck  by  the  Maccabean  princes  with  Heb 
legends,  and  afterward  by  the  Herods  and  the  Rom 
procurators  with  Gr  legends.  The  "widow's 
mite"  mentioned  in  Mk  12  42  and  Lk  21  2  was 
probably  of  the  first  kind,  since  those  with  Gr 
legends  were  regarded  as  unlawful  in  the  temple 
service.  According  to  Mk,  the  lepton  was  only 
half  a  kodrdntes  (Lat  quadrans),  which  would  indi- 
cate a  value  of  about  one-fourth  of  a  cent  or  half 
an  Eng.  farthing.     See  Money.  H.Porter 

MITHKAH,  mith'ka  (n]2tf2,  mithkah,  "sweet- 
ness"; AV  Mithcah):  Name  given  owing  to  sweet- 
ness of  pasture  or  water.  A  desert  camp  of  the 
Israelites  between  Terah  and  Hashmonah  (Nu  33 
28 f).     See  Wanderings  of  Israel. 

MITHNITE,  mith'nlt  (^TEH ,  ha-mithnl): 
Designation  of  Jehoshaphat,  one  of  David's  officers 
(1  Ch  11  43). 

MITHRADATES,  mith-ra-da'tez  (A,  Mi^aSd-r^s, 
Mithraddles,  B,  MtepiSdr^s,  Mithriddtes;  AV  Mith- 
ridates) : 

(1)  The  treasurer  of  Cyrus  to  whom  the  king 
committed  the  vessels  which  had  been  taken 
from  tin;  temple  and  who  delivered  them  to  tin; 
governor,  Sanabassar  (1  Esd  2  11  =  "Mithredath" 
of  Ezr  1  8). 

(2)  Apparently  another  person  of  the  same  name 
— one  of  the  commissioners  stationed  in  Samaria 
who  wrote  a  letter  to  Artaxerxes  persuading  him 
to  put  a  stop  to  the  rebuilding  of  Jerus  (1  Esd  2 
16=  "Mithredath"  of  Ezr  4  7).  S.  Angus 

MITHREDATH,  mith're-dath  (nTW »  mith- 
r'tlhdlh;  Pers  =  "gift  of  Mithra"  or  "consecrated 
to  Mithra"): 

(1)  The  Pers  treasurer  through  whom  Cyrus 
restored  the  sacred  vessels  to  the  returning  Jewish 
exiles  (Ezr  1  8). 

(2)  A  Persian,  perhaps  an  official,  who  was  asso- 
ciated with  Bishlam  and  Tabeel  in  corresponding 
with  Artaxerxes  concerning  the  restoration  of 
Jerus  (Ezr  4  7).  In  1  Esd  2  11.16,  the  name  is 
written  Mithradates  (q.v.). 

MITRE,  mi'ter:  In  AV  this  word  renders  two 
Heb  words,  both  of  which,  however,  come  from 
the  same  stem,  viz.  ?!!£,  gdnaph,  "to  coil"  or  "to 
wrap  round."  In  Ex  28,  a  mitre  (RVm  "turban") 
is  enumerated  among  Aaron's  articles  of  dress, 
which  were  to  be  made  by  tailors  of  recognized  skill. 
On  the  forefront  of  the  mitre  was  a  "plate  of  pure 
gold"  with  the  words  "Holy  to  Jehovah"  (i.e.  con- 
secrated to  Jehovah)  inscribed  upon  it.  This  gold 
plate  was  fastened  to  the  mitre  by  a  blue  ribbon. 
The  material  of  the  mitre  was  fine  linen  or  silk. 
The  word  for  the  headtire  (AV  "bonnet")  of  the 
ordinary  priest  was  a  different  word.  Ezekiel  uses 
the  word  in  connection  with  Zedekiah  (21  26); 
the  prophet  associated  regal  and  priestly  functions 
with  the  throne.  It  is  possible,  however,  that  the 
two  sentences — "remove;  the  mitre,"  and  "take  off 
the  crown" — ■  refer  to  the  degradation  of  the  priest- 
hood and  of  the  throne  which  the  downfall  of  Jerus 
will  involve.  The  LXX  varies  between  kidaris  and 
mltra,  the  former  word  being  used  in  Sir  45  12. 

T.  Lewis 


Mitylene 
Moab,  Moabites 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


20G8 


MITYLENE,  niit-i-le'ne,  mit-i-lye'nye  (Mitv\t|vti, 

M it  uli 'me,  orM\)Ti\T|VT|,  Mutilene,  as  usually  on  coins) : 

hi  antiquity  the  most  important  city  of 

1.  Impor-  the  Asiatic  Aeolians  and  of  the  island 
tance  and  of  Lesbos.  It  had  2  harbors  and 
History  strong  fortresses.     The  city  was  noted 

for  its  high  culture  and  for  its  zeal  for 
art  and  science  from  the  earliest  times.  The  island, 
under  the  leadership  of  Mitylene,  revolted  in  428 
BC  from  the  Athenian  confederacy.  The  city  was 
besieged  by  the  Athenians  and  finally  taken.  The 
inhabitants  of  Mitylene  were  treated  with  great 
severity;  the  walls  were  dismantled,  and  the  city 
was  deprived  of  its  power  on  the  sea.  In  the  time 
of  Alexander  the  Great,  Mitylene  suffered  most 
through  the  Persians,  and  later  by  the  occupation 
of  the  Macedonians,  but  afterward  regained  its 
power  and  prosperity,  and  still  later  was  favored 
by  the  Rom  emperors,  being  made  a  free  city  by 
Pompey. 

In  the  Middle  Ages,  the  name  Mitylene  was  applied 
to  the  whole  island.  The  present  capital,  often  called 
simply  Castro,  has  a  large  castle  built  on  the  site  of  the 
ancient  acropolis  (in  1373).  The  city  was  conquered  by 
the  Turks  in  1402.  It  contains  14  mosques,  7  churches, 
and  has  a  population  of  about  15,000. 

On    his  third  missionary  journey,  Paul  traveled 

to  the  Hellespont  from  Philippi,  thence  through  the 

Troad  by  land  to  Assos  on  the  southern 

2.  Paul's  side— where  extensive  excavations 
Visit  were  carried  on  in  1SS1  by  an  American 

archaeological  expedition — thence  by 
ship  to  Mitylene  (Ac's  20  11),  where  he  spent  the 
night.  Leaving  Lesbos,  he  sailed  southward  to  a 
point  opposite  the  island  of  Chios  (Acts  20  15). 
There  is  no  record  that  a  Christian  church  had  been 
established  in  Mitylene  at  this  time. 

Literature. — Tozer,  Inlands  of  the  Aegean,  121, 
134  f,  136;    Ramsay,  67.  Paul  the  Traveller,  291  ff. 

J.  E.  Harry 
MIXED,  mikst,  MULTITUDE,  mul'ti-tud.     See 
Mingled  People. 

MIZAR,  mi'zar,  THE  HILL  ("IS^E  "in,  har 
miq'dr;  opos  |iiKp6s,  oros  mikros) '.  The  name  of  a 
mountain  found  only  in  Ps  42  0;  "I  remember  thee 
from  the  land  of  Jordan,  and  the  Hermons,  from 
the  hill  Mizar."  The  term  may  be  taken  as  an 
appellative  meaning  ''littleness,"  and  the  phrase 
mehar  tnie'dr  would  them  mean  ''from  the  little 
mountain,"  i.e.  the  little  mountain  of  Zion.  Some 
scholars  think  that  the  m  in  mehar  may  have  arisen 
from  dit tography,  and  that  we  should  read,  "from 
the  land  of  Jordan,  and  the  Hermons,  O  thou  little 
mountain  [of  Zion]."  G.  A.  Smith  discusses  the 
question  in  a  note  {HGHL,  All).  He  suggests  that 
certain  names  found  in  the  district  (zeCura,  wddy 
za'drah,  and  Khirbet  Mazara)  may  be  a  reminis- 
cence of  the  name  of  a  hill  in  the  district  called 
Mig*dr;  and  .surely  none  other  would  have  been  put 
by  the  Psalmist  in  apposition  to  the  Hermons. 
Cheyne  says:  "To  me  this  appendage  to  Hermonim 
seems  a  poetic  loss.  I  nless  the  little  mountain  has 
a  symbolic  meaning  I  could  wish  it  away."  I  can- 
not see  this:  the  symbolic  meanings  suggested  for 
Hermonim  and  Migiar  are  all  forced,  and  even  if  we 
got  a  natural  one,  it  would  be  out  of  place  after  the 
literal  land  of  Jordan.  To  employ  all  as  proper 
names  is  suitable  to  a  lyric.  No  identification  is  at 
present  possible.  W.  Ewing 

MIZPAH,  miz'pa,  MIZPEH,  miz'pe:  This  name 
is  pointed  both  ways  in  the  Heb,  and  is  found  usually 

with  the  article.  The  meaning  seems  to  be  "outlook" 
or  "watchtower."  It  is  natural,  therefore,  to  look 
for  the  places  so  named  in  high  positions,  command- 
ing wide  prospects. 


(1)  (nSSTSn,  ha-migpuh  [Gen  31  49;  Jgs  11 
11.34],  risra,  migpah  [Hos  5  1[,  ~?'}j  nero, 
migpeh  ghiVadh  [Jgs  11  29];  Mao-crr|<j>d,  Massephd, 
tt]v  o-Komav,  tin  skopidn,  and  other  forms):  It 
seems  probable  that  the  same  place  is  intended  in 
all  these  passages,  and  that  it  is  identical  with 
Ramath-mizpch  of  Josh  13  26.  It  is  the  place 
where  Jacob  and  Laban  parted  in  Mt.  (Ulead;  con- 
sequently it  lay  to  the  N.  of  Mahanaim.  Here  was 
the  home  of  Jephthah,  to  which  he  returned  after 
the  defeat  of  the  Ammonites,  only  to  realize  how  his 
rash  vow  had  brought  desolation  to  his  house.  It 
was  taken  by  Judas  Maccabaeus,  who  destroyed 
tin:  inhabitants  and  burned  the  city  (1  Mace;  5  :ir>). 
Identifications  have  been  suggested  with  Silf, 
Jerash,  and  KaVat  er-Rabad;  but  these  seem  all  to 
lit;  S.  of  any  possible  site  for  Mahanaim.  A  ruined 
site  was  discovered  by  Dr.  Schumacher  (M  und 
NPDV,  1S97,  86),  with  the  name  Mas/a,  which 
is  just-  11k;  Arab,  equivalent  of  the  Heb  Micpdh. 
It  lies  some  distance  to  the  N.W.  of  Jerash  and 
claims  consideration  in  any  attempt  to  fix  the  site 
of  Mizpah. 

(2)  (nESEn  y\if,,  'ercc  ha-miepdh  [Josh  11  3], 
"52  P>pZl,  bikKath  migpeh  [ver  8);  Mao-o-tvfidv,  Mas- 
seumdn,  Maa-crT|c}>d0,  Massephdth,  and  other  forms): 
The  "land  of  Mizpah"  and  the  "valley  of  Mizpah" 
may  be  taken  as  applying  to  the  same  district.  It 
lay  on  the  southwest  slopes  of  Hermon  N.E.  of 
the  Waters  of  Merom.  The  site  must  be  looked 
for  on  oik;  of  the  heights  in  the  region  indicated, 
from  which  a  wide  view  is  obtained.  Mutallah, 
a  Druze  village  standing  on  a  hill  to  the  N.  of  tAbil, 
and  E.  of  Nahr  el-Hasbdny,  was  suggested  by  Rob- 
inson. The  present  writer  agrees  with  Buhl  (GA  I', 
240)  that  the  ancient  castle  above  Banian,  Kal'at 
e§-Subeibeh,  occupies  a  more  likely  position. 

(3)  (n^*^? ,  micpeh;  Mao-<j>d,  Masphd) :  A  town 
in  the  Shephelah  of  Judah  named  with  Dilan,  Jok- 
theel  and  Lachish  {Tell  el-Hesy).  Onom  mentions 
a  Ma§fa  in  the  neighborhood  of  Eleutheropolis,  to 
the  N.  The  identification  proposed  by  Van  de 
Velde  and  Guerin  would  suit  this  description. 
They  would  locate  Mizpeh  at  Tell  es-Safiyeh,  about 
1\  miles  N.W.  of  Beit  Jibrin,  "a  conspicuous  hill 
with  a  glittering  white  cliff  rising  like  an  isolated 
block  above  the  adjacent  country"  (PEFS,  1903, 
276).  Many  identify  this  site  with  Cath,  but  the 
name  and  character  of  the  place  point  rather  to 
identification  with  Mizpeh,  the  Blanche  Guar -de  or 
Alba  Specula  of  the  Middle  Ages. 

(4)  (nS^Sn,  ha-miepdh;  Ma<ro-T||id,  Masscmd, 
Mao-(J>d,  Masphd):  A  town  in  the  territory  of  Ben- 
jamin (Josh  18  26).  Hither  came  the  men  of 
Israel  to  deal  with  the  Benjamites  after  the  outrage 
on  the  Levite's  concubine  (Jgs  20  1.3;  21  1.5.8). 
At  Mizpah,  Samuel  gathered  his  countrymen. 
While  there  crying  to  God  in  their  distress,  they 
were  attacked  by  the  Philis,  whom  they  defeated 
with  great  slaughter  (1  S  7  5,  etc).  Here  also 
Saul,  the  son  of  Kish,  was  chosen  king,  after  which 
Samuel  told  the  people  the  "manner  of  the  king- 
dom" (10  17,  etc).  Mizpah  was  fortified  by  Asa, 
king  of  Judah,  with  materials  which  Baasha,  king 
of  Israel,  had  used  to  fortify  Ramah  (1  K  15  22; 
2  Ch  16  6).  When  Nebuchadnezzar  captured 
Jerus  and  made  Gedaliah,  the  son  of  Ahikam, 
governor  of  the  remnant  of  the  people  left  in  the 
land  of  Judah,  the  governor's  residence  was  fixed 
at  Mizpah  (2  K  25  23).  Here  he  was  joined  by 
Jeremiah,  whom  Nebuzaradan,  captain  of  the  Bab 
guard,  had  set  free.  At  Mizpah,  Ishmael,  son  of 
Nathaniah,  treacherously  slew  Gedaliah  and  many 
who  wore  with  him.  Two  days  later  he  murdered 
a  company  of  pilgrims,  throwing  their  dead  bodies 
into  the  great  cistern  which  Asa  had  made  when 


20()9 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Mitylene 
Moab,  Moabites 


strengthening  the  place  against  possible  attack  by 
Baasha  of  Samaria.  He  then  made  prisoners  of  the 
people,  including  the  king's  daughters,  and  at- 
tempted to  convey  them  away  to  the  Ammonites, 
an  attempt  that  was  frustrated  by  Johanan,  son 
of  Kareah  (Jer  40,  41).     Mizpah  was  the  scene  of 


Mizpab. 

memorable  assembly  in  a  day  of  sore  anxiety  for 
Judah,  when  Judas  Maccabaeus  called  the  warriors 
of  Judah  together  for  counsel  and  prayer  (1  Mace 
3  46).  From  this  passage  wc  also  learn  that  the 
place  was  an  ancient  sanctuary — "for  in  Mizpah 
there  was  a  place  of  prayer  aforetime  for  Israel." 

It  has  been  proposed  to  identify  Mizpah  with 
Tell  Nasbeh,  a  site  on  the  watershed  S.  of  Birch. 
The  Abbe  Raboisson  established  the  fact  that  Jerus 
can  be  ^oon  from  this  point.  In  this  respect  it 
agrees  with  Maundeville's  description.  "It  is  a 
very  fair  and  delicious  place,  and  it  is  called  Mt. 
Joy  because  it  gives  joy  to  pilgrims'  hearts,  for  from 
that  place  men  first  see  Jerus."  But  Jer  41  10 
may  be  taken  as  decisive  against  this  identification. 
Ishmael  departed  to  go  east.  From  Tell  Nasbeh 
this  would  never  have  brought  him  to  the  great 
waters  that  are  in  Gibeon  (PEFS,  1898,  169,  251; 
1903,  267).  A  more  probable  identification  is  with 
Neby  Samwll,  a  village  on  high  ground  4.\  miles 
N.W.  of  Jerus,  the  traditional  burying-place  of 
Samuel.  It  is  2,935  ft.  above  sea-level,  and  500  ft, 
higher  than  the  surrounding  land.  Hen;  the  pil- 
grims coining  up  byway  of  Beth-horon  from  Jaffa, 
the  ancient  route,  first  saw  the  Holy  City.  The 
mosque  of  the  village  was  formerly  a  church,  dating 
from  Crusading  times;  and  here  the  tomb  of  Samuel 
is  shown.  If  this  is  the  ancient  Mizpah,  a  very 
slight  detour  to  the  N.  would  bring  Ishmael  to  the 
great  waters  that  are  in  Gibeon,  el-Jib  (Gibeon) 
being  only  a  mile  and  a  quarter  distant. 

(5)  (I2XTE  nESSTQ,  miepch  moabh,  "Mizpeh  of 
Moab";  Mao-^d,  Masephd):  A  town  in  Moab  to 
which  David  took  his  parents  for  safety  during 
Saul's  pursuit  of  him  (1  S  22  3).  It  is  possibly 
to  be  identified  with  Kir-moab,  the  modern  Kerak, 
whither  David  would  naturally  go  to  interview  the 
king.  But  there  is  no  certainty.  Possibly  wc  should 
read  "Mizpah"  instead  of  "the  hold"  in  ver  5. 

((>)  In  2  Ch  20  24,  probably  we  should  read 
"Mizpah"  instead  of  "watch-tower":  ha-migpeh 
la-midhbar  would  then  point  to  a  Mizpeh  of  the 
Wilderness  to  be  sought  in  the  district  of  Tekoa 
(ver  20).  W.  Ewing 

MIZPAR,  miz'par.     See  Mispar. 

MIZRAIM,  miz'ra-im  (S'HS'Q  ,  micrayim): 

(1)  A  son  of  Ham,  and  ancestor  of  various  peoples, 


Ludim,  Anamim,  etc  (Gen  10  6.13;    1   Ch  1  8.11). 
See  Table  of  Nations. 

(2)  The  name  of  Egypt.     Sec;  Egypt. 

The  land  of  Ham.— ~n,  ham,  was  another  name  for  the 
land  of  Egypt.  It  occurs  only  in  Ps  105  23.27;  106  22- 
Ps  78  51  probably  refers  to  the  land  of  Ham,  though  it 
may  refer  to  the  children  of  Ham.  Tile  origin  and 
significance  of  this  name  are  involved  in  much  obscurity. 
I  wo  improbable  etymologies  and  one  probable  etymology 
for  Ham  as  a  name  of  Egypt  have  been  proposed,  and  t  he 
improbable  ones  very  much  urged:  (1)  Ham  is  often 
thought  to  be  a  Heb  appropriation  of  the;  Egyp  name 

Kemt,  a  name  for  the  •'black  land"  as  distinguished 
from  deshert,"  the  red  land  of  the  desert  which  sur- 
rounded it.  This  etymology  is  very  attractive,  but, 
phonetically  very  improbable  to  say  the  least,  (2)  Ham 
has  sometimes  been  connected  directly  with  CH  ham,  tho 
second  son  of  Noah  whoso  descendants  under  the  name 
Micraim  occupied  a  part  of  Northeastern  Africa.  But-  as 
t  here  is  no  t  race  of  this  name  among  the  Egypt  ians  and  no 
use  of  it  in  the  historical  books  of  the  OT,  thiscan  hardly 
be  said  to  be  a  probable  derivation  of  the  word  (3) 
There  is  a  third  proposed  etymology  for  Ham  which  con- 
nects it  ultimately  but  indirectly  with  Ham.  the  second 
son  of  Noah.  Some  of  the  earliest  sculptures  vet  found 
in  Egypt  represent  the  god  Min  (Menu;  cf  Koptos  by 
I  rofossor  Petne).  This  god  seems  also  to  have  been 
called  Khem,  a  very  exact  Egyp  equivalent  for  nn  ham, 
tho  second  son  of  Noah  and  the  ancestor  of  the  Hamitic 
people  of  Egypt.  That  Ham  the  son  of  Noah  should  bo 
deified  m  the  Egyp  pantheon  is  not  surprising  The 
sensuality  of  this  god  Minor  Khem  also  accords  well  with 
the  reputation  for  licentiousness  borne  by  Ham  the  son 
of  Noah.  These  facts  suggest  very  strongly  a  trace  in 
Kgyp  mythology  of  the  actual  history  of  the  movements 
of  Hamitic  people.  (4)  While  tho  preceding  division  (3) 
probably  states  the  real  explanation  of  the  early  name  of 
kgypt,  it  still  remains  to  be  noted  that  the  use  of  the 
name  Ham  by  tho  Psalmist  may  be  entirely  poetic  Until 
it  be  found  that  the  name  Ham  was  applied  to  Egypt  by- 
other  writers  of  that  period  it  will  ever  lie  in  some 
measure  unlikely  that  the  Psalmist  was  acquainted  with 
the  mythological  use  of  the  name  Ham  in  Egypt  and  so 
in  equal  measure,  probable  that  he  meant  nothing  more 
than  to  speak  of  the  land  of  the  descendants  of  Ham  the 
son  of  Noah.     See  also  Ham,  Land  of 

M.  G.  Kyle 
MIZZAH,  miz'a  (~"V,  mizzdh,  "strong,"  "firm"): 
Grandson  of  Esau,  one  of  the   "dukes"  of  Edom 
(Gen  36  13.17;  1  Ch  1  37). 

MNASON,  na'son,  m'na'son  (Mvdo-wv,  Mnason): 
All  that  we  know-  of  Mnason  is  found  in  Acts  21  10. 
(1)  He  accompanied  Paul  and  his  party  from  Caes- 
area  on  Paul's  last  visit  to  Jerus;  (2)  he  was  a 
Cyprian;  (3)  "an  early  disciple,"  an  early  convert 
to  Christianity,  and  (4)  the  one  with  whom  Paul's 
company  was  to  lodge.  The  "Western"  text  of  this 
passage  is  very  interesting.  Blass.  following  D, 
Syr,  reads,  for  "bringing,"  etc,  "And  they  brought 
us  to  those  with  whom  one  should  lodge,  and  when 
we  had  come  into  a  certain  village  we  stayed  with 
Mnason  a  Cyprian,  an  early  disciple,  and  having 
departed  thence  we  came  to  Jerus  and  the  brethren," 
etc.  Meyer-Wendt,  Page  and  Rendell  render  the 
accepted  text,  "bringing  us  to  the  house  of  Mnason," 
etc.  However,  giving  the  imperf.  trans  of  ane- 
balnomen,  "we  were  going  up"  to  Jerus  (ver  15), 
we  might  understand  that  tin;  company  lodged  with 
Mnason  on  the  1st  night  of  their  journey  to  Jerus, 
and  not  at  the  city  itself.  "Ver  15,  they  set  about 
the  journey;  ver  16,  they  lodged  with  Mnason  on 
the  introduction  of  the  Caesarean  disciples;  ver 
17,  they  came  to  Jerus"  (E.rj)os  Gr  Test.,  in  loc). 

S.  F.  Hunter 
MOAB,  mo'ab,  MOABITES,  mo'ab-Its  (Moab, 
nxin,  mo'dbh,  Moabite  Stone,  2X12;  Gr  [LXX] 
Mcodp,  Moab,  i)  MwaPei-ris,  he  Moa- 
beitis,  -(Bins,  bitis;  Moabite,  ^KTa, 
"qxb  ,  mo'abhl;  Moabites,  SXi'd  ^3  , 
Ifne  mo'dbh):  Moab  was  the  district 
Dead  Sea,  extending  from  a  point 
some  distance  N.  of  it  to  its  southern  end.  The 
eastern  boundary  was  indefinite,  being  the  border 
of  the  desert  which  is  irregular.     The  length  of  the 


1.  The 
Land 

E.    of    the 


Moab,  Moabites 
Moabite  Stone 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2070 


territory  was  about  f)0  miles  and  the  average  width 
about  30.  It  is  a  high  tableland,  averaging  some 
3, 000  ft.  above  the  level  of  the  Mediterranean  and 
4,300  ft.  above  that  of  the  Dead  Sea.  The  aspect 
of  the  land,  as  one  looks  at  it  from  the  western  side 
of  the  Dead  Sea,   is  that  of  a  range;  of  mountains 


a",x''\* 

•*-«-." -"^^..^     '^sk' 

E3pP5                &tf3Btm^*±L»lJ± 

riUpfll 

l~ffi|-^ 

Mm  Wm   ■ 

III      -m 

Bedawin  of  Moab. 

with  a  very  precipitous  frontage,  but  the  elevation 
of  this  ridge  above  the  interior  is  very  slight.  Deep 
chasms  lead  down  from  the  tableland  to  the  Dead 
Sea  shore,  the  principal  one  being  the  gorge  of  the 
river  Arnon,  which  is  about  1,700  ft.  deep  and  2  or 
more  miles  in  width  at  the  level  of  the  tableland, 
but  very  narrow  at  the  bottom  and  with  exceedingly 
precipitous  banks.  About  13  miles  back  from  the 
mouth  of  the  river  the  gorge  divides,  and  farther 
back  it  subdivides,  so  that  several  valleys  are 
formed  of  diminishing  depth  as  they  approach  the 
desert  border.  These  are  referred  to  in  Nu  21  14 
as  the  "valleys  of  the  Arnon."  The  "valley  of 
Zered"  (Nu  21  12),  which  was  on  the  southern 
border,  drops  down  to  the  southern  end  of  the  Dead 
Sea,  and  although  not  so  long  or  deep  as  the  Arnon, 
is  of  the  same  nature  in  its  lower  reaches,  very  diffi- 
cult to  cross,  dividing  into  two  branches,  but  at  a 
point  much  nearer  the  sea.  The  stream  is  not  so 
large  as  the  Arnon,  but  is  quite  copious,  even  in 
summer.  These  gorges  have  such  precipitous  sides 
that  it  would  be  very  difficult  for  an  army  to  cross 
them,  except  in  their  upper  courses  near  the  desert 
where  they  become  shallow.  The  Israelites  passed 
them  in  that  region,  probably  along  the  present 
Hajj  road  and  the  line  of  the  Mecca  Railway.  The 
tableland  is  fertile  but  lacks  water.  The  fountains 
and  streams  in  the  valleys  and  on  the  slopes  toward 
the  Dead  Sea  are  abundant,  but  the  uplands  are 
almost  destitute  of  flowing  water.  The  inhabitants 
supply  themselves  by  means  of  cisterns,  many  of 
which  are  ancient,  but  many  of  those  used  in  an- 
cient times  are  ruined.  The  population  must  have 
been  far  greater  formerly  than  now.  The  rainfall 
is  usually  sufficient  to  mature  the  crops,  although 
the  rain  falls  in  winter  only.  The  fertility  of  the 
country  in  ancient  times  is  indicated  by  the  numer- 
ous towns  and  villages  known  to  have  existed  there, 
mentioned  in  Scripture  and  on  the  M  S,  the  latter 
giving  some  not  found  elsewhere.  The  principal 
of  these  were:  Ar  (Nu  21  15);  Ataroth,  Dibon, 
Jazer,  Nimrah,  Nebo  (32  3);  Beth-peor  (Dt  3  29); 


Beth-diblaim,  Bozrah,  Kerioth  (Jer  48  22-24); 
Kir  (Isa  15  1);  Medeba,  Elealeh,  Zoar  (Isa  15 
2.4.5);  Kirheres  (16  11);  Sibmah  (Josh  13  19); 
in  all  some  45  place-names  in  Moab  are  known, 
most  of  the  towns  being  in  ruins.  Kir  of  Moab  is 
represented  in  the  modern  Kerak,  the  most  im- 
portant of  all  and  the  government  center  of  the 
district.  Madeba  now  represents  the  ancient 
Medeba,  and  has  become  noted  for  the  discovery 
of  a  mediaeval  map  of  Pal,  in  mosaic,  of  consider- 
able archaeological  value.  Rabbath-moab  and 
Heshbon  (modern  Rabba  and  Ilesbdn)  are  miserable 
villages,  and  the  country  is  subject  to  the  raids  of 
the  Bedawin  tribes  of  the  neighboring  desert,  which 
discourages  agriculture.  But  the  land  is  still  good 
pasture  ground  for  cattle  and  slice]),  as  in  ancient 
times  (Nu  32  3.4). 

The  Moabites  were  of  Sem  stock  and  of  kin  to  the 

Hebrews,  as  is  indicated  by  their  descent  from  Lot, 

the  nephew  of  Abraham  (Gen  19  30- 

2.  The  37),  and  by  their  language  which  is 
People  practically  the  same  as  the  Heb.    This 

is  clear  from  the  inscription  on  the  M  S, 
a  monument  of  Mesha,  king  of  Moab,  erected  about 
S50  BC,  and  discovered  among  the  ruins  of  Dibon 
in  1808.  It  contains  34  lines  of  about  9  words 
each,  written  in  the  old  Phoen  and  Heb  characters, 
corresponding  to  the  Siloam  inscription  and  those 
found  in  Phoenicia,  showing  that  it  is  a  dialect  of 
the  Sem  tongue  prevailing  in  Pal.  The  original 
inhabitants  of  Moab  were  the  Emim  (Dt  2  10), 
"a  people  great  ....  and  tall,  as  the  Anakim." 
When  these  were  deposed  by  the  Moabites  we  do  not 
know.  The  latter  are  not  mentioned  in  the  Am 
Tab  and  do  not  appear  on  the  Egyp  monuments 
before  the  14th  cent.  BC,  when  they  seem  to  be 
referred  to  under  the  name  of  Ruten,  or  Luten  or 
Lotan,  i.e.  Lot  (Paton,  Syria  and  Pal);  Muab 
appears  in  a  list  of  names  on  a  monument  of  Ram- 
eses  III  of  the  XXth  Dynasty.  The  country  lay 
outside  the  line  of  march  of  the  Egyp  armies,  and 
this  accounts  for  the  silence  of  its  monuments  in 
regard  to  them. 

The  chief  deity  of  Moab  was  Chemosh  (©"1125 , 

kemosh),  frequently  mentioned  in  the  OT  and  on 

the  M  S,   where   King   Mesha  speaks 

3.  Religion    of  building  a  high  place  in  his  honor 

because  he  was  saved  by  him  from  his 
enemies.  He  represents  the  oppression  of  Moab 
by  Omri  as  the  result  of  the  anger  of  Chemosh,  and 
Mesha  made  war  against  Israel  by  command  of 
Chemosh.  He  was  the  national  god  of  Moab,  as 
Molech  was  of  Ammon,  and  it  is  pretty  certain  that 
he  was  propitiated  by  human  sacrifices  (2  K  3  27). 
But  he  was  not  the  only  god  of  Moab,  as  is  clear 
from  the  account  in  Nu  25,  where  it  is  also  clear 
that  their  idolatrous  worship  was  corrupt.  They 
had  their  Baalim  like  the  nations  around,  as  may 
be  inferred  from  the  place-names  compounded  with 
Baal,  such  as  Bamoth-baal,  Beth-baal-meon  and 
Baal-peor. 

We  know  scarcely  anything  of  the  history  of  the 
Moabites  after  the  account  of  their  origin  in  Gen 

19  until  the  time  of  the  exodus.      It 

4.  History     would  seem,  however,  that  they  had 

suffered  from  the  invasions  of  the 
Amorites,  who,  under  their  king  Sihon,  had  sub- 
dued the  northern  part  of  Moab  as  far  as  the  Arnon 
(Nu  21  21-31).  This  conquest  was  no  doubt  a 
result  of  the  movement  of  the  Amorites  southward, 
when  they  were  pressed  by  the  great  wave  of  Hittite 
invasion  that  overran  Northern  Syria  at  the  end  of 
the  15th  and  the  early  part  of  the  14th  cents.  BC. 
The  Amorites  were  forced  to  seek  homes  in  Pal, 
and  it  would  seem  that  a  portion  of  them  crossed  the 
Jordan  and  occupied  Northern  Moab,  and  here  the 
Israelites    found    them    as    they    approached    the 


2071 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Moab,  Moabites 
Moabite  Stone 


Promised  Land.  They  did  not  at  first  disturb  the 
Moabites  in  the  S.,  but  passed  around  on  the  east- 
ern border  (Dt  2  8.9)  and  came  into  conflict  with 
the  Amorites  in  the  N.  (Nu  21  21-26),  defeating 
them  and  occupying  the  territory  (vs  31-32).  But 
when  Balak  son  of  Zippor,  king  of  Moab,  saw  what 
a  powerful  people  was  settling  on  his  border,  he 
made  alliance  with  the  Midianites  against  them  and 
called  in  the  aid  of  Balaam,  but  as  he  could  not 
induce  the  latter  to  curse  them  he  refrained  from 
attacking  the  Israelites  (Nu  22,  24).  The  latter, 
however,  suffered  disaster  from  the  people  of  Moab 
through  their  intercourse  with  them  (Nu  25). 
Some  time  before  the  establishment  of  the  kingdom 
in  Israel  the  Midianites  overran  Moab,  as  would 
appear  from  the  passage  in  Gen  36  35,  but  the  con- 
quest was  not  permanent,  for  Moab  recovered  its 
lost  territory  and  became  strong  enough  to  encroach 
upon  Israel  across  the  Jordan.  Eglon  of  Moab 
oppressed  Israel  with  the  aid  of  Ammon  and  Amalek 
(Jgs  3  13-14),  but  Eglon  was  assassinated  by  Ehud, 
and  the  Moabite  yoke  was  cast  off  after  18  years. 
Saul  smote  Moab,  but  did  not  subdue  it  (1  S  14 
47),  for  we  find  David  putting  his  father  and  mother 
under  the  protection  of  the  king  of  Moab  when  per- 
secuted by  Saul  (1  S  22  3.4).  But  this  friendship 
between  David  and  Moab  did  not  continue.  When 
David  became  king  he  made  war  upon  Moab  and 
completely  subjugated  it  (2  S  8  2).  On  the  di- 
vision of  the  kingdom  between  Rehoboam  and 
Jeroboam  the  latter  probably  obtained  possession 
of  Moab  (1  K  12  20),  but  'it  revolted  and  Omri 
had  to  reconquer  it  (M  S),  and  it  was  tributary  to 
Ahab  (2  K  1  1).  It  revolted  again  in  the  reign  of 
Ahaziah  (2  K  1  1;  3  5),  and  Moab  and  Ammon 
made  war  on  Jehoshaphat  and  Mt .  Seir  and  desl  royed 
the  latter,  but  they  afterward  fell  out  among  them- 
selves and  destroyed  each  other  (2  Ch  20).  Je- 
hoshaphat and  Jehoram  together  made  an  expedition 
into  Moab  and  defeated  the  Moabites  with  great 
slaughter  (2  K  3).  But  Mesha,  king  of  Moab, 
was  not  subdued  (ver  27),  and  afterward  completely 
freed  his  land  from  the  dominion  of  Israel  (MS). 
This  was  probably  at  the  time  when  Israel  and 
Judah  were  at  war  with  Hazael  of  Damascus  (2  K 
8  2S.29).  Bands  of  Moabites  ventured  to  raid  the 
land  of  Israel  when  weakened  by  the  conflict  with 
Hazael  (2  K  13  20),  but  Moab  was  probably  sub- 
dued again  by  Jeroboam  II  (2  K  14  25),  which 
may  be  the  disaster  to  Moab  recounted  in  Isa  15. 
After  Mesha  we  find  a  king  of  the  name  of  Salamanu 
and  another  called  Chemosh-nadab,  the  latter  being 
subject  to  Sargon  of  Assyria.  He  revolted  against 
Sennacherib,  in  alliance  with  other  kings  of  Syria 
and  Pal  and  Egypt,  but  was  subdued  by  him,  and 
another  king,  Mutsuri,  was  subject  to  Esarhaddon. 
These  items  come  to  us  from  the  Assyr  monuments. 
When  Babylon  took  the  place  of  Assyria  in  the 
suzerainty,  Moab  joined  other  tribes  in  urging 
Judah  to  revolt  but  seems  to  have  come  to  terms 
with  Nebuchadnezzar  before  Jerus  was  taken,  as 
we  hear  nothing  of  any  expedition  of  that  king 
against  her.  On  the  war  described  in  Jth,  in  which 
Moab  (1  12,  etc)  plays  a  part,  see  Judith. 

At  a  later  date  Moab  was  overrun  by  the  Na- 
bathaean  Arabs  who  ruled  in  Petra  and  extended 
their  authority  on  the  east  side  of  Jordan  even  as 
far  as  Damascus  (Jos,  Ant,  XIII,  xv,  1,2).  The 
Moabites  lost  their  identity  as  a  nation  and  were 
afterward  confounded  with  the  Arabs,  as  we  see 
in  the  statement  of  Jos  (XIII,  xiii,  5),  where  he 
says  that  Alexander  (Jannaeus)  overcame  the 
Arabians,  such  as  the  Moabites  and  the  Gilead- 
ites.  Alexander  built  the  famous  stronghold  of 
Machaerus  in  Moab,  on  a  hill  overlooking  the  Dead 
Sea,  which  afterward  became  the  scene  of  the  im- 
prisonment and  tragical  death  of  John  the  Baptist 


(Jos,  BJ,  VII,  vi,  2;  Ant,  XVIII,  v,  2;  Mk  6  21- 
2<S).  It  was  afterward  destroyed  by  the  Romans. 
Kir  became  a  fortress  of  the  Crusaders  under  the 
name  of  Krak  (Kerak),  which  held  out  against  the 
Moslems  until  the  time  of  Saladin,  who  captured 
it  in  1188  AD. 

Litbbatuke. — Comnis.  on  the  passages  in  the  OT 
relating  to  Moab,  and  histories  of  Israel;  Paton,  Early 
History  of  Syria  and  Pal;  Kawlinson,  Ancient  Mon- 
archies, esp.  Assyria  and  Babylonia;  Conder,  Ileih  and 
Moab;  G.  A.  Smith,  1IGI1L;  the  Moabite,  Stone;  Jo- 
sephus. 

H.  Porter 

MOABITE  STONE:  A  monument  erected  at 
Dibon  (Dhibdn)  by  Mesha,  king  of  Moab  (2  K  3 
4.5),  to  commemorate  his  successful  revolt  from 
Israel  and  his  conquest  of  Israelitish  territory.  It 
was  discovered,  August  19,  1868,  by  a  German  mis- 


Moabite  Stone. 

(PEF  Pilot...) 

sionary,  Rev.  V.  Klein,  who  unfortunately  took 
neither  copy  nor  squeeze  of  it.  It  was  3  ft.  10  in. 
high  and  2  ft.  broad,  with  a  semicircular  top.  The; 
Berlin  Museum  entered  into  negotiations  for  the 
purchase  of  it,  but  while  these  were  proceeding 
slowly,  M.  Clermont-Ganneau,  then  dragoman  of 
the  French  consulate  at  Jerus,  sent  agents  to  take 
squeezes  and  tempt  the  Arabs  to  sell  it  for  a  large 
sum  of  money.  This  let!  to  interference  on  the 
part  of  the  Turkish  officials,  with  the  result  that 
in  1869  the  Arabs  lighted  afire  under  the  Stone,  and 
by  pouring  cold  water  on  it  broke  it  into  pieces 
which  they  carried  away  as  charms.  M.  Clermont- 
Ganneau,  however,  succeeded  in  recovering  a  large 
proportion  of  these,  and  with  the  help  of  the  squeezes 
was  able  to  rewrite  the  greater  part  of  the  inscrip- 
tion. The  last  and  most  definitive  edition  of  the 
text  was  published  by  Professors  Smend  and  Socin 
in  1886  from  a  comparison  of  the  fragments  of  the 
original  (now  in  the  Louvre)  with  the  squeezes 
(in  Paris  and  Bale)  and  photographs. 
The  following  is  (with  some  unimportant  correc- 


Moabite  Stone 
Molaclah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2072 


tions)  Dr.  Noubauer's  tr  of  the  inscription,  based 
upon  Smend  and  Sochi's  text:  "(1)  I  jam]  Mesha, 
son  of  Chemosh-meloch,  king  of  Moab,  (  he  Dibonite. 
(2)  My  father  reigned  over  Moab  30  years  and  1 
reigned  (3)  after  my  father.  I  have;  made  this 
monument  [or  high  place]  for  Chemosh  at  Qorhah, 
a  monument  of  salvation,  (4)  for  he  saved  me  from 
all  invaders  [or  kings],  and  let  me  see  my  desire; 
upon  all  my  enemies.  Oniri  (5)  was  king  of  Israel, 
and  he  oppressed  Moab  many  days,  for  Chemosh 
was  angry  with  his  (0)  land.  I  lis  son  [Ahab]  followed 
him  and  lie  also  said:  I  will  oppress  Moab.  In 
my  days  [Chemosh]  said:  (7)  1  will  sec;  [my  desire] 
on  him  and  his  house,  and  Israel  surely  shall  perish 
for  ever.  Omri  took  the  land  of  (S)  Medeba  [Nu 
21  30],  and  [Israel]  dwelt  in  it  during  his  days  and 
half  the  days  of  his  son,  altogether  40  years.  But 
Chemosh  [gave]  it,  back  (9)  in  my  days.  I  built 
Baal-Meon  [Josh  13  17]  and  made  therein  the 
ditches  [or  wells];  1  built  (10)  Kirjathaim  [Nu  32 
37].  The  men  of  Gad  dwelt  in  the  land  of  Ataroth 
[Nu  32  3]  from  of  old,  and  the  king  of  Israel  built 
there  (11)  [the  city  of]  Ataroth;  but  I  made  war 
against  the  city  and  took  it.  And  I  slew  all  the 
[people  of]  (12)  the  city,  for  the  pleasure  of  Che- 
mosh and  of  Moab,  and  I  brought  back  from  them 
the  Arel  [bi«"lS]  of  Dodah  [THM]  and  bore  (13) 
him  before  Chemosh  in  Qerioth  [Jer  48  24].  And 
I  placed  therein  the  men  of  Sharon  and  the  men 

(14)  of  Mehereth.  And  Chemosh  said  unto  me: 
Go,  seize  Nebo  of  Israel  and  (15)  I  went  in  the  night 
and  fought  against  it  from  the  break  of  dawn  till 
noon;  and  I  took  (10)  it,  slew  all  of  them,  7,000 
men  and  [boys?],  women  and  [girls?],  (17)  and 
female  slaves,  for  to  Asht  ar-Chemosh  I  devoted 
them.     And  I  took  from  thence  the  Arcls  pbXIS] 

(15)  of  Yahwch  and  bore  them  before  Chemosh. 
Now  the  king  of  Israel  had  built  (19)  Jahaz  [Isa 
15  4],  and  he  dwelt  in  it  while  he  waged  war  against 
me,  but  Chemosh  drove  him  out  from  before  me. 
And  (20)  I  took  from  Moab  200  men,  all  chiefs,  and 
transported  them  to  Jahaz  which  I  took  (21)  to 
add  to  Dibon.  I  built  Qorhah,  the  Wall  of  the 
Forests  and  the  Wall  (22)  of  the  Ophel,  and  I  built 
its  gates  and  I  built  its  towers.  And  (23)  I  built 
the  House  of  Moloch,  and  I  made  sluices  for  the 
water-ditches  in  the  midst  (24)  of  the  city.  And 
there  was  no  cistern  within  the  city  of  Qorhah,  and 
I  said  to  all  the  people:  Make  for  (25)  yourselves 
every  man  a  cistern  in  his  house.  And  I  dug  the 
canals  [or  conduits]  for  Qorhah  by  means  of  the 
prisoners  (20)  from  Israel.  I  built  Aroer  [Dt  2 
36],  and  I  made  the  road  in  Anion.  And  (27)  I 
built  Beth-Bamoth  [Nu  26  19]  for  it  was  destroyed. 
I  built  Bczer  [Dt  4  43],  for  in  ruins  (28)  [it  was. 
And  all  the  chiefs?]  of  Dibon  were  50,  for  all  Dibon 
is  loyal,  and  I  (29)  placed  100  [chiefs?]  in  the  cities 
which  I  added  to  the  land;  I  built  (30)  [Beth]- 
Mede[b]a  [Nu  21  30]  and  Beth-diblathaim  [Jer 
48  22],  and  Beth-Baal-Meon  [Jer  48  23],  and 
transported  the  shepherds  [?]  (31)  .  .  .  .  [with] 
the  flock [s]  of  tin;  land.  Now  in  Iloronaim  [Isa 
15  5]  there  dwelt  [the  children?]  .  .  .' .  (32)  .... 
[and]  Chemosh  said  unto  me:  Go  down,  make  war 
upon  Iloronaim.  So  I  went  down  [and  made  war 
(33)  upon  the  city,  and  took  it,  and]  Chemosh 
dwelt  in  it  during  my  days.  And  I  went  up  [?]  from 
thence;  I  made  ....   (34)  .  .  .  And  I  .  .  .  ." 

The  Bib.  character  of  the  language  of  the  inscrip- 
tion will  be  noticed  as  well  as  the  use  of  "forty" 
to  signify  an  indefinite  period  of  time.  As  in 
Israel,  no  goddess  seems  to  have  been  worshipped 
in  Moab,  since  the  goddess  Ashtoreth  is  deprived 
of  the  feminine  suffix,  and  is  identified  with  the 
male  Chemosh  (Ashtar-Chemosh).  Dodah  appears 
to  have  been  a  female  divinity  worshipped  by  the 


side  of  Yahwch;  the  root  of  the  name  is  1  he  same  as 
that  of  David  and  the;  Carthaginian  Dido.  The 
Arcls  were  "the  champions"  of  the  deity  (Assyr 
qurart),  tr'1  "lion-like  men"  in  AY  (2  S  23  20;  cf 
Isa  33  7).  There  was  an  Ophel  in  the  Moabite 
capital  as  well  as  at  Jerus. 

The  alphabet  of  the  inscription  is  an  early  form 
of  the  Phoenician,  and  resembles  that  of  the  earliest 
Gr  inscriptions.  The  words  are  divided  from  one 
another  by  dots,  and  the  curved  forms  of  some  of 
the  letters  (/>,  A:,  I,  in,  n)  presuppose  writing  with 
ink  upon  papyrus,  parchment  or  potsherds. 

The  revolt  of  Mcsha  took  place;  after  Ahab's 
death  (2  K  3  5).  At  the  battle  of  Qarqar  in  854 
BC,  when  flu;  Syrian  kings  were  defeated  by 
Shalmaneser  II,  no  mention  is  mack;  of  Moab,  as  it 
was  included  in  Israel.  It  would  seem  from  the 
inscription,  however,  that  Medeba  had  already  been 
restored  to  Mesha,  perhaps  in  return  for  the  regular 
payment  of  his  tribute  of  100,000  lambs  and  100,000 
rams  with  their  wool  (2  K  3  4). 

Literature. — Clermont-Ganneau,  La  stele  de  Mesa, 
1870;  Ginsburg,  Moabite  Stone,  1871;  R.  Smend  and 
A.  Socin,  Die  Inschrift  des  Konigs  Mesa  ran  Moab,  1880; 
A.  Neubauer  in  Records  of  the  Past,  2d  ser.,  II,  188!); 
Lldzbarski,  Handbuch  der  nordsemitischen  Epiyraphil;, 
1898,  4-83,  415. 

A.   II.  Sayce 

MOABITESS,  mo'ab-it-es,  mo-ab-I'tes  (rPnfcjir  > 
mo' tibhiydh) :  A  woman,  or  in  pi.  women,  of  Moab. 
The  term  is  applied  to  Ruth  (1  22;  2  2.0.21;  4 
5.10);  to  some  of  Solomon's  wives  (1  K  11  1); 
and  to  Shimrith,  whose  son  shared  in  the  murder  of 
King  Joash  (2  Ch  24  20).     See  Moab. 

MOADIAH,  mo-a-di'a.     See  Maadiah. 

MOCHMUR,  mok'mur,  THE  BROOK  (6  x«t- 
jjiappos  Mox.fioiip,  ho  chcimarrhos  Mochmour) :  The 
torrent  bed  in  a  valley  on  which  stood  Chusi,  not 
far  from  Ekrebel  (Jtli  7  18).  The  latter  may  be 
identified  with  K  Akrabeh,  E.  of  Nablus.  Wady 
Makhfurlyeh  runs  to  the  S.  of  KAkrabeh,  and  prob- 
ably represents  the  ancient  Mochmur. 

MOCK,  mok,  MOCKER,  mok'er,  MOCKING, 

mok'ing  (^~n ,  hathal,  -*"p ,  lofagh,  €[Airai£u>, 
empaizo):  To  mock  is  the  tr  of  hathal,  "to  plav 
upon,"  "mock,"  "deride"  (Jgs  16  10.13.15;  1  K 
18  27_,  "Elijah  mocked  them";  Job  13  9  bis,  RV 
"deceiveth,"  "deceive,"  m  "mocketh,"  "mock"); 
of  Wagh,  "to  stammer"  or  "babble in  mimicry,"  "to 
mock"  or  "scorn"  (2  Ch  30  10;  Neh  4  1;  Job 
11  3;  21  3;  Prov  1  26;  17  5;  30  17;  Jer  20  7). 
Other  words  are  cahak,  "to  laugh,"  etc  (Gen  19  14; 

21  9;  39  14.17);  '  kalas,  "to  call  out,"  or  "cry 
after,"  "to  scoff"  or  "mock   at"  (2  K  2  23;    Ezk 

22  5);  sahak,  "to  laugh,"  "mock"  (Job  39  22; 
Lam  1  7);  luc,  "to  scorn"  (Prov  14  9);  s'hok, 
"laughter,"  "derision"  (Job  12  4);  empaizo,  "to 
treat  as  a  child,"  "mock"  (Mt  2  16;  20  19;  27 
29.31.41;  Lk  14  29,  etc);  diachlcudzd,  "to  mock." 
"laugh,"  etc  (Acts  2  13;  17  32);  mukterizo,  "to 
sneer  at,"  "mock,"  lit.  "to  turn  up  the  nose"  (Gal 
6  7,  "God  is  not  mocked,"  "will  not  let  himself 
be  mocked");  £iuye\dw,  epigeldo,  "laugh"  (Job  2  8; 

I  Mace  7  34;   cf  2  Mace  7  39;  8  17). 
Mocker,  h&thullm,  "deceivers,"  "mockers"  (Job 

17  2);  luc  (Prov  20  1;  Isa  28  22  AV);  Wegh, 
"stammering,"  "mocking"  (Ps  35  16;cflsa  28  11); 
sahak  (Jer  15  17);  empalktes,  "a  mocker,"  "scoffer," 
lit.  "sporting  as  children"  (Jude  ver  18;  cf  2  Pet 
3  3). 

Mocking  is  the  tr  of  kalldsdh,  "mocking,"  "derision" 
(Ezk   22  4);     of    empaiamds'  (LXX     for     kalldsdh)    (He 

II  36;  Wisd  12  2f>;  Ecclus  27  28,  "mockery";  2 
Mace  7  7,  "mocklng-stock,"   RV  "the  mockine";    ver 


2073 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Moabite  Stone 
Moladah 


10,  "made  a  mocking-stock "  [empaizo]);  of  /j-mkos,  mokos 
(Ecelus  33  0). 

For  "mocked  of"  (Jol)  12  1)  RV  lias  "a  laughing-stock 
to";  for  '•mockers"  (Isa  28  22),  K  K  V  "  sconier,"  ARV 
"scoffer";  for  "the  mockers"  (Jer  15  17),  "them  that 
made  merry";  for  "scometh"  (Prov  19  28),  "mocketh 
at";  for  "As  one  man  mocketh  another,  do  ye  so  mock 
him?"  (Job  13  9),  "Asonedeceivetha  man  will  ye  deceive 
him?"  (in  "mocketh,"  '-mock");  "mock"  for  "laugh" 
(Job  9  23) ;  for  "There  shall  come  in  the  last  days  scoffers" 
(2  Pet  3  3),  "In  the  last,  days  |m  "Gr  in  the  last  of  the 
days"]  mockers  shall  come  with  mockery"  (empaigmonS 
empalktai). 

W.  L.  Walker 
MODAD,     BOOK     OF     ELDAD     AND.    See 
Eldad  and  Modad,  Book  of. 

MODERATELY,  mod'er-at-li  (np"?b,  lige- 
dhakah):  "Moderately"  is  the  AV  tr  ofligedhdkah, 
"righteousness"  (Joel  2  23,  "for  he  hath  given  you 
the  former  rain  moderately,"  m  "according  to  right- 
eousness," RV  "in  just  measure,"  m  "in  [or  for] 
righteousness").  In  Phil  4  5  AV,  toe  pieikes  is  tr'1 
moderation:  "Let  your  moderation  be  known 
unto  all  men.  The  Lord  is  at  hand,"  RV  "forbear- 
ance," m  "or  gentleness";  of  2  Cor  10  1.  The 
proper  meaning  of  this  word  has  been  the  subject 
of  considerable  discussion;  epielkeia  is  tr'1  "clem- 
ency" (Acts  24  4),  "gentleness"  (of  Christ)  (2  Cor 
10  1);  epieikes  is  "gentle"  (1  Tim  3  3;  Tit  3  2; 
Jas  3  17;  1  Pet  2  18). 

Trench  says  (Synonyms  of  the  XT,  151):  "It  expresses 
exactly  that  moderation  which  recognizes  the  impossi- 
bility cleaving  to  formal  law,  of  anticipating  and  pro- 
viding for  all  cases  that  will  emerge  and  present  them- 
selves to  it  for  decision;  which,  with  this,  recognizes  the 
danger  that  ever  waits  upon  the;  assertion  of  legal  rights, 
lest  they  should  be  pushed  into  moral  wrongs,  lest  the 
'  summum  jus'  should  in  practice  prove  the  'sum  ma 
injuria,'  which  therefore,  pushes  not  its  own  rights  to 
the  uttermost,  but  going  back  in  part  or  in  the  whole 
from  these,  rectifies  and  redresses  the  injustices  of  jus- 
tice. It  is  thus  more  truly  just  than  strict  justice  would 
have  been;  no  Latin  word  exactly  and  adequately  ren- 
ders it;  dementia  sets  forth  one  side  of  it,  aequitas  another, 
and  perhaps  modestia  (by  which  the  Vulg  tr"  it  in  2  Cor 
10  1)  a  third;  but  the  word  is  wanting  which  should  set 
forth  all  these  excellences  reconciled  in  a  single  and  higher 
one."  Its  archetype  and  pattern,  he  points  out,  is  found 
in  God,  who  does  not  stand  upon  or  assert  strict  rights  in 
His  relations  to  men. 

Light  foot  has  "forbearance":  "Let  your  gentle  and 
forbearing  spirit  be  recognized  by  all  men.  The 
judgment  is  drawing  nigh."  Hastings  prefers "con- 
siderateness"  or  "sweet  reasonableness"  (II DB,  III, 
413) ;  "'Gentleness'  and  'forbearance'  are  too  passive. 
The  'considerateness'  of  the  Bible,  whether  applied 
to  Cod  or  man,  is  an  active  virtue.  It  is  the  Spirit 
of  the  Messiah  Himself,  who  will  not  break  the 
bruised  reed  nor  quench  the  smoking  flax,  and  it  is 
the  spirit  of  every  follower  who  realizes  that  'the 
Lord  is  at  hand.'  "  The  want  of  this  "considerate- 
ness" too  often  mars  our  religious  life  and  spoils  its 
influence.  W.  L.  Walker 

MODERATION,  mod-Cr-a'shun    (™  cmci^s,  to 

epieikes) :   The  word  occurs  once  in  AV,  Phil  4  5. 

MODIN,  mo'din  (Mu>8«iv,  Modeein,  McoSetv, 
Modein,  McoSeeuA,  Modeeim,  and  other  forms;  in  the 
Talm  it  is  called  D^TVQ,  modhiHm,  and  Pi"1""1""!^  , 
modhVlth  [Neubauer,  Geographie  du  Talm,  99]): 
This  place  owes  its  interest  to  the  part  it  played  in 
the  history  of  the  Maccabees.  It  was  the  ancestral 
home  of  their  family  (1  Mace  2  17.70).  Hither 
Mat  tat  bias,  a  priest  of  the  sons  of  Joarib,  retired 
when  he  had  seen  with  a  burning  heart  "the  blas- 
phemies that  were  committed  in  Judah  and  in 
Jer  us"  under  the  orders  of  Antiochus  Epiphanes. 
But  the  king's  officer  followed  him,  and  by  offers 
of  the  king's  friendship  and  great  rewards  sought 
to  seduce  the  people  into  idolatry.  This  only  fed 
the  indignation  of  Mattathias,  and  when  a  Jew 
went  forward  to  sacrifice1,  Mattathias  slew  him  on 


tin;  altar  together  with  the  king's  officer.  From 
such  a  step  there  could  be  no  going  back.  Thus 
began  the  patriotic  enterprise  which,  led  by  the  old 
priest's  heroic  sons,  was  destined  to  make  illustrious 
the  closing  days  of  the  nation's  life  (1  Mace  2  1  fT; 
Ant,  VI,  i,  2;  B.I,  I,  i,  3).  Mattathias,  his  wife 
and  sons  were  all  buried  in  Modin  (1  Mace  2  70; 
9  19;  13  2;V30;  Ant,  XII,  xi,  2;  XIII,  vi,  0). 
Near  Modin  Judas  pitched  his  cam]),  whence 
issuing  by  night  with  the  watchword  "Victory  is 
God's,"  he  and  a  chosen  band  of  warriors  over- 
whelmed the  army  of  Antiochus  Eupator  (2  Mace 
13  14).  In  Modin  Judas  and  John,  the  sons  of 
Simon,  slept  before  the  battle  in  which  they  defeated 
Cendebaeus  (1  Mace  16  4). 

Of  the  impressive  monument  erected  by  Simon  over 
the  tombs  of  his  parents  and  brethren  .Stanley  (Hist  of  the 
Jewish  Church,  III,  318)  gives  the  following  account:  "It 
was  a  square  structure  surrounded  by  colonnades  of 
monolith  pillars,  of  which  the  front  aiid  back  were  of 
white  polished  stone.  Seven  pyramids  were  erected  by 
Simon  on  the  summit,  for  the  father  and  mot  her  and  four 
brothers  who  now  lay  there,  with  the  seventh  for  him- 
self when  his  time  should  come.  On  the  faces  of  the 
monuments  were  bas-reliefs,  representing  the  accoutre- 
ments of  sword  and  spear  and  shield  '  for  an  eternal 
memorial'  of  their  many  battles.  There  were  also 
sculptures  of  ships — no  doubt  to  record  their  interest  in 
that  long  seaboard  of  the  Phili  coast,  which  they  were  the 
first  to  use  for  their  country's  good.  A  monument  at 
once  so  Jewish  in  idea  and  so  gentile  in  execution  was 
worthy  of  the  combination  of  patriotic  fervor  and  high 
philosophic  enlargement  of  soul  which  raised  the  Macca- 
bean  heroes  so  high  above  their  age."  Guerin  (La 
Sa  marie,  II,  401;  Galilee,  I,  47)  thought  he  had  dis- 
covered the  remains  of  this  monument  at  Khirbet  el- 
Gharbawi  near  Medyeh,  in  1S70.  In  this,  however,  he 
was  mistaken,  the  remains  being  of  Christian  origin. 

Various  identifications  have  been  proposed. 
Sobd,  about  0  miles  W.  of  Jerus,  was  for  a  time  gen- 
erally accepted.  Robinson  (BR,  HI,  151  f)  sug- 
gested Latrun.  There  is  now  a  consensus  of  opin- 
ion in  favor  of  el-Medyeh,  a  village  to  the  E.  of 
Wddy  Midaki,  13  miles  W.  of  Bethel.  It  occupies 
a  strong  position  in  the  hills  6  miles  E.  of  Lydda, 
thus  meeting  the  condition  of  Onom  which  places 
it  near  Lydda.  The  identification  was  suggested 
by  Dr.  Sandreczki  of  Jerus  in  ISO!).  From  el- 
Medyeh  itself  t'^e  F£<v  jo  not  visible;  but  to  the  S. 
rises  a  rocky  height,  er-Ras,  which  commands  a  wide 
view,  including  the  plain  and  the  sea.  The  latter 
is  10  miles  distant.  If  the  monument  of  Simon 
stood  on  er-Ras,  which  from  the  rock  cuttings  seems 
not  improbable,  it  would  be  seem  very  clearly  by 
overlooking  from  the  sea,  esp.  toward  sunset  (1  Mace 
13  29).  About  j  mile  W.  of  el-Medyeh  are  tombs 
known  as  Kubur  el-  Yehud,  one  bearing  the  name 
of  Sheikh  el-Gharbdwi,  whose  name  attaches  to  the 
ruins.     This  is  the  tomb  referred  to  above. 

W.  Ewixg 

MOETH,  mo'eth  (Mtoe'9,  Moeth):  Called  "son  of 
Sabannus,"  one  of  the  Levites  to  whom,  with  the 
priest  Mermoth,  the  silver  and  gold  brought  by 
Ezra  from  Babylon  were  committed  (1  Esd  8  03) 
=  "Noadiah"  of  Ezr  8  33,  but  there  styled  "son 
of  Binnui." 

MOLADAH,  mol'a-da,  mo-lii'da  (TTfyva,  mo- 
ladhah;  Ma>\a8d,  Moladd) :  A  place  in  the  far  south 
(Negebh)  of  Judah,  toward  Edom  (Josh  15  20), 
reckoned  to  Simeon  (19  2;  1  Ch  4  2<S).  It  was 
repeopled  after  the  captivity  (Neh  11  20).  It  is 
mentioned  always  in  close  proximity  to  Beersheba. 
Moladah  is  probably  identical  with  Malatha,  a 
city  in  Idumaea  to  which  Agrippa  at  one  time  with- 
drew himself  (Jos,  Ant,  XVIII,  vi,  2).  The  site 
of  this  latter  city  has  by  Robinson  and  others  been 
considered  to  be  the  ruins  and  wells  of  Tell  el-Milh, 
some  13  miles  to  the  E.  of  Beersheba  and  some  7 
miles  S.W.  of  Arad.  The  chief  difficulty  is  the 
statement  of  Eusebius  and  Jerome  that  Malatha 


Mole 
Momdis 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2074 


was  "by  Jattir,"  i.e.  xAtlir;  if  this  is  correct  the 
Tell  el-Milh  is  impossible,  as  it  is  10  miles  from 
Wttir,  and  we  have  no  light  at  all  on  the  site.  See 
Salt,  City  of.  For  Tell  el-Milh  see  l'Kb\  III, 
415-16,  Sh  XXV.  E.  VV.  G.  Masterman 

MOLE,  mol  ([11  rrpt;;P.,  tinshemeth,  AV  "mole," 
RV  "chameleon";  LXN  do-n-d.\a£,  aspdlax  =  o-n-d- 
Xa£,  spdlax,  "mole,"  Vulg  talpa,  "mole"  [Lev  11 
30];    [2]    "bh,    holedh,  EV   "weasel";    LXX  -yaXfj, 

gait,  "weasel"  or  "pole-cat";  cf  Arab.  (\X±» , 
khuld,  "mole-rat"  [Lev  11  29];  [3]  rVnBnSn , 
haphar-peroth,    EV    ''moles";     from    "ipi,    haphar, 

"to  dig";  cf  Arab.  JiA- ,  hafar,  "to  dig,"  and  PHB, 
pera/i,  "mole"  or  "rat,"  for  mXE  ,  pe'erah,  from  y' 
"IS'E,    po'ar,   "to   dig";    cf   Arab.    s\li,  /a'ra/,   or 

5»li,  fdral,  "rat,"   "mouse,"   from    y     »li ,  /a'ar, 

"to  dig";  LXX  tois  (AaTaioig,  tois  mataiois,  "vain, 
idle,  or  profane  persons"  [Isa  2  20]):  (1)  Tin- 
shemeth is  the  last  of  8  unclean  "creeping  things" 
in  Lev  11  29.30.  The  word  occurs  also  in  Lev  11 
in  18  and  Dt  14  16,  trd  AV  "swan,"  RV  "horned 
owl  "LXX  Trop<pvpiwv,  porphurion,  "coot"  or  "heron." 
See  Chameleon.  (2)  Holedh  is  the  first  in  the 
same  list.  The  word  occurs  nowhere  else,  and  is 
trd  "weasel"  in  EV,  but  comparison  with  the  Arab. 
khuld  has  led  to  the  suggestion  that  "mole-rat" 
would  be  a  better  tr.  See  Weasel.  (3)  In  Isa 
2  20,  "In  that  day  men  shall  cast  away  their  idols 
.  .  .  .  to  the  moles  and  to  the  bats,"  haphar-peroth, 
variously  written  as  one  word  or  two,  is  trd  "moles" 
in  EV,  but  has  given  rise  to  much  conjecture. 

The  European  "mole,"  Talpa  europea,  is  exten- 
sively distributed  in  the  temperate  parts  of  Europe 
and  Asia,  but  is  absent  from  Syria  and  Pal,  its  place 
being  taken  by  the  mole-rat,  Spalax  typhlus.  The 
true  mole  belongs  to  the  Insectivora,  and  feeds  on 
earth-worms  and  insect  larvae,  but  in  making  its 
tunnels  and  nests,  it  incid ;i\:~>  '(  y  injures  gardens 
and  lawns.  The  mole-rat  belong  to  the  Rodentia, 
and  has  teeth  of  the  same  general  type  as  those  of  a 
rat  or  squirrel,  large,  chisel- shaped  incisors  behind 
which  is  a  large  vacant  space,  no  canines,  and  prae- 
molars  and  molars  with  grinding  surfaces.  It  is 
larger  than  the  mole,  but  of  the  same  color,  and, 
like  the  mole,  is  blind.  It  makes  tunnels  much 
like  those  of  the  mole.  It  is  herbivorous  and  has 
been  observed  to  seize  growing  plants  and  draw 
them  down  into  its  hole.  In  one  of  its  burrows  a 
central  chamber  has  been  found  filled  with  entire 
plants  of  the  hummus  or  chick-pea,  and  two  side 
chambers  containing  pods  plucked  from  the  plants 
in  the  central  chamber.  While  the  mole  digs  with 
its  powerful  and  peculiarly  shaped  front  feet,  the 
mole-rat  digs  with  its  nose,  its  feet  being  normal  in 
shape.     See  Lizard.  Alfred  Ely  Day 

MOLECH,  md'lek,  MOLOCH,  md'lok  (tfbian , 
ha-molekh,  always  with  the  art.,  except  in  1  K  11  7; 
LXX  6  MoXox,  ho  Moloch,  sometimes  also  MoXx^H1) 
Molchom,  MeAx°X,  Melchol;  Vulg  Moloch): 

1.  The  Name 

2.  The  Worship  in  OT  History 

3.  The  Worship  iti  the  Prophets 

4.  Nature  of  the  Worship 

5.  Origin  and  Extent  of  the  Worship 
Literature 

The  name  of  a  heathen  divinity  whose  worship 
figures  largely  in  the  later  history  of  the  kingdom  of 
Judah.  As  the  national  god  of  the  Ammonites,  he 
is  known  as  "Milcom"  (1  K  11  5.7),  or  "Malcam" 
("Malcan"    is    an    alternative   reading   in   2  S  12 


30.31;   cf  Jer  49  1.3;  Zeph  1  5,  where  RVm  reads 

"their   king").     The    use  of  (iaacXevs,  basileus,  and 

dpxwv,  drchon,  as  a  tr  of  the  name  by 

1.  The  the  LXX  suggests  that  it  may  have 
Name  been    originally    the    Heb    word     for 

"king,"  melekh.  Molech  is  obtained 
from  melekh  by  the  substitution  of  the  vowel  points 
of  Heb  boshelh,  signifying  "shame."  From  the 
obscure  and  difficult  passage,  Am  5  26,  RV  has 
removed  "your  Moloch"  and  given  "your  king," 
but  LXX  had  here  trd  "Moloch,"  and  from  the  LXX 
it  found  its  way  into  the  Acts  (7  43),  the  only 
occurrence  of  the  name  in  the  NT. 

In  the  Levitical  ordinances  delivered  to  the  Israel- 
ites by  Moses  there  are  stern  prohibitions  of  Molech- 

worship    (Lev  18  21;    20  2-5).     Par- 

2.  The  allel  to  these  prohibitions,  although  the 
Worship  in  name  of  the  god  is  not  mentioned, 
OT  History   are  those  of  the  Deuteronomic  Code 

where  the  abominations  of  the  Canaan- 
ites  are  forbidden,  and  the  burning  of  their  sons  and 
daughters  in  the  fire  (to  Molech)  is  condemned  as 
the  climax  of  their  wickedness  (Dt  12  31;  18  10-13). 
The  references  to  Malcam,  and  to  David's  causing 
the;  inhabitants  of  Rabbath  Ammon  to  pass  through 
the  brick  kiln  (2  S  12  30.31),  are  not  sufficiently 
clear  to  found  upon,  because  of  the  uncertainty  of 
the  readings.  Solomon,  under  the  influence  of  his 
idolatrous  wives,  built  high  places  for  Chemosh, 
the  abomination  of  Moab,  and  for  Milcom,  the 
abomination  of  the  children  of  Ammon.  See 
Chemosh.  Because  of  this  apostasy  it  was  inti- 
mated by  the  prophet  Ahijah,  that  the  kingdom 
was  to  be  rent  out  of  the  hand  of  Solomon,  and  ten 
tribes  given  to  Jeroboam  (1  K  11  31-33).  These 
high  places  survived  to  the  time  of  Josiah,  who, 
among  his  other  works  of  religious  reformation, 
destroyed  and  defiled  them,  filling  their  places 
with  the  bones  of  men  (2  K  23  12-14).  Molech- 
worship  had  evidently  received  a  great  impulse  from 
Ahaz,  who,  like  Ahab  of  Israel,  was  a  supporter  of 
foreign  religions  (2  K  16  12  ff).  He  also  "made 
his  son  to  pass  through  the  fire,  according  to  the 
abominations  of  the  nations,  whom  Jeh  cast  out 
from  before  the  children  of  Israel"  (2  K  16  3). 
His  grandson  Manasseh,  so  far  from  following  in  the 
footsteps  of  his  father  Hezekiah,  who  had  made 
great  reforms  in  the  worship,  reared  altars  for  Baal, 
and  besides  other  abominations  which  he  practised, 
made  his  son  to  pass  through  the  fire  (2  K  21  6). 
The  chief  site  of  this  worship,  of  which  Ahaz  and 
Manasseh  were  the  promoters,  was  Topheth  in  the 
Valley  of  Hinnom,  or,  as  it  is  also  called,  the  Valley 
of  the  Children,  or  of  the  Son  of  Hinnom,  lying 
to  the  S.W.  of  Jerus  (see  Gehenna).  Of  Josiah's 
reformation  it  is  said  that  "he  defiled  Topheth  .... 
that  no  man  might  make  his  son  or  his  daughter 
to  pass  through  the  fire  to  Molech"  (2  K  23  10). 

Even    Josiah's    thorough    reformation   failed    to 
extirpate  the  Molech-worship,  and  it  revived  and 

continued  till  the  destruction  of  Jerus, 

3.  The  as  we  learn  from  the  prophets  of  the 
Worship  time.  From  the  beginning,  the  proph- 
in  the  ets  maintained  against  it  a  loud  and 
Prophets        persistent  protest.     The  testimony  of 

Amos  (1  15;  5  26)  is  ambiguous,  but 
most  of  the  ancient  VSS  for  malkam,  "their  king," 
in  the  former  passage,  read  milkdm,  the  national 
god  of  Ammon  (see  Davidson,  in  loc).  Isaiah  was 
acquainted  with  Topheth  and  its  abominations 
(Isa  30  33:  57  5).  Over  against  his  beautiful  and 
lofty  description  of  spiritual  religion,  Micah  sets 
the  exaggerated  zeal  of  those  who  ask  in  the  spirit 
of  the  Molech-worshipper:  "Shall  I  give  my  first- 
born for  my  transgression,  the  fruit  of  my  body  for 
the  sin  of  my  soul?"  (Mic  6  6ff).  That  Molech- 
worship  had  increased  in  the  interval  may  account 


2075 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


for  the  frequency  and  the  clearness  of  the  references 
to  it  in  the  later   Prophets.     In  Jer  we  find   the 
passing  of  sons  and  daughters  through  the  fire  to 
Molech  associated  with  the  building  of  "the  high 
places  of  Baal,  which  are  in  the  Valley  of  the  Son 
of  Hinnom"  (32  35;    cf  7  31  ff;    19  5ff).      In  his 
oracle  against  the  children  of  Amnion,   the  same 
prophet    denouncing  evil  against  their  land,  pre- 
dicts  (almost  in  the  very  words  of  Amos  above) 
that  Malcam  shall  go  into  captivity,  his  priests  and 
his   princes   together    (49  1.3).     Ezekiel,    speaking 
to  the  exiles  in  Babylon,  refers  to  the  practice  of 
causing  children  to  pass  through  the  fire  to  heathen 
divinities  as  long  established,   and  proclaims  the 
Maak°  rS°d  gainst  it  (Ezk  16  20  f;    20  26.31; 
&&  61).      lhat  this  prophet  regarded  the  practice 
as  among  the  "statutes  that  were  not  good,  and 
ordinances  wherein  they  should  not  live"  (20  25) 
given  by  God  to  His  people,  by  way  of  deception 
and  judicial  punishment,  as  some  hold,  is  highly 
improbable     and     inconsistent     with     the    whole 
prophetic    attitude    toward    it.     Zephaniah,    who 
prophesied  to  the  men  who  saw  the  overthrow  of  the 
kingdom   of   Judah,    denounces   God's   judgments 
upon  the  worshippers  of  false  gods  (Zeph  1  5  f ) 
He  does  not  directly  charge  his  countrymen  with 
having  forsaken  Jeh  for  Malcam,  but  blames  them, 
because  worshipping  Him  they  also  swear  to  Mal- 
cam, like  those  Assyr  colonists  in  Samaria  who 
feared  Jeh  and  served  their  own  gods,  or  like  those 
ot  whom  Ezekiel  elsewhere  speaks  who,  the  same 
day  on  which  they  had  slain  their  children  to  their 
!-i'  ,'o°ontored  the  san(,<uary  of  Jeh  to  profane  it 
(Ezk  23  39)      The  captivity  in   Babylon  put  an 
end  to  Molech-worship,  since  it  weaned  the  people 
from  all  their  idolatries.     We  do  not  hear  of  it  in 
the  post-exilic  Prophets,  and,  in  the  great  historical 
psalm  of  Israel  s  rebelliousness  and  God's  deliver- 
ances (Pa  106),  it  is  only  referred  to  in  retrospect 
(vs  37.38). 

When  we  come  to  consider  the  nature  of  this 
worship  it  is  remarkable  how  few  details  are  given 
a    on.  regarding  it  in  Scripture.     The  place 

4.  The  where  it  was  practised  from  the  days 

Nature  of  of  Ahaz  and  Manasseh  was  the  Valley 
the  Worship  of  Hinnom  where  Topheth  stood,  a 
huge  altar-pyre  for  the  burning  of  the 
sacrificial  victims.  There  is  no  evidence  connecting 
the  worship  with  the  temple  in  Jerus.  Ezekiel's 
vision  of  sun-worshippers  in  the  temple  is  purely 
ideal  (Ezk  8).  A  priesthood  is  spoken  of  as  attached 
to  the  services  (Jer  49  3;  cf  Zeph  1  4.5).  The  vic- 
tims offered  to  the  divinity  were  not  burnt  alive, 
but  were  killed  as  sacrifices,  and  then  presented  as 
burnt  offerings.  "To  pass  through  the  fire"  has 
been  taken  to  mean  a  lustration  or  purification  of 
the  child  by  fire,  not  involving  death.  But  the 
prophets  clearly  speak  of  slaughter  and  sacrifice, 
and  ot  high  places  built  to  burn  the  children  in  the 
fire  as  burnt  offerings  (Jer  19  5;  Ezk  16  20.21). 

The  popular  conception,  molded  for  Eng.  readers 
largely  by  Milton's  "Moloch,  horrid  king"  as  described 
in  1  aradise  Lost,  Book  I,  is  derived  from  the  accounts 
n^'w?,iaJ-°  1i,at  aPd  ^r  7  ritcrs-  esp.  the  account  which 
Diodorus  sicu  us  gives  in  his  History  of  the  Carthaginian 
Kronos  or  Moloch.  The  image  of  Moloch  was  a  human 
figure  with  a  bulls  head  and  outstretched  arms  readv 
to  receive  the  children  destined  for  sacrifice.  The  image 
of  metal  was  heated  red  hot  by  a  fire  kindled  within,  and 
the  children  laid  on  its  arms  rolled  off  into  the  flerv  nit 
below  In  order  to  drown  the  cries  of  the  victims  flutes 
were  played,  and  drums  were  beaten;  and  mothers  stood 
by  without  tears  or  sobs,  to  give  the  impression  of  the 
voluntary  character  of  the  offering  (see  Rawlinson's 
Phoenicia,  113  f,  for  fuller  details). 

_  On  the  question  of  the  origin  of  this  worship  there 
is  great  variety  of  views.  Of  a  non-Sem  origin 
there  is  no  evidence;  and  there  is  no  trace  of 
human  sacrifices  in  the  old  Bab  religion.     That  it 


Mole 
Momdis 


prevailed  widely  among  Sem  peoples  is  clear.  While 
Milcom  or  Malcam  is  peculiarly  the  national  god 
c  ^  ■  •  of  t}l°  Ammonites,  as  is  Chemosh  of 
,°"gln  <he  Moabites,  the  name  Molech  or 
and  Extent  Melech  was  recognized  among  the 
of  the  Phoenicians,  the  Philis,  the  Aramaeans, 

Worship         and  other  Sem  peoples,  as  a  name  for 
the  divinity  they  worshipped  from  a 
very  early  time.     That  it  was  common  among  the 
Canaanites  when  the  Israelites  entered  the  land 
is  evident  from  the  fact  that  it  was  among  the 
abominations  from  which  they  were  to  keep  them- 
selves free.     That  it  was  identical  at  first  with  the 
worship  of  Jeh,  or  that  the  prophets  and  the  best 
men  of  the  nation  ever  regarded  it  as  the  national 
worship  of  Israel,  is  a  modern  theory  which  does 
not  appear  to  the  present  writer  to  have  been  sub- 
stantiated.    It  has  been  inferred  from  Abraham's 
readiness  to  offer  up  Isaac  at  the  command  of  God, 
from  the  story  of  Jephthah  and  his  daughter,  and 
even  from  the  sacrifice  of  Hiel  the  Bethelite  (1  K 
16  34),  that  human  sacrifice  to  Jeh  was  an  original 
custom  in  Israel,  and  that  therefore  the  God  of 
Israel  was  no  other  than  Moloch,  or  at  all  events  a 
deity  of  similar  character.     But  these  incidents  are 
surely  too  slender  a  foundation  to  support  such  a 
theory.     "The   fundamental   idea  of   the   heathen 
rite  was  the  same  as  that  which  lay  at  the  founda- 
tion of  Heb  ordinance:  the  best  to  God;  but  by  pre- 
senting to  us  this  story  of  the  offering  of  Isaac,  and 
by  presenting  it  in   this  precise  form,   the  writer 
simply  teaches  the  truth,  taught  by  all  the  prophets, 
that  to  obey  is  better  than  sacrifice— in  other  words 
that  the  God  worshipped  in  Abraham's  time  was 
a  God  who  did  not  delight  in  destroying  life,  but 
in   saving  and   sanctifying   it"    (Robertson,    Early 
Kehgion  of  Israel,  254).     While  there  is  no  ground 
for  identifying  Jeh  with  Moloch,  there  are  good 
grounds  for  seeing  a  community  of  origin  between 
Moloch  and  Baal.     The  name,  the  worship,  and 
the  general  characteristics  are  so  similar  that  it  is 
natural  to  assign  them  a  common  place  of  origin 
in     Phoenicia.     The     fact     that     Moloch-worship 
reached  the  climax  of  its  abominable  cruelty  in  the 
Phoen  colonies  of  which  Carthage  was  the  center 
shows  that  it  had  found  among  that  people  a  soil 
suited  to  its  peculiar  genius. 

Literature. — Wolf  Baudissin,  "Moloch"  in  PRE*- 
Or.  F.  Moore  "Moloch"  in  EB;  Robertson,  Early  Re- 
ligion of  Israel,  241-05;  Robertson  Smith,  Religion  'of  the 
^e mites,  352  tl;    Buchanan   Gray,   Hebrew  Proper  Names, 

MOLI,  mo  II.     See  Mooli. 

MOLID,  mo'lid  (T^TO,  molidh):  A  Judahite 
(1  Ch  2  29). 

MOLLIFY,  mol'i-fi  (from  -p1},  rakhakh,  "to  be 
soft"):  "To  make  soft,"  used  in  modern  Eng.  only 
figuratively,  as  "His  anger  was  mollified."  EV, 
however,  uses  the  word  lit.  in  its  two  occurrences: 
Isa  1  6,  "wounds,  and  bruises  ....  neither 
bound  up,  neither  mollified  with  oil";  Wisd  16  12, 
"mollifying  plaister."  Neither  occurrence  of  the 
word  is  changed  by  RV. 

MOLOCH,  mo'lok:  A  deity  of  the  Ammonites, 
like  the  planet  Saturn,  a  representative  of  the  sun- 
god  in  the  particular  aspect  of  a  god  of  time.  See 
Astrology,  8;    Molech. 

MOLTEN,  mol't'n,  IMAGE.     See  Images. 

MOLTEN  SEA.     See  Laver. 

MOMDIS,  mom'dis  (A,  Mo^SeCs,  Momdeis,  B, 
MojiSuos,  Momdeios) :   One  of  those  who  had  taken 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Moment 
Money 

"strange  wives"    (1  Esd  9  34)  =  "Maadai"  in  Ezr 
10  34. 

MOMENT,  mo'ment  ("-""),  regha\  "a  wink"; 
aro^os,  dtomos,  "an  atom,"  a-nyy-i),  stigme,  "a 
point,"  rrapavrUa,  parautlka, "immediately,  forth- 
with"'): "Moment"  is  not  used  in  Scripture  for  a 
division  of  time,  hut  for  an  instant  of  time,  as  the 
wink  or  twinkling  of  the  eye  (Ex  33  5;  Nu  16  21 
45-  Lam  4  6;  1  Cor  15  52),  or  for  a  short  period 
of 'time  (Job  20  5;  Ps  30  5;  Isa  26  20;  2  Cor 
4  17).  The  division  of  the  hour  into  sixty  minutes 
was  certainly  known  in  Babylonia,  and  the  Jews 
were  made  acquainted  with  it,  at  least  during  the 
captivity,  but  they  do  not  seem  to  have  adopted  it 
very  extensively.  H.  Porter 

MONEY,  mun'i:  Various  terms  are  used  for 
money  in  the  Bible,  but  the  most  common  are  the 
Heb  003,  keseph,  and  Gr  dp^piov,  argunon,  both 
meaning"  silver.  We  find  also  niPE]?,  k'sltah, 
rendered  by  LXX  "lambs,"  probably  referring  to 
money  in  a  particular  form;  xaXK°s>  cl>al< <cos ,  is 
used  for  money  in  Mt  10  9;  Mk.6  S;  12 i  41  It 
was  the  name  of  a  small  coin  of  Agnppa  11  (Madden, 
Coins  of  the  Jews);  XPW*,  chrema  P™e  is 
rendered  money  in  Acts  4  \\r,  8  18.JU;  Ok  zo, 
Kt'pixa,  kerma,  "piece,"  i.e.  piece  of  money  {JaZ 
15)-  8(8pax(iov,  dldrachmon,  "tribute  money  ^  (Mt 
17  24  AV,  RV  "half-shekel");  ktivo-os,  kensos, 
"census,"  "tribute  money"  (Mt  22  19). 

Gold  and  silver  were  the   common  medium  of 
exchange  in  Syria  and  Pal  in  the  earliest  times  of 
which  we  have  any  historical  record. 
1.  Material   The  period  of  mere  barter  had  passed 
and  Form      before  Abraham.     The  close  connec- 
tion of  the  country  with  the  two  great 
civilized  centers  of  antiquity,  Egypt  and  Babylonia, 
had  led  to  the  introduction  of  a  currency  tor  the 
purposes  of  trade.     We  have  abundant  evidence  ot 
the  use  of  these  metals  in  the  Bib.  records,  and  we 
know  from  the  monuments  that  they  were  used  as 
money  before  the  time  of  Abraham.     The  patriarch 
came  back  from  his  visit  to  Egypt  "rich  in  cattle, 
in  silver,  and  in  gold"  (Gen  13  2).     There  was  no 
system  of  coinage,  but  they  had  these  metals  cast 
in  a  convenient  form  for  use  m  exchange,  such  as 
bars  or  rings,  the  latter  being  a  common  form  and 
often  represented  or  mentioned  on  the  monuments 
of  Egypt.     In  Babylonia  the  more  common  form 
seems  "to  have  been  the  former,  such  as  the  bar,  or 
wedge    that  Achan  found  in  the  sack  of  Jericho 
(Josh  7  21).     This  might  indicate  that  the  pieces 
were  too  large  for  ordinary  use,  but  we  have  indi- 
cations of  the  use  of  small  portions  also  (2  K  12  9; 
Job  42  11).     But  the  pieces  were  not  so  accurately 
divided  as  to  pass  for  money  without  weighing,  as 
we  see  in  the  case  of  the  transaction  between  Abra- 
ham and  the  children  of  Heth  for  the  purchase  of 
the  field  of  Machpelah  (Gen  23).     This  transaction 
indicates  also  the  common  use  of  silver  as  currency, 
for  it  was  "current  money  with  the  merchant,    and 
earlier   than  this  we  have  mention  of  the  use  of 
silver  by  Abraham  as  money:    "He  that  is  born  in 
thy  house  and  he  that  is  bought  with  thy  money 
(Gen  17  13). 

Jewels  of  silver  and  gold  were  probably  made 
to  conform  to  the  shekel  weight,  so  that  they  might 
be  used  for  money  in  case  of  necessity.  Thus 
Abraham's  servant  gave  to  Rebecca  a  gold  ring  of 
half  a  shekel  weight  and  bracelets  of  ten  shekels 
weight  (Gen  24  22).  The  bundles  of  money  car- 
ried by  the  sons  of  Jacob  to  Egpyt  for  the  purchase 
of  corn  (Gen  42  35)  were;  probably  silver  rings  tied 
together  in  bundles.  The  Heb  for  "talent,  kikkar, 
signifies  something  round  or  circular,  suggesting  a 


2076 


rintf  of  this  weight  to  be  used  as  money.  The 
ordinary  term  for  money  was  keseph,  "silver,"  and 
this  word  preceded  by  a  numeral  always  refers  to 
money,  either  with  or  without  "shekel,"  which  we 
are  probably  to  supply  where  it  is  not  expressed 
after  the  numeral,  at  least  wherever  value  is  in- 
volved, as  the  shekel  {shekel)  was  the  standard  of 
value  as  well  as  of  weight  (see  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures). Thus  the  value  of  the  field  of  Ephron  was 
in  shekels,  as  was  also  the  estimation  of  offerings 
for  sacred  purposes  (Lev  5  15;  27,  passim). 
Solomon  purchased  chariots  at  600  (shekels)  each 
and  horses  at  150  (1  K  10  29).  Large  sums  were 
expressed  in  talents,  which  were  a  multiple  of  the 
shekel.  Thus  Menahem  gave  Pul  1,000  talents 
of  silver  (2  K  15  19),  which  was  made  up  by  the 
exaction  of  50  shekels  from  each  rich  man.  _  Heze- 
kiah  paid  tin;  war  indemnity  to  Sennacherib  with 
300  talents  of  silver  and  30  of  gold  (2  K  18  14). 
The  Assyr  account  gives  800  talents  of_  silver,  and 
the  discrepancy  may  not  be  an  error  in  the  Heb 
text,  as  sonic  would  explain  it,  but  probably  a  differ- 
ent kind  of  talent  (see  Madden,  Coins  of  the  Jews, 
4).  Solomon's  revenue  is  stated  in  talents  (1  K  10 
14),  and  the  amount  (066  of  gold)  indicates  that 
money  was  abundant,  for  this  was  in  addition  to 
what  he  obtained  from  the  vassal  states  and  by 
trade.  His  partnership  with  the  Phoenicians  in 
commerce  brought  him  large  amounts  of  the  pre- 
cious  metals,  so  that  silver  was  said  to  have  been 
as  plentiful  in  Jerus  as  stones  (1  K  10  27). 

Besides  the  forms  of  rings  and  bars,  in  which  the 
precious  metals  were  cast  for  commercial  use,  some 
other  forms  were  perhaps  current.  Thus  the  term 
kcsltah  has  been  referred  to  as  used  for  money,  and 
the  "LXX  tr  has  "lambs."  It  is  used  in  Gen  33 
19;  Josh  24  32;  Job  42  11,  and  the  LXX  render- 
ing is  supposed  to  indicate  a  piece  in  the  form  of  a 
lamb  or  stamped  with  a  lamb,  used  at  first  as  a 
weight,  later  the  same  weight  of  the  precious  metals 
being  used  for  money.  We  are  familiar  with  lion 
weights  and  weights  in  the  form  of  bulls  and  geese 
from  the  monuments,  and  it  would  not  be  strange 
to  find  them  in  the  form  of  sheep.  K'sltah  is  cog- 
nate with  the  Arab,  kasat,  which  means  "to  di- 
vide exactly"  or  "justly,"  and  the  noun  kist  means 
"a  portion"  or  "a  measure." 

Another  word  joined  with  silver  in  monetary  use 
is  'aghorah  (rVVOS$),  the  term  being  trd  "a  piece  of 
silver"  in  1  S  2  36.     'Aghorah  is  cognate  with  the 

Arab,  vjrat  (»y>!),  "a  wage,"  and  it  would  seem 
that  the  piece  of  silver  in  this  passage  might  refer 
to  the  same  usage. 

Another  word  used  in  a  similar  way  is  rag,  from 
ragac,  "to  break  in  pieces,"  hence  rac  is  "a  piece' 
or    "fragment   of   silver"   used   as   money.     These 
terms  were  in  use  before  the  introduction  of  coined 
money  and  continued  after  coins  became  common. 

After  the  exile  we  begin   to  find  references  to 
coined  money.     It  was  invented  in  Lydia  or  per- 
haps   in    Aegina.     Herodotus    assigns 
2.  Coined      the  invention  to  the   Lydians    (i.94). 
Money  The  earliest  Lydian  coins  were  struck 

by  Gyges  in  the  7th  cent.  BC.  These 
coins  were  of  efectrum  and  elliptical  in  form, 
smooth  on  the  reverse  but  deeply  stamped  with 
incuse  impressions  on  the  obverse.  They  were 
called  staters,  but  were  of  two  standards;  one  for 
commercial  use  with  the  Babylonians,  weighing 
about  164.4  grains,  and  the  other  of  224  grains  (see 
Madden,  op.  cit.).  Later,  gold  was  coined,  and,  by 
the  time  of  Croesus,  gold  and  silver.  The  Persians 
adopted  the  Lydian  type,  and  coined  both  gold  and 
silver  darics,  the  name  being  derived  from  Darius 
Hystaspis   (521-485  BC)  who  is  reputed  to  have 


2077 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


introduced  the  system  into  his  empire.     But   the 
staters  of  Lydia  were  current  there  under  Cyrus 
(Madden,  op.  cit.),  and  it  was  perhaps  with  these 
that  the  Jews  first  became  acquainted  in  Babylon. 
Ezra  states  (2  69)  that  "they  [the  Jews]  gave  after 
their  ability  into  the  treasury  of  the  work  three- 
score and  one  thousand  darics  [RV]  of  gold,  and 
five  thousand  pounds  of  silver."     The  term  here 
rendered   "daric"  is  darbmonlm,  and  this  word  is 
used    in    three    passages   in    Neh    (7  70-72),    and 
'Mharkonim   occurs  in    1  Ch  29  7  and  Ezr  8  27. 
Both  are  of  the  same  origin  as  the  Gr  drachma, 
probably,  though  some  derive  both  from  Darius  (a 
Phoen  inscription  from  the  Piraeus  tells  us  that 
dartmon  corresponds  to  drachma).     At  all  events 
they  refer  to  the  gold  coins  which  we  know  as  darics. 
The  weight  of  the  daric  was  130  grains,   though 
double  darics  were  struck. 
_  Besides  the  gold  daric  there  was  a  silver  coin 
circulating  in  Persia  that  must  have  been  known  to 
the  Jews.     This  was  the  siglos  (aiyXos),  supposed 
to  be  referred  to  in   Neh  5  15,    where   it   is   trd 
"shekel."  _  These  were  the  so-called  silver  darics, 
20  of   which   were   equivalent   to   the   gold   daric. 
Besides  these  Persian   coins  the  Jews  must  have 
used  others  derived  from  their  intercourse  with  the 
Phoen  cities,  which  were  allowed  to  strike  coins 
under  the  suzerainty  of  the  Persians.     These  coins 
were  of  both  silver  and  bronze,  the  suzerain  not 
permitting  them  to  coin  gold.     We  have  abundant 
examples  of  these  coins  and  trade  must  have  made 
them  familiar  to  the  Jews. 

The  issues  of  Aradus,  Sidon  and  Tyre  were  esp. 
noteworthy,  and  were  of  various  types  and  sizes 
suited  to  the  commercial  transactions  of  the  Phoeni- 
cians.    The    Tyrian    traders    were    established    in 


Coin  of  Aradus. 

Ob.:  Head  of  Dagon. 

Rev. :  Phoenician  galley  and  above  K^f  with  a  numeral  for  date. 

Jerus  as  early  as  the  time  of  Nehemiah  (13  16),  and 
their  coins  date  back  to  about  that  period.  Among 
the  finest  specimens  we  have  of  early  coinage  are 
the  tetradrachms  of  Tyre  and  the  double  shekels 
or  staters  of  Sidon.  The  latter  represent  the  Pers 
king,  on  the  obverse,  as  he  rides  in  his  chariot, 
driven  by  his  charioteer  and  followed  by  an  attend- 
ant.    On  the  reverse  is  a  Phoen  galley.     The  weight 


Coin  of  Sidon. 

Ob. 
Bet 

King  in  his  chariot  with  charioteer. 
..-  Phoenician  galley. 

of  these  coins  is  from  380  to  430  grains,  and  they 
are  assigned  to  the  4th  and  5th  cents.  BC.  From 
Tyre  we  have  a  tetradrachm  which  corresponds  to 
the  shekel  of  the  Phoen  standard  of  about  220 
grams,  which  represents,  on  the  obverse,  the  god 
Melkarth,  the  Tyrian  Hercules,  riding  on  a  sea- 
horse, and,  beneath,  a  dolphin.     The  reverse  bears 


Moment 
Money 


an  owl  with  the  Egyp  crook  and  a  flail,  symbols  of 
Osiris.  The  early  coins  of  Aradus  bear,  on  the 
obverse,  the  head  of  Baal  or  Dagon,  and  on  the 
reverse  a  galley,  above  which  is  the  legend  M.A. 
x,y  in  Phoen  letters  followed  by  a  date.  The  legend 
signifies  "Melek  Aradus,"  i.e.  "king  of  Aradus." 

When  Alexander  overthrew  the  Pers  empire  in 
331  BC,  a  new  coinage,  on  the  Attic  standard, 
was  introduced,  and  the  silver  drachms  and  tetra- 
drachms struck  by  him  circulated  in  large  numbers, 


Coin  of  Alexander  Struck  at  Accho  (Ptolemais). 

Rev.  has  Zeus  on  his  thn.ne  with  mint  mark  >|  o  for  Accho. 

as  is  attested  by  the  large  number  of  examples 
still  in  existence.  After  his  death,  these  coins,  the 
tetradrachms  esp.,  continued  to  be  struck  in  the 
provinces,  with  his  name  and  type,  in  his  honor. 
We  have  examples  of  these  struck  at  Aradus,  Tyre, 
Sidon,  Damascus  and  Acre,  bearing  the  mint  marks 
of  these  towns.  They  bear  on  the  obverse  the 
head  of  Alexander  as  Hercules,  and,  on  the  reverse, 
Zeus  seated  on  his  throne  holding  an  eagle  in  the 
extended  right  hand  and  a  scepter  in  the  left.  The 
legend  is  BA£IAE0)3  AAEEANAPOY,  BASI- 
LEOS  ALEXANDROU,  or  AAEEANAPOY, 
ALEXANDROU,  only,  with  various  symbols  of 
the  towns  or  districts  where  they  were  struck, 
together  with  mint  marks. 

The  successors  of  Alexander  established  kingdoms 
with  a  coinage  of  their  own,  such  as  the  Ptolemies 
in  Egypt  and  the  Seleucids  in  Syria,  and  these 
coins,   as   well   as   those   of   Alexander,   circulated 


Coin  of  Antiochus  rv  of  Syria. 

Ob.:  Head  of  Antiochus  diademed. 

Rev.:  BA2IAEOS    ANTIOXOY   0EOY    Em*ANOY2    NIKH*0- 

HOY;  Zeus  seated  on  his  throne  holding   victory  in  his  right  hand 
and  a  scepter  in  his  left. 

among  the  Jews.  The  Ptolemies  of  Egypt  con- 
trolled Pal  for  about  a  century  after  Alexander, 
and  struck  coins,  not  only  in  Egypt,  but  in  some  of 
the  Phoen  towns,  esp.  at  Acre,  which  was,  from  that 
t  ime,  known  as  Ptolemais.  Their  coins  were  based 
upon  the  Phoen  standard.  But  the  Seleucid  kings 
of  Syria  had  the  most  influence  in  Phoenicia  and 
Pal,  and  their  monetary  issues  are  very  various  and 
widely  distributed,  bearing  the  names  and  types 
of  the  kings,  and  the  symbols  and  mint  marks  of 
t  he  different  towns  where  they  were  struck,  and  are 
on  the  Alexandrine  or  Attic  standard  in  contrast 
to  those  of  the  Ptolemies.  They  are  both  silver 
and  bronze,  gold  being  struck  in  the.  capital, 
Antioch,  usually.  The  coins  of  Antiochus  IV, 
Epiphanes,  are  esp.  interesting  on  account  of  his 
connection  with  Jewish  affairs.  It  was  he  who 
made  the  futile  attempt  to  hellenize  the  Jews,  which 
led  to  the  revolt  that  resulted,  under  his  successors, 


Money 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2078 


Coin  of  Ptolemy 
Soter. 
Rev   (IITOAE)MAIOY 
2I2THP02  around  the 


T> 


tho   left 
(Ptolemi 


in  the  independence  of  the  country  of  Syrian  con- 
trol, and  the  institution  of  a  native  coinage  in  the 
time  of  the  Maccabees. 

The  struggle  caused  by  the  persecution  of  An- 
tiochus  commenced  in  165  BC  and  continued  more 
than  20  years.  Judas,  the  son 
of  Mattathias,  defeated  Antio- 
chus,  who  died  in  164,  but  the 
war  was  continued  by  his  succes- 
sors until  dynastic  dissensions 
among  them  led  to  treaties  with 
the  Jews  to  gain  their  support. 
At  last,  Simon,  who  espoused 
the  cause  of  Demetrius  II,  ob- 
tained from  him,  as  a  reward, 
(lie  right  to  rule  Judaea  under 
the  title  of  high  priest,  with 
practical  independence,  142-148 
BC.  Later  Antiochus  VII,  his 
successor,  confirmed  Simon  in  his 
position  and  added  some  privi- 
leges, and  among  them  the  right  to  coin  money 
(138-139  BC).  Both  silver  and  bronze  coins  exist 
ascribed  to  Simon,  but  some  numismatists  have  re- 
cently doubted  this,  and  have  assigned  them  to 
another  Simon  in  the  time  of  the  first  revolt  of  the 
Jews  under  the  Romans.  The  coins  in  question 
are  the  shekels  and  half-shekels  with  the  legends, 
in  Heb,  shekel  yisra'el  and  y'rushalem  fcdhdshah 
("Jerusalem  the  holy"),  bearing  dates  ranging  from 
the  1st  to  the  5th  year,  as  well  as  bronze  pieces  of 
the  4th  (see  illustrations). 

The  reason  for  denying  the  ascription  of  these 
coins  to  Simon  the  Maccabee  is  the  difficulty  in 
finding  room   for  the  years  indicated  in  his  reign 
which  closed  in  135  BC.     He  received  the  com- 
mission to  coin  in  139-138,  which  would  allow  only 
4  years  for  his  coinage,  whereas  we  have  coins  of  the 
5th  year.     Moreover,  no  shekels  and  half-shekels 
of  any  of  the  Maccabees  later  than  Simon  have 
come  to  light,  which  is,  at  least,  singular  since  we 
should  have  supposed  that  all  would  have  coined 
them  as  long  as  they  remained  independent,  esp. 
since  they  coined  in  bronze,  examples  of  the  latter 
being  quite  abundant.     The  fact  also  that  they 
bore  the  title  of  king,  while  Simon  was  high  priest 
only,  would  seem  to  have  furnished  an  additional 
reason  for  claiming  the  prerogative  of  coinage  in 
silver  as  well  as  bronze.     But  this  argument  is 
negative  only,  and  such  coins  may  have  existed 
but  have  not  come  to  light,  and  there  are  reasons 
which  seem  to  the  present  writer  sufficient  to  assign 
them  to  Simon  the  Maccabee.     In  the  first  place, 
the  chronological  difficulty  is  removed  if  we  con- 
sider that  Simon  was  practically  independent  for 
three  or  four  years  before  he  obtained  the  explicit 
commission   to  coin  money.     We  learn   from  Jos 
(Ant,   XIII,   vi,   7)   and   from  1  Mace  (13  41.42) 
that  in  the  170th  year  of  the  Seleucid  era,  that  is, 
143-142  BC,  the  Jews  began  to  use  the  era  of  Simon 
in    their   contracts   and    public   records.     Now   it 
would  not  have  been  strange  if  Simon,  seeing  the 
anarchy  that  prevailed  in  the  kingdom  of  Syria, 
should  have  assumed  some  prerogatives  of  an  in- 
dependent ruler  before  they  were  distinctly  granted 
to  him,  and  among  them  that  of  coining  money. 
If  he  had  commenced  in  the  latter  part  of  139  BC, 
he  would  have  been  able  to  strike  coins  of  the  5th 
year  before  he  died,  and  this  would  satisfy  the  con- 
ditions  (see  Madden's  Jewish  Coinage).     There  is 
a  difficulty  quite  as  great  in  attributing  these  coins 
to  Simon  of  the  first  revolt  under  the  Romans. 
That  broke  out  in  66  AD,  and  was  suppressed  by 
the  taking  of  Jerus  in  70.     This  would  allow  a  date 
of  the  5th  year,  but  it  is  hardly  supposable  that  in 
the  terrible  distress  and  anarchy  that  orevailed  in 
the  city  during  that  last  year  any  silver  coins  would 


have  been  struck.  There  is  another  fact  bearing 
upon  this  question  which  is  worthy  of  notice.  The 
coins  of  the  first  revolt  bear  personal  appellations, 
such  as  "Elcazar  the  priest,'  and  "Simon,'-  while 
those  assigned  to  Simon  the  Maccabee  bear  no 
personal  designation  whatever.  This  is  significant, 
for  it  is  not  likely  that  Eleazar  and  Simon  would 
have  commenced  coining  silver  shekels  and  half- 
shekels  with  their  names  inscribed  upon  them  in  the 
1st  year  of  their  reign  and  then  have  omitted  them 
on  later  issues.  Another  point  which  has  some 
force  is  this:  We  find  mention,  in  the  NT,  of  money- 
changers in  connection  with  the  temple,  whose 
business  it  was  to  change  the  current  coin,  which 
was  Rom  or  Gr,  and  bore  heathen  types  and  legends, 
for  Jewish  coins,  which  the  strict  Pharisaic  rules 
then  in  force  required  from  worshippers  paying 
money  into  the  temple  treasury.  It  is  inferred 
that  they  could  furnish  the  shekels  and  half-shekels 
required  for  the  yearly  dues  from  every  adult  male 
(cf  Mt  17  24-27).  Now  the  only  shekels  and 
half-shekels  bearing  Jewish  emblems  and  legends, 
at  that  time,  must  have  been  those  issued  by  the 
Maccabean  princes,  that  is,  such  as  we  have  under 
discussion.  In  view  of  these  facts  the  Maccabean 
origin  of  these  pieces  seems  probable. 

The  shekels  under  discussion  have  on  one  side 
a  cup,  or  chalice  (supposed  to  represent  the  pot  of 
manna),  with  the  legend  in  Heb  around  the  margin, 
bX"Tim  bpilj,  shekel  yisra'el,  with  a 
letter  above  the  cup  indicating  the 
year  of  the  reign.  The  reverse  bears 
the  sprig  of  a  plant  (conjectured  to 
be  Aaron's  rod)  having  three  buds 
or  fruits,  and  on  the  margin  the 
legend,  T\mpr\  D^TDYY1 ,  ifrusha- 
lem  ha-kedhoshah,  "Jerusalem  the 
holy."  The  half-shekel  has  the 
same  type,  but  the  reverse  bears  the  legend, 
bpt2  iXn,  hagl  shekel  (half-shekel).  The  letters 
indicating   the   year   have  a   TD   (shenath,   "year") 


Year  3. 


Half-Shekel  tf ,  Year  1,  141  (?  )  BC. 

prefixed,  except  for  the  first.  This  also  omits  the  1 
from  fcdhoshah  and  the  second  ^  from  y'rushalem. 
The  term  "holy"  for  Jerus  is  found  in  Isa  48  2  and 
other  passages  of  the  OT,  and  is  still  preserved  in 
the  Arab,  kudus  by  which  the  city  is  known  today 
in  Svria. 

Copper,  or  bronze,  half-  and  quarter-shekels  are 
also  attributed  to  Simon,  bearing  date  of  the  4th 
year.     The   obverse   of    the    half-shekel   has    two 


Shekel  -Jtj,  Year  4,  138-7  (  ?  )  BC. 

bundles  of  thick-leaved  branches  with  a  citron 
between,  and  on  the  reverse  a  palm  tree  with  two 
baskets  filled  with  fruit.  The  legend  on  the  obverse 
is  iJSn  3?3"1S  TZW.  shenath  'arba*  haci,  "the  fourth 


2079 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Money 


One-fourth  Shekel  but  without 
rebia. 


year  a  half,"  and  on  the  reverse,  1"P£  I"*Xj5  ,  li-ghe- 
'ullath  glydn,  "the  redemption  of  Zion."  The  quarter- 
shekel  lias  a  similar  type,  except  that  the  obverse 
lacks  the  baskets  and  the  reverse  has  the  citron 
only.  The  legend  has  ym,  r'bhla\  "quarter," 
instead  of  "half."  Another  type  is  a  cup  with  a 
margin  of  jewels  on  the  obverse  and  a  single  bunch 
of  branches  with  two  citrons  on  the  reverse. 

The  palm  is  a  very  common  type  on  the  coins  of 
Judaea  and  a  very  appropriate  one,  since  it  is. 
grown  there.  Jericho  was  called  the  city  of  palms. 
The  branches  of 
trees  in  bundles 
illustrate  the 
custom  of  carry- 
ing branches  at 
the  Feast  of 
Tabernacles  and 
the  erection  of 
booths  made  of 
branches  for  use 
during  this  feast  (see  Lev  23  40).  The  baskets 
of  fruit  may  refer  to  the  offerings  of  first-fruits 
(Dt  26  2).  One  of  the  above  series  of  coins  pub- 
lished by  Madden  bears  the  countermark  of  an 
elephant,  which  was  a  symbol  adopted  by  the 
Seleucid  kings,  and  this  is  an  evidence  of  its  early 
date.  But  whatever  doubts  there  may  be  as  to  the 
coins  of  Simon,  there  can  be  none  as  to  those  of  his 
successor,  John  Hyrcanus,  who  reigned  135-106 
BC,  since  they  bear  his  name.  They  are  all  of 
bronze  and  bear  the  following  legend  with  a  great 
number  of  variations,  "QH1  7>"\'\T\  ~T\27\  ]2ffiPP 
DTliTn,  "Johanan  the  high  priest  and  senate  of 
the  Jews."  The  reverse  has  a  two-branched  cor- 
nucopia with  a  poppy  head  rising  from  the  center. 
There  is  some  doubt  as  to  the  meaning  of  the  word 
hebher  O— n)  in  the  above.  It  is  commonly  ren- 
dered "senate,"  taking  it  in  the  sense  it  seems  to 
bear  in  Hos  6  9,  "a 
company"  or  "band," 
here  the  company  of 
elders  representing  the 
people.  Judas  Aristo- 
bulus  (100T105  BC) 
issued  similar  coins 
with  Heb  legends,  but 
with  the  accession  of  Alexander  Jannaeus  (105-78 
BC)  we  find  bilingual  inscriptions  on  the  coins, 
Heb  and  Gr.  The  obverse  bears  the  words 
tfblGn  "jmn*1,  yhonalhan  ha-mdekh,  "Jehona- 
than  the  king,"  and  the  reverse,  BA^IAEQ^ 
AAEIANAPOY,  BASILEOS  ALEXANDROU, 
"King  Alexander."  Most  of  his  coins,  however,  bear 
Heb  inscriptions  only.  All  are  of  copper  or  bronze, 
like  those  of  Hyrcanus  and  Aristobulus,  and  are  of 
the  denomination  known  to  us  in  the  NT  as  "mites," 
weighing  from  25  to  35  grains. 

When  the  Romans  took  possession  of  Pal  in  63 
BC,  the  independent  rule  of  the  Hasmoneans  came 
to  an  end,  but  Pompey  confirmed 
John  Hyrcanus  as  governor  of 
Judaea  under  the  title  of  high 
priest.  Dissensions  between  him 
and  other  members  of  his  family 
called  for  interference  several 
times  on  the  part  of  the  Romans. 
Hyrcanus  was  again  confirmed  by 
Julius  Caesar  in  47  and  continued 
in  authority  until  40.  It  is  un- 
certain what  coins  he  issued,  but 
whatever  they  were,  they  bore  the 
type  found  on  those  of  Alexander  Jannaeus.  In  40 
BC,  the  Parthians  temporarily  overthrew  the  Rom 
authority  iri  Syria  and  Pal,  and  set  Antigonus  on  the 
throne  of  the  latter,  and  he  reigned  until  37.     The 


Mite  of  John  Hyrcanus. 


Rev.  of  a  Coin  of 
Antigonus 

(Bronze). 


Coin  of  the  Herods. 


coins  he  issued  bore  bilingual  inscriptions  like  the 
bilinguals  of  Alexander.  He  calls  himself  Antigonus 
in  Gr,  and  Mattathias  in  Heb,  the  type  being  a 
wreath  on  the  obverse  and  a  double  cornucopia  on 
the  reverse,  though  some  have  it  single.  They  are 
much  heavier  coins  than  the  preceding  issues.  The 
legends  are:  obverse,  BACIAEGOCANTirONOY, 
BASILEOS  ANTIGONOU,  "of  King  Antigonus"; 
reverse  (CHDnVI  b*7."\  frOPI  PPntTa ,  mattithyah 
ha-kohen  gadhol  ha-ifh(udhlm),  "Mattathias  the 
high  priest  of  the  Jews." 

The  Hasmonean  dynasty  ended  with  Antigonus 
and  that  of  the  Herods  followed.  Herod  the  Great 
was  the  first  to  at- 
tain the  title  of 
king,  and  his  coins 
are  numerous  and 
bear  only  G  r  legends 
and  are  all  of 
bronze.  The  earli- 
est have  the  type 
of  a  helmet  with 
cheek  pieces  on  the  obverse  and  the  legend: 
BACIAECOC  HPQAOY,  BASILEOS  HRODOU, 
and  in  the  field  to  the  left  T  (year  3),  and  on  the 
right  the  monogram  .f  .  The  reverse  has  a  Mace- 
donian shield  with  rays.  The  coin  here  illustrated 
is  another  type:  a  rude  tripod  on  the  obverse,  and  a 
cross  within  a  wreath  on  the  reverse,  the  legend 
being  the  same  as  given  above. 

Herod  Archelaus,  who  reigned  from  4  BC  to  6  AD, 
issued  coins  with  the  title  of  ethnarch,  the  only 
coins  of  Pal  to  bear  this  title.  They  are  all  of  small 
size  and  some  of  them  have  the  type  of  a  galley, 
indicating  his  sovereignty  over  some  of  the  coast 
cities,  such  as  Caesarea  and  Joppa. 

The  coins  of  Herod  Antipas  (4  BC-40  AD)  bear 
the  title  of  tetrarch,  many  of  them  being  struck  at 
Tiberias,  which  he  founded  on  the  Sea  of  Galilee 
and  named  after  the  emperor  Tiberius.  The  fol- 
lowing is  an  example:  obverse  HP.  TETP(H- 
PQAOY  TETPAXOY),  HER.  TETR(HERODOU 
TETRACHOU),  with  the  tvpe  of  a  palm  branch; 
reverse,  Tl  BE  PI  AC,  TIBERIAS,  within  a  wreath. 
Others  have  a  palm 
tree  entire  with  the 
date  AT  and  AA:  33 
and  34  of  his  reign, 
29-30  AD.  There  are 
coins  of  Herod  Philip, 
4  BC-34  AD,  though 
somewhat  rare,  but 
those  of  Agrippa,  37-44  AD,  are  numerous,  con- 
sidering the  shortness  of  his  r<  ign.  The  most  com- 
mon type  is  a  small  coin  ("mite")  with  an  um- 
brella having  a  tassel-like 
border,  on  the  obverse,  and 
three  ears  of  wheat  on  one 
stalk  on  the  reverse.  The 
legend  reads :  Basil e  o s 
Agrippa,  and  the  date  is  LS 
(year  6).  Larger  coins  of 
Agrippa  bear  the  head  of 
the  emperor  (Caligula  or 
Claudius)  with  the  title  of 
Sebastos  (Augustus)  in  Gr. 

Agrippa  II   was   the   last  Coin  of  Agrippa. 

ot     the     Herodian     line     to 

strike  coins  (48-100  AD).  They  were  issued  under 
Nero,  whose  head  they  sometimes  bear  with  his 
name  as  well  as  that  of  Agrippa.  They  are  all  of 
the  denomination  of  the  mite  (leptdn). 

In  6  AD,  Judaea  was  made  a  Rom  province  and 
was  governed  by  procurators,  and  their  coins  are 
numerous,  being  issued  during  the  reigns  of  Augus- 


Amieus  Rufus,  13-14  AD. 


Money 
Mordecai 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2080 


66- 


Chalkous  of  Pontius  Pilate 
20-3(5  AD. 


tus,  Tiberius,  Claudius  and  Nero.  They  are  all 
small  and  bear  on  the  obverse  the  legends:  KAI- 
CAPOC  (Caesar),  or  I0YAIA  (Julia),  or  the  em- 
peror's name  joined  with  Caesar.  The  coins  of  the 
Jews  struck  <l'uring  tin;  first  and  second  revolt 
70  AD,  and  132-135 
AD,  have  already 
been  alluded  to  with 
the  difficulty  of  dis- 
tinguishing them, 
and  some  have  been 
described.  They  all 
have  the  types  com- 
mon to  the  purely 
Jewish  issues;  the; 
date  palm,  the  vine,  bunches  of  fruit,  the  laurel  or 
olive  wreath,  the  cup  or  chalice,  the  lyre  and  a 
temple  with  columns.  Types  of  animals  or  men 
they  regarded  as  forbidden  by  their  law.  Most  of 
them  are  bronze,  but  some  are  silver  shekels  and 
half-shekels,  dated  in  the  1st,  2d  and  3d  years,  if 
we  assign  those  of  higher  date  to 
Simon  the  Maccabee.  Those  of 
the  1st  year  bear  the  name  of  Ele- 
azar  the  priest,  on  the  obverse, 
and  on  the  reverse  the  date  "first 
year  of  the  redemption  of  Israel," 

bint)"1  nbswb  r,nx  rzto,  she- 

nath  'ahath  li-ghe'ullath  yiara'el. 

Others  bear  the  name  of  Simon 

and  some  that  of  "Simon  Ac.sV 

Israel"   ("Simon  Prince  of 

Israel").     The  coins  of  the  2d 

and  3d  years  are  rare.     They 

have  the  type  of  the  cup  and  vine  leaf,  or  temple 

and   lulabh.      Those  supposed    to    belong   to   the 

second    revolt  bear  the  name  of  Simon  without 

Nesi'  Israel,  and  are  therefore  assigned  to  Simon 

Bar-Cochba.     The    example    here   given   has   the 

type  of  the  temple  on  the  obverse  with  what  is 


Roman  Coin  Com- 
memorating Victory 
over  the  Jews. 


Shekel,  Simon  Bar-Cochba. 

thought  to  be  a  representation  of  the  "beautiful 
gate,"  between  the  columns,  and  a  star  above. 
The  name  Simon  is  on  the  margin,  the  first  two 
letters  on  the  right  of  the  temple  and  the  others  on 
the  left.  The  legend  of  the  reverse  is:  tmnb 
DbEh""P,  pheruth  yerushalem  ("the  deliverance  of 


Jcrus"). 


Denarius  of  Tiberius. 
"Penny"  AY,   "Shilling"  EV. 

Some  of  the  coins  struck  by  the  Romans  to  com- 
memorate their  victory  over  the  Jews  were  struck 
in  Pal  and  some  at  Rome,  and  all  bear  the  head  of 
the  Rom  emperor  on  the  obverse,  but  the  reverse 
often  exhibits  Judaea  as  a  weeping  captive  woman, 
seated  at  the  foot  of  a  palm  tree  or  of  a  Rom  stand- 


ard bearing  a  trophy.  The  legend  is  sometimes 
Judaea  capla  and  sometimes  Judaea  devicta.  The 
example  given  has  the  inscription  in  Or:  I OYA I  A^ 
EAAQKYIA3,  IOUDIAS  EALOKUIAH,  Judaea 
capta. 

There  are  coins  of  Agrippa  II 
(the  "king  Agrippa"  of  Acts  25, 
26),  struck  in  the  reign  of  Ves- 
pasian, with  his  name  and  title 
on  the  obverse  and  with  a  deity 
on  the  reverse,  holding  ears  of 
wheat  in  the  right  hand  and  a 
cornucopia  in  the  left.  The  in- 
scription reads: 

ETOY  K2BA    ETOU  KSBA 
Am    TTTTA       AGRI  PPA 

(year  26,  King  Agrippa)  in  two  lines. 

After  the  revolt  of  Bar-Cochba  and  the  final  sub- 
jugation  of  the  Jews  by  Hadrian,  Jerus  was  made 
a  Rom  colony  and  the  name  was  changed  to  Aelia 
Capitolina.     A  series  of  coins  was  struck,  having 


Rev.   of  a  Coin  of 
Aelia  Capitolina. 

Type:  a  colonist  driving 
a  yoke  of  oxen  ;  Roman 
standard  behind, 


Coin  of  Tyre. 


Ob.:    Melkarth 


this  title,  which  continued  until  the  reign  of  Vale- 
rianus,  253-200  AD.  These  coins  were  all  of  copper 
or  bronze,  but  silver  pieces  were  in  circulation, 
struck  at  Rome  or  at  some  of  the  more  favored 
towns    in    Syria,    such    as    Antioch.     These    were 


Tetradrachm  of  Augustus  Struck  at  Antioch  (RV  Slater). 


denarii  and  tetradrachms,  the  former  being  about 
one-fourth  the  weight  of  the  latter  which  were 
known  as  staters  (Mt  17  27).  The  piece  referred 
to  was  the  amount  of  tribute  for  two  persons,  and 
as  the  amount  paid  by  one  was  the  half-shekel  (ver 
24),  this  piece  must  have  been  the  equivalent  of  the 
shekel  or  tetradrachm.  H.  Pouter 

MONEY-CHANGERS,  chan'jers  (ko\Xv(3io-t^s, 
kollubisles,  from  koWvPos,  kollubos,  "a  small  coin," 
so  "a  money-changer,"  or  "banker"  [Mt  21  12; 
Mk  11  15;  "changers"  in  Jn  2  15;  cf  ver  14, 
where  Kep^a-run-ris,  kermatistts,  "a  dealer  in  small 
bits,"  or  "change,"  is  also  rendered  "changers"]; 
cf  TpaTTillTr]?,  trapezites,  "one  who  sits  at  a  table," 
"a  money-changer,"  "a  banker"  or  "broker";  one 
who  both  exchanges  money  for  a  small  fee  and  pays 
interest  on  deposits  [Mt  25  27,  AV  "exchangers," 
ARV  "bankers"]):  The  profession  of  money- 
changer in  Pal  was  made  necessary  by  the  law  re- 
quiring every  male  Israelite  who  had  reached  the  age 
of  20  years  to  pay  into  the  treasury  of  the  sanctuary 
a  half-shekel  at  every  numbering  of  the  people, 
an  offering  to  Jeh,  not  even  the  poor  being  exempt. 
It  seems  to  have  become  an  annual  tax,  and  was  to 
be  paid  in  the  regular  Jewish  half-shekel  (Ex  30 
11-15).     Since  the  Jews,  coming  up  to  the  feasts, 


2081 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Money 
Mordecai 


would  need  to  exchange  the  various  coins  in  com- 
mon circulation  for  this  Jewish  piece,  there  were 
money-changers  who  exacted  a  premium  for  the 
exchange.  This  fee  was  a  kollubos  (about  31  cents 
in  U.S.  money),  hence  the  name  kollubisles.  The 
Jews  of  Christ's  day  came  from  many  parts  of  the 
world,  and  the  business  of  exchanging  foreign  coins 
for  various  purposes  became  a  lucrative  one,  the 
exchangers  exacting  whatever  fee  they  might. 
Because  of  their  greed  and  impiety,  Jesus  drove 
them  from  the  courts  of  the  temple. 

Edward  Bagby  Pollard 

MONEY,  CURRENT,  kur'ent  H32P ,  'obher, 
"passing,"  Gen  23  10;  2  K  12  4  [Heb  5]):  The 
text  and  tr  in  2  K  12  4  are  uncertain  and  difficult. 
See  RVm.  The  reference  is  probably  not  to  a 
money  standard,  but  to  a  poll  tax  which  was  levied 
in  addition  to  the  free-will  offering.  Gen  23  16 
implies  the  existence  of  a  standard  shekel  and  also 
probably  the  use  of  the  precious  metals  in  stamped 
bars  or  ingots  of  an  approximately  fixed  weight  or 
value,  a  primitive  coinage.  CH  presupposes  these 
pieces,  and  records  in  cuneiform  writing  discovered 
in  Cappadocia  indicate  that  shekel  pieces  with  a 
seal  stamp  were  in  use  in  Asia  Minor  in  the  time  of 
Hammurabi  (Sayce,  Contemporary  Review,  August, 
1907,  XCII,  259  ff).  The  existence  of  these  pieces 
did  not  do  away  with  the  custom  of  weighing  money, 
a  practice  which  obtained  in  Israel  down  to  the 
time  of  the  exile  (Jer  32  10) 

Walter  R.  Betteridge 

MONEY,  LOVE  OF  (j>i\aPyvPia,  philargurla, 
1  Tim  6  10,  lit.  "love  of  silver";  cf  corresponding 
"lovers  of  money"  [Lk  16  14;  2  Tim  3  2],  equiva- 
lent to  "avarice"):  The  vice  that  seeks  to  retain 
and  hoard  all  that  is  acquired  (Trench,  Synonymes 
of  (he  NT,  xxiv);  described  as  "a  root  of  all  kinds  of 
evil."     See  also  Covetousness. 

MONEY,  SIN.    See  Six  Money;  Sin  Offering. 

MONSTER,  mon'ster.  See  Dragon;  Sea 
Monster. 

MONTH,  munth  (Vyi ,  hodhesh,  ITT;,  yerah; 
\if\v,  men):  Hodhesh  is  strictly  the  "new  moon," 
the  appearance  of  which  marked  the  beginning  of 
the  month,  commonly  indicated  by  ro'sh  ha-hodhesh. 
Ytrah  is  derived  from  ydreah,  "moon,"  which  comes 
from  the  vb.  that  means  "to  wander,"  "to  make  a 
circuit."  Thus  the  month  was  lunar,  the  period 
of  the  moon's  circuit.  The  Gr  men  also  meant 
"moon,"  from  the  Sanskrit  ma,  "to  measure,"  the 
Lat  mensis  and  our  "moon"  being  derived  from  the 
same  root  (see  Calendar;  Time;  Astronomy). 

Hodhesh,  or  rather  ro'sh  ha-hodhesh,  was  observed 
as  a  festival  (1  S  20  5.18.24; 'isa  1  14). 

II.  Porter 

MONTHLY,  munth'li,  PROGNOSTICATORS, 
prog-nos'ti-ka-terz.     Sec  Astrology,  I,  0. 

MONUMENT,  mon'u-ment  (Isa  65  4  AY).  See 
Vault. 

MOOLI,  md'd-ll  (A,  MooXC,  Mooli,  B,  Moo\((, 
Moolei;  AV  Moli):  Son  of  Merari  and  grandson  of 
Levi  (1  Esd  8  47)  =  "Mahli"  in  Ezr  8  18  (see  Ex 
6  16.19). 

MOON,  mcTdn  (TV1,  ydreah;  meaning  obscure 
— probably  "wanderer";  by  some  given  as  "pale- 
ness"; <rtki\vr\,  selene):  The  moon  was  very  early 
worshipped  by  the  nations  of  the  Far  East  as  a 
divinity  or  the  representative  of  one  or  more  deities. 
These  deities  were  both  masculine  and  feminine. 
In  Assyria  and  Babylonia  the  most  common  name 


for  the  moon-god  was  Sin  or  Sen.  In  Babylonia 
he  was  also  called  Aku  and  Nannara.  In  Egypt 
the  moon  was  representative  of  several  deities,  all 
masculine.  The  chief  of  these  was  Thoth  the  god 
of  knowledge,  so  called  because  the  moon  was  the 
measurer  of  time.  Babylonia  has,  also,  Aa,  the 
goddess  of  the  moon,  as  the  consort  of  the  sun, 
while  her  equivalent  was  known  in  Phoenicia  as 
Ashtaroth-karnaim.  This  personification  and  wor- 
ship of  the  moon  among  the  nations  who  were 
neighbors  to  Pal  was  but  part  of  an  elaborate 
Nature-worship  found  among  these  people.  Nor 
was  this  worship  always  separated  from  Pal  by 
geographical  lines.  It  crept  into  the  thought  and 
customs  of  the  Hebrews  ami  in  a  sense  affected  their 
religious  conceptions  and  ceremonies.  They  fell 
into  the  habit  of  making  direct  homage  to  sun, 
moon  and  stars,  as  is  evidenced  by  Job  31  26.27; 
Jer  44  17,  and  even  Isa  3  18  (see  Crescents). 
Moses  seems  to  have  forewarned  his  people  against 
the  danger  of  this  form  of  worship  (Dt  4  19). 

The  actual  worship  of  the  moon  and  the  idolatry 
consequent  thereon  seems  to  have;  touched  the  He- 
brews, though  this  is  disputed  by  sonic.  It  would 
seem  difficult  to  explain  2  K  21  3  upon  any  other 
supposition,  and  in  2  K  23  4.5  we  have  a  clear 
statement  that  Josiah  put  down  the  worship  of  the 
moon  among  the  people  and  silenced  the  priests 
of  this  form  of  worship. 

Certain  forms  of  the  adoration  of  the  moon,  or 
superstitious  fear  of  baneful  influences  as  coming 
from  the  moon,  still  abound  in  some  sections  of  the 
world.  In  fact  in  nearly  all  sections  modified  forms 
of  old  superstitions  still  hold  sway  and  yield  but 
slowly  to  scientific  knowledge. 

The  eclipses  of  the  moon  were  naturally  given  a 
religious  significance  inasmuch  as  the  Heb  knowl- 
edge of  them  did  not  rise  much  above  awe  and 
wonder  (Isa  13  10;  Joel  2  31;  Alt  24  29;  Mk  13 
24).  Other  passages  causing  interference  with  the 
constancy  of  the  moon  to  foreshadow  great  events 
can  be  found  in  Jer  13  16;  Ezk  32  7.S;  Rev  8  12. 
An  interesting  passage  and  most  difficult  of  inter- 
pretation is  Rev  12  1.  It  is  frequently  interpreted 
as  a  revelation  in  symbolism  of  the  glory  of  the 
church  clothed  with  the  light  and  radial  ing  the  truth 
of  God.     See  also  Astronomy;    Astrology. 

C.  E.  Schenk 

MOON,  NEW.  See  Astrology,  I,  6;  Astron- 
omy, I,  3,  (1);  Fasts  and  Feasts. 

MOOSSIAS,  md-os'i-as  (B,  Mooo-ereCas,  Moos- 
seias,  A,  Moos  Sias,  Moos  Sias;  AV  Moosias,  mo- 
6-sI'as) :  One  of  those  who  had  taken  a  "strange 
wife"  (1  Esd  9  31)  =  "Maaseiah"  in  Ezr  10  30. 

MOPH,  mof .     See  Memphis. 

MORALITY,  m&-ral'i-ti.     See  Ethics. 

MORASHTITE,  mo-rash'tit  pnthlBn ,  ha- 
mdrashll;  AV  Morasthite,  mo-ras'thlt) :  Gentilic 
designation  of  the  prophet  Micah  (Jer  26  18;  Mic 
1  1).     See  also  Moresheth-gatii. 

MORDECAI,  mor'de-kl,  mor-dc-ka'I  CPTT5? » 
mordekhay;  Map8oxaios,  MardocJndos):  An  Israel- 
ite of  the  tribe  of  Benjamin,  whose  fate  it  has  been 
to  occupy  a  distinguished  place  in  the  annals  of  his 
people.  His  great-grandfather,  Kish,  had  been 
carried  to  Babylon  along  with  Jeconiah,  king  of 
Judah  (Est  2  5-6).  For  nearly  60  years  before 
the  scenes  narrated  in  Est,  in  which  Mordecai 
was  greatly  concerned,  took  place,  the  way  to  Pal 
had  been  open  to  the  Israelite's;  but  neither  his 
father,  Jair,  nor  afterward  himself  chose  to  return 


Moreh,  Hill  of 
Moses 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


20S2 


to  the  ancient  heritage.  This  seems  to  have  been 
the  case  also  with  the  rest  of  his  house,  as  it  was 
with  the  vast  majority  of  the  Israelitish  people; 
for  his  uncle  died  in  Persia  leaving  his  motherless 
daughter,  Hadassah,  to  the  care  of  Mordecai. 
Employed  in  the  royal  palace  at  Susa,  he  attracted, 
through  the  timely  discovery  of  a  plot  to  assassi- 
nate the  king,  the  favorable  notice  of  Xerxes,  and  in 
a  short  time  became  the  grand  vizier  of  the  Pers 
empire.  He  has  been  believed  by  many  to  have 
been  the  author  of  the  Book  of  Est ;  and  in  the  ear- 
liest known  notice  of  the  Feast  of  Purim,  outside 
of  the  book  just  mentioned,  that  festival  is  closely 
associated  with  his  name.  It  is  called  "the  day  of 
Mordecai"  (2  Mace  15  36).  The  apocryphal  ad- 
ditions to  Est  expatiate  upon  his  greatness,  and 
are  eloquent  of  the  deep  impression  which  his  per- 
sonality and  power  had  made  upon  the  Jewish 
people.  Lord  Arthur  Hervey  has  suggested  the 
identification  of  Mordecai  with  Matacas,  or  Natacas, 
the  powerful  favorite  and  minister  of  Xerxes  who 
is  spoken  of  by  Ctesias,  the  Gr  historian.  Few 
have  done  more  to  earn  a  nation's  lasting  gratitude 
than  Mordecai,  to  whom,  under  God,  the  Jewish 
people  owe  their  preservation.     John  Urquhart 

MOREH,  mo're,  HILL  OF  (rniEn  D^, 
gibhKath  ha-moreh,  "hill  of  the  teacher";  B,  raBaa- 
§a|ia>p&,  Gabaathamord,  A,  tov  Bcojaov  tov  'AB«p,  toil 
bomou  toil  Abor):  The  Heb  moreh  is  derived  from 
the  vb.  ydrdh,  "to  teach,"  "to  direct,"  and  indicates 
one  who  directs,  or  gives  oracular  answers.  We 
might  therefore  read  "hill  of  the  teacher,"  the 
height  being  associated  with  such  a  person  who  had 
his  seat  here.  The  hill  is  named  only  in  describing 
the  position  of  the  Midianites  before  Gideon's 
attack  (Jgs  7  1).  If  the  identification  of  the  Well 
of  Harod  with  '  Ain  Jalud  is  correct,  Gideon  must 
have  occupied  the  slopes  to  the  E.  of  Jezreel.  The 
Midianite  camp  was  in  the  valley  of  Jezreel  (6  33). 
The  Heb  text  in  7  1,  which  has  probably  suffered 
some  corruption,  seems  to  mean  that  the  Midian- 
ites lay  N.  of  the  position  held  by  Gideon,  their  lines 
running  from  the  hill  of  Moreh  in  the  plain.  The 
hill  can  hardly  have  been  other  than  Jebel  ed-Duhy, 
often  called  Little  Hermon,  which  rises  boldly  from 
the  northern  edge  of  the  vale  of  Jezreel,  with 
Shunem  (Solam)  lying  at  its  western  foot.  Moore 
("Judges,"  ICC,  200)  would  lay  the  scene  in  the 
neighborhood  of  Shcchem,  but  there  is  no  good 
reason  to  doubt  the  accuracy  of  the  tradition  which 
places  it  at  the  eastern  end  of  the  plain  of  Es- 
draelon.  W.  Ewing 

MOREH,  OAK  OF  (TVpflQ  fb$,  'elon  moreh, 
"terebinth  of  the  teacher";  ttjv  8pvv  tt)v  v\Jn]\^v, 
tin  drun  ten  hupselen;  AV  Plain  of  Moreh):  It 
seems  probable  that  the  place  here  intended  may 
be  the  same  as  that  mentioned  in  Dt  11  30  ('clone 
moreh,  "terebinths  of  Moreh,"  AV  "plains,"  RV 
"oaks,"  RVm  "terebinths").  Both  are  defined 
as  near  to  Shechem.  The  position  cannot  be  identi- 
fied today.  The  tree  or  trees  were  evidently  a  place 
of  resort  for  those  who  wished  to  consult  a  moreh. 
See  Moreh,  Hill  of.  To  this  day  in  Pal  trees 
are  often  regarded  with  a  certain  religious  awe  as 
the  habitation  of  spirits.  Isolated  terebinths 
receive  much  veneration.  The  present  writer  has 
often  seen  such  trees  with  multitudinous  rags  of  all 
colors  attached  to  them  by  the  peasantry  as  evi- 
dence of  their  homage.     See  Meonenim. 

W.  Ewing 

MORESHETH-GATH,  m5'resh-eth-gath,  mo- 
resh'eth-gath  (P3  fiTlHilD ,  moresheth  gath,  "inherit- 
ance or  possession  of  Gath";  LXX  KX/npovo|iCas  Tt'O, 
kleronomias  Geth):  A  place  mentioned  only  in  Mic 


1  14.  It  must  have  been  in  the  vicinity  of  Gath 
as  the  meaning  of  the  name  would  indicate,  and 
was  the  home  of  the  prophet  Micah  (Mic  1  1; 
Jer  26  18).  It  was  probably  in  the  vicinity  of 
Mareshah  (Mic  1  15).  Jerome,  in  his  preface  to 
his  work  on  Micah,  places  it  a  little  to  the  E.  of 
Eleutheropolis  (Beit  Jibrin),  and  it  would  be  natural 
to  find  it  there  if  the  latter  place  was  Gath  as  some 
think.  Robinson  (BR,  II,  68)  found  ruins  of^  a 
village  between  one  and  two  miles  E.  of  Beit  Jibrin. 
It  must  have  been  among  the  foot-hills  of  Judah 
between  the  hill  country  and  the  Phili  plain  on 
the  route  from  Jerus  to  Lachish,  Gaza  and  Egypt. 
Mareshah  was  certainly  in  that  region,  and  the 
prophecy  of  Micah  mentions  towns  and  villages  in 
the  Shephelah  and  the  Phili  country  as  though 
they  were  familiar  to  him  (see  HGHL  and  G.  A. 
Smith,  "Micah,"  in  his  Minor  Prophets). 

H.  Porter 

MORIAH,  mo-ri'a,  LAND  OF  (H^n  pS , 
'erec  ha-mdriydh;  «ts  t^v  yr\v  tt)v  vvlnjX'/jv,  eis  ten 
gin  ten  hupselin):  Abraham  was  directed  by  God 
to  take  his  son  Isaac,  to  go  into  the  land  of  Moriah, 
and  there  to  offer  him  for  a  burnt  offering  (Gen  22 
2)  upon  a  mountain  which  God  would  show  him. 
This  land  is  mentioned  only  here,  and  there  is  little 
to  guide  us  in  trying  to  identify  it.  A  late  writer 
(2  Ch  3  1)  applies  the  name  of  Moriah  to  the 
mount  on  which  Solomon's  Temple  was  built, 
possibly  associating  it  with  the  sacrifice  of  Isaac. 
A  similar  association  with  this  mountain  may  have 
been  in  the  mind  of  the  writer  of  Gen  22  (see  ver 
14),  who,  of  course,  wrote  long  after  the  events  de- 
scribed (Driver).  But  in  ver  2  no  special  mountain 
is  indicated. 

Abraham  journeyed  from  the  land  of  the  Philis, 
and  on  the  3d  day  he  saw  the  place  afar  off  (ver  4) . 
This  naturally  suggests  some  prominent  mountain 
farther  N.  than  Jerus.  The  description  could 
hardly  apply  to  Jerus  in  any  case,  as  it  could  not  be 
seen  "afar  off"  by  one  approaching  either  from  the 
S.  or  the  W.  The  Samaritans  lay  the  scene  of 
sacrifice  on  Mt.  Gerizim  (q.v.). 

Instead  of  "Moriah"  in  this  passage  Pesh  reads 
"Amorites."  This  suggests  a  possible  emendation 
of  the  text,  which,  if  it  be  accepted,  furnishes  a  more 
definite  idea  of  the  land  within  which  that  mem- 
orable scene  was  enacted.  Both  Jerus  and  Gerizim, 
however,  lay  within  the  boundaries  of  the  land  of 
the  Amorites.  No  doubt  the  enmity  existing  be- 
tween the  Jews  and  the  Samaritans  led  them  each 
to  glorify  their  own  holy  places  to  the  detriment 
of  those  of  their  rivals.  Little  stress  can  therefore 
be  laid  upon  their  identifications.  With  our  present 
knowledge  we  must  be  content  to  leave  the  question 
open.  W.  Ewing 

MORNING,  mor'ning:  There  are  several  Heb 
and  Gr  words  which  are  rendered  "morning,"  the 
most  common  in  Heb  being  "1^2,  boker,  which 
occurs  180 1.  It  properly  means  "the  breaking 
forth  of  the  light,"  "the  dawn,"  as  in  Gen  19  27; 
Jgs  19  8.25.27.  Another  word  with  the  same 
meaning  is  "IflTp,  shahar  (Gen  19  15;  Neh  4  21; 
Isa  58  8).  ^niIJ'52,  mishhar  ("womb  of  the  m.," 
Ps  110  3)  is  a  poetical  term  derived  from  the  same 
root.  See  Hind  of  the  Morning.  ttrO,  nbghah, 
KTO3,  naghhd'  (Dnl  6  19  [Heb  20]),  mean. "bright- 
ness." 0?TpH,  hashkem,  comes  from  D^TpH,  hish- 
kim,  "to  load  an  animal"  (for  a  journey),  and  as 
the  nomads  are  accustomed  to  do  this  early  in  the 
morning  it  came  to  mean  early  morning  (1  S  17 
16).     See  Betimes. 

In  the  NT  6p0pos,  orthros,  is  properly  "dawn,"  and 
is  used  for  early  morning  (Jn  8  2;   Acts  5  21),  and 


2083 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Moreh,  Hill  of 
Moses 


irpwta,  prota,  signifies  the  same  (Mt  27  1).  irpwt, 
prol,  "early,"  is  an  advb.  and  means  early  in  the  m. 
(Mk  1  35).  M.  as  an  adj.  is  6pdpii>6s,  orthrinos  (Rev 
22  16),  or  irpuCvbs,  prolnos  (1  Esd  1  11;  5  50;  Rev 
2  28;   22  16).  H.  Porter 

MORNING  WATCH  ("Iphn  rrnattJX,  'ash- 
moreth  ha-bolcer  [Ex  14  24;    1  S  11  11];   in  Jth  12 

5  for  heothinephulake;  cf  Sir  55  6;  1  Mace  5  30): 
The  last  portion  of  the  night  (see  Watch). 

MORNING,  WINGS  OF.    See  Astronomy,  I,  4, 

MORROW,  mor'o,  TOMORROW,  too-mor'o: 
Two  words  are  used  in  the  OT  in  this  meaning: 
1£3,  baker,  which  properly  means  "dawn,"  or 
"morning,"  and  "inp,  mahar,  properly  the  same,  but 
used  for  the  next  morning  and  hence  "tomorrow," 
like  the  Ger.  morgen.  The  derivative  FHnp,  mo- 
hdralh,  is  "the  following  day,"  "all  the  next  day," 
esp.  after  ybm  ("day"),  but  usually  coupled  witli 
a  noun  following,  as  in  Lev  23  li,  mohorath  ha- 
shabbath,  "day  after  the  Sabbath."  It  is' also  used 
adverbially  for  "on  the  morrow,"  as  in  Gen  19  34. 

In  the  Gr  of  the  NT  we  find  atipiop,  aurion  (Mt 

6  34,  etc),  commonly  used,  but  e£?}s,  hexts,  also 
occurs  (Acts  25  17  AY,  where  RV  renders  more 
exactly  "the  next  day");  tiravpiov,  epaurion,  is  "on 
the  morrow"  (Acts  10  9.23.24).  H.  Porter 

MORROW  AFTER   THE    SABBATH   (nnnp , 

mohorath,  or  DlTHrTp,  mohdratham,  "the  morroV," 
or  "t  omorrow,"  "the  day  following" ;  n212Jn  rnnp , 
mohdrath  ha-shabbath,  "the  day  after  the  Sabbath'" 
i.e.  the  first  day  of  the  week):  The  first  day  of  the 
week  was  designated  for  the  formal  offering  of  the 
first-fruits  in  the  form  of  wave-sheaves  (Lev  23  11), 
and  of  the  wave-loaves  50  days  later  (Lev  23  16. 
17).  This  recognition  of  an  after-Sabbath  during 
festive  periods  has  its  counterpart  in  the  later 
ecclesiastical  practice  of  celebrating  not  only  Easter 
Sunday,  but  also  Easter  Monday,  etc,  and  un- 
doubtedly was  a  factor  in  establishing  the  custom 
which  transferred  the  sanctity  of  the  Sabbath  to 
the  first  day  of  the  week  after  the  resurrection  of 
Our  Lord.  Frank  E.  Hirsch 

MORSEL,  mor'sel  (Ppwris,  brosis):  Found  only 
in  He  12  16  AV,  "For  one  morsel  of  meat  [RV 
"mess  of  meat"]  sold  his  birthright,"  lit.  "for  one 
eating,"  i.e.  one  meal.  The  Great  Bible  (Cran- 
mer's)  has  "for  one  mease  of  meat." 

MORTAL,  mor'tal,  MORTALITY,  mor-tal'i-ti 
(0vt]t6s,  thnetos,  to  8vt]t6v,  to  thnetdn) :  The  mean- 
ing is  "subject  to  death  (Rom  6  12;  8  11;  1  Cor 
15  53.54;  in  2  Cor  5  4  RV  has  "what  is  mortal"). 
In  Job  4  17,  the  Heb  word  is  'enosh,  "mortal  man." 
See  Immortal. 

MORTAR,  mor'ter  (HDl^,  vi'dhokhah  [Nu  11 
8],  lDI-Qp ,  makhtesh  [Prov  27  22]) :  A  hollowed 
stone  or  vessel  in  which  grain  or  other  substance 
was  pounded  or  beaten  with  a  pestle.  The  Israel- 
ites used  a  mortar  in  which  to  beat  the  manna  in  the 
wilderness  (Nu  11  8),  and  Prov  27  22  declares, 
"Though  thou  shouldst  bray  a  fool  in  a  mortar  with 
a  pestle  ....  yet  will  not  his  foolishness  depart 
from  him,"  i.e.  it  is  inherent  and  ineradicable. 
Some  have  supposed  an  allusion  to  an  oriental  mode 
of  punishment  by  pounding  the  criminal  to  death 
in  a  mortar,  but  this  is  unlikely.  In  illustration  of 
Prov  27  22  such  proverbs  are  quoted  as  "Though 
you  beat  that  loose  woman  in  a  mortar,  she  will  not 
leave  her  ways."  See  also  Bray.  For  "mortar" 
(AV  "morter")  see  Bitumen.  James  Orr 


MORTGAGE,  mor'gaj  (2^,  \lrabh):  To  give 
or  be  security  as  a  part  of  bartering,  give  pledges, 
become  surety.  In  time  of  great  need  for  food, 
"Some  also  there  were  that  said,  We  are  mortgaging 
[AV  "have  mortgaged"]  our  fields,"  etc  (Nch  5  3). 
See  Surety. 

MORTIFY,  mor'ti-fi  (Rom  8  13  AV  and  ERV, 
0avaT6a>,  thanatoo,  ERVm  "make  to  die,"  and  Col 
3  5,  v€Kp6w,  nekrob,  ERVm  "make  dead"):  This 
sense  of  mortify  is  obsolete  in  modern  Eng.,  and 
ARV  in  both  places  substitutes  "put  to  death," 
with  great  advantage.  The  context  in  both  pas- 
sages goes  to  the  heart  of  St.  Paul's  doctrine  of  the 
union  of  the  believer  with  Christ.  This  union  has 
given  the  soul  a  new  life,  flowing  (through  the 
Spirit)  from  Christ  in  the  heavenly  world,  so  that 
the  remnants  of  the  old  corrupt  life-principle  are 
now  dangerous  excrescences.  Hence  they  are  to  be 
destroyed,  just  as  a  surgeon  removes  the  remnants 
of  a  diseased  condition  after  the  reestablishmenl  of 
healthy  circulation.  The  interpreter  must  guard 
against  weakening  St.  Paul's  language  into  some 
such  phrase  as  "subdue  all  that  is  inconsistent  with 
the  highest  ideals,"  for  St.  Paul  views  the  union 
with  Christ  as  an  intensely  real,  quasi-physical  re- 
lation. Burton  Scott  Easton 

MOSERAH,  mo-se'ra,  mo'sC-ra  (rnOTa,  mb- 
serah,  "bond"):  Perhaps  Moser  with  He' locale,  "to 
Moser"  (Dt  10  6).     See  Moseroth. 

MOSEROTH,  mo-se'roth,  mo'se-roth,  -roth 
(mpi2  ,  moseroth,  "bonds"):  A  desert  camp  of  the 
Israelites  between  Hashmonahand  Bene-jaakan  (Nu 
33  30.31).  It  is  probably  the  same  as  Moserah 
(Dt  10  6),  though  in  that  passage  the  name  follows 
Bene-jaakan.  There  Aaron  died  and  was  buried. 
See  Wanderings  of  Israel. 

MOSES,  mo'zez,  mo'ziz  (TVtD'Q,  mosheh;  Egyp  ?ncs, 
"drawn  out,"  "born";  LXX  Mo>u<rfj[s],  Mousi[s]): 
The  great  Heb  national  hero,  leader,  author,  law- 
giver and  prophet. 
I.    Life 

1.  Son  of  Levi 

2.  Foundling  Prince 

3.  Friend  of  the  People 

4.  Refuge  in  Midian 

5.  Leader  of  Israel 

II.     Work  and  Character 

1.  The  Author 

2.  The  Lawgiver 

3.  The  Prophet 
Literature 

The  traditional  view  of  the  Jewish  church  and  of 
the  Christian  church,  that  M.  was  a  person  and 
that  the  narrative  with  which  his  life-story  is  inter- 
woven is  real  history,  is  in  the  main  sustained  by 
commentators  and  critics  of  all  classes. 

It  is  needless  to  mention  the  old  writers  among  whom 
these  questions  were  hardly  under  discussion.  Among 
the  advocates  of  the  current  radical  criticism  may  be 
mentioned  Stade  and  Renan,  who  minimize  the  his- 
toricity of  the  Bible  narrative  at  this  point.  Renan 
thinks  the  narrative  "may  be  very  probable."  Ewald, 
AYellhausen,  Robertson  Smith,  and  Driver,  while  find- 
ing many  flaws  in  the  story,  make  much  generally  of  the 
historicity  of  the  narrative. 

The  critical  analysis  of  the  Pent  divides  this  life-story 
of  M.  into  three  main  parts,  J,  E,  and  P,  with  a  fourth, 
D,  made  up  mainly  from  the  others.  Also  some  small 
portions  here  and  there  are  given  to  R,  esp.  the  account 
of  Aaron's  part  in  the  plagues  of  Egypt,  where  his  pres- 
ence in  a  J-document  is  very  troublesome  for  the  analyti- 
cal theory.  It  is  unnecessary  to  encumber  t  his  biography 
with  constant  cross-references  to  the  strange  story  of  M. 
pieced  together  out  of  the  rearranged  fragments  into 
which  the  critical  analysis  of  the  Pent  breaks  up  the 
narrative.  It  is  recognized  that  there  arc;  difficulties 
in  the  story  of  M.  In  what  ancient  life-story  are  there 
not  difficulties?  If  we  can  conceive  of  the  ancients 
being  obliged  to  ponder  over  a  modern  life-story,  we  can 
easily  believe  that  they  would  have  still  more  difficulty 
with  it.     But  it  seems  to  very  many  that  the  critical 


Moses 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2084 


analysis  creates  more  difficulties  in  the  narrative  than 
it  relieves.  It  is  a  little  thins  to  explain  by  such  analy- 
sis some  apparent  discrepancy  between  two  laws  or  two 
events  or  two  similar  incidents  which  we  do  not  clearly 
understand.  It  is  a  far  greater  tiling  so  to  confuse,  by 
rearranging,  a  beautiful,  well-articulated  biography  that 
it  becomes  disconnected — indeed,  in  parts,  scarcely  makes 
sense. 

The  biographical  narrative  of  the  Heb  national 
hero,  M.,  is  a  continuous  thread  of  history  in  the 
Pent.  That  story  in  all  its  simplicity  and  sym- 
metry, but  with  acknowledgment  of  its  difficulties 
as  they  arise,  is  here  to  be  followed. 

/.  Life. — The  recorded  story  of  Moses'  life  falls 

naturally   into   five   rather   unequal   parts:     "And 

there  went  a  man  of  the  house  of  Levi, 

1.  Son  of  and  took  to  wife  a  daughter  of  Levi" 
Levi  (Ex  2  1).     The  son  of  Levi  born  of 

that  union  became  the  greatest  man 
among  mere  men  in  the  whole  history  of  the  world. 
How  far  he  was  removed  in  genealogy  from  Levi 
it  is  impossible  to  know. 

The  genealogical  lists  (Gen  46  11;  Ex  6  1G-20;  Nu 
3  14-2S;  26  57-59;  1  Ch  6  1-3)  show  only  4  genera- 
tions from  Levi  to  M.,  while  the  account  given  of  the 
numbers  of  Israel  at  the  exodus  (Ex  12  37;  38  20; 
Nu  1  46;  11  21)  imperatively  demand  at  least  10  or 
12  generations.  The  males  alone  of  the  sons  of  Kohath 
"from  a  month  old  and  upward"  numbered  at  Sinai 
8,()00  (Nu  3  27.28).  It  is  evident  that  the  extract  from 
the  genealogy  here,  as  in  many  other  places  (1  Ch  23 
15  f;  26  24;  Ezr  7  1-5;  8  1.2;  cf  1  Ch  6  3-14;  Mt 
1  1-17;  Lk  3  23-38)  is  not  complete,  but  follows  the 
common  method  of  giving  important  heads  of  families. 
The  statement  concerning  Jochebed :  "  And  she  bare  unto 
Amram  Aaron  and  Moses,  and  Miriam  their  sister" 
(Nu  26  59)  really  creates  no  difficulty,  as  it  is  likewise 
said  of  Zilpah,  after  the  mention  of  her  grandsons,  "  And 
these  she  bare  unto  Jacob"  (Gen  46  17.18;  cf  46  24.25). 

The  names  of  the  immediate  father  and  mother 
of  M.  are  not  certainly  known.  The  mother  "saw 
him  that  he  was  a  goodly  child"  (Ex  2  2).  So  they 
defied  the  commandment  of  the  king  (Ex  1  22),  and 
for  3  months  hid  him  instead  of  throwing  him  into 
the  river. 

The   time  soon   came   when  it  was  impossible 

longer  to  hide  the  child   (Jos,    Ant,  II,  ix,  3-6). 

The    mother    resolved    upon    a    plan 

2.  Found-  which  was  at  once  a  pathetic  imitation 
ling  Prince    of  obedience  to  the  commandment  of 

the  king,  an  adroit  appeal  to  womanly 
sympathy,  and,  if  it  succeeded,  a  subtle  scheme  to 
bring  the  cruelty  of  the  king  home  to  his  own  atten- 
tion. Her  faith  succeeded.  She  took  an  ark  of 
bulrushes  (Ex  2  3.4;  cf  Ark  of  Bitluushes), 
daubed  it  with  bitumen  mixed  with  the  sticky  slime 
of  the  river,  placed  in  this  floating  vessel  the  child 
of  her  love  and  faith,  and  put  it  into  the  river  at  a 
place  among  the  sedge  in  the  shallow  water  where 
the  royal  ladies  from  the  palace  would  be  likely  to 
come  down  to  bathe.  A  sister,  probably  Miriam, 
stood  afar  off  to  watch  (Ex  2  3.4).  The  daughter 
of  Pharaoh  came  down  with  her  great  ladies  to  the 
river  (Ex  2  5-10).  The  princess  saw  the  ark 
among  the  sedge  and  sent  a  maid  to  fetch  it.  The 
expectation  of  the  mother  was  not  disappointed. 
The  womanly  sympathy  of  the  princess  was  touched. 
She  resolved  to  save  this  child  by  adopting  him. 
Through  the  intervention  of  the  watching  sister, 
he  was  given  to  his  own  mother  to  be  nursed  (Ex 
2  7-9).  "And  the  child  grew,  and  she  brought 
him  unto  Pharaoh's  daughter,  and  he  became  her 
son"  (Ex  2  10).  Thus  he  would  receive  her  family 
name. 

Royal  familv  names  in  Egypt  then  were  usually  com- 
pounded of  some  expression  of  reverence  or  faith  or  sub- 
mission and  the  name  of  a  god,  e.g.  "loved  of,"  "chosen 
of,"  "born  of,"  Thoth,  Ptah,  Ra  or  Amon.  At  this 
period  of  Egyp  history,  "born  of"  (Egyp  mes,  "drawn 
out")  was  joined  sometimes  to  Ah,  the  name  of  the 
moon-god,  making  Ahmes,  or  Thoth,  the  scribe-god,  so 
Thothmes,  but  usually  with  Ra,  the  sun-god,  giving 
Rames,  usually  anglicized  Rameses  or  Ramoses. 


It  was  the  time  of  the  Ramesside  dynasty,  and 
the  king  on  the  throne  was  Rameses  II.  Thus  the 
foundling  adopted  by  Pharaoh's  daughter  would 
have  the  family  name  Ales  or  Moses.  That  it 
would  be  joined  in  t  lie  Egyp  to  the  name  of  the  sun- 
god  Ra  is  practically  certain.  His  name  at  court 
would  be  Ramoses.  But  to  the  oriental  mind  a 
name  must  mean  something.  The  usual  meaning 
of  this  royal  name  was  that  the  child  was  "born  of" 
a  princess  through  the  intervention  of  the  god  Ra. 
But  this  child  was  not  "born  of"  the  princess,  so 
falling  back  upon  the  primary  meaning  of  the  word, 
"drawn  out,"  she  said,  "because  I  drew  him  out  of 
the  water"  (Ex  2  10).  Thus  Moses  received  his 
name.  Pharaoh's  daughter  may  have  been  the 
eldest  daughter  of  Rameses  II,  but  more  probably 
was  the  daughter  and  eldest  child  of  Seti  Merenptah 

I,  and  sister  of  the  king  on  the  throne.  She  would 
be  lineal  heir  to  the  crown  but  debarred  by  her  sex. 
Instead,  she  bore  the  title  "Pharaoh's  Daughter," 
and,  according  to  Egyp  custom,  retained  the  right 
to  the  crown  for  her  first-born  son.  A  not  improb- 
able tradition  (Jos,  Ant,  II,  ix,  7)  relates  that  she 
had  no  natural  son,  and  Moses  thus  became  heir 
to  the  throne,  not  with  the  right  to  supplant  the 
reigning  Pharaoh,  but  to  supersede  any  of  his  sons. 

Very  little  is  known  of  Aloses'  youth  and  early 
manhood  at  the  court  of  Pharaoh.  He  would  cer- 
tainly be  educated  as  a  prince,  whose  right_  it 
probably  was  to  be  initiated  into  the  mysteries. 
Thus  he  was  "instructed  in  all  the  wisdom  of  the 
Egyptians"  (Acts  7  22),  included  in  which,  accord- 
ing to  many  Egyptologists,  was  the  doctrine  of  one 
Supreme  God. 

Many  curious  things,  whose  value  is  doubtful,  are 
told  of  M.  by  Jos  and  other  ancient  writers  (Jos,   Ant, 

II,  ix,  3;  xi;  CAp,  I,  31;  cf  DB;  for  Mohammedan 
legends,  see  Palmer,  The  Desert  of  the  Exodus,  Appen- 
dix; for  rabbinical  legends,  see  Jew  Enc).  Some  of  these 
traditions  are  not  incredible  but  lack  authentication. 
Others  are  absurd.  Egyptologists  have  searched  with 
very  indifferent  success  for  some  notice  of  the  great 
Hebrew  at  the  Egyp  court. 

But   the   faith    of    which    the   Ep.    to    the    He 

speaks  (He  11  23-28)  was  at  work.    Moses  "refused 

to    be    called    the    son    of    Pharaoh's 

3.  Friend  daughter"  (Ex  2  11-14;  Acts  7  24). 
of  the  Whether  he  did  so  in  word,  by  definite 
People           renunciation,  or  by  his  espousal  of  the 

cause  of  the  slave  against  the  oppress- 
ive policy  of  Pharaoh  is  of  little  importance.  In 
either  case  he  became  practically  a  traitor,  and 
greatly  imperiled  his  throne  rights  and  probably  his 
civil  rights  as  well.  During  some  intervention  to 
ameliorate  the  condition  of  the  state  slaves,  an 
altercation  arose  and  he  slew  an  Egyptian  (Ex  2 
11.12).  Thus  his  constructive  treason  became  an 
overt  act.  Discovering  through  the  ungrateful 
reproaches  of  his  own  kinsmen  (Acts  7  25)  that  his 
act  was  known,  he  quickly  made  decision,  "choosing 
rather  to  share  ill  treatment  with  the  people _  of 
God,"  casting  in  his  lot  with  slaves  of  the  empire, 
rather  than  "to  enjoy  the  pleasures  of  sin  for  a 
season,"  amid  the  riotous  living  of  the  young  princes 
at  the  Egyp  court;  "accounting  the  reproach  of 
Christ"  his  humiliation,  being  accounted  a  nobody 
("Can  any  good  thing  come  out  of  Nazareth?") 
as  "greater  riches  than  the  treasures  of  Egypt" 
(He  11  25.26;  Acts  7  25-28).  He  thought  to  be  a 
nobody  and  do  right  better  than  to  be  a  tyrant  and 
rule  Egypt. 

M.  fled,  "not  fearing  the  wrath  of  the  king"  (He 

11  27),  not  cringing  before  it  or  submitting  to  it, 

but  defying  it  and  braving  all  that  it 

4.  Refuge  could  bring  upon  him,  degradation 
in  Midian      from   his   high   position,    deprivation 

of  the  privileges  and  comforts  of  the 
Egyp  court.     He  went  out  a  poor  wanderer  (Ex 


2085 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Moses 


2  15).  We  arc  told  nothing  of  the  escape  and  the 
journey,  how  he  eluded  the  vigilance  of  the  court 
guards  and  of  the  frontier-line  of  sentinels.  The 
friend  of  slaves  is  strangely  safe  while  within  their 
territory.  At  last  he  reached  the  Sinaitic  province 
of  the  empire  and  hid  himself  away  among  its 
mountain  fastnesses  (Ex  2  15).  The  romance  of 
the  well  and  the  shepherdesses  and  the  grateful 
father  and  the  future  wife  is  all  quite  in  accord  with 
the  simplicity  of  desert  life  (Ex  2  16-22).  The 
"Egyptian"  saw  the  rude,  selfish  herdsmen  of  the 
desert  imposing  upon  the  helpless  shepherd  girls, 
and,  partly  by  the  authority  of  a  manly  man,  partly, 
doubtless,  by  the  authority  of  his  Egyp  appearance 
in  an  age  when  "Egypt"  was  a  word  with  which  to 
frighten  men  in  all  that  part  of  the  world,  he  com- 
pelled them  to  give  way.  The  "Egyptian"  was 
called,  thanked,  given  a  home  and  eventually  a 
wife.  There  in  Midian,  while  the  anguish  of  Israel 
continued  under  the  taskmaster's  lash,  and  the 
weakening  of  Israel's  strength  by  the  destruction 
of  the  male  children  went  on,  with  what  more  or 
less  rigor  we  know  not,  M.  was  left  by  Providence 
to  mellow  and  mature,  that  the  haughty,  impetuous 
prince,  "instructed  in  all  the  wisdom  of  the  Egyp- 
tians," might  be  transformed  into  the  wise,  well- 
poised,  masterful  leader,  statesman,  lawgiver,  poet 
and  prophet.  God  usually  prepares  His  great  ones 
in  the  countryside  or  about  some  of  the  quiet 
places  of  earth,  farthest  away  from  the  busy  haunts 
of  men  and  nearest  to  the  "secret  place  of  the  Most 
High."  David_  keeping  his  father's  flocks,  Elijah 
on  the  mountain  slopes  of  Gilead,  the  Baptist  in 
the  wilderness  of  Judaea,  Jesus  in  the  shop  of  a 
Galilean  carpenter;  so  M.  a  shepherd  in  the  Bedouin 
country,  in  the  "waste,  howling  wilderness." 

(1)  The  commission. — One  day  Moses  led  the  flocks 
to  "the  back  of  the  wilderness"   (Ex  3  1-12;   see 

Burning  Bush).  M.  received  his  com- 
5.  Leader  mission,  the  most  appalling  commis- 
of  Israel         sion  ever  given  to  a  mere  man  (Ex  3 

10) — a  commission  to  a  solitary  man, 
and  he  a  refugee — to  go  back  home  and  deliver 
his  kinsmen  from  a  dreadful  slavery  at  the  hand  of 
the  most  powerful  nation  on  earth.  Let  not  those 
who  halt  and  stumble  over  the  little  difficulties  of 
most  ordinary  lives  think  hardly  of  the  faltering  of 
Moses'  faith  before  such  a  task  (Ex  3  11-13;  4 
1.10-13).  "Thus  shalt  thou  say  unto  the  children 
of  Israel,  I  Am  hath  sent  me  unto  you"  (Ex  3  14), 
was  the  encouragement  God  gave  him.  He  gave 
him  also  Aaron  for  a  spokesman  (Ex  4  14-1G),  the 
return  to  the  Mount  of  God  as  a  sign  (Ex  3  12), 
and  the  rod  of  power  for  working  wonders  (Ex 
4  17). 

One  of  the  curious  necessities  into  which  the  critical 
analysis  drives  its  advocates  is  the  opinion  concerning 
Aaron  that  "he  scarcely  seems  to  have  been  a  brother 
and  almost  equal  partner  of  Moses,  perhaps  not  even  a 
priest"  (Bennett,  HDB,  III,  441).  Interesting  and  curious 
speculations  have  been  instituted  concerning  the  way 
in  which  Israel  and  csp.  Pharaoh  were  to  understand  the 
message,  "I  AM  hath  sent  me  unto  you"  (Ex  3  13.14; 
cf  6  3).  They  were  evidently  expected  to  understand 
this  message.  Were  they  to  so  do  by  translating  or  by 
transliterating  it  into  Egyptian  ?  Some  day  Egyp- 
tologists may  be  able  to  answer  positively,  but  not  yet. 

With  the  signs  for  identification  (Ex  4  1-10),  M. 
was  ready'  for  his  mission.  He  went  down  from 
the  "holy  ground"  to  obey  the  high  summons  and 
fulfil  the  great  commission  (Ex  4  1S-23).  After 
the  perplexing  controversy  with  his  wife,  a  contro- 
versy of  stormy  ending  (Ex  4  24-26),  he  seems  to 
have  left  his  family  to  his  father-in-law's  care  while 
he  went  to  respond  to  the  call  of  God  (Ex  18  6). 
He  met  Aaron,  his  brother,  at  the  Mount  of  God 
(Ex  4  27.28),-  and  together  they  returned  to  Egypt 
to  collect  the;  elders  of  Israel  (Ex  4  29-31),  who 
were  easily  won  over  to  the  scheme  of  emancipa- 


tion. Was  ever  a  slave  people  not  ready  to  listen 
to  plans  for  freedom? 

(2)  The  conflict  with  Pharaoh. — The  next  move 
was  the  bold  request  to  the  king  to  allow  the  people 
to  go  into  the  wilderness  to  hold  a  feast  unto  Jeh 
(Ex  5  1).  How  did  Moses  gain  admittance  past 
the  jealous  guards  of  an  Egyp  court  to  the  presence 
of  the  Pharaoh  himself?  And  why  was  not  the 
former  traitorous  refugee  at  once  arrested?  Egyp- 
tology affords  a  not  too  distinct  answer.     Rameses 

11  was  dead  (Ex  4  19);  Merenptah  II  was  on  the 
throne  with  an  insecure  tenure,  for  the  times  were 
troublous.  Did  some  remember  the  "son  of 
Pharaoh's  daughter"  who,  had  he  remained  loyal, 
would  have  been  the  Pharaoh?  Probably  so.  Thus 
he  would  gain  admittance,  and  thus,  too,  in  the 
precarious  condition  of  the  throne,  it  might  well 
not  be  safe  to  molest  him.  The  original  form  of 
the  request  made  to  the  king,  witli  some  slight 
modification,  was  continued  throughout  (Ex  8  27; 
10  9),  though  God  promised  that  the  Egyptians 
should  thrust  them  out  altogether  when  the  end 
should  come,  and  it  was  so  (Ex  11  1 ;  12  31.33.39). 
Yet  Pharaoh  remembered  the  form  of  their  request 
and  bestirred  himself  when  it  was  reported  that 
they  had  indeed  gone  "from  serving"  them  (Ex 
14  5).  The  request  for  temporary  departure  upon 
which  the  contest  was  made  put  Pharaoh's  call  to 
duty  in  the  easiest  form  and  thus,  also,  his  obsti- 
nacy appears  as  the  greater  heinousness.  Then 
came  the  challenge  of  Pharaoh  in  his  contemptuous 
demand,  "Who  is  Jeh?"  (Ex  5  2),  and  Moses' 
prompt  acceptance  of  the  challenge,  in  the  begin- 
ning of  the  long  series  of  plagues  (see  Plagues) 
(Ex  8  Iff;  12  29-36;  14  31;  cf  Lamb,  Miracle 
of  Science).  Pharaoh,  having  made  the  issue,  was 
justly  required  to  afford  full  presentation  of  it. 
So  Pharaoh's  heart  was  "hardened"  (Ex  4  21; 
7  3.13;  9  12.35;  10  1;  14  8;  see  Plagues)  until 
the  vindication  of  Jeh  as  God  of  all  the  earth  was 
complete.  This  proving  of  Jeh  was  so  conducted 
that  the  gods  of  Egypt  were  shown  to  be  of  no  avail 
against  Him,  but  that  He  is  God  of  all  the  earth, 
and  until  the  faith  of  the  people  of  Israel  was  con- 
firmed (Ex  14  31). 

(3)  Institution  of  the  Passover. — It  was  now  time 
for  the  next  step  in  revelation  (Ex  12;  13  1-16). 
At  the  burning  bush  God  had  declared  His  purpose 
to  be  a  saviour,  not  a  destroyer.  In  this  contest 
in  Egypt,  His  absolute  sovereignty  was  being  es- 
tablished; and  now  the  method  of  deliverance  by 
Him,  that  He  might  not  be  a  destroyer,  was  to  be 
revealed.  M.  called  together  the  elders  (Ex  12 
21-28)  and  instituted  the  Passover  feast.  As  God 
always  in  revelation  chooses  the  known  and  the 
familiar — the  tree,  the  bow,  circumcision,  baptism, 
and  the  Supper — by  which  to  convey  the  unknown, 
so  the  Passover  was  a  combination  of  the  household 
feast  with  the  widespread  idea  of  safety  through 
blood-sacrifice,  which,  however  it  may  have  come 
into  the  world,  was  not  new  at  that  time.  Some 
think  there  is  evidence  of  an  old  Scm  festival  at 
that  season  which  was  utilized  for  the  institution  of 
the  Passover. 

The  lamb  was  chosen  and  its  use  was  kept  up 
(Ex  12  3-6).  On  the  appointed  night  it  was  killed 
and  "roasted  with  fire"  and  eaten  with  bitter  herbs 
(Ex  12  8),  while  they  all  stood  ready  girded,  with 
their  shoes  on  their  feet  and  their  staff  in  hand  (Ex 

12  11).  They  ate  in  safety  and  in  hope,  because 
the  blood  of  the  lamb  was  on  the  door  (Ex  12  23). 
That  night  the  firstborn  of  Egypt  were  slain. 
Among  the  Egyptians  "there  was  not  a  house  where 
there  was  not  one  dead"  (Ex  12  30),  from  the  house 
of  the  maid-servant,  who  sat  with  her  handmill 
before  her',  to  the  palace  of  the  king  that  "sat  on  the 
throne,"  and  even  among  the  cattle  in  the  pasture 


Moses 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2086 


If  the  plague  was  employed  as  the  agency  of  the 
angel  of  Jeh,  as  some  think,  its  peculiarity  is  that 
it  takes  the  strongest  and  the  best  and  culminates 
in  one  great  stunning  blow  and  then  immediately 
subsides  (see  Plagues).  Who  can  tell  the  horror 
of  that  night  when  the  Israelites  were  thrust  out 
of  the  terror-stricken  land  (Ex  12  39)? 

As  they  went  out,  they  "asked,"  after  the  fashion 
of  departing  servants  in  the  East,  and  God  gave 
them  favor  in  the  sight  of  the  over-awed  Egyptians 
that  they  lavished  gifts  upon  them  in  extravagance. 
Thus  "they  despoiled  the  Egyptians"  (Ex  12  30). 
"Moreover  the  man  Moses  was  very  great  in  the 
land  of  Egvpt,  in  the  sight  of  Pharaoh's  servants, 
and  in  the  sight  of  the  people"  (Ex  11  3;   12  35.36). 

(4)  The  exodus.— "At  the  end  of  430  years,  even 
the  selfsame  day  it  came  to  pass,  that  all  the  hosts 
of  Jeh  went  out  from  the  land  of  Egypt"  (Ex  12 
41).  The  great  oppressor  was  Rameses  II,  and  the 
culmination  and  the  revolution  came,  most  prob- 
ably, in  connection  with  the  building  of  Pithom 
and  Raamses,  as  these  are  the  works  of  Israel  men- 
tioned in  the  Bible  narrative  (Ex  111).  Rameses 
said  that  he  built  Pithom  at  the  "mouth  of  the 
east"  (Budge,  Hist  of  Exodus,  V,  123).  All  efforts 
to  overthrow  that  statement  have  failed  and  for 
the  present,  at  least,  it  must  stand.  Israel  built 
Pithom,  Rameses  built  Pithom;  there  is  a  syn- 
chronism that  cannot  in  the  present  knowledge  of 
Egyp  history  even  be  doubted,  much  less  separated. 
The  troublous  times  which  came  to  Egypt  with  the 
beginning  of  the  reign  of  Merenptah  II  afforded  the 
psychological  moment  for  the  return  of  the  "son  of 
Pharaoh's  daughter"  and  his  access  to  the  royal 
court.  The  presence  and  power  of  Jeh  vindicated 
His  claim  to  be  the  Lord  of  all  the  earth,  and 
Merenptah  let  the  children  of  Israel  go. 

A  little  later  when  Israel  turned  back  from  the  border 
of  Khar  (Pal)  into  the  wilderness  and  disappeared,  and 
Merenptah's  affairs  were  somewhat  settled  in  the  empire, 
he  set  up  the  usual  boastful  tablet  claiming  as  his  own 
many  of  the  victories  of  his  royal  ancestors,  added  a 
few  which  he  himself  could  truly  boast,  and  inserted,  near 
the  end,  an  exultation  over  Israel's  discomfiture,  ac- 
counting himself  as  having  finally  won  the  victory: 

"Tehennu  is  devastation,  Kheta  peace,  the  Canaan 
the  prisoner  of  all  ills; 

"  Asgalon  led  out,  taken  with  Gezer,  Yenoamam  made 
naught; 

"The  People  of  Israel  is  ruined,  his  posterity  is  not; 
Khar  is  become  as  the  widows  of  Egypt." 

The  synchronisms  of  this  period  are  well  established 
and  must  stand  until,  if  it  should  ever  be,  other  facts 
of  Egyp  history  shall  be  obtained  to  change  them. 
Yet  it  is  impossible  to  determine  with  certainty  the  pre- 
cise event  from  which  the  descent  into  Egypt  should  be 
reckoned,  or  to  fix  the  date  BC  of  M.,  Rameses  and 
Merenptah,  and  the  building  of  Pithom,  and  so,  like- 
wise, the  date  of  the  exodus  and  of  all  the  patriarchal 
movements.  The  ancients  were  more  concerned  about 
the  order  of  events,  their  perspective  and  their  syn- 
chronisms than  about  any  epochal  date.  For  the  present 
we  must  be  content  with  these  chronological  uncer- 
tainties. Astronomical  science  may  sometimes  fix  the 
epochal  dates  for  these  events;  otherwise  there  is  little 
likelihood  that  they  will  ever  be  known. 

They  went  out  from  Succoth  (Egyp  "Thuku," 
Budge,  History  of  Egypt,  V,  122,  129),  carrying  the 
bones  of  Joseph  with  them  as  he  had  commanded 
(Ex  13  19;  Gen  50  25).  The  northeast  route 
was  the  direct  way  to  the  promised  land,  but  it  was 
guarded.  Pithom  itself  was  built  at  "the  mouth 
of  the  East,"  as  a  part  of  the  great  frontier  defences 
(Budge,  op.  cit,,  V,  123).  The  "wall"  on  this 
frontier  was  well  guarded  (Ex  14),  and  attempts 
might  be  made  to  stop  them.  So  they  went  not 
"by  the  way  of  the  land  of  the  Philis  ....  lest 
perad venture  the  people  repent  when  they  see  war" 
(Ex  13  17).  The  Lord  Himself  took  the  leader- 
ship and  went  ahead  of  the  host  of  Israel  in  a  pillar 
of  cloud  by  day  and  a  pillar  of  fire  by  night  (Ex  13 
21).  He  led  them  by  "the  wav  of  the  wilderness 
by  the  Red  Sea"  (Ex  13  18).     they  pitched  before 


Pi-hahiroth,  over  against  Baal-zephon  between 
Migdol  and  the  sea  (Ex  14  2).  Not  one  of  these 
places  has  been  positively  identified.  But  the 
journeys  before  and  after  the  crossing,  the  time, 
and  the  configuration  of  the  land  and  the  coast-line 
of  the  sea,  together  with  all  the  necessities  imposed 
by  the  narrative,  are  best  met  by  a  crossing  near 
the  modern  town  of  Suez  (Naville,  Route  of  the 
Exodus;  Palmer,  The  Desert  of  the  Exodus),  where 
Has  {Ataka  comes  down  to  the  sea,  upon  whose 
heights  a  migdhbl  or  "watch-tower,"  as  the  southern 
outpost  of  the  eastern  line  of  Egyp  defences,  would 
most  probably  be  erected. 

Word  was  carried  from  the  frontier  to  Pharaoh, 
probably  at  Tanis,  that  the  Israelites  had  "fled" 
(Ex  14  5),  had  taken  the  impassioned  thrusting 
out  by  the  frenzied  people  of  Egypt  in  good  faith 
and  had  gone  never  to  return.  Pharaoh  took  imme- 
diate steps  to  arrest  and  bring  back  the  fugitives. 
The  troops  at  hand  (Ex  14  6)  and  the  chariot 
corps,  including  600  "chosen  chariots,"  were  sent 
at  once  in  pursuit,  Pharaoh  going  out  in  person  at 
least  to  start  the  expedition  (Ex  14  6.7).  The 
Israelites  seemed  to  be  "entangled  in  the  land," 
and,  since  "the  wilderness  [had]  shut  them  in"  (Ex 
14  3),  must  easily  fall  a  prey  to  the  Egyp  army. 
The  Israelites,  terror-stricken,  cried  to  M.  God 
answered  and  commanded  the  pillar  of  cloud  to 
turn  back  from  its  place  before  the  host  of  Israel 
and  stand  between  them  and  the  approaching  Egyp- 
tians, so  that  while  the  Egyptians  were  in  the  dark- 
ness Israel  had  the  light  _  (Ex  14  19.20).  The 
mountain  came  down  on  their  right,  the  sea  on  the 
left  to  meet  the  foot  of  the  mountain  in  front  of  them ; 
the  Egyptians  were  hastening  on  after  them  and 
the  pillar  of  cloud  and  fire  was  their  rearward.  M. 
with  the  rod  of  God  stood  at  the  head  of  the  fleeing 
host.  Then  God  wrought.  M.  stretched  out  the 
rod  of  God  over  the  sea  and  "Jeh  caused  the  sea 
to  go  back  by  a  strong  east  wind  all  the  night"  (Ex 
14  16-21).  A  pathway  was  before  them  and  the 
sea  on  the  right  hand,  and  on  the  left  was  a  "wall 
unto  them,"  and  they  passed  through  (Ex  14  21.22). 
Such  heaping  up  of  the  waters  by  the  wind  is  well 
known  and  sometimes  amounts  to  7  or  8  ft.  in  Lake 
Erie  (Wright,  Scientific  Confirmations  of  the  OT, 
106).  No  clearer  statement  could  possibly  be 
made  of  the  means  used  and  of  the  miraculous 
timing  of  God's  providence  with  the  obedience  of 
the  people  to  His  command  to  M.  The  host  of 
Israel  passed  over  on  the  hard,  sandy  bottom  of  the 
sea.  The  Egyptians  coming  up  in  the  dark  and 
finding  it  impossible  to  tell  exactly  where  the  coast- 
line had  been  on  this  beach,  and  where  the  point 
of  safety  would  lie  when  the  wind  should  abate  and 
the  tide  come  in  again,  impetuously  rushed  on  after 
the  fleeing  slaves.  In  the  morning,  Jeh  looked  forth 
and  troubled  the  Egyptians  "and  took  off  their 
chariot  wheels,  and  they  drove  them  heavily"  (Ex 
14  24.25).  The  wind  had  abated,  the  tide  was 
returning  and  the  infiltration  that  goes  before  the 
tide  made  the  beach  like  a  quicksand.  The  Egyp- 
tians found  that  they  had  gone  too  far  and  tried 
to  escape  (Ex  14  27),  but  it  was  too  late.  The 
rushing  tide  caught  them  (Ex  14  28).  When  the 
day  had  come,  "horse  and  rider"  were  but  the  sub- 
ject of  a  minstrel's  song  of  triumph  (Ex  15  1-19; 
Ps  106  9-12)  which  Miriam  led  with  her  timbrel 
(Ex  15  20).  The  Bible  does  not  say,  and  there  is 
no  reason  to  believe,  that  Pharaoh  led  the  Egyp 
hosts  in  person  further  than  at  the  setting  off  and 
for  the  giving  of  general  direction  to  the  campaign 
(Ex  15  4).  Pharaoh  and  his  host  were  over- 
thrown in  the  Red  Sea  (Ps  136  15).  So  Napoleon 
and  his  host  were  overthrown  at  Waterloo,  but 
Napoleon  lived  to  die  at  St .  Helena.  _  And  Me- 
renptah lived  to  erect  his  boastful  inscription  con- 


2087 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Moses 


cerning  the  failure  of  Israel,  when  turned  back  from 
Kadesh-barnea,  and  their  disappearance  in  the 
wilderness  of  Paran.  His  mummy,  identified  by 
the  lamented  Professor  Croff,  lies  among  the  royal 
mummies  in  the  Cairo  Museum.  Thus  at  the  Red 
Sea  was  wrought  the  final  victory  of  Jeh  over 
Pharaoh;   and  the  people  believed  (Ex  14  31). 

(5)  Special  -providences. — Now  proceeded  that 
long  course  of  special  providences,  miraculous 
timing  of  events,  and  multiplying  of  natural  agen- 
cies which  began  with  the  crossing  of  the  Red  Sea 
and  ended  only  when  they  "did  eat  of  the  fruit  of  the 
laud"  (Josh  5  12).  God  promised  freedom  from 
the  diseases  of  the  Egyptians  (Ex  15  20)  at  the 
bitter  waters  of  Marah,  on  the  condition  of  obedi- 
ence. M.  was  directed  to  a  tree,  the  wood  of  which 
should  counteract  the  alkaline  character  of  the 
water  (Ex  15  23-25).  A  little  later  they  were  at 
Elim  (Wady  Gharandel,  in  present-day  geography), 
where  were  "twelve  springs  of  water  and  three  score 
and  ten  palm  trees"  (Ex  15  27).  The  enumera- 
tion of  the  trees  signifies  nothing  but  their  scarcity, 
and  is  understood  by  everyone  who  has  traveled 
in  that  desert  and  counted,  again  and  again,  every 
lit  tie  clump  of  trees  that  has  appeared.  The  course 
of  least  resistance  here  is  to  turn  a  little  to  the  right 
and  come  out  again  at  the  Red  Sea  in  order  to  pass 
around  the  point  of  the  plateau  into  the  wilderness 
of  Sin.  This  is  the  course  travel  takes  now,  and  it 
took  the  same  course  then  (Ex  16  1).  Here 
Israel  murmured  (Ex  16  2),  and  every  traveler 
who  crosses  this  blistering,  dusty,  wearisome, 
hungry  wilderness  joins  in  the  murmuring,  ami 
wishes,  at  least  a  little,  that  he  had  stayed  in  the 
land  of  Egypt  (Ex  16  3).  Provisions  brought 
from  Egypt  were  about  exhausted  and  the  land 
supplied  but  little.  Judging  from  the  complaints 
of  the  people  about  the  barrenness  of  the  land,  it 
was  not  much  different  then  from  what  it  is  now 
(Nu  20  1-0).  Now  special  providential  provision 
began.  "At  even  ....  the  quails  came  up,  and 
covered  the  cam]),"  and  in  the  morning,  after  the 
dew,  the  manna  was  found  (Ex  16  4-30;  see  Manna; 
Quails). 

At  Rephidim  was  the  first  of  the  instances  when 
Moses  was  called  upon  to  help  the  people  to  some 
water.  He  smote  the  rock  with  the  rod  of  God, 
and  there  came  forth  an  abundant  supply  of  water 
(Ex  17  1-6).  There  is  plenty  of  water  in  the 
wady  near  this  point  now.  The  Amalekites,  con- 
sidering the  events  immediately  following,  had 
probably  shut  the  Israelites  off  from  the  springs,  so 
God  opened  some  hidden  source  in  the  mountain 
side.  "Then  came  Amalek,  and  fought  with  Israel" 
(Ex  17  8).  Whether  the  hand  which  M.  lifted 
up  during  the  battle  was  his  own  hand  or  a  sym- 
bolical hand  (Ex  17  9-12),  thought  to  have  been 
carried  in  battle  then,  as  sometimes  even  yet  by 
the  Bedouin,  is  of  no  importance.  It  was  in  either 
case  a  hand  stretched  up  to  God  in  prayer  and  alle- 
giance, and  the  battle  with  Amalek,  then  as  now, 
fluctuates  according  as  the  hand  is  lifted  up  or 
lowered  (Ex  17  8-10). 

Here  Jethro,  Moses'  father-in-law,  met  him  and 
brought  his  wife  and  children  to  him  (Ex  18  5.0; 
cf  Nu  10  29).  A  sacrificial  feast  was  held  with  the 
distinguished  guest  (Ex  18  7-12).  In  the  wise 
counsel  of  this  great  desert-priest  we  see  one  of  the 
many  natural  sources  of  supply  for  Moses'  legal 
lore  and  statesmanship.  A  suggestion  of  Jethro 
gave  rise  to  one  of  the  wisest  and  most  far-reaching 
elements  in  the  civil  institutions  of  Israel,  the  elab- 
orate system  of  civil  courts  (Ex  18  13-20). 

(0)  Receiving  the  Law. — At  Sinai  M.  reached  the 
pinnacle  of  his  career,  though  perhaps  not  the  pin- 
nacle of  his  faith.  (For  a  discussion  of  the  location 
of   Sinai,   see   Sinai;     Exodus.)     It  is   useless  to 


speculate  about  the  nature  of  the  flames  in  the 
theophany  by  Are  at  Sinai.  Some  say  there  was  a 
thunderstorm  (IIDB);  others  think  a  volcanic  erup- 
tion. The  time,  the  stages  of  tin;  journey,  the  de- 
scription of  the  way,  the  topography  of  this  place, 
esp.  its  admirable  adaptability  to  be  the  cathedral 
of  Jeh  upon  earth,  and,  above  all,  the  collocation  of 
all  the  events  of  the  narrative  along  this  route  to 
this  spot  and  to  no  other — all  these  exercise  an 
overwhelming  influence  upon  one  (cf  Palmer,  The 
Desert  of  the  Exodus).  If  they  do  not  conclusively 
prove,  they  convincingly  persuade,  that  here  the 
greatest  event  between  Creation  and  Calvary  took 
place. 

Here  the  people  assembled.  "And  Mount  Sinai, 
the  whole  of  it,  smoked,"  and  above  appeared  the 
glory  of  God.  Bounds  were  set  about  the  mountain 
to  keep  the  people  back  (Ex  19  12.13).  God  was 
upon  the  mountain:  "Under  his  feet  as  it  were  a 
paved  work  of  a  sapphire  stone,  and  as  it  were  the 
very  heaven  for  clearness"  (Ex  19  16-19;  24  10. 
10.17),  "and  God  spake  all  these  words"  (Ex  20 
1-17).  Back  over  the  summit  of  the  plain  between 
these  two  mountain  ridges  in  front,  the  people  fled 
in  terror  to  the  place  "afar  off"  (Ex  20  18),  and 
somewhere  about  the  foot  of  this  mountain  a  little 
later  the  tabernacle  of  grace  was  set  up  (Ex  40  17). 
At  this  place  the  affairs  of  M.  mounted  up  to  such 
a  pinnacle  of  greatness  in  the  religious  history  of 
the  world  as  none  other  among  men  has  attained 
unto.  He  gave  formal  announcement  of  the  perfect 
law  of  God  as  a  rule  of  life,  and  the  redeeming 
mercy  of  God  as  the  hope  through  repentance  for  a 
world  of  sinners  that  "fall  short."  Other  men  have 
sought  God  and  taught  men  to  seek  God,  some  by 
the  works  of  the  Law  and  some  by  the  way  of  pro- 
pitiation, but  where  else  in  the  history  of  the  world 
has  any  one  man  caught  sight  of  both  great  truths 
and  given  them  out? 

M.  gathered  the  people  together  to  make  the 
covenant  (Ex  24  1-8),  and  the  nobles  of  Israel  ate 
a  covenant  meal  there  before  God  (Ex  24  11). 
God  called  M.  again  to  the  mountain  with  the  elders 
of  Israel  (Ex  24  12).  There  M.  was  with  God, 
fasting  40  days  (Ex  34  28).  Joshua  probably  ac- 
companied M.  into  the  mount  (Ex  24  13).  There 
God  gave  directions  concerning  the  plan  of  the 
tabernacle:  "See  ....  that  thou  make  all  things 
according  to  the  pattern  that  was  showed  thee  in 
the  mount"  (He  8  5-12,  summing  up  Ex  25  40; 
26  30;  27  8).  This  was  the  statement  of  the 
architect  to  the  builder.  We  can  only  learn  what 
the  pattern  was  by  studying  the  tabernacle  (see 
Tabernacle).  It  was  an  Egyp  plan  (cf  Bible 
Student,  January,  1902).  While  M.  was  engaged 
in  his  study  of  the  things  of  the  tabernacle  on  the 
mount,  the  people  grew  restless  and  appealed  to 
Aaron  (Ex  32  1).  In  weakness  Aaron  yielded  to 
them  and  made  them  a  golden  calf  and  they  said, 
"These  are  thy  gods,  O  Israel,  which  brought  thee 
up  out  of  the  land  of  Egypt"  (32  2-0;  cf  Calf, 
Golden).  This  was  probably,  like  the  later  calf- 
worship  at  Bethel  and  Dan,  ancient  Sem  bull- 
worship  and  a  violation  of  the  second  command- 
ment (20  5;  cf  Bible  Student,  August,  1902).  The 
judgment  of  God  was  swift  and  terrible  (32  7-35), 
ami  Levi  was  made  the  Divine  agent  (32  25-29). 
Here  first  the  "tent  of  meeting"  comes  into  promi- 
nence as  the  official  headquarters  of  the  leader  of 
Israel  (33  7-11).  Henceforth  independent  and 
distinct  from  the  tabernacle,  though  on  account 
of  the  similarity  of  names  liable  to  be  confused  with 
that  building,  it  holds  its  place  and  purpose  all 
through  the  wanderings  to  the  plain  of  Moab  by 
Jordan  (Dt  31  14).  M.  is  given  a  vision  of  God  to 
strengthen  his  own  faith  (Ex  33  12-23;  34  1-35). 
On  his  return  from  communion  with  God,  he  had 


Moses 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIHLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2088 


such  glory  within  thai  it  shone  out  through  his  face 
to  the  terror  of  the  multitude,  an  adumbration  of 
that  other  and  more  glorious  transfiguration  at 
which  M.  should  also  appear,  and  that  reflection 
of  it  which  is  sometimes  seen  in  the  life  of  many 
godly  persons  (Mi  17  1-13;  Mk  9  2-10;  Lk  9 
28-36). 

Rationalistic  attempts  to  account  for  the  phenomena 
at  Sinai  have  been  frequent,  tmt  usually  along  certain 
lines.  The  favorite  hypothesis  is  that  of  volcanic  action. 
God  has  often  used  natural  agencies  in  His  revelation 
and  in  His  miracles,  and  there  is  no  necessary  obstacle 
to  His  doing  so  here.  But  there  are  two  seemingly  in- 
superable difficulties  in  the  way  of  this  naturalistic  ex- 
planation: one,  that  since  geologic  time  this  has  not 
been  a  volcanic  region;  the  other,  that  volcanic  erup- 
tions are  not  conducive  to  literary  inspiration.  It  is 
almost  impossible  to  get  a  sane  account  from  the  be- 
holders of  an  eruption,  much  less  has  it  a  tendency  to 
result  in  the  greatest  literature,  the  most  perfect  code  of 
laws  and  the  profoundest  statesmanship  in  the  world. 
The  human  mind  can  easily  believe  that  God  could  so 
speak  from  Sinai  and  direct  the  preparation  of  such  works 
of  wisdom  as  the  Book  of  the  Covenant.  Not  many- 
will  be  able  to  think  that  M.  could  do  so  during  a  vol- 
canic eruption  at  Sinai.  For  it  must  be  kept  in  mind 
that  the  historical  characterof  the  narrative  at  this  point, 
and  the  Mosaic  authorship  of  the  Book  of  the  Covenant, 
are  generally'  admitted  by  those  who  put  forward  this 
naturalistic  explanation. 

(7)  Uncertainties  of  history. — From  this  time  on 
to  the  end  of  Moses'  life,  the  materials  are  scant, 
there  are  long  stretches  of  silence,  and  a  biographer 
may  well  hesitate.  The  tabernacle  was  set  up  at 
the  foot  of  the  "mountain  of  the  law"  (Ex  40  17- 
19),  and  the  world  from  that  day  to  this  has  been 
able  to  find  a  mercy-seat  at  t  he  foot  of  the  mountain 
of  the  law.  Nadab  and  Abihti  presumptuously 
offered  strange  fire  and  were  smitten  (Lev  10  1-7). 
The  people  were  numbered  (Nu  1  1  ff).  The  Pass- 
over was  kept  (Nu  9  1-5). 

(8)  Journey  to  Canaan  resumed. — The  journey 
to  Canaan  began  again  (Nu  10  11-13).  From 
this  time  until  near  the  close  of  the  life  of  M.  the 
events  associated  with  his  name  belong  for  the  most 
part  to  the  story  of  the  wanderings  in  the  wilder- 
ness and  other  subjects,  rather  than  to  a  biography 
of  M.  (cf  Wanderings;  Aaron;  Miriam;  Joshua; 
Caleb;  Brazen  Serpent,  etc).  The  subjects  and 
references  are  as  follows : 

The  March  (Nu  2  10-18;   9  15-23) 
The  Complaining  (Nu  11   1-3) 
The  Lusting  (Nu   11   4-6.18-35) 
The  Prophets  (Nu   11    16) 
Leprosy  of  Miriam  (Nu   12  1-16) 

(9)  The  border  of  the  land. — 
Kadesh-barnea  (Nu   13  3-26) 

The  Spies  (Dt  1  22;  Nu  13  2.21;  23  27.2S-33;  14  1-38) 
The  Plagues  (Nu   14  36.37.40-45) 

(10)  The  wanderings. — 

Korah.  Dathan  and  Abiram  (Nu  16  1-35) 

The  Plague  (Nu  16  41-50;  17) 

Death  of  Miriam  (Nu  20  1) 

Sin  of  M.  and  Aaron  (Nu  20  2-13;   Ps   106  32) 

Unfriendliness  of  Edom  (Nu  20  14-21) 

Death  of  Aaron  (Nu  20  22-29) 

Arad  (Nu  21   1-3) 

Compassing  of  Edom  (Nu  21  4) 

Murmuring  (Nu  21  5-7) 

Brazen  Serpent  (Nu  21  8-9;  Jn  3   14) 

(11)  Edom. — 

The  Jordan  (Nu  21   10-20) 
Sihon  (Nu  21  21-32) 
Og  (Nu  21   33-35) 

Balak  and  Balaam  (Nu  22  4 ;   24  25) 
Pollution  of  the  People  (Nu  25  6-15) 
Numbering  of  the  People  (Nu  26) 
Joshua  Chosen  (Nu  27   15-23) 
Midianites  Punished  (Nu  31) 

(12)  Tribes  east  of  Jordan  (Nu  32). 

(13)  Moses'  final  acts. — M.  was  now  ready  for 
the  final  instruction  of  the  people.  They  were 
assembled  and  a  great  farewell  address  was  given 
(Dt  1 — 30  20).  Joshua  was  formally  inducted  into 
office  (Dt  31  1-8),  and  to  the  priests  was  delivered 
a  written  copy  of  this  last  announcement  of  the 
Law  now  adapted  to  the  progress  made  during  40 
years  (Dt  31  9-13;   cf  31  24-29).     M.  then  called 


Joshua  into  the  tabernacle  for  a  final  charge  (Dt 
31  14-23),  gave  to  the  assembled  elders  of  the 
people  "the  words  of  this  song"  (Dt  31  30;  32 
1-43)  and  blessed  the  people  (Dt  33).  And  then 
M.,  who  "by  faith"  had  triumphed  in  Egypt,  had 
been  the  great  revelator  at  Sinai,  had  turned  back 
to  walk  with  the  people  of  little  faith  for  40  years, 
reached  the  greatest  triumph  of  his  faith,  when, 
from  the  top  of  Nebo,  the  towering  pinnacle  of 
Pisgah,  he  lifted  up  his  eyes  to  the  goodly  land  of 
promise  and  gave  way  to  Joshua  to  lead  the  people 
in  (Dt  34).  And  there  M.  died  and  was  buried, 
"but  no  man  knoweth  of  his  sepulchre  unto  this 
day"  (Dt  34  5.6),  "and  Moses  was  a  hundred  and 
twenty  years  old  when  he  died"  (Dt  34  7). 

This  biography  of  M.  is  the  binding-thread  of  the 
Pent  from  the  beginning  of  Ex  to  the  end  of  Dt, 
without  disastrous  breaks  or  disturbing  repetitions. 
There  are,  indeed,  silences,  but  they  occur  where 
nothing  great  or  important  in  the  narrative  is  to 
be  expected.  And  there  are,  in  the  eyes  of  some, 
repetitions,  so-called  doublets,  but  they  do  not  seem 
to  be  any  more  real  than  may  be  expected  in  any 
biography  that  is  only  incidental  to  the  main  pur- 
pose of  the  writer.  No  man  can  break  apart  this 
narrative  of  the  books  without  putting  into  eon- 
fusion  this  life-story;  the  one  cannot  be  treated  as 
independent  of  the  other;  any  more  than  the  narra- 
tive of  the  Eng.  Commonwealth  and  the  story  of 
Cromwell,  or  the  story  of  the  American  Revolution 
and  the  career  of  Washington. 

Later  references  to  M.  as  leader,  lawgiver  and  prophet 
run  all  through  the  Bible;  only  the  most  important  will 
be  mentioned:  Josh  8  30-35;  24  5;  1  S  12  6-8;  1  Ch 
23  14-17;  Ps  77  20;  99  6;  105;  106;  Isa  63  11.12; 
Jer  15  1;  Dnl  9  11-13;  Hos  12  13;  Mic  6  4;  Mai 
4  4. 

The  place  held  by  M.  in  the  NT  is  as  unique  as 
in  the  OT,  though  far  less  prominent.  Indeed,  he 
holds  the  same  place,  though  presented  in  a  differ- 
ent  light.  In  the  OT  he  is  the  type  of  the  Prophet 
to  be  raised  up  "like  unto"  him.  It  is  the  time  of 
types,  and  M.,  the  type,  is  most  conspicuous.  In 
the  NT  the  Prophet  "like  unto  Moses"  has  come. 
He  now  stands  out  the  greatest  One  in  human  his- 
tory, while  M.,  the  type,  fades  away  in  the  shadow. 
It  is  thus  he  appears  in  Christ's  remarkable  refer- 
ence to  him:  "He  wrote  of  me"  (Jn  5  4G).  The 
principal  thing  which  M.  wrote  specifically  of  Christ 
is  this  passage:  "Jeh  thy  God  will  raise  up  unto 
thee  a  prophet  from  the  midst  of  thee,  of  thy  breth- 
ren, like  unto  me"  (Dt  18  1.5.18  f).  Again  in  the 
Ep.  to  the  He,  which  is  the  formal  passing  over 
from  the  types  of  the  OT  to  the  fulfilment  in  the 
NT,  Jesus  is  made  to  stand  out  as  the  Moses  of  the 
new  dispensation  (He  3;  12  24-29).  Other  most 
important  NT  references  to  M.  are  Mt  17  3;  Mk 
9  4;  Lk  9  30;  Jn  1  17.45;  3  14;  Rom  5  14; 
Jude  ver  9;  Rev  15  3. 

//.  Work  and  Character. — So  little  is  known  of 
the  private  life  of  M.  that  his  personal  character 
can  scarcely  be  separated  from  the  part  which  he 
bore  in  public  affairs.  It  is  the  work  he  wrought 
for  Israel  and  for  mankind  which  fixes  his  place 
among  the  great  ones  of  earth.  The  life  which  we 
have  just  sketched  as  the  life  of  the  leader  of  Israel 
is  also  the  life  of  the  author,  the  lawgiver,  and  the 
prophet. 

It  is  not  within  the  province  of  this  art.  to  discuss 
in  full  the  great   critical  controversies  concerning 
the  authorship  of  M.  which  have  been 
1.  The  summed    up    against    him    thus:     "It 

Author  is  doubtful  whether  we  can  regard  M. 

as  an  author  in  the  literary  sense" 
{HDB,  III,  446;  see  Pentateuch;  Deuteronomy). 
It  will  only  be  in  place  here  to  present  a  brief  state- 
ment of  the  evidence  in  the  case  for  M.     There 


2089 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Moses 


is  no  longer  any  question  concerning  the  literary 
character  of  the  age  in  which  M.  lived.  That  M. 
might  have  written  is  indisputable.  But  did  he 
write,  and  how  much?  What  evidence  bears  at 
these  points? 

(1)  "Moses  wrote." — The  idea  of  writing  or  of 
writings  is  found  00  t  in  the  Pent.  It  is  definitely 
recorded  in  writing  purporting  to  be  by  M.  7  t  that 
M.  wrote  or  was  commanded  to  write  (Ex  17  14; 
34  27;  39  30;  Nu  17  2.3;  Dt  10  4;  31  24)  and 
frequently  of  others  in  his  times  (Dt  6  9;  27  3; 
31  19;  Josh  8  32).  Joshua  at  the  great  convo- 
cation at  Shechem  for  the  taking  of  the  covenant 
wrote  "these  words  in  the  book  of  the  law  of  God" 
(Josh  24  26).  Thus  is  declared  the  existence  of 
such  a  book  but  25  years  after  the  death  of  M.  (cf 
Bible  Student,  1901,  209-74).  It  is  thus  clearly 
asserted  by  the  Scriptures  as  a  fact  that  M.  in  the 
wilderness  a  little  after  the  exodus  was  "writing" 
"books." 

(2)  Moses'  library, — There  are  many  library 
marks  in  the  Pent,  even  in  those  portions  which  by 
nearly  all,  even  the  most  radical,  critics  are  allowed 
to  be  probably  the  writings  of  M.  The  Pent  as  a 
whole  has  such  library  marks  all  over  it . 

On  the  one  hand  this  is  entirely  consistent  with 
the  known  literary  character  of  the  age  in  which 
AI.  lived.  One  who  was  "instructed  in  all  the  wis- 
dom of  the  Egyptians"  might  have  had  in  his  pos- 
session Egyp  records.  And  the  author  of  this  art. 
is  of  that  class  to  whom  Professor  Clay  refers,  who 
believe  "that  Hebraic  (or  Amoraic)  literature,  as 
well  as  Aramaic,  has  a  great  antiquity  prior  to  the 
1st  millennium  BC"  (Clay,  Amurru,  32). 

On  the  other  hand,  the  use  of  a  library  to  the 
extent  indicated  by  the  abiding  marks  upon  the 
Pent  does  not  in  the  least  militate  against  the  claim 
of  M.  for  authorship  of  the  same.  The  real  library 
marks,  aside  from  the  passages  which  are  assigned 
by  the  critics  to  go  with  them,  are  far  less  numerous 
and  narrower  in  scope  than  in  Gibbon  or  in  Kurtz. 
The  use  of  a  library  no  more  necessarily  endangers 
authorship  in  the  one  case  than  in  the  other. 

(3)  The  Moses-tradition. — A  tradition  from  the 
beginning  universally  held,  and  for  a  long  time  and 
without  inherent  absurdity,  has  very  great  weight. 
Such  has  been  the  M. -tradition  of  authorship. 
Since  M.  is  believed  to  have  been  such  a  person 
living  in  such  an  age  and  under  such  circumstances 
as  might  suitably  provide  the  situation  and  the 
occasion  for  such  historical  records,  so  that  common 
sense  does  not  question  whether  he  could  have 
written  "a"  Pent,  but  only  whether  he  did  write 
"the"  Pent  which  we  have,  it  is  easier  to  believe 
the  tradition  concerning  his  authorship  than  to 
believe  that  such  a  tradition  arose  with  nothing  so 
known  concerning  his  ability  and  circumstances. 
But  such  a  tradition  did  arise  concerning  M.  It 
existed  in  the  days  of  Josiah.  Without  it,  by  no 
possibility  could  the  people  have  been  persuaded 
to  receive  with  authority  a  book  purporting  to  be 
by  him.  The  question  of  the  truthfulness  of  the 
claim  of  actually  finding  the  Book  of  the  Law  alto- 
gether aside,  there  must  have  been  such  a  national 
hero  as  AI.  known  to  the  people  and  believed  in  by 
them,  as  well  as  a  confident  belief  in  an  age  of  lit- 
erature reaching  back  to  his  days,  else  the  Book  of 
the  Law  would  not  have  been  received  by  the  people 
as  from  M.  Archaeology  does  not  supply  actual 
literary  material  from  Israel  much  earlier  than  the 
time  of  Josiah,  but  the  material  shows  a  method 
of  writing  and  a  literary  advancement  of  the  people 
which  reaches  far  back  for  its  origin,  and  which  goes 
far  to  justify  the  tradition  in  Josiah's  day.  More- 
over, to  the  present  time,  there  is  no  archaeological 
evidence  to  cast  doubt  upon  that  tradition. 

(4)  The    Pent  in  the    Northern    Kinejdom. — The 


evidence  of  the  Pent  in  the  Northern  Kingdom 
before  the  fall  of  Samaria  is  very  strong-  this 
entirely  aside  from  any  evidence  from  the  Sam 
Pent.  Although  some  few  insist  upon  an  early 
date  for  that  book,  it  is  better  to  omit  it  altogether 
from  this  argument,  as  the  time  of  its  composition 
is  not  absolutely  known  and  is  probably  not  very 
far  from  the  close  of  the  Bab  exile  of  Judah.  But 
the  prophets  supply  indubitable  evidence  of  the 
Pent  in  the  Northern  Kingdom  (Hos  1  10;  4  0' 
8  1.13;  9  11;  12  9;  Am  6  21.22;  8  5;  cf  Green,' 
Higher  Criticism  and  the  Pent,  50-58). 

(5)  Evidence  for  the  Mosaic  age. — Beyond  the  limit  to 
which  historical  evidence  reaches  concerning  tin;  Mosaic 
authorship  of  the  Pent,  internal  evidence  for  the  Mosaic 
age  as  the  time  of  its  composition  carries  us  hack  to  the 
very  days  of  M.  Egyp  words  in  the  Pent  attest  its  com- 
position m  the  Mosaic  age,  not  because  they  are  Egyp 
words,  for  it  is  quite  supposable  that  later  authors  might 
have  known  Egyp  words,  hut  because  they  are  Egyp  words 
of  such  marked  peculiarities  in  meaning  and  history  and  of 
such  absolutely  accurate  use  in  the  Pent,  that  their  em- 
ployment by  later  authors  in  such  a  way  is  incredible. 

The  list  of  such  words  is  a  long  one.  Only  a  few  can  be 
mentioned  here.  For  a  complete  list  the  authorities 
cited  must  be  consulted.  There  is  "Vi?"1 ,  ye' Or,  for  the 
streams  of  Egypt;  inX.  'ahu,  for  the  marshy  pasture 
lands  along  the  Nile;  ^12 .  shesh,  for  the  "fine  white 
linen  "  of  the  priests;  "the  land  of  Rameses  "  for  a  local 
district  in  lower  Egypt;  n;3/"j3  n*S2.  gdphenath  pa- 
in"!,, Joseph's  Egyp  name,  and  rZZ$''o.fnath,  the  name 
of  Joseph's  Egyp  wife,  and  many  other  Egyp  words  (see 
Lieblein,  in  PSBA,  May,  1898,  202-10;  a'lso  The  Bible 
Student,   1901,  36-40).  ' 

(6)  The  obscurity  of  the  doctrine  of  the  resurrection  in 
the  Pent. — This  obscurity  has  been  urged  against  the 
Mosaic;  authorship  of  the  Pent.  Because  of  the  popular 
belief  concerning  the  doctrine  of  the  resurrection  among 
the  Egyptians,  this  objection  to  the  Mosaic;  authorship 
of  the  Pent  becomes  the  most  forcible  of  all  the  objec- 
tions urged  by  critics.  If  the  Pent  was  written  by  M. 
when  Israel  had  just  come  out  of  Egypt,  why  did  he 
leave  the  doctrine  of  the  resurrection  in  such  obscurity  ? 
The  answer  is  very  simple.  The  so-called  Egyp  doc- 
trine of  l hi;  resurrection  was  not  a  doctrine  of  resurrec- 
tion at  all,  but  a  doctrine  of  resuscitation.  The  essential 
idea  of  resurrection,  as  it  runs  through  Scripture  from 
tin;  first  glimpse  of  it  until  the  declaration  of  Paul:  "It 
is  sown  a  natural  body;  it  is  raised  a  spiritual  body.  If 
then;  is  a  natural  body,  there  is  also  a  spiritual  body" 
(1  Cor  15  35-45),  is  almost  absolutely  beyond  the 
Egyp  vision  of  the  future  life.  With  the  Egyptians  the 
risen  body  was  to  live  the  same  old  life  on  "oxen,  geese, 
bread,  beer,  wine  and  all  good  things"  (cf  for  abundant 
illustration  Maspero's  Guide  to  Cairo  Museum).  The 
omission  of  the  doctrine  of  the  resurrection  from  the 
Pent  at  the  later  date  assigned  by  criticism  is  very  hard 
to  account  for.  In  view  of  some  passages  from  the  Pss 
and  the  Prophets,  it  appears  inexplicable  (Job  19  25-27; 
Ps  16  10;  49  15;  Isa  26  10;  Ezk  37;  Dnl  12  2).  The 
gross  materialism  of  tne  Egyp  doctrine  of  the  rising 
from  the  dead  makes  the  obscurity  of  the  doctrine  of  the 
resurrection  in  the  Pent  in  Moses'  day  perfectly  natural. 
Any  direct  mention  of  tin;  subject  at  that  time  among  a 
people  just  come  out  of  Egypt  would  have  carried  at 
once  into  Israel's  religion  the  materialism  of  the  Egyp 
conception  of  the  future  life.  The  only  way  by  which  the 
people  could  be  weaned  away  from  these  Egyp  ideas 
was  by  beginning,  as  the  Pent  does,  with  more  spiritual 
ideas  of  God,  of  the  other  world  and  of  worship.  The 
obscurity  of  the  doctrine  of  the  resurrection  in  the  Pent, 
so  far  from  being  against  the;  Mosaic  authorship,  is  a 
very  cogent  reason  for  believing  the  Pent  to  have  come 
from  that  age,  as  the  only  known  time;  when  such  an 
omission  is  reasonably  explicable.  Lord,  in  his  lectures, 
though  not  an  Egyptologist,  caught  sight  of  this  truth 
which  later  work  of  Egyptologists  has  made  clear  (Moses, 
45).     Warburton  had  a  less  clear  vision  of  it  (see  Divine 

Legation). 

(7)  The  unity  of  the  Pent. — Unity  in  tin;  Pent, 
abstractly  considered,  cannot  be  indicative  of  a 
particular  time  for  its  composition.  Manifestly, 
unity  can  be  given  a  book  at  any  time.  There  is 
indisputably  a  certain  appearance  of  unity  in  nar- 
rative in  the  Pent,  and  when  this  unity  is  examined 
somewhat  carefully,  it  is  found  to  have  such  pecul- 
iarity as  does  point  to  the  Mosaic  age  for  author- 
ship. The  making  of  books  which  have  running 
through  them  such  a  narrative  as  is  contained  in  the 
Pent  which,  csp.  from  the  end  of  Gen.  is  entangled 


Moses 
Moth 


TH 10  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2090 


and  interwoven  with  dates  and  routes  and  topo- 
graphical notes,  the  history  of  experiences,  all  so 
accurately  given  that  in  large  part  to  this  day  the 
route  and  the  places  intended  can  be  identified,  all 
this,  no  matter  when  the  hooks  were  written,  cer- 
tainly calls  for  special  conditions  of  authorship. 
A  narrative  which  so  provides  for  all  the  exigencies 
of  desert,  life  and  so  anticipates  the  life  to  which 
Israel  looked  forward,  exhibits  a  realism  which  calls 
for  very  special  familiarity  with  all  the  circum- 
stances. And  when  the  narrative  adds  to  all  this 
the  life  of  a  man  without  breaks  or  repetitions  ad- 
verse to  the  purpose  of  a  biography,  and  running 
through  from  beginning  to  end,  and  not  a  haphazard, 
unsymmetrical  man  such  as  might  result  from  the 
piecing  together  of  fragments,  but  a  colossal  and 
symmetrical  man,  the  foremost  man  of  the  world 
until  a  greater  than  M.  should  appear,  it  demands 
to  be  written  near  the  time  and  place  of  the  events 
narrated.  That,  a  work  of  fiction,  struck  off  at  one 
time  by  one  hand,  might  meet  all  these  requirements 
at  a  later  date,  no  one  can  doubt,  but  a  scrap-book, 
even  though  made  up  of  facts,  cannot  do  so.  In 
fact,  the  scraps  culled  out  by  the  analysis  of  the 
Pent  do  not  make  a  connected  life-story  at  all,  but 
three  fragmentary  and  disconnected  stories,  and 
turn  a  biography,  which  is  the  binding-thread  of 
the  books,  into  what  is  little  better  than  non- 
sense. 

The  unity  of  the  Law,  which  also  can  be  well 
sustained,  is  to  the  same  effect  as  the  unity  of  the 
narrative  in  certifying  the  narrative  near  to  the 
time  and  place  of  the  events  narrated.  The  dis- 
cussion of  the  unity  of  the  Law,  which  involves 
nearly  the  whole  critical  controversy  of  the  day, 
would  be  too  much  of  a  digression  for  an  article  on 
M.  (see  Law;  Leviticus;  Deuteronomy;  also 
Green,  Higher  Criticism  and  the  Pent;  Orr,  POT; 
Wiener,  Bib.  Sac.,  1909-10). 

Neither  criticism  nor  archaeology  has  yet  pro- 
duced the  kind  or  degree  of  evidence  which  ration- 
alism demands  for  the  Mosaic  authorship  of  the 
Pent.  No  trace  has  yet  been  found  either  of  the 
broken  tablets  at  Mt.  Sinai  or  of  the  autograph  copy 
of  the  Law  of  the  Lord  "by  the  hand  of  Moses" 
brought  out  of  the  house  of  the  Lord  in  the  days  of 
Josiah.  Nor  are  these  things  likely  to  be  found, 
nor  anything  else  that  will  certify  authorship  like 
a  transcription  of  the  records  in  the  copyright 
office.  Such  evidence  is  not  reasonably  demanded. 
The  foregoing  indications  point  very  strongly  to 
the  production  of  the  Pent  in  the  Mosaic  age  by 
someone  as  familiar  with  the  circumstances  and 
as  near  the  heart  of  the  nation  as  M.  was.  That 
here  and  there  a  few  slight  additions  may  have 
been  made  and  that,  perhaps,  a  few_  explanations 
made  by  scribes  may  have  slipped  into  the  text 
from  the  margin  are  not  unlikely  (Nu  12  3;  Dt  34), 
but  this  does  not  affect  the  general  claim  of  author- 
ship. 

Ps  90  is  also  attributed  to  M.,  though  attempts  have 
been  made  to  discredit  his  authorship  here  also  (De- 
lit  zsch,  Comm.  on  the  Pus).  There  are  those  who  perhaps 
still  hold  to  the  Mosaic  authorship  of  the  Book  of  Job. 
But  that  view  was  never  more  than  a  speculation. 

The  character  of  M.  as  lawgiver  is  scarcely 
separable  from  that  of  M.  as  author,  but  calls  for 

some  separate  consideration. 
2.  The  (1)    The  extent  of  the  Mosaic  element 

Lawgiver       in   the    Pent   legislation   has   been   so 

variously  estimated  that  for  any  ade- 
quate idea  of  the  discussion  the  reader  must  consult 
not  only  other  articles  (Law;  Book  op  the  Cove- 
nant; PENTATEUCH)but  special  works  on  this  subject. 
In  accord  with  the  reasons  presented  above  for  the 
authorship  of  the  Pent  in  Mosaic  times,  the  great 
statesman  seems  most  naturally  the  author  of  the 


laws  so  interwoven  with  his  life  and  leadership. 
M.  first  gave  laws  concerning  the  Passover  (Ex  13). 
At  Sinai,  after  the  startling  revelation  from  the 
summit  of  the  mountain,  it  is  most  reasonable  that 
M.  should  gather  the  people  together  to  covenant 
with  God,  and  should  record  that  event  in  the  short 
code  of  laws  known  as  the  Book  of  the  Covenant 
(Ex  24  7).  This  code  contains  the  Moral  Law 
(Ex  20  1-17)  as  fundamental,  the  constitution  of 
the  theocracy  and  of  all  ethical  living.  This  is 
followed  by  a  brief  code  suitable  to  their  present 
condition  and  immediate  prospects  (Ex  20  24-26; 
21-23).  Considering  the  expectations  of  bothleader 
and  people  that  they  would  immediately  proceed 
to  the  promised  land  and  take  possession,  it  is 
quite  in  order  that  there  should  be  laws  concerning 
vineyards  and  olive  orchards  (Ex  23  11),  and  har- 
vests (Ex  23  10-16)  and  the  first-fruits  (Ex  23  19). 
Upon  the  completion  of  the  tabernacle,  a  priest- 
code  became  a  necessity.  Accordingly,  such  a  code 
follows  with  great  minutiae  of  directions.  This 
part  of  the  Law  is  composed  almost  entirely  of  "laws 
of  procedure"  intended  primarily  for  the  priests, 
that  they  might  know  their  own  duties  and  give  oral 
instruction  to  the  people,  and  probably  was  never 
meant  for  the  whole  people  except  in  the  most  gen- 
eral way.  When  Israel  was  turned  back  into  the 
wilderness,  these  two  codes  were  quite  sufficient 
for  the  simple  life  of  the  wanderings.  _  But  Israel 
developed.  The  rabble  became  a  nation.  Forty 
years  of  life  under  law,  under  the  operation  of  the 
Book  of  the  Covenant  in  the  moralities  of  life,  the 
PC  in  their  religious  exercises,  and  the  brief  statutes 
of  Lev  for  the  simple  life  of  the  desert,  prepared  the 
people  for  a  more  elaborate  code  as  they  entered 
the  promised  land  with  its  more  complex  life.  Ac- 
cordingly, in  Dt  that  code  was  recorded  and  left 
for  the  guidance  of  the  people.  That  these  various 
codes  contain  some  things  not  now  understood  is 
not  at  all  surprising.  It  would  be  surprising  if 
they  did  not.  Would  not  Orientals  of  today  find 
some  things  in  Western  laws  quite  incomprehen- 
sible without  explanation? 

That  some  fewr  items  of  law  may  have  been  added 
at  a  later  time,  as  some  items  of  history  were  added 
to  the  narrative,  is  not  at  all  unreasonable,  and  does 
in  no  way  invalidate  the  claim  of  M.  as  the  law- 
giver, any  more  than  later  French  legislation  has 
invalidated  the  Corsican's  claim  to  the  Napoleonic 
Code. 

The  essential  value  of  the  Mosaic  legislation  is  beyond 
comparison.  Some  of  the  laws  of  M.,  relating  as  they 
did  to  passing  problems,  have  themselves  passed  away; 
some  of  them  were  definitely  abrogated  by  Christ  and 
others  explicitly  fulfilled;  but  much  of  his  legislation, 
moral.  Industrial,  social  and  political,  is  the  warp  and 
woof  of  the  best  in  the  great  codes  of  the  world  to  this 
day.  The  morality  of  the  Decalogue  is  unapproached 
among  collections  of  moral  precepts.  Its  divinity,  like 
the  divinity  of  the  teachings  of  Jesus,  lies  not  only  in 
what  it  includes,  but  also  in  what  it  omits.  The  pre- 
cepts of  Ptah-hotep,  of  Confucius,  of  Epictetus  include 
many  things  found  in  the  Decalogue;  the  Decalogue 
omits  many  things  found  among  the  maxims  of  these 
moralists.  Thus  in  what  it  excludes,  as  in  what  it  in- 
cludes, the  perfection  of  the  Decalogue  lies. 

(2)  It  should  be  emphasized  that  the  laws  of  M. 
were  codes,  not  a  collection  of  court  decisions  known 
to  lawryers  as  common  law,  but  codes  given  ab- 
stractly, not  in  view  of  any  particular  concrete 
case,  and  arranged  in  systematic  order  (Wiener, 
Bib.  Sac,  1909-10).  This  is  entirely  in  harmony 
with  the  archaeological  indications  of  the  Mosaic 
and  preceding  ages.  The  CH,  given  at  least  5 
centuries  before,  is  one  of  the  most  orderly,  method- 
ical and  logical  codes  ever  constructed  (Lyon, 
JAOS,  XXV,  254). 

The  career  and  the  works  and  the  character  of 
M.  culminate  in  the  prophetic  office.     It  was  as 


2001 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Moses 
Moth 


prophet  that  M.  was  essentially  leader.     It   was   as 
prophet  that  he  held  the   place  of   highest  emi- 
nence in  the  world  until  a  greater  than 
3.  The  M.  came. 

Prophet  (1)  The   statesman-prophet   framed 

a  civil  government  which  illustrated  the 
kingdom  of  God  upon  earth.  The  theocracy  did 
not  simulate  any  government  of  earth,  monarchy, 
republic  or  socialistic  state.  It  combined  the  best 
elements  in  all  of  these  and  set  up  the  most  effect- 
ive checks  which  have  ever  been  devised  against 
the  evils  of  each. 

(2)  The  lawgiver-prophet  inculcated  maxims  and 
laws  which  set  the  feet  of  the  people  in  the  way 
of  life,  so  that,  while  failing  as  a  law  of  life  in  a  sinful 
world,  these  precepts  ever  remain  as  a  rule  of  con- 
duct. 

(3)  The  priest-prophet  prepared  and  gave  to 
Israel  a  ritual  of  worship  which  most  completely 
typified  the  redemptive  mercy  of  God  and  which  is 
so  wonderfully  unfolded  in  the  Ep.  to  the  He,  as 
it  has  been  more  wonderfully  fulfilled  in  the  life 
and  atoning  death  of  Christ. 

(4)  In  all  the  multiform  activities  of  the  prophetic 
career  he  was  a  type  of  Christ,  the  type  of  Christ 
whose  work  was  a  "tutor  unto  Christ." 

Moses'  revelation  of  God  ever  transcends  the 
speculations  of  theologians  about  God  as  a  sunrise 
transcends  a  treatise  on  the  solar  spectrum.  While 
the  speculations  are  cold  and  lifeless,  the  revelation 
is  vital  and  glorious.  As  an  analysis  of  Raphael's 
painting  of  the  transfiguration  belittles  its  im- 
pression upon  the  beholder,  while  a  sight,  of  the 
picture  exalts  that  scene  in  the  mind  and  heart,  so 
the  attempts  of  theologians  to  analyze  God  and 
bring  Him  within  the  grasp  of  the  human  mind 
belittle  the  conception  of  God,  dwarf  it  to  the  ca- 
pacity of  the  human  intellect,  while  such  a  vision 
of  Him  as  M.  gives  exalts  and  glorifies  Him  beyond 
expression.  Thus  while  theologians  of  every  school 
from  Athanasius  to  Ritschl  come  and  go,  M.  goes 
on  forever;  while  they  stand  cold  on  library  shelves, 
he  lives  warm  in  the  hearts  of  men. 

Such  was  the  Heb  leader,  lawgiver,  prophet, 
poet;  among  mere  men,  "the  foremost  man  of  all 
this  world." 

Literature. — Comms.  on  the  Pent;  for  rabbinical 
traditions,  cf  Lauterbach  in  Jew  Enr;  for  pseudepi- 
graphical  books  ascribed  to  M.,  see  Charles,  Assump- 
tion of  M.;  for  Mohammedan  legends,  cf  1)B;  Ebers, 
Egypten  und  die  Bucher  Mosis;  for  critical  partition  of 
books  of  M.,  cf  Pali/chrome  Bible  and  Bennett  in  HDB; 
for  comprehensive  discussion  of  the  critical  problems, 
cf  POT. 

M.  G.  Kyle 
MOSES,  ASSUMPTION,  a-sump'shun,  OF.    See 
Apocalyptic  Literature. 

MOSES,  SONG  OF:  The  name  given  to  the 
song  of  triumph  sung  by  Moses  and  the  Israelites 
after  the  crossing  of  the  Red  Sea  and  the  destruction 
of  the  hosts  of  Pharaoh  (Ex  16  1-18).  The  sub- 
limity of  this  noble  ode  is  universally  admitted. 
In  magnificent  strains  it  celebrates  the  deliverance 
just  experienced,  extolling  the  attributes  of  Jeh 
revealed  in  the  triumph  (vs  1-12),  then  anticipates 
the  astonishing  effects  which  would  flow  from  this 
deliverance  in  the  immediate  future  and  in  after- 
times  (vs  13-18).  There  seems  no  reason  to  doubt 
that  at  least  the  basis  of  the  song — possibly  the 
whole — is  genuinely  Mosaic.  In  the  allusions  to  the 
guidance  of  the  people  to  God's  holy  habitation, 
and  to  the  terror  of  the  surrounding  peoples  and 
of  the  Canaanites  (vs  13-18),  it  is  thought  that 
traces  are  manifest  of  a  later  revision  and  expansion. 
This,  however,  is  by  no  means  a  necessary  con- 
clusion. 

Driver,  who  in  LOT,  8th  ed,  30,  goes  with  the  critics 
on  this  point,  wrote  more  guardedly  In  the  1st  ed  (p.  27) : 


"Probably,  however,  the  greater  part  of  the  song  is 
Mosaic,  and  the  modification  or  expansion  is  limited  to 
the  closing  vs;  for  the  general  style  is  antique,  and  the 
triumphant  tone  which  pervades  It  is  just  such  as  might 
naturally  have  been  inspired  by  the  event  which  it 
celebrates." 

The  song  of  Moses  is  made  the  model  in  the 
Apocalypse  of  "the  song  of  Moses  the  servant  of 
God,  and  the  song  of  the  Lamb,"  which  those 
standing  by  the  sea  of  glass,  who  have  "come  off 
victorious  from  the  beast,  and  from  his  image,  and 
from  the  number  of  his  name,"  sing  to  God's  praise, 
"Great  and  marvellous  are  thy  works,  O  Lord 
God,  the  Almighty,"  etc  (Rev  15  2-4).  The 
church  having  experienced  a  deliverance  similar 
to  that  experienced  by  Israel  at  the  Red  Sea,  but 
infinitely  greater,  the  old  song  is  recast,  and  its 
terms  are  readapted  to  express  both  victories,  the 
lower  and  the  higher,  at  once.  James  Orr 

MOSOLLAMON,  m&-sol'a-mon.  See  Mosol- 
lamus. 

MOSOLLAMUS,  mo-sol 'a-mus: 

(1)  AV  "Mosollam"  (Mo<r6X\a/xos,  Mosdllamos), 
one  of  the  three  "assessors"  appointed  to  the  two 
commissioners  in  the  inquiry  made  about  "strange 
wives"  (1  Esd  9  14)  =  "Meshullam"  in  Ezr  10  15. 

(2)  AV  "Mosollamon,"  one  of  those  sent  by 
Ezra  to  the  captain  Loddeus  to  obtain  men  who 
could  execute  the  priest's  office  (1  Esd  8  44  [LXX 
43])  =  "Meshullam"  in  Ezr  8  16  (B  reads  also  Me- 
o-oXaSibv,  Mesolabon,  in  1  Esd  8  44). 

MOST  HIGH,  MOST  HOLY.     See  God,  Names 


MOTE,  mot  (Kdp<j>os,  kdrphos):  A  minute  piece 
of  anything  dry  or  light,  as  straw,  chaff,  a  splinter 
of  wood,  that  might  enter  the  eye.  Used  by  Jesus 
in  Mt  7  3ff;  Lk  6  41  f  in  contrast  with  "beam," 
to  rebuke  officiousness  in  correcting  small  faults  of 
others,  while  cherishing  greater  ones  of  our  own. 

MOTH,  moth  QD7 ,  Kash;  cf  Arab.  &£t, 
luthlhat,    "moth";    colloquial    o^c. ,    Htt;    CD,   sds, 

"worm"  [Isa  51  8];   cf  Arab.  ,u*«-ww,  sii.s,  "worm," 
esp.  an  insect  larva  in  flesh,   wood  or  grain;   <Hjs, 


Clothes-Moth  (Tinea  pellionella) . 
a,  Larva  in  case  constructed  out  of  substance  on  which  it  is  feeding;   b,  case 
cut  out  at,  the  ends;  c,  case  cut  open  by  the  larva  for  enlarging  it ;  il,  e,  the 
perfect  insect. 

ses,  "moth"  [Mt  6  19.20;  Lk  12  33];  a-r^Ppon-os, 

setobrotos,  "moth-eaten"  [Jas  5  2]): 

The  moths  constitute  the  larger  division  of  the 
order  Lepidoptera.  Two  of  the  points  by  which 
they   are  distinguished   from   butterflies   are   that 


Mother 
Mule 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2092 


they  arc  generally  nocturnal  and  that  their  anten- 
nae arc  not  club-shaped.  Further,  the  larva  in 
many  cases  spins  a  cocoon  for  the  protection  of  the 
pupa  or  chrysalis,  which  is  never  the  case  with 
butterflies.  The  Bib.  references  are  to  the  clot  Ins- 
moth,  i.e.  various  species  of  the  genus  Tinea,  tiny 
insects  which  lay  their  eggs  in  woolen  clothes,  upon 
which  the  larvae  later  feed.  As  the  larva  feeds  it 
makesa  cocoon  of  its  silk  together  witli  fibers  of  the 
cloth  on  which  it  is  feeding,  so  that  the  color  of  the 
cocoon  depends  upon  the  color  of  the  fabric.  The 
adult  is  oidy  indirectly  harmful,  as  it  is  only  in  the 
larval  stage  that  the  insect  injures  clothing.  There- 
fore in  Isa  61  8,  "For  the  moth  ['■ash]  shall  eat 
them  up  like  a  garment,  and  the  worm  [sas]  shall 
eat  them  like  wool,"  both  words  must  refer  to  the 
larva,  the  distich  demanding  such  a  word  as  sas 
to  balance  'ash  in  the  first  half.  The  word  "moth" 
occurs  7  t  in  t  lie  OT,  in  Job,  Fss,  Isa  and  Hos,  always 
in  figurative  expressions,  typifying  either  that  which 
is  destructive  (Job  13  28;  Ps  39  11;  Isa  50  9; 
51  8;  Hos  5  12)  or  that  which  is  frail  (Job  4  19; 
27  18).     See  Insects.  Alfred  Ely  Day 

MOTHER,     muth'er     (EX,     'em,     "mother," 

"dam,"  "ancestress";    ^r^p,  miter):    In  vain  do 

we  look  in  the  Scriptures  for  traces  of 

1.  Her  the  low  position  which  woman  occu- 
Position  in  pies  in  many  eastern  lands.  A  false 
the  OT           impression   has  been   created  by  her 

present  position  in  the  East,  esp.  under 
Mohammedan  rule.  Her  place  as  depicted  in  the 
Scriptures  is  a  totally  different  one.  Women  there 
move  on  the  same  social  plane  with  men.  They 
often  occupy  leading  public  positions  (Ex  15  20; 
Jgs  4  4;  2  K  22  14).  The  love  of  offspring  was 
deeply  imbedded  in  the  heart  of  Heb  women,  and 
thus  motherhood  was  highly  respected.  Among 
the  patriarchs  women,  and  esp.  mothers,  occupy 
a  prominent  place.  In  Rebekah's  marriage,  her 
mother  seems  to  have  had  equal  voice  with  her 
father  and  Laban,  her  brother  (Gen  24  28.50.53. 
55).  Jacob  "obeyed  his  father  and  his  mother" 
(Gen  28  7),  and  his  mother  evidently  was  his  chief 
counselor.  The  Law  places  the  child  under  obli- 
gation of  honoring  father  and  mother  alike  (Ex  20 
12).  The  child  that  strikes  father  or  mother  or 
curses  either  of  them  is  punished  by  death  (Ex  21 
15  17).  The  jsame  fate  overtakes  the  habitually 
disobedient  (Dt  21  18-21). 

In  one  place  in  the  Law,  the  mother  is  even  placed 
before  the  father  as  the  object  of  filial  reverence 
(Lev  19  3).  The  Psalmist  depicts  deepest  grief 
as  that  of  one  who  mourneth  for  his  mother  (Ps 
35  14).  In  the  entire  Book  of  Prov  the  duty 
of  reverence,  love  and  obedience  of  sons  to  their 
mothers  is  unceasingly  inculcated.  The  greatest 
comfort  imaginable  is  that  wherewith  a  mother 
comforts  her  son  (Isa  66  13). 

And  what  is  true  of  the  OT  is  equally  true  of  t Ik- 
NT.  The  same  high  type  of  womanhood,_the  same 
reverence  for  one's  mother  is  in  evi- 

2.  Position  dence  in  both  books.  The  birth  of 
in  the  NT      Christ  lifted  motherhood  to  the  highest 

possible  plane  and  idealized  it  for  all 
time.  The  last  thing  Jesus  did  on  the  Cross  was  to 
bestow  His  mother  on  John  "the  beloved"  as  his 
special  inheritance.  What  woman  is  today,  what 
she  is  in  particular  in  her  motherhood,  she  owes 
wholly  to  the  position  in  which  the  Scriptures  have 
placed  her.  Sometimes  the  stepmother  is  spoken 
of  as  the  real  mother  (Gen  37  10).  Sometimes 
the  grandmother  or  other  female  relative  is  thus 
spoken  of  (Gen  3  20;   1  K  15  10). 

Tropically  the  nation  is  spoken  of  as  a  mother 
and  the  people  are  her  children  (Isa  60  1;  Jer  60 
12;  Hos  2  4;  4  5).     Large  cities  also  are  "mothers" 


(2  S  20  19;    cf   Gal  4  20;    2  Esd  10  7),  and  Job 
even  depicts  the  earth  as  such  (Job  1  21). 

Henry  E.  Dosker 
MOTHER-IN-LAW.     See   Relationships, 
Family. 

MOTION,  mo'shun:  In  2  Esd  6  14,  AV  "mo- 
tion" represents  the  Lat  commotio,  "commotion," 
"disturbance"  (RV  has  revised  entirely  here).  In 
Rom  7  5,  "the  motions  of  sins,  which  were  by  the 
law,"  "motion"  is  used  in  the  sense  of  "impulse," 
and  "impulses"  would  probably  give  the  best  tr. 
But  the  Gr  noun  (Tra.drina.Ta,  pathtmata)  is  hard  to 
translate  exactly,  and  RV  has  preferred  "passions," 
as  in  Gal  6  24.  Sanday  (ICC)  paraphrases  "the 
impressions  of  sense,  suggestive;  of  sin,  stimulated 
into  perverse  activity  by  their  legal  prohibition." 
See  Passion.  "Motion"  is  found  also  in  Wisd  5  11 
(AV  and  ltVm)  and  7  24  (AV  and  RV)  in  a  modern 
sense.  Burton  Scott  Easton 

MOUND,  mound.     See  Siege,  4,  (c). 

MOUNT,  mount,  MOUNTAIN,  moun'tin.  See 
Hill,  Mount,  Mountain. 

MOUNT  EPHRAIM.     See  Ephraim,  Mount. 

MOUNT    OF    CONGREGATION,    THE.     See 

Congregation,  Mount  of. 

MOUNT  OF  CORRUPTION.  See  Olives, 
Mount  of. 

MOUNT  OF  OLIVES.  See  Olives,  Mount 
of;  Jerusalem. 

MOUNT  OF  THE  AMALEKITES  ("hill-country 
of  the  Amalekites"  [Jgs  12  15]):  The  Amalekites 
are  usually  connected  with  the  valley  (Nu  14  25; 
Jgs  7  12),  but  appear  from  this  passage  to  have 
had  a  settlement  in  the  hill  country  of  Ephraim. 
See  Amalekites. 

MOUNT  OF  THE  AMORITES  ("hill-country  of 
the  Amorites"  [Dt  1  7.20.24;  cf  Nu  13  29;  Josh 
10  6,  etc]):  The  region  intended  is  that  afterward 
known  as  the  hill  country  of  Judah  and  Ephraim, 
but  sometimes  "Amorites"  is  used  as  a  general  des- 
ignation for  all  the  inhabitants  of  Canaan  (Gen 
15  16;  Josh  24  8.18,  etc).     See  Amorites. 

MOUNT  OF  THE  VALLEY:  Zereth-shahar  is 
said  to  be  situated  in  or  on  the  "mount  of  the 
valley"  (p^H  1H3 ,  frhar  ha'emek  [Josh  13  19]). 
Cheyne  (EB,  s.v.)  says  "i.e.  on  one  of  the  moun- 
tains E.  of  the  Jordan  valley  (cf  ver  27),  and  not 
impossiblv  on  that  described  at  length  in  BJ ,  VII, 
vi,  1-3."  To  the  N.W.  of  this  mountain  is  W&dy 
e$~Sara,  wherein  there  may  be  a  reminiscence  of 
Zereth-shahar.     There  is  no  certainty. 

MOURNING,  morn'ing.     See  Burial;  Grief. 

MOUSE,  mous,  MICE,  mis  H2D?,  'akhbar; 
LXX  |iCs,  mils,  "mouse";  cf  Arab.  -aXIc  ,  *akbar, 
"jerboa,"  not    /^=\ ,   'akbar,   "greater";    cf  also 


proper  noun,  11333?,  'akhbor,  "Achbor"  [Gen  36 
38 f;  1  Ch  1  49;  'also  2  K  22  12.14;  Jer  26  22; 
36  12]):  The  word  occurs  in  the  list  of  unclean 
"creeping  things"  (Lev  11  29),  in  the  account  of  the 
golden  mice  and  tumors  (AV  and  ARVm  "emerods  ) 
sent  by  the  Philis  (1  S  6  4-18),  and  in  the  phrase, 
"eating  swine's  flesh,  and  the  abomination,  and  the 


2093 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


mouse"  (Isa  66  17).  The  cosmopolitan  house- 
mouse,  Mas  musculus,  is  doubtless  the  species 
referred  to.  The  jerboa  or  jumping  mouse,  Arab. 
yarbu\  is  oaten  by  the  Arabs  of  the  Syrian  desert, 
N.E.  of  Damascus.  Possibly  allied  to  xakhbdr  is  the 
Arab.  lakbar  (generally  in  pi.,  Kakdbir),  used  for  the 
male  of  the  jerboa.  Alfred  Ely  Day 

MOUTH,  mowth  (HB  ,  peh,  -jn  ,  hekh,  fn$,  p5, 
garon  [Ps  149  6];  Aram.  ES ,  pum,  3HP ,  <era'  [Did 
3  2G];  o-rofia,  stoma,  71 1,  onceXd-yos,  Me/as,  i.e.  "word 
of  mouth,"  "speech"  [Acts  15  27];  once  we  find  the 
vb.  «Trio-TO|iii;co,  epistomizo,  "to  silence,"  "to  stop 
the  mouth"  [Tit  1  11]): 

In  addition  to  frequent  references  to  man  and 

animals,  "Their  food  was  yet  in  their  mouths"  (Ps 

78  30);    "And  Jeh  opened  the  mouth 

1.  Literal  of  the  ass"  (Nu  22  28);  "Save  me 
Sense  from    the   lion's    mouth"    (Ps  22  21), 

etc,  the  term  is  often  used  in  connec- 
tion with  inanimate  things:  mouth  of  a  sack  (den 
42  27);  of  the  earth  (4  11;  Nu  26  10);  of  a  well 
(29  2.3.S.10);  of  a  cave  (Josh  10  18.22.27);  of 
Sheol  (Ps  141  7);  of  the  abyss  (Jer  48  28);  of  a 
furnace  (Aram.  tera\  Dnl  3  26);  of  idols  (Ps  115  5; 
135   10.17). 

(1)  The  "mouth"  denotes  language,  speech, 
declaration  (cf  "lips,"  "tongue,"  which  see):     "By 

the  mouth  of"  is  "by  means  of,"  "on 

2.  Figura-  the  declaration  of""  (Lk  1  70;  Acts 
tive  Sense     1  16);     "Whoso    killeth    any    person, 

the  murderer  shall  be  slain  at  the 
mouth  of  witnesses"  (Nu  35  30;  cf  Dt  17  6;  Mt 
18  16;  He  10  28);  "I  will  give  you  mouth  and 
wisdom"  (Lk  21  15);  "fool's  mouth"  (Prov  18  7). 
(2)  "Mouth"  also  denotes  "spokesman":  "He  shall 
be  to  thee;  a  mouth"  (Ex  4  16). 

Numerous  are  the  idiomatic  phrases  which  have, 
in  part,  been  introduced  into  English  by  means  of 
the  language  of  the  Bible.  "To  put  into  the 
mouth,"  if  said  of  God,  denotes  Divine  inspiration 
(Dt  18  IS;  Mic  3  .5).  "To  have  words  put  into 
the  mouth"  means  to  have  instructions  given  (Dt 
31  19;  2  S  14  3;  Jer  1  9;  Ex  4  11-Kij.  ••The 
fruit,  of  the  mouth"  (Prov  18  20)  is  synonymical 
with  wisdom,  the  mature  utterance  of  the"  wise. 
"To  put  one's  mouth  into  the  dust"  is  equivalent 
with  humbling  one's  self  (Lam  3  29;  cf  "to  lay 
one's  horn  in  the  dust,"  Job  16  15).  Silent  sub- 
mission is  expressed  by  "laying  the  hand  upon  the 
mouth"  (Jgs  18  19;  Job  29  9;  40  4;  Mic  7  16); 
cf  "to  refrain  the  lips";  see  Lip.  "To  open  the 
mouth  wide"  against  a  person  is  to  accuse  him 
wildly  and  often  wrongfully  (Ps  35  21;  Isa  57  4), 
otherwise  "to  open  one's  mouth  wide,"  "to  have  an 
enlarged  mouth"  means  to  have  great  confidence 
and  joy  in  speaking  or  accepting  good  things  (1  S 
2  1;  Ezk  33  22;  2  Cor  6  11;  Eph  6  19).  "To 
gape  upon  one  with  the  mouth"  means  to  threaten 
a  person  (Job  16  10).  Divine  rebuke  is  expressed 
by  the  "rod  of  God's  mouth"  (Isa  11  4),  and  the 
Messiah  declares  "He  hath  made  my  mouth  like 
a  sharp  sword"  (Isa  49  2;  cf  Rev  2  16;  19  15.21). 
Great  anguish,  such  as  dying  with  thirst,  is  ex- 
pressed by  "the  tongue  cleaving  to  the  roof  of  the 
mouth"  (Heb hekh,  Job  29  10;  Ps  137  6;  cf22  15). 

H.  L.  E.  Luering 
MOWING,  mo'ing,  MOWN  GRASS  (T3,  gez, 
"a  shearing,"  "cut  grass"):  In  Ps  72  6  the  good 
king's  rule  is  said  to  be  "like  rain  upon  the  mown 
grass,"  to  start  the  new  growth  (cf  2  S  23  4;  llos 
6  3).  "The  king's  mowings"  (Am  7  1)  were  the 
portion  of  the  spring  herbage  taken  as  tribute  by 
the  kings  of  Israel  to  feed  their  horses  (cf  1  S  8 
15  ff;  18  5).  "After  the  king's  mowings"  would 
denote  the  time  when  everybody  else  might  turn  to 


Mother 
Mule 


reap  their  greenstuffs  [BTP,  II,  KM)).  The  term 
"mower"  (TgJ?,  kacar,  "to  dock  off,"  "shorten") 
in  Ps  129  7  AV  is  rendered  "reaper"  in  RV,  and 
in  Jas  5  4  RV  has  "mow"  for  6.1x6.00,  amdo  (AV 
"reap").     See  Harvest;  Reaping. 

M.  O.  Evans 
MOZA,  mo'za  (HSi'S  ,  mdcdh) : 

(1)  Son  of  Caleb  and  Ephah  (1  Ch  2  46). 

(2)  A  descendant  of  Saul  (1  Ch  8  36  37;  9 
42.43). 

MOZAH,  mo'za  (PlS'lSn,  ha-mocah;  B,  'Afj-widj, 
Amokt,  A,  'Afuoo-d,  A  mum):  A  town  in  the  terri- 
tory of  Benjamin  named  after  Mizpeh  and  Che- 
phirah  (Josh  18  26).  It  may  be  represented  by 
the  modern  Beit  Mizzeh,  the  heavy  c  of  the  Heb 
passing  into  the  light  z  of  the  Arab.;  a  not  unusual 
change.  The  name  means  "place  of  hard  stone." 
The  village  lies  to  the  N.  of  Kuloniyeh  (possibly 
Emmaus),  about  4  miles  N.W.  of  Jerus. 

MUFFLER,  muf'ler  (n^P),  r'alah):  The  name 
given  to  an  article  of  woman's  dress  in  Isa  3  19. 
It  describes  a  veil  more  elaborate  and  costly  than 
the  ordinary.  A  cognate  word  in  the  sense  of 
"veiled"  is  applied  in  the  Mish  (Shabbath,  vi.6)  to 
Jewesses  from  Arabia.     See  Dress. 

MULBERRY,  mul'ber-i,  TREES  (D^DSl,  b<- 
khd'im;  LXX  amoi,  dpioi,  "pear  trees"  [2  S'  5  23  f; 
1  Ch  14  14  f,  m  "balsam-trees";  Ps  84  6,  AV 
"Baca,"  m  "mulberry  trees,"  RV  "weeping,"  m 
"balsam-trees"):  According  to  Arab,  writers  the 
Baca  tree  is  similar  to  the  balsam  (Balsamodendron 
opobalsamtun),  and  grows  near  Mecca;  no  such  tree 
is,  however,  known  in  Pal.  The  name  may,  in  Heb, 
have  been  applied  to  some  species  of  Acacia  (q.v.). 
The  idea  of  "weeping"  implied  in  the  root,  both  in 
Heb  and  Arab.,  may  be  explained  by  the  exudation 
of  gum.  "The  sound  of  marching  in  t  he  tops  of  the 
mulberry  trees"  has  been  explained  to  refer  to  the 
quivering  of  the  leaves  of  poplars,  but  there  is  not 
much  to  support  this  view  (see  Poplar).  The  tr 
"mulberry  trees"  is,  however,  even  more  improb- 
able, as  this  tree,  though  very  plentiful  today,  had 
not  been  introduced  into  Pal  in  OT  times. 

Mulberry  (fiSpov,  moron  [1  Mace  6  34]):  The 
Syrians  at  Bathzacharias  "to  the  end  they  might 
provoke  the  elephants  to  fight,  they  shewed  them 
the  blood  of  grapes  and  mulberries."  This  refer- 
ence must  be  to  the  deep  red  juice  of  the  black  mul- 
berry (Moms  nigra),  the  lilt  shdmi  of  Pal,  a  variety 
cultivated  all  over  the  land  for  its  luscious,  juicy 
fruit.     See  Sycomore.      E.  W.  G.  Masterman 

MULCTED,    mulk'ted    (1S3£,    'dnash,    "to    be 

punished,"  "fined"):  "The  simple  pass  on,  and  are 
mulcted"  (Prov  22  3  RVm,  RV  "suffer  for  it," 
AV  "are  punished"). 

MULE,  mul  ("PS ,  peredh  [1  K  10  25;  18  5;  Ezr 

2  66;  Isa  66  20;"Zec  14  15],  the  fern.  !VnE , 
pirddh  [1  K  1  33.38.44],  Tib"!,  rekhesh,  "swift 
steeds,"  AV  "mules"  [Est  8  10.14],  D^nnttJnK , 
'&hashterdnim,  "used  in  the  king's  service,"  AV 
"camels,"  RVm  "mules"  [Est  8  10.14],  Eft-1 , 
yemim,  "hot  springs,"  AV  "mules"  [Gen  36  24]; 
t](a£ovos,  hemionos,  "half-ass,"  "mule"  [1  Esd  5  43; 
Jth  15  11]):  Mules  are  mentioned  as  riding  animals 
for  princes  (2  S  13  29;  18  9;  1  K  1  33.38.44);  in 
the  tribute  brought  to  Solomon  (2  Ch  9  24);  as 
beasts  of  burden  (2  K  5  17;  1  Ch  12  40);  horses 
and  mules  are  obtained  from  the  "house  of  Togar- 
mah"  in  the  distant  north  (Ezk  27  14).  The  in- 
junction of  Ps  32  9,  "Be  ye  not  as  the  horse,  or  as 


Multitude,  Mixed  THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 

Music  


2094 


the  mule,  which  have  no  understanding,"  need  not 
be  understood  as  singling  out  the  dorse  and  mule 
as  more  in  need  of  guidance  than  the  rest  ol  the 
brute  creation,  but  rather  as  offering  familiar  ex- 
amples to  contrast  with  man  who  should  use  his 
intelligence. 

At  the  present  day  mules  arc  used  as  pack  animals  and 
for  drawing  freight  'wagons,  rarely  for  riding.  One  docs 
not  often  see  iti  Pal  mules  as  large  and  tine  as  are  common 
in  Europe  and  America.  This  may  be  because  most  of 
the  mares  and  many  of  the  donkeys  are  small. 

Alfred  Fly  Day 
MULTITUDE,  muTti-tud,  MIXED,  mikst.     See 
Mingled  People. 

MUNITION,  mu-nish'un.     See  SlEGE,  4,  (b). 

MUPPIM,  mup'im  (U"1^  ,  muppim):  A  son  of 
Benjamin  (Gen  46  21),  elsewhere  called  "Shup- 
pim"  (1  Ch  7  12.1;");  26  1(1),  "Shephupham"  (Nu 
26  39),  and  "Shcphuphan"  (1  Ch  8  5);  cf  sep- 
arate arts,  on  these  names. 

MURDER,   mur'der  (."OH ,    haragh,  "to  smite," 

"destroy,"  "kill,"  "slay"  [Ps  10  S;   Hos  9  13  AY], 

n?l ,  rdgah,  "to  dash  to  pieces,"  "kill," 

1.  Terms       esp.    with    premeditation    [Nu  35   10 

and  frequently;  Job  24  14;  Ps  94 
0;  Jer  7  9;  Hos  6  9];  <j>ov£vs,  phoneiXs,  "criminal 
homicide,"  from  4>ov«iJtD,  phoneuo,  "to  kill,"  "slay"; 
<j>6vos,  phonos,  from  *4>evw,  pheno,  has  the  same; 
meaning;  dv9pwiroKT6vos,  anthropoktdnos,  "man- 
slayer,"  "murderer,"  is  used  to  designate  Satan 
[Jn  8  44]  and  him  that  hates  his  brother  [1  Jn  3 
15];  a  matricide  is  designated  as  (ttiTpaXwas,  metra- 
loas  [1  Tim  1  9];  cf  d8«\<}>0KT6vos,  adelphokt&nos, 
"fratricidal"  [Wisd  10  3].  The  pi.  of  4>6vos,  phdnos, 
"murders,"  occurs  in  Mt  15  19;  Mk  7  21;  Gal 
5  21  AV;  Rev  9  21;   cf  2  Mace  4  3.38;   12  6): 

The  Heb  law  recognized  the  distinction  between 

wilful  murder  and  accidental  or  justifiable  homicide 

(Nu  25  10);  but  in  legal  language  no 

2.  The  verbal  distinction  is  made.  Murder 
Hebrew  was  always  subject  to  capital  punish- 
Law                 ment  (Lev  24  17;  cf  Gen  9  0).     Even 

if  the  criminal  sought  the  protection  of 
the  sanctuary,  he  was  to  be  arrested  before  the  altar, 
and  to  be  punished  (Ex  21  12.14;  Lev  24  17.21; 
Nu  35  16.18.21.31).  The  Mish  says  that  a  mortal 
blow  intended  for  another  than  the  victim  is  punish- 
able with  death;  but  such  a  provision  is  not  found 
in  the  Law.  No  special  mention  is  made  of  (a)  child 
murder;  (b)  parricide;  or  (c)  taking  life  by  poison; 
but  the  intention  of  the  law  is  clear  with  reference 
to  all  these  cases  (Ex  21  15.17;  1  Tim  1  9;  Mt 
15  4).  No  punishment  is  mentioned  for  attempted 
suicide  (cf  1  S  31  4f;  1  K  16  18;  Mt  27  5);  yet 
Jos  says  {BJ,  III,  viii,  5)  that  suicide  was  held  crimi- 
nal by  the  Jews  (sec;  also  Ex  21  23).  An  animal 
known  to  be  vicious  must  be  confined,  and  if  it 
caused  the  death  of  anyone,  the  animal  was  de- 
stroyed and  the  owner  held  guilty  of  murder  (Ex 
21  29.31).  The  executioner,  according  to  the 
terms  of  the  Law,  was  the  "revenger  of  blood" ;  but 
the  guilt  must  be  previously  determined  by  the 
Levitical  tribunal.  Strong  protection  was  given 
by  the  requirement,  that  at  least  two  witnesses  must 
concur  in  any  capital  question  (Nu  35  19-30;  Dt 
17  0-12;  19  12.17).  Under  the  monarchy  the 
duty  of  executing  justice  on  a  murderer  seems  to 
have  been  assumed  to  some  extent  by  the  sovereign, 
who  also  had  power  to  grant  pardon  (2  S  13  39; 
14  7.11;   1  K  2  34).     See  Manslayeb. 

Frank  E.  Hibsch 
MURDERERS,  mur'der-erz  (Acts  21  38  AV,  RV 
"assassins"):   Represents   a   word  only  once  men- 
tioned in  the  NT,  the  Gr  word  o-utdpios,  sikdrios, 


hat  sicarius  from  sicd,  "a  small  sword,"  or  "dagger." 
The  word  describes  the  hired  assassin,  of  whom 
there  were  bands  in  the  pay  of  agitators  in  Rome  in 
the  last  days  of  the  Republic,  who  employed  them 
to  remove  surreptitiously  their  political  opponents. 
In  the  later  days  of  the  Jewish  commonwealth, 
Judaea  became  infested  with  the  same  type  of 
ruffian,  and  it  is  natural  that  the  Rom  commandant 
at  Jerus  should  describe  them  by  the  name  so  well 
known  in  the  imperial  city.     See  Assassins. 

T.  Nicol 

MURMUR,  mur'mur,  MURMURINGS,  mur'- 
mur-ingz:  The  Heb  word  ("p5 ,  luti)  denotes  the 
semi-articulated  mutterings  of  disaffected  persons. 
It  is  used  in  connection  with  the  complaints  of  the 
Israelites  in  the  desert  against  Jeh  on  the  one  hand, 
and  against  Moses  and  Aaron  on  the  other  hand 
(Ex  16  7.S;  Nu  14  27.30;  16  11;  17  5).  In  three 
places  (Dt  1  27;  Ps  106^25;  Isa  29  24),  "murmur" 
translates  a  Heb  word  ("3^,  raghari)  which  suggests 
the  malicious  whispering  of  slander. 

In  the  NT  "murmur"  renders  two  different  words, 
viz.  yoyytifru),  gogguzo,  and  euppifxao/xai,  embrimdo- 
mai.  The  latter  word  suggests  indignation  and 
fault-finding  (Mk  14  4AV).  The  former  word  (or 
a  compound  of  il)  is  generally  used  in  connection 
with  the  complainings  of  the  Pharisees  and  scribes 
(Mt  20  11;  Lk  5  30;  15  2;  19  7).        T.  Lewis 

MURRAIN,  mur'in,  mur'en,  mur'an  051 , 
debher) :  This  name  is  given  to  a  fatal  cat  t  le-disease, 
winch  was  the  fif  t  h  of  t  he  plagues  of  Egypt  (Ex"  9  3), 
and  which  affected  not  only  the  flocks  and  herds, 
but  also  the  camels,  horses  and  asses.  The  record 
of  its  onset  immediately  after  the  plague  of  dies 
makes  it  probable  that  it  was  an  epizootic,  whose 
germs  were  carried  by  these  insects  as  those  of 
rinderpest  or  splenic  fever  may  be.  Cattle  plagues 
have  in  recent  years  been  very  destructive;  in  Egypt ; 
many  writers  have  given  descriptions  of  the  great 
devastation  wrought  by  the  outbreak  in  1S42.  In 
this  case  Wittmann  noted  that  contact  with  the 
putrid  carcasses  caused  severe  boils,  a  condition 
also  recorded  in  Ex  as  following  the  murrain.  The 
very  extensive  spread  of  rinderpest  within  the  last 
few  years  in  many  districts  of  Egypt  has  not  yet 
been  completely  stamped  out,  even  in  spite  of  the 
use  of  antitoxic  serum  and  the  most  rigid  isolation. 
The  word  "murrain"  is  probably  a  variant  of  the 
Old  Fr.  marine.  It  is  tised  as  an  imprecation  by 
Shakespeare  and  other  Elizabethan  writers,  and  is 
still  applied  by  herdsmen  to  several  forms  of  epi- 
demic cattle  sickness.  Among  early  writers  it  was 
used  as  well  for  fatal  plagues  affecting  men;  thus 
Lydgate  (1494)  speaks  of  the  people  "slain  by  that 
moreyne."  Alex.  Macalister 

MUSE,  muz,  MUSING,  muz'ing:  The  word 
occurs  twice  in  the  OT,  in  the  sense  of  "meditate" 
(Ps  39  3,hdghlgh;  Ps  143  5,  slah);  in  the  NT  once 
(Lk  3  15,  dialogizomai,  where  RV  reads  "reasoned"). 

MUSHI,  mu'shl  pIpTO,  mushl):  Son  of  Merari 
(Ex  6  19;  Nu  3  20;  1  Ch  6  19  [Heb  4];  23  21; 
24  20).  There  is  found  also  the  patronymic  "Mush- 
ites"  (Nu  3  33;   26  58). 

MUSIC,  mu'zik: 
I.     Importance 

1.  The  Sole  Art  Cultivated 

2.  A  Wide  Vocabulary  of  Musical  Terms 

3.  Place  in  Social  and  Personal  Life 

4.  Universal  Language  of  Emotions 

5.  Use  in  Divine  Service 

0.  Part  at  Religious  Reformations 
II.     Theory   of  Music 

1.  Technical  Terms,  'dldmoth,  shtmlnith,  seldh 

2.  Not  Necessarily  Unimpressive 


2095 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA  Multitude,  Mixed 

Music 


III.     Musical  Instruments 

1.  Strings:     ki/tnor,   nebliel,    'dudr,  gittith,  shalishim, 
sabbekha' 

2.  "Winds:     'ughabh,    hdlil,     n'hlloth,     mashrdfcUhd', 

sumpdnydh,  shdphdr,  Keren.  hae6errd/i 

3.  Percussion:  toph,  megiltayim,  eelc'lim,  mena'an'im 
Literature 

/.  Its  Importance. — That  the  Hebrews  were  in 
ancient  times,  as  they  are  at  the  present  day,  de- 
voted to  the  study  and  practice  of  music  is  obvious 
to  every  reader  of  the  OT.  The  references  to  it 
are  numerous,  and  are  fre- 
quently of  such  a  nature  as 
to  emphasize  its  importance. 
They  occur  not  only  in  the 
Psalter,  where  we  might  ex- 
pect them,  but  in  the  Histori- 
cal Books  and  the  Prophets,  in 
narratives  and  in  declamations 
of  the  loftiest  meaning  and 
most  intense  seriousness.  And 
the  conclusion  drawn  from  a 
cursory  glance  is  confirmed 
by  a  closer  study. 

The  place  held  by  music  in 

the    OT    is    unique.      Besides 

poetry,    it    is    the 

1.  The  Sole  only    art    that 

Art  Culti-  seems  to  have  been  cultivated  to  any 
vated  extent  in  ancient    Israel.      Painting  is 

entirely,  sculpture  almost  entirely, 
ignored.  This  may  have  been  due  to  the  pro- 
hibition contained  in  the  Second  Commandment, 
but  the  fidelity  with  which  that,  was  obeyed  is 
remarkable. 

From  the  traces  of  it  extant  in  the  OT,  we  can 
infer  that  the  vocabulary  of  musical  terms  was  far 

from  scanty.     This  is  all  the  more  sig- 

2.  Vocab-  nificant  when  we  consider  the  con- 
ulary  densed  and   pregnant  nature  of   Heb. 

"Song"  in  our  EV  represents  at  least 
half  a  dozen  words  in  the  original. 

The    events,    occasions,    and    occupations    with 
which  music  was  associated  were  extremely  varied. 

It      accompanied     leave-taking     with 

3.  Place  in  honored  guests  (Gen  31  27);  cele- 
Social  Life  brated  a  signal  triumph  over  the  na- 
tion's enemies  (Ex  15  20);  and  wel- 
comed conquerors  returning  from  victory  i.Igs  11 
34;  1  S  18  0).  It  was  employed  to  exorcise  an 
evil  spirit  (1  S  18  10),  and  to  soothe  the  temper, 
or  excite  the  inspiration,  of  a  prophet  (2  Iv  3  15). 
The  words  "Destroy  not"  in  the  titles  of  four  of  the 
Pss  (cf  Isa  65  8)  most  probably  are  the  beginning 
of  a  vintage-song,  and  the  markedly  rhythmical 
character  of  Heb  music  would  indicate'  that  it, 
accompanied  and  lightened  many  kinds  of  work 
requiring  combined  and  uniform  exertion.  Pro- 
cessions, as  e.g.  marriages  (1  Mace  9  39)  and 
funerals  (2  Ch  35  25),  were  regulated  in  a  similar 
way.  The  Pss  headed  "Songs  of  Degrees"  were 
probably  the  sacred  marches  sung  by  the  pious  as 
they  journeyed  to  and  from  the  holy  festivals  at 
Jerus. 

It    follows  from  this  that  the  range  of  emotion 

expressed  by  Heb  music  was  anything  but  limited. 

In  addition  to  the  passages  just  quoted, 

4.  Emo-  we  may  mention  the  jeering  songs 
tional  leveled  at  Job  (Job  30  0).  But  the 
Range             music  that  could  be  used  to  interpret  or 

accompany  the  Pss  with  any  degree  of 
fitness  must  have  been  capable  of  expressing  a  great 
variety  of  moods  and  feelings.  Not  only  the  broadly 
marked  antitheses  of  joy  and  sorrow,  hope  and  fear, 
faith  and  doubt,  but  every  shade  and  quality  of 
sentiment  are  found  there.  It  is  hardly  possible 
to  suppose  that  the  people  who  originated  all  that, 
wealth  of  emotional  utterance  should   have   been 


without  a  corresponding  ability  to  invent  diversi- 
fied melodies,  or  should  have  been  content  with  the 
bald  and  colorless  recitative  usually  attributed  to 
them. 

This  internal  evidence  is  confirmed  by  other  tes- 
timony. The  Bab  tyrants  demanded  one  of  the 
famous  songs  of  Zion  from  their  Jewish  captives 
(Ps  137  3),  and  among  the  presents  sent,  by  Heze- 
kiah  to  Sennacherib  there  were  included  male  and 
female  musicians.     In  later  times  Lat  writers  attest 


Harp,  Lyre  and  Double  Pipe  with  Men  and  Women  Singing. 

the  influence  of  the  East  in  matters  musical.     We 
need  only  refer  to  Juvenal  iii.02  if. 

By  far  the  most  important  evidence  of  the  value 
attached  to  music  by  the  Hebrews  is  afforded  by 
the  place  given  to  it,  in  Divine  service. 
5.  Place  in    It  is  true  that  nothing  is  said  of  it  in 
Divine  the  Pent  in  connection  with  the  con- 

Service  secration  of  the  tabernacle,  or  the  in- 

stitution  of   the   various   sacrifices   or 
festivals.     But  this  omission  proves  nothing.     It  is 


Three  Bearded  Men  with  Lyres  (Supposed  by  Some 

to  Bo  Jews). 

(Assyrian  Sculpture  in  Brit.  Mils  i 

not  perhaps  atoned  for  by  the  tradition  (Wisd  18 
0)  that  at  the  first  paschal  celebration  "the  fathers 
already  led  the  sacred  songs  of  praise,"  but,  the  rest 
of  the  history  makes  ample  amends.  In  later  days, 
at  all  events,  music  formed  an  essential  part  of 
the  national  worship  of  Jeh,  and  elaborate  arrange- 
ments were  made  for  its  correct  and  impressive  per- 
formance. These  are  detailed  in  1  Ch.  There  we 
are  told  that  the  whole  body  of  the  temple  chorus 
and  orchestra  numbered  4,000;  that  they  were 
trained  and  conducted,  in  24  divisions,  by  the  sons 
of  Asaph,  Heman  and  Jeduthun;  and  that  in  each 


Music 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2096 


group  experts  and  novices  wore  combined,  so  that 
the  former  preserved  the  correct  tradition,  and  the 
latter  were  trained  and  fitted  to  take  their  place. 
This  is,  no  doubt,  a  description  of  the  arrangements 
thai  were  carried  out  in  the  Second  Temple,  but  it 
sheds  a  reflex,  if  somewhat  uncertain,  light  on  those 
adopted  in  the  First. 

We  are  told  by  the  same  authority  that  every 
reformation   of  religion   brought   with   it   a   recon- 
struction   of    the    temple    chorus    and 
6.  In  Re-       orchestra,  and  a  resumption  of  their 
ligious  duties.     Thus  when  Hezekiah  purged 

Reforma-  the  state  and  church  of  the  heathen- 
tions  ism  patronized  by  Ahaz,  "he  set  the 

Levites  in  the  house  of  Jeh  with  cym- 
bals, with  psalteries,  and  with  harps"  (2  Ch  29  25). 


6,  12;  cf  also  1  Ch  15  19-21).  The  former  has 
been  taken  to  mean  "in  the  manner  of  maidens," 
i.e.  soprano;  the  latter  "on  the  lower  octave,"  i.e. 
tenor  or  bass.  This  is  plausible,  but  it  is  far  from 
convincing.  It  is  hardly  probable  that  the  He- 
brews had  anticipated  our  modern  division  of  the 
scale;  and  the  word  sh'minllh or  "eighth"  may  refer 
to  the  number  of  the  mode,  while  *alamdth  is  also 
ti"1  "with  Elamite  instruments"  (Wellhausen) .  Of 
one  feature  of  Heb  music  we  may  be  tolerably  sure: 
it  was  rendered  in  unison.  It  was  destitute  of  har- 
mony or  counterpoint.  For  its  effect  it  would 
depend  on  contrast  in  quality  of  tone,  on  tin;  par- 
ticipation of  a  larger  or  smaller  number  of  singers, 
on  antiphonal  singing,  so  clearly  indicated  in  many 
of  the  Pss,  and  on  tin;  coloring  imparted  by  the 


Men  and  women  seated  on  chai 


voinen  servants  pass  ' 


Musical   Party. 

ine,  musicians  seated  on  the  ground  play,  and  women  dance  before  them  (Brit.  Mils.). 


The  same  thing  took  place  under  Josiah  (2  Ch  34). 
After  the  restoration — at  the  dedication  of  the 
Temple  (Ezr  3  10)  and  of  the  walls  of  Jerus  (Neh 
12  17) — music  played  a  great  part.  In  Nehemiah's 
time  the  descendants  of  the  ancient  choral  guilds 
drew  together,  and  their  maintenance  was  secured 
to  them  out  of  the  public  funds  in  return  for  their 
services. 

//.  Musical  Theory. — It   is   disappointing   after 
all  this  to  have  to  confess  that  of  the  nature  of  Heb 

music  we  have  no  real  knowledge.  If 
1.  Dearth  of  any  system  of  notation  ever  existed, 
Technical  it  has  been  entirely  lost.  Attempts 
Information  have  been  made  to  derive  one  from  the 

accents,  and  a  German  organist  once 
wrote  a  book  on  the  subject.  One  tune  in  our 
hymnals  has  been  borrowed  from  that  source,  but 
it  is  an  accident,  if  not  worse,  and  the  ingenuity 
of  the  German  organist  was  quite  misdirected.  We 
know  nothing  of  the  scales,  or  tonal  system  of  the 
Heb,  of  their  intervals  or  of  their  method  of  tuning 
their  instruments.  Two  terms  are  supposed  by  some 
to  refer  to  pitch,  viz.  "upon,"  or  "set  to  *Alamdth," 
(Ps  46),  and  "upon,"  or  "set  to  the  Sh'minith"  (Pss 


orchestra.  That  the  latter  occasionally  played 
short  passages  alone  has  been  inferred  from  the 
term  selah,  a  word  that  occurs  71  t  in  the  Pss.  It 
is  rendered  in  the  LXX  by  didpsalmos,  which  either 
means  louder  playing,  forte,  or,  more  probably,  an 
instrumental  interlude. 

Our  knowledge  is,  therefore,  very  meager  and 
largely  negative.  We  need  not,  however,  suppose 
that  Heb  music  was  necessarily  monot- 
2.   Not  onous  and  unimpressive,  or,  to  those 

Necessarily  who  heard  it,  harsh  and  barbarous. 
Unimpress-  Music,  more  than  any  other  of  the 
ive  arts,  is  justified  of  her  own  children, 

and  a  generation  that  has  slowly 
learned  to  enjoy  Wagner  and  Strauss  should  not 
rashly  condemn  the  music  of  the  East.  No  doubt 
the  strains  that  emanated  from  the  orchestra  and 
chorus  of  the  temple  stimulated  the  religious  fervor, 
and  satisfied  the  aesthetic  principles  of  the  Hebrews 
of  old,  precisely  as  the  rendering  of  Bach  and 
Handel  excites  and  soothes  the  Christian  of  today. 

///.  Instruments. — The  musical  instruments  em- 
ployed by  the  Hebrews  included  representatives 
of  the  three  groups:   string,  wind,  and  percussion. 


2097 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Music 


The  strings  comprised  the  ""HS? ,  kinnor,  '22  or 
722 ,  nebhel  or  ncbhel;  the  winds:  the  ISIU), 
shdphdr,  or  *"}j2 ,  keren,  rHi^n ,  hdcdc''rdh,  b"vn  , 
TidHZ,  and  S5iy,  Kughubh;  percussion:  DP,  <o/;/;, 
CTPbra,  meQiltayim,  U'b'lb*,  celc'lim,  D'Wrp, 
mencfanHm  W^*OlD ,  shalishtm.  Besides  these, 
we  have  in  Dnl:  NrPpiTiL'^  (  mashroklthd' ,  ND3C  , 
sabbekhd',  "j"Hn:CE ,  pesanterin,  PPSlEEfiO ,  §wm- 
ponyah.  Further,  there  are  Chaldaean  forms  of 
fterera  and  kithdra. 


a  punishment  for  sin  the  sound  of  the  kinnor  will 
cease. 

(2)  Materials. — We  have  no  exact  information 
as  to  the  materials  of  which  these  instruments  were 
made.  In  2  S  6  5  AV,  mention  is  made  of  "in- 
struments made  of  fir  wood"  (ERV  "cypress"),  but 
the  text  is  probably  corrupt,  and  the  reading  in 

I  Ch  13  8    is    preferable.     According    to    1  K  10 

II  f,  Hiram's  fleet  brought  from  Ophir  quantities 
of  'almugh  (2  Ch  2  8;  9  10,  'algum)  wood,  from 
which,  among  other  things,  the  kinnor  and  nebhel 
were  made.     Probably  this  was  red  sandal-wood. 


V-A 


/V  !  !f\ 


hMmmmMl 


Procession'  of  Assyrian  Musicians. 

Bas-Relief  from  Kcmyunjik,  Rril.  Mils. 


(1)  When  used. — The  chief  of  these  instruments 
were  the  kinnor  and  nebhel  (AV,   RV  "the  harp" 

and  "the  psaltery"  or  "viol").  They 
1.  Strings      were  used  to  accompany  vocal  music. 

In  1  S  10  5,  Saul  meets  a  band  of 
prophets  singing  inspired  strains  to   the  music  of 


Egyptian  Lyre  Hold 
Horizontally. 


Lyre  Held  Perpen- 
dicularly. 


the  nebhel,  "drum,"  "flute,"  and  kinnor.  In  the 
description  of  the  removal  of  the  ark,  we  are  told 
that  songs  were  sung  with  kinnoroth,  Wbhalim,  etc 
(2  S  6  5).  Again,  in  various  passages  (1  Ch  15  10; 
2  Ch  7  6,  etc)  we  meet  with  the  expression  kele 
shir,  i.e.  instruments  of,  or  suitable  for  accom- 
panying, song.  It  is  evident  that  only  the  flute 
and  strings  could  render  melodies.  The  music 
performed  on  these  instruments  seems  to  have 
been  mainly  of  a  joyful  nature.  It  entered  into  all 
public  and  domestic  festivities.  In  Ps  81  2,  the 
kinnor  is  called  "pleasant,"  and  Isa  24  8  speaks 
of  the  "joy"  of  the  kinnor.  Very  striking  is  the 
invocation  Ps  108  2:  the  poet  in  a  moment  of  ex- 
hilaration calls  upon  the  two  kele  shir  to  echo  and 
share  his  enthusiasm  for  Jeh.  Only  once  (Isa  16 
11)  is  the  kinnor  associated  with  mourning,  and 
Cheyne  infers  from  this  passage  "that  the  kinnor 
was  used  at  mourning  ceremonies."  But  the  infer- 
ence is  doubtful;  the  prophet  is  merely  drawing  a 
comparison  between  the  trembling  of  the  strings 
of  the  lyre  and  the  agitation  in  his  own  bosom. 
Again,  the  Bab  captives  hang  their  kinnoroth  on 
the  willows  in  their  dejection  (Ps  137  2),  and  the 
prophets  (Isa  24  8;    Ezk  26  13)  threaten  that  as 


Jos  (.1  ///,  VIII,  iii)  includes  among  articles  made  by 
Solomon  for  the  temple  nebhdllm  and  kinnoroth  of 
electrum.  Whether  we  understand  this  to  have 
been  the  mixed  metal  so  named  or  amber,  the  frame 
of  the  instrument  could  not  have  been  constructed 
of  it.     It  may  have  been  used  for  ornamentation. 

We  have  no  trace  of  metal  strings  being  used  by 
the  ancients.  The  strings  of  the  Heb  (minnim) 
may  have  consisted  of  gut.  We  read  of  sheep-gut 
being  employed  for  the  purpose  in  the  Odyssey,  xxi. 
407.  Vegetable  fiber  was  also  spun  into  strings. 
We  need  only  add  that  bowed  instruments  were 
quite  unknown;  the  strings  were  plucked  with  the 
fingers,  or  struck  with  a  plectrum. 

(a)  The  kinnor:  The  OT  gives  us  no  clue  to 
the  form  or  nature  of  the  kinnor,  except  that  it  was 
portable,  comparatively  light,  and  could  be  played 
while  it  was  carried  in  processions  or  dances.  The 
earliest  authority  to  which  we  can  refer  on  the  sub- 
ject is  the  LNX.  While  in  some  of  the  books  kin- 
nor is  rendered  by  kinniira,  or  kin  lira — evidently 
a  transliteration — in  others  it  is  trd  by  kiihara.     We 


Bedouins  Playing  on  Primitive  Instruments. 

cannot  discuss  here  the  question  of  the  trust- 
worthiness of  the  LXX  as  an  authority  for  Heb 
antiquities,  but  considering  the  conservatism  of  the 
East,  esp.  in  matters  of  ritual,  it  seems  at  least 
hasty  to  say  offhand,  as  Wellhausen  does,  that  by 
the  date  of  its  production  the  whole  tradition  of 
ancient  music  had  been  lost.  The  tr,  at  all  events, 
supplies  us  with  an  instrument  of  which  the  He- 
brews   could    hardly    have    been    ignorant.     The 


Music 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2098 


kithara,  which  in  its  general  outlines  resembled 
the  lyre,  consisted  of  a  rectilinear-shaped  sound 
box  from  which  rose  two  arms,  connected  above  by 
a  crossbar;  the  strings  ran  down  from  the  latter  to 
the  sound-box,  to  which,  or  to  a  bridge  on  which, 
they  were  attached. 

The  most  ancient  copy  of  a  kithara  in  Egypt  was  found 
in  a  grave  of  the  Xllth  Dynasty.  It  is  carried  by  one  of 
a  company  of  immigrant  captive  Semites,  who  holds  it 
close  to  his  breast,  striking  the  strings  with  a  plectrum 
held  in  his  right  hand,  and  plucking  them  with  the  lingers 
of  the  left.  The  instrument  is  very  primitive;  it  re- 
sembles a  schoolboy's  slate  with  the  upper  three-fourths 
of  the  slate  broken  out  of  tin;  frame;  but  it  nevertheless 
possesses  the  distinctive  characteristics  of  the  kithara. 
In  a  grave  at  Thebes  of  a  somewhat  later  date,  three 
players  are  depicted,  one  of  whom  plays  a  kithara,  also 
primitive  in  form,  but  with  slenderer  arms.  Gradually,  as 
time  advanced,  the  simple  board-like  frame  assumed  a 
shape  more  like  that  afterward  elaborated  by  the  Creeks. 
Numerous  examples  have  been  found  in  Asia  Minor,  but 
further  developed,  esp.  as  regards  the  sound-box.  It 
may  be  noted  that,  in  the  Assyr monuments,  the  kithara 
is  played  along  with  the  harp,  as  the  kinnor  was  with  the 
nebhel. 

The  evidence  furnished  by  Jewish  coins  must  not  be 
overlooked.  Those  stamped  with  representations  of 
lyre-shaped  instruments  have  been  assigned  to  142-1 H5 
BC,  or  to  60-70  AD.  On  one  side  we  have  a  kitharn- 
like  instrument  of  3  or  more  strings,  with  a  sound-box 
resembling  a  kettle.  It  is  true  that  these  coins  are 
of  a  late  date,  and  the  form  of  the  instruments  shown  on 
them  has  obviously  been  modified  by  (ir  taste,  but  so 
conservative  a  people  as  the  Jews  would  hardly  be  likely 
to  adopt  an  essentially  foreign  object  for  their  coinage. 

One  objection  raised  by  Wellhausen  to  the  identi- 
fication of  the  kithara  wit  li  t  he  kinnor  may  be  noted. 
Jos  undoubtedly  says  (Ant,  VII,  xii)  that  the  kin- 
nura  was  played  with  a 
plectrum,  and  in  1  8  16 
23  David  plays  the  kinnor 
"with  his  hand."  But 
even  if  this  excludes  the 
use  of  the  plectrum  in  the 
particular  case,  it  need 
not  be  held  to  disprove 
t  he  identity  of  kinnor  and 
kinnura.  Both  methods  may  have  been  in  use. 
In  paintings  discovered  at  Herculaneum  there  art; 
several  instances  of  the  lyre  being  played  with 
the  hand;  and  there  is  no  reason  for  supposing 
that  the  Hebrews  were  restricted  to  one  method  of 
showing  their  skill,  when  we  know  that  Greeks  and 
Latins  were  not. 

Since  the  ancient  VSS,  then,  render  kinnor  by 
kithara,  and  the  kithara,  though  subsequently  de- 
veloped and  beautified  by  the  Greeks,  was  originally 
a  Sem  instrument,  it  is  exceedingly  probable,  as 
Riehm  says,  "that  we  have  to  regard  the  ancient 
Heb  kinnor,  which  is  designated  a  kithara,  as  a  still 
simpler  form  of  the  lat  t er  instrument.  The  stringed 
instruments  on  the  Jewish  coins  are  later,  beautified 
forms  of  the  kinnor,  while  the  Egyp  modifications 
represent  the  intermediate  stage." 

(b)  The  nebhel:  The  nebhel  has  been  identified 
with  many  instruments.  The  literal  meaning  of 
the  word,  "wine-skin,"  has  suggested  that  it  was  the 
bagpipe!  Others  have  thought  that  it  was  the 
lute,  and  this  is  supported  by  reference  to  the  Egyp 
nfr,  which  denotes  a  lute-like  instrument  frequently 
depicted  on  the  monuments.  The  derivation  of 
ribl  from  nfr  is,  however,  now  abandoned;  and  no 
long-necked  instrument  has  been  found  depicted 
in  the  possession  of  a  Semite.  The  kissar  was 
favored  by  Pfeiffer.  Its  resonance-box  is  made  of 
wood,  and,  the  upper  side,  being  covered  tightly 
by  a  skin,  closely  resembles  a  drum.  From  this 
rise  two  arms,  connected  toward  the  top  by  a  cross- 
bar; and  to  the  latter  the  strings  are  attached. 
The  kissar  has,  however,  only  5  strings,  as  opposed 
to  12  ascribed  by  Jos  to  the  nebhel,  and  the  sound- 
box, instead  of  being  above,  as  stated  by  the  Fathers, 
is  situated  below  the  strings. 


Trumpets  on  a  Coin  from 
Bar-Cochba. 


Assyrian  Dulcimer. 


The  supposition  that  the  nebhel  was  a  dulcimer 
is  not  without  some  justification.  The  dulcimer 
was  well  known  in  the  East.  An  extremely  in- 
teresting and  important  bas-relief  in  the  palace  at 
Kouyunjik  represents  a  company  of  28  musicians, 
of  whom  11  are  instrumental- 
ists and  15  singers.  The  pro- 
cession is  headed  by  5  men, 
3  carrying  harps,  one  a  double 
flute,  and  one  a  dulcimer. 
Two  of  the  harpists  and  the 
dulcimer-player  appear  to  be 
dancing  or  skipping.  Then 
follow  6  women;  4  have 
harps,  one  a  double  flute, 
and  one  a  small  drum  which 
is  fixed  upright  at  the  belt, 
and  is  played  with  the  fingers 
of  both  hands.  Besides  the 
players,  we  see  15  singers,  9 
being  children,  who  clap  their 
hands  to  mark  the  rhythm. 
One  of  the  women  is  holding  her  throat,  perhaps  to 
produce  the  shrill  vibrato  affected  by  Pers  and 
Arabian  women  at  the  present  day.  The  dulcimer 
in  this  picture  has  been  regarded  by  several  Oriental- 
ists as  the  nebhel.  Wettsfein,  v.£.,  says  "This  in- 
strument can  fairly  be  so  designated,  if  the  state- 
ment of  so  many  witnesses  is  correct,  that  nablium 
and  psalterium  are  one  and  the  same  thing.  For 
the  latter  corresponds  to  the  Arab,  santir,  which  is 
derived  from  the  He!)  pe§anterln,  a  transliteration 
of  the  Gr  psalttrion."  And  the  santir  is  a  kind  of 
dulcimer. 

This  is  not  conclusive.  The  word  psalterion 
was  not  always  restricted  to  a  particular  instru- 
ment, but  sometimes  embraced  a  whole  class  of 
stringed  instruments.  Ovid  also  regarded  tin; 
nabla  as  a  harp,  not  a  dulcimer,  when  he  said  (Ars 
Am.  in. 329):  "Learn  to  sweep  the  pleasant  nabla 
with  both  hands."  And,  lastly,  Jos  tells  us  (Ant, 
VII,  xii)  that  the  nebhel  was  played  without  a 
plectrum.  The  tr  of  nebhel  by  psalterion  does  not, 
therefore,  shut  us  up  to  the  conclusion  that  it  was 
a  dulcimer;  on  the  contrary,  it  rather  leads  to  the 
belief  that  it  was  a  harp. 

Harps  of  various  sizes  are  very  numerous  on  the  Egyp 
monuments.  There  is  the  large  and  elaborate  kind  wit! 
a  well-developed  sound-box,  that  served  also  as  a  pedi- 
ment, at  its  base.  This  could  not  be  the  nebhel,  which, 
as  we  have  seen,  was  easily  portable.  Then  we  have  a 
variety  of  smaller  instruments  that,  while  light  and  easily 
carried,  would  scarcely  have  been  sonorous  enough  for 
the  work  assigned  to  the  nebhel  in  the  temple  services. 
Besides,  the  more  we  learn  of  the  relations  of  Egypt  and 
Israel,  the  more  clearly  do  we  perceive  how  little  the 
latter  was  influenced  by  the  former.  But  the  evidence 
of  the  Fathers,  which  need  not  be  disregarded  in  a  matter 
of  this  kind,  is  decisive  against  Egyp  harps  of  every  shape 
and  size.  These  have  without  exception  the  sound-box 
at  the  base,  and  Augustine  (on  Ps  42)  says  expressly 
that  the  psalterium  had  its  sound-box  above.  This  is 
confirmed  by  statements  of  Jerome,  Isidore,  and  others, 
who  contrast  two  classes  of  instruments  according  to  the 
position  above  or  below  of  the  sound-box,  Jerome, 
further,  likens  the  nebhel  to  the  Cr  A. 

All  the  evidence  points  to  the  nebhel  having  been 
the  Assyr  harp,  of  which  we  have  numerous  ex- 
amples in  the  ruins.  We  have  already  referred  at 
length  to  the  bas-relief  at  Kouyunjik  in  which  it  is 
played  by  3  men  and  4  women.  It  is  portable, 
triangular,  or,  roughly,  delta-shaped;  it  has  a 
sound-box  above  that  slants  upward  away  from  the 
player,  and  a  horizontal  bar  to  which  the  strings  are 
attached  about  three-fourths  of  their  length  down. 
The  number  of  the  strings  on  the  Assyr  harp  ranges 
from  16  upward,  but  there  may  quite  well  have  been 
fewer  in  some  cases. 

(c)  Nebhel  'asor:  InPs  33  2;  144  9,  "the  psaltery 
of  ten  strings"  is  given  as  the  rendering  of  nebhel 
xasor;  while  in  Ps  92  3  Kasor  is  trd  "instrument  of 


2099 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Music 


ten  strings."  No  doubt,  as  we  have  just  said  above, 
there  were  harps  of  less  and  greater  compass — the 
mention  of  the  number  of  strings  in  two  or  three 
instances  does  not  necessarily  imply  different  kinds 
of  harps. 

(d)  Gittlth:  The  word  gittlth  is  found  in  the  titles 
of  Ps  8,  81,  84.  It  is  a  fern.  adj.  derived  from 
Gath,  but  its  meaning  is  quite  uncertain.  It  has 
been  explained  to  denote  (i)  some  Gittite  instru- 
ment; the  Tg,  on  Ps  8,  gives  "on  the  kithara 
which  was  brought  from  Gath";  or  (ii)  a  melody 
or   march   popular  in   Gath.     The   LNX   renders 


that  Jubal  was  the  "father  of   all  such  as  handle 
the  harp  and  pipe."     The  Heb  word  here  trd  "pipe" 

is  Kughabh.  It  occurs  in  3  other  places: 
2.  Winds       Job  21  12;  30  31;   Ps  150  4.     In  the 

Heb  version  of  Did  3  5  it  is  given  as 
the  rendering  of  sumponydh,  i.e.  "bagpipe."  Jerome 
tr3  by  organon.  The  'ughdbh  was  probably  a  primi- 
tive shepherd's  pipe  or  panpipe,  though  some  take 
it  as  a  general  term  for  instruments  of  the  flute 
kind,  a  meaning  that  suits  all  the  passages  cited. 

(2)   The  Mill. — The  Mill  is  first   mentioned   in 
1  S  10  5,  where  it  is  played  by  members  of  the 


Various  Forms  of  Egyptian  Harps. — Rosellini. 


"concerning  the  vintage,"  and  may  have  regarded 
these  pss  as  having  been  sung  to  a  popular  melody. 
See  above. 

(e)  The  shdllshim:  Shdllshim  occurs  in  1  S  18  6, 
where  it  is  rendered  "instruments  of  music,"  RVm 
"triangles,  or  three  stringed  instruments."  The 
word  seems  from  the  context  to  represent  a  musical 
instrument  of  some  sort,  but  which  is  very  uncer- 
tain. Etymology  points  to  a  term  involving  the 
number  three.  The  small  triangular  harp,  or  tri- 
<joii.  has  been  suggested,  but  it  would  hardly  have 
made  its  presence  felt  among  a  number  of  drums  or 
tambourines.  If  the  shdllshim  was  a  harp,  it  might- 
very  well  be  the  nebhel,  which  was  also  triangular. 
There  is  no  "vidence  that  the  triangle  was  used  by 
Sem  people,  or  we  might  have  taken  it  to  be  the 
instrument  referred  to.  If  it  was  a  percussion  in- 
strument, it  might  possibly  be  a  three-ringed  or 
three-stringed  sistrum. 

(/)  The  sabbekhd':  Among  the  instruments  men- 
tioned in  Dnl  3  5.7.10  occurs  the  snbbekhd',  trcl  in 
AV  and  RV  "sackbut,"  i.e.  a  trombone,  why,  it  is 
impossible  to  say.  The  LXX  renders  the  word  by 
sambuke,  and  this  is  an  instrument  frequently  men- 
tioned by  Gr  and  Lat  writers.  Though  it  is  no- 
where described,  it  was  no  doubt  a  harp,  probably 
of  high  pit  ch.  It  was  a  favorite  of  dissolute  women, 
and  we  frequently  see  in  their  hands  in  mural  pic- 
tures a  small  triangular  harp,  possibly  of  a  higher 
range  than  the  trigon. 

{g)  Neghlnoth:  The  word  neghlnolh  occurs  in  the 
title  of  6  pss,  and  in  the  sing,  in  two  others;  it  is 
also  found  elsewhere  in  the  OT.  Derived  from 
ndghan,  "to  touch,"  esp.  to  play  on  a  stringed  in- 
strument (cf  Ps  68  25,  where  the  players,  ndgh'mm, 
are  contrasted  with  the  singers,  sharim),  it  evidently 
means  stringed  instruments  in  general. 

(1)  The  *ughdbh. — The  first  mention  of  a  wind 
instrument  occurs  in  Gen  4  21,  where  we  are  told 


band  of  prophets.  It  was  used  (1  K  1  40)  at 
Solomon's  accession  to  the  throne;  its  strains  added 
to  the  exhilaration  of  convivial  parties  (Isa  5  12), 
accompanied  worshippers  on  their  joyous  march 
to  the  sanctuary  (Isa  30  29),  or,  in  turn,  echoed 
the  feelings  of  mourners  (Jer  48  36).  In  1  Mace 
3  45,  one  of  the  features  of  the  desolation  of  the 
temple  consisted  in  the  cessation  of  the  sound  of  the 


Double  Pipe  with  Accompaniment  of  Clapping  of  Hands. 


pipe.  From  this  we  see  that  Ewald's  assertion 
t  hat  1  he  flute  took  no  part  in  the  music  of  t  he  temple 
is  incorrect,  at  least  for  the  Second  Temple. 

As  we  should  expect  from  the  simplicity  of  its 
construction,  and  the  commonness  of  its  material, 
the  flute  or  pipe  was  the  most  ancient  and  most 
widely  popular  of  all  musical  instruments. 

Reeds,  cane,  bone,  afterward  ivory,  were  the  mate- 
rials; it  was  the  easiest  tiling  in  the  world  to  drill  out 
the  center,  to  pierce  a  few  holes  in  the  rind  or  bark,  and, 
for  the  mouthpiece,  to  compress  the  tube  at  one  end. 
The  simple  rustic  pattern  was  soon  improved  upon.  Of 
course,  nothing  like  the  modern  flute  with  its  compli- 
cated mechanism  was  ever  achieved,  but,  esp.  on  the  Kgyp 
monuments,  a  variety  of  patterns  is  found.     There  we 


Music 
Mustard 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2100 


see  the  obliquely  held  flute,  evidently  played,  like  the 
Arab,  nay,  bv  'blowing  through  a  very  slight  parting 
of  the  lips  against  the  edge  of  the  orifice  of  the  tube. 
Besides  this,  there  are  double  flutes,  which,  though  appar- 
ently an  advance;  on  the  single  flute,  an;  very  ancient. 
These  double  flutes  are  either  of  equal  or  unequal  length, 
and  arc;  connected  near  the  mouth  by  a  piece  of  leather, 
or  enter  the  frame  of  the  mouthpiece. 

Though  the  flutes  (if  the  East  and  West  resembled 
each  other  more  closely  than  the  strings,  it  is  to 
the  Assyr  monuments  that  we  must  turn  for  the 
prototypes  of  the  Mill.  The  Greeks,  as  their  myths 
show,  regarded  Asia  Minor  as  the  birthplace  of  the 
flute,  and  no  doubt  the  1  lebrews 
brought  it  with  them  from  their 
Assyr  home.  In  the  Kouyunjik 
bas-relief  we  see  players  per- 
forming on  the  double  flute. 
It  is  apparently  furnished  with 
a  beaked  mouthpiece,  like  that 
of  the  clarinet  or  flageolet .  We 
cannot  determine  whether  the 
Israelites  used  the  flute  with  a 
mouthpiece,  or  one  like  the 
way;  and  it  is  futile  to  guess. 
It  is  enough  to  say  that  they 
had  opportunities  of  becoming 
acquainted  with  both  kinds, 
and  may  have  adopted  both. 

(3)  N'hlldth.—N'lnloth  oc- 
curs only  in  the  title  of  Ps  5. 
The  context  suggests  that  it 
is  a  musical  term,  and  as  we 
explain  Wghlnoth  as  a  general  term  for  strings,  this 
word  may  comprehend  the  wood-winds.  RVm 
renders   "wind  instruments." 

(4)  Nekebh.—ln   Ezk  28  13   AV,  RV,  Wkabhim 
is  rendered  pipes.     This  tr  is  supported  by  Fetis: 


The  LXX  translates  surigx,  or  panpipes,  and  this  is 
most  probably  the  meaning. 

((>)  The  sumponyah. — Sumponyah  (in  Chald  sum- 
ponia)  is  another  name  for  a  musical  instrument 
found  in  Dnl  3  5,  etc.  It  is  generally  supposed 
to  have  been  the  bagpipe,  an  instrument  that  at 
one  time  was  exceedingly  popular,  even  among 
highly  civilized  peoples.  Nero  is  said  to  have  been 
desirous  of  renown  as  a  piper. 

(7)  The  shophar  kcrcn. — The  shophar  was  a 
trumpet,  curved  at  the  end  like  a  horn  (kcrcn),  and 


Straight  Trumpets. 

(1),  C2),  Assyrian,  Sculptures,  Brit.  Mus.     (3)   Egyptii 


Painting  at  Thelx 


Drums. 

ft)  Ancient  Egyptian,  Thebes.  (2)  Carried  on  back  during  march.— Rosel- 
lini.  (3)  Modern  Torabooka—Descrip.  de  VEgypte.  (4)  Ancient 
Egyptian  with  stick.  —  Wilkinson. 

the  double  flute;  Ambros:  large  flutes;  and  by 
Jahn:  the  nay  or  Arab  flute.  It  is  now,  however, 
abandoned,  and  Jerome's  explanation  that  nekebh 
means  the  "setting"  of  precious  stones  is  generally 
adopted. 

(5)  The  mashrokUha' . — Mashrokltha',  found  in 
Dnl  3  5,  etc,  is  also  referred  to  the  wood-winds. 
The  word  is  derived  from  sharak,  "to  hiss"  (cf  Isa 
5  26,  where  God  hisses  to  summon  the  Gentiles). 


no  doubt  originally  was  a  horn.  The  two  words 
shophar  and  kcrcn  are  used  synonymously  in  Josh 
6  4.o,  where;  we  read  shophar  ha-ydbhellm  and  keren 
ha-yobhel.  With  regard  to  the  meaning  of  ha- 
yobhel,  there  is  some  difference  of  opinion.  RV 
renders  in  text  "ram's  horn,"  in  m  "jubilee."  The 
former  depends  on  a  statement  in  the  Talm  that 
yobhel  is  Arab,  for  "ram's  horn,"  but  no  trace  of 
such  a  word  has  been  found  in  Arabic.  A  suggestion 
of  Pfeiffer's  that  yobhel  does  not  designate  tin; 
instrument,  but  the  manner  of  blowing,  is  advo- 
cated by  J.  Weiss.  It  gives  a  good  sense  in  the 
passages  in  which  yobhel  occurs  in  connection  with 
shophar  or  kcrcn.  Thus  in  Josh  6  5,  we  would  tr, 
"when  the  priests  blow  triumph  on  the  horn." 

The  shophar  was  used  in  early  times  chiefly, 
perhaps  exclusively,  for  warlike  purposes.  It  gave 
the  signal  "to  arms"  (Jgs  6  34;  1  8  13  3;  2  S 
20  1);  warned  of  the  approach  of  the  enemy  (Am 
3  6;  Ezk  33  6;  Jer  4  5;  6  1);  was  heard  through- 
out a  battle  (Am  2  2,  etc);  and  sounded  the  recall 
(2  S  2  28).  Afterward  it  played  an  important  part 
in  connection  with  religion.  It  was  blown  at  the 
proclamation  of  the  Law  (Ex  19  13,  etc);  and  at 
the  opening  of  the  Year  of  Jubilee  (Lev  25  9); 
heralded  the  approach  of  the  Ark  (2  S  6  15); 
hailed  a  new  king  (2  S  15  10);  and  is  propheti- 
cally associated  with  the  Divine  judgment  and  res- 
toration of  the  chosen  people  from  captivity  (Isa 
18  3,  and  often). 

(8)  The,  hacdcerdth.—\Yv  are  told  (Nu  10  2  ff) 
that  Moses'  was  commanded  to  make  two  silver 
trumpets  which  should  serve  to  summon  the  people 
to  the  door  of  the  tabernacle;  give  the  signal  for 
breaking  up  the  camp;  or_  call  to  arms.  These 
instruments  were  the  hacogeroth,  which  differed 
from  the  shophar  in  that  they  were  straight,  not 
curved,  were  always  made  of  metal,  and  were  only 
blown  by  the  priests.  They  are  shown  on  the  Arch 
of  Titus  and  on  Jewish  coins,  and  are  described  by 
Jos  (Ant,  III,  xii,  6).  The  latter  says:  "In  length 
it  was  not  quite  a  yard.  It  was  composed  of  a 
narrow  tube  somewhat  thicker  than  a  flute,  widened 
slightly  at  the  mouth  to  catch  the  breath,  and  ended 
in  the  form  of  a  bell,  like  the  common  trumpets." 


2101 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Music 
Mustard 


(1)  The  to  ph. — The  principal  percussion  instru- 
ment, the  toph,  is  represented  in  EV  by  "tabret" 

and  "timbrel,"  two  words  of  different 
3.  Percus-  origin.  "Tabret"  is  derived  from  Arab, 
sion  In-  tanbur,  the  name  of  a  sort  of  mandolin, 

struments  "Timbrel"  comes  from  Lat-Gr  tym- 
panum, through  the  Fr.  timbre,  a  small 
tambourine.  The  Arabs  of  today  possess  an  instru- 
ment called  the  duf,  a  name  that  corresponds  to  the 
Hob  toph.  The  duf  is  a  circle  of  thin  wood  11  in.  in 
diameter  and  2  in.  in  depth.  Over  this  is  tightly 
stretched  a  piece  of  skin, 
and  in  the  wood  are  5 
openings  in  which  thin 
metal  disks  are  hung 
loosely;  these  jingle  when 
the  duf  is  struck  by  the 
hand.  The  toph  probably 
resembled  the  duf. 

Other  drums  are  shown 
on  the  Egyp  and  Assyr 
m  o  n  u  m  en  t  s  .  I  n  the 
Kouyunjik  bas-relief  the 
s  e  c  o  n  d  last  performer 
beats  with  his  hands  a 
small,  barrel-like  drum  fixed  at  his  waist, 
OT  the  drum  is  used  on  festive  occasions;  it  is  not 
mentioned  in  connection  with  Divine  service.  It  was 
generally  played  by  women,  and  marked  the  time 
at  dances  or  processions  (Ex  15  20;  Jgs  11  34; 
1  8  18  G;  Jer  31  4;  Ps  150  4).  At,  banquets 
(Isa  24  8;  30  32;  Job  21  12)  and  at  marriages 
(1  Mace  9  39)  it  accompanied  the  kinnor  and 
nebhel.  In  solemn  processions  it  was  also  occasion- 
ally played  by  men. 

(2)  M'ciltayim,  gelgHim. — In  1  Ch  15  19  we 
read  that  "Heman,  Asaph,  and  Ethan,  were  ap- 
pointed, with  cymbals  of  brass  to  sound  aloud." 
These  cymbals  are  the  mreilt<ujint  (in  two  places 
gelgHim).     They  were  very  popular  in  Egypt.     A 


at  the  top  so  as  to  form  an  oval  frame,  and  supplied 
with  a  handle  at  the  lower  end.  One  or  more  bars 
were  fixed  across  this  frame,  and  rings  or  disks 
loosely  strung  on  these  made  a  jingling  noise  when 
the  instrument  was  shaken.  This  interpretation 
is  supported  by  the  derivation  of  the  word,  the 
Vulg,  and  the  rabbins. 


Egyptian  Cymbals. 


pair  made  of  copper  and  silver  has  been  found  in  a 
grave  in  Thebes.  They  are  about  5  in.  in  diame- 
ter and  have  handles  fixed  in  the  center.  In  the 
Kouyunjik  bas-relief  we  see  cymbals  of  another 
pattern.  These  are  conical,  and  provided  with 
handles. 

Cylindrical  staves  slightly  bent  at  one  end  were  also 
used  in  Egyp  processions.  Villoteau,  quoted  by  J. 
Weiss,  describes  a  bas-relief  in  which  three  musicians 
are  seen,  of  whom  one  plays  the  harp,  a  second  the 
double  flute,  while  a  third  appears  to  be  marking 
time  by  striking  two  short  rods  together;  this  was  a 
method  of  conducting  practised  regularly  by  oilier 
ancient  nations. 

(3)  Mcnafan*im. — Lastly  in  2  S  6  5  we  meet  with 
a  word  that  occurs  nowhere  else,  and  whose  mean- 
ing is  quite  uncertain.  AV  translates  "cornets," 
RV  "castanets,"  and  in  m  "sistra."  The  mena*an- 
Hm  may  have  been  the  sistrum,  an  instrument 
formed  of  two  thin,  longish  plates,  bent  together 


(ll    In  the 


Sistra. 

(2),   (3)    hi  Brit.  51 


(4 1   Painting  at  Thelx 


Litekatukk.  — Pfeiffer,  Uber  die  Musik  der  alien 
Hebrder;  Saalschutz,  For  in  der  heb.  Poesie,  etc;  Leyrer  in 
RE;  Riehm,  Handwort.  des  bibl.  Alterthums;  Histories  of 
Music  by  Fetis,  Ambros,  Rowbotham,  Naumann,  and 
Chappell;  Wilkinson,  Ancient  Egypt;  Wettstein  in  Del. 
Coram,  on  Isa;  Lane,  Modern  Egyptians;  Stabler,  The 
Music  of  the  Bible;  Edersheim,  The  Temple,  etc;  Well- 
hausen,  "The  Pss"  in  Polychrome  Bible;  Benzinger, 
II A;  Xowack,  HA;  J.  Weiss,  Die  mus.  Instr.  des  AT; 
C.  Engel,  Music  of  the  Most  Ancient  Nations;  Vigourcux, 
Les  instruments  de  musique  de  la  Bible;  Driver,  Joel  and 
Amos;  Cornill,  Music  in  the  OT;  and  the  various  Bible 
Diets. 

James  Millar 

MUSICAL  INSTRUMENTS,  mu'zi-kal  in'stroo- 
ments  (I"limp'1  rHTjJ ,  shiddah  w -shield  oth):  "I 
gat  me  ....  musical  instruments,  and  that  of  all 
sorts"  (Eccl  2  8).  Thus  AV  and  ARV;  ERV  and 
ARVm  "concubines  very  many."  The  word  occurs 
only  here;  the  meaning  is  not  certain,  but  it  has 
nothing  to  do  with  music. 

MUSICIAN,  mu-zish'an,  CHIEF.  See  Asaph; 
Music;  Psalms. 

MUSTARD,  mus'tard  (o-Cva-iri,  sinapi  [Mt  13  31; 
Mk  4  31;  Lk  13  19;  Mt  17  20;  Lk  17  6]):  The 
minuteness  of  the  seed  is  referred  to  in  all  these 
passages,  while  in  the  first  three  the  large  size  of  the 
herb  growing  from  it  is  mentioned.  In  Mt  13  32 
it  is  described  as  "greater  than  the  herbs,  and  be- 
cometh  a  tree"  (cf  Lk  13  19);  in  Mk  4  32  it 
"becometh  greater  than  all  the  herbs,  and  putteth 
out  great  branches."  Several  varieties  of  mustard 
(Arab,  khardal)  have  notably  small  seed,  and  under 
favorable  conditions  grow  in  a  few  months  into  very 
tall  herbs— 10  to  12  ft.  The  rapid  growth  of  an 
annual  herb  to  such  a  height  must  always  be  a 
striking  fact.  Sitwpis  nigra,  the  black  mustard, 
which  is  cultivated,  S.  alba,  or  white  mustard,  and 
S.  arvensis,  or  the  charlock  (all  of  N.O.  Cruciferae), 
would,  any  one  of  them,  suit  the  requirements 
of  the  parable;  birds  readily  alight  upon  their 
branches  to  eat  the  seed  (Mt  13  32,  etc),  not, 
be  it  noted,  to  build  their  nests,  which  is  nowhere 
implied. 

Among  the  rabbis  a  "grain  of  mustard"  was  a 
common    expression    for    anything    very    minute, 


Muth-labben 
Mysia 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2102 


which  explains  Our  Lord's  phrase1,  "faith  as  a  grain 
of  mustard  seed"  (Mt  17  20;    Lk  17  6). 

The  suggestion  that  the  NT  references  may  allude  to  a 
tall  shrub  Salvadora  pcrsica,  which  grows  on  the  southern 


Mustard   (Sinapis  nigra). 

shores  of  the  Dead  Sea,  rests  solely  upon  the  fact  that 
this  plant  is  sometimes  called  khardal  by  the  Arabs,  but 
it  has  no  serious  claim  to  bo  the  sinapi  of  the  Bible. 

E.  W.  G.  Masterman 
MUTH-LABBEN,  muth-lab'en  ("lib  nitt ,  miilh 
labben,  "death  of  Ben,"  or  "of  the  son";  Ps  9,  title). 
See  Psalms. 


MUTILATION,   mu-ti-la'shun. 

ME  NTS. 


See    Punish- 


MUTTER,  mut'er  (POPl ,  haghah  [Isa  8  19;  59 
3]) :  An  onomatopoetic  word,  used  of  the  growling 
of  a  lion  (Isa  31  4),  of  the  "mourning"  of  a  dove 
(Isa  38  14),  or  of  the  human  voice,  whether  speak- 
ing inarticulately  (Isa  16  7)  or  articulately  (Ps  37 
30,  "The  mouth  of  the  righteous  talketh  of  wisdom" ; 
cf  Job  27  4;  Prov  8  7,  etc).  Hence  it  is  only 
the  context  that  can  give  to  haghah  the  meaning 
"mutter."  No  such  meaning  can  be  gathered  from 
the  context  of  Isa  59  3,  and,  in  fact,  the  open 
shamelessness  of  the  sinners  seems  to  be  in  point. 
So  the  verse  should  be  rendered,  "Your  lips  have 
spoken  lies,  your  tongue  uttereth  wickedness."  In 
Isa  8  19  haghah  describes  the  tone  of  voice  used  by 
the  necromancers  in  uttering  their  formulas,  "that 
chirp  and  that  mutter."  That  this  tone  was  sub- 
dued and  indistinct  is  quite  probable.  See  Peep. 
Burton  Scott  Easton 

MUZZLE,  muz"l  (D?n ,  hasam;  <J>i|i6w,  phimoo)  : 
According  to  the  Deuteronomic  injunction  (Dt  25 
4),  the  ox  was  not  to  be  muzzled  while  treading  the 
corn,  i.e.  threshing.  The  muzzle  was  a  guard 
placed  on  the  mouth  of  the  oxen  to  prevent  them 
from  biting  or  eating.     The  threshing  ox  would 


have  ample  opportunity  of  feeding  (cf  Hos  10  11). 
The  Deuteronomic  injunction  is  quite  in  accordance 
with  the  humane  spirit  which  inspires  it  all  through. 
Paid  quotes  this  law  in  two  places  (1  Cor  9  9; 
1  Tim  5  18)  to  illustrate  his  view  that  the  "la- 
borer is  worthy  of  his  hire."  T.  Lewis 

MYNDUS,  min'dus  (Mw8o$,  Mundos):  A  city 
of  Asia  Minor,  situated  at  the  extreme  western  end 
of  a  peninsula  jutting  into  the  sea  (see  Caria).  It 
seems  that  the  city  was  independent  at  an  early 
date  and  that  many  Jews  lived  there,  for  according 
to  1  Mace  15  23,  it  was  one  of  the  several  places 
to  which  the  Rom  senate,  in  the  year  139  BC,  sent 
a  letter  in  their  behalf.  The  place  was  important 
only  because  of  the  silver  mines  in  its  vicinity. 
The  mines  were  worked  from  a  very  early  period, 
even  to  the  Middle  Ages,  and  have  therefore  given 
to  the  place  the  modern  Turkish  name,  Gumushlu, 
meaning  a  silver  mine.  E.  J.  Banks 

MYRA,  mi'ra  (Mvpa,  Mura) :  A  city  of  the  ancient 
country  of  Lycia  about  2|  miles  from  the  coast. 
Here,  according  to  Acts  27  0,  Paul  found  a  corn 
ship  from  Alexandria.  The  city  stood  upon  a  hil! 
formed  by  the  openings  of  two  valleys.  At  an  early 
period  Myra  was  of  less  importance  than  was  the 
neighboring  city  Patara,  yet  later  it  became  a 
prominent  port  for  ships  from  Egypt  and  Cyprus, 
and  Theodosius  II  made  it  the  capital  of  the  prov- 
ince. It  was  also  famed  as  the  seat  of  worship  of  an 
Asiatic  deity  whose  name  is  no  longer  known.  St. 
Nicholas,  a  bishop  and  the  patron  saint  of  sailors, 
is  said  to  have  been  buried  in  a  church  on  the  road 
between  Myra  and  Andraki,  the  port.  Here  an 
Arab  fleet  was  destroyed  in  807.  In  808  Haroun 
al-Rashid,  the  renowned  kalif  of  Bagdad,  took  the 
city,  and  here  Saewulf  landed  on  his  return  from 
Jerus.  Dembre  is  the  modern  name  of  the  ruins  of 
Myra,  which  are  among  the  most  imposing  in  that 
part  of  Asia  Minor.  The  elaborate  details  of  the 
decoration  of  the  theater  are  unusually  well  pre- 
served, and  the  rock-hewn  tombs  about  the  city 
bear  many  bas-reliefs  and  inscriptions  of  interest. 
On  the  road  to  Andraki  the  monastery  of  St. 
Nicholas  may  still  be  seen.  E.  J.  Banks 

MYRRH,  mur: 

(1)  ("I'D  or  "ITO ,  mor;  Aral),  murr):  This  sub- 
stance is  mentioned  as  valuable  for  its  perfume  (Ps 
45  8;  Prov  7  17;  Cant  3  6;  4  14),  and  as  one  of 
the  constituents  of  the  holy  incense  (Ex  30  23; 
see  also  Cant  4  6;  5  1.5.13).  Mor  is  generally 
identified  with  the  "myrrh"  of  commerce,  the 
dried  gum  of  a  species  of  balsam  (Balsamodendron 
myrrha).  This  is  a  stunted  tree  growing  in  Arabia, 
having  a  light-gray  bark;  the  gum  resin  exudes 
in  small  tear-like  drops  which  dry  to  a  rich  brown 
or  reddish-yellow,  brittle  substance,  with  a  faint 
though  agreeable  smell  and  a  warm,  bitter  taste.  It 
is  still  used  as  medicine  (Mk  15  23).  On  account, 
however,  of  the  references  to  "flowing  myrrh" 
(Ex  30  23)  and  "liquid  myrrh"  (Cant  5  5.13), 
Schweinfurth  maintains  that  mor  was  not  a  dried 
gum  but  the  liquid  balsam  of  Balsamodendron  opo- 
balsamum.     See  Balsam. 

Whichever  view  is  correct,  it  is  probable  that  the 
a-fxipva,  smurna,  of  the  NT  was  the  same.  In  Mt 
2  11  it  is  brought  by  the  "Wise  men"  of  the  East 
as  an  offering  to  the  infant  Saviour;  in  Mk  15  23 
it  is  offered  mingled  with  wine  as  an  anaesthetic  to 
the  suffering  Redeemer,  and  in  Jn  19  39  a  "mixture 
of  myrrh  and  aloes"  is  brought  by  Nicodemus  to 
embalm  the  sacred  body. 

(2)  (T25,  lot;  0-to.ktJi,  stakte;  trd  "myrrh"  in 
Gen  37  25,  rn  "ladanum";    43  11):    The  fragrant 


2103 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


resin  obtained  from  some  species  of  cistus  and  called 
in  Arab,  ladham,  in  Lat  ladanum.  The  cistus  or 
"rock  rose"  is  exceedingly  common  all  over  the 
mountains  of  Pal  (see  Botany),  the  usual  varieties 


Myrrh  {Balsamodendron  mt/rrha). 

being  the  C.  villosus  with  pink  petals,  and  the  C. 
salviaefolius  wit  h  whit  e  petals.  No  commerce  is  done 
now  in  Pal  in  this  substance  as  of  old  (Gen  37  25; 
43  11),  but  it  is  still  gathered  from  various  species 
of  cistus,  esp.  C.  creticus  in  the  Gr  Isles,  where  it  is 


Rock-Rose  (Cistus  cretensis). 

collected  by  threshing  the  plants  by  a  kind  of  flail 
from  which  the  sticky  mass  is  scraped  off  with  a 
knife  and  rolled  into  small  black  balls.  In  Cyprus 
at  the  present  time  the  gum  is  collected  from  the 
beards  of  the  goats  that  browse  on  these  shrubs, 
as  was  done  in  the  days  of  Herodotus  (iii.112). 

E.  W.  G.  Masterman 


Muth-labben 
Mysia 


MYRTLE,  mur't'l  (C~n ,  Mdhas;  pvpo-tvi],  mur- 
sme[Isa  41  19;  55  13;  Neh  8  15;  Zee  1  8.10  f]; 
also  as  a  name  in  Hadassah  in  Est  2  7,  the  Jewish 
form  of  Esther  [q.v.]):  The  myrtle,  Myrtus  com- 
munis (N.O.  Myrtaceae),  is  a  very  common  indig- 
enous shrub  all  over  Pal.  On  the  bare  hillsides 
it  is  a  low  bush,  but  under  favorable  conditions  of 
moisture  it  attains  a  considerable  height  (cf  Zee 
1  8.10).  It  has  dark  green,  scented  leaves,  delicate 
starry  white  flowers  and  dark-colored  berries,  which 
are  eaten.  _  In  ancient  times  it  was  sacred  to  As- 
tarte.  It  is  mentioned  as  one  of  the  choice  plants 
of  the  land    (Isa  41  19).     "Instead   of   the  thorn 


Myrtle  (Myrtus  communis). 

shall  come  up  the  fir-tree;  and  instead  of  the  brier 
shall  come  up  the  myrtle-tree"  (Isa  55  13),  is  one 
of  the  prophetic  pictures  of  God's  promised  bless- 
ings. It  was  one  of  the  trees  used  in  the  Feast 
of  Tabernacles  (Neh  8  15):  "the  branches  of  thick 
trees"  (q.v.)  are  interpreted  in  the  Talm  (Suk.  3 
4;  Yer  Suk.  3,  5Zd)  as  myrtle  boughs;  also  (id) 
the  "thick  trees"  of  Neh  8  15  as  "wild  myrtle." 
Myrtle  twigs,  particularly  those  of  the  broad- 
leaved  variety,  together  with  a  palm  branch  and 
twigs  of  willow,  are  still  used  in  the  ritual  of  the 
Feast  of  Tabernacles.  For  many  references  to 
myrtle  in  Jewish  writings  see  Jew  Eric,  IN,  137. 

E.  W.  G.  Masterman 
MYSIA,  mish'i-a  (Mvo-Ia,  Musia):  A  country  in 
the  northwestern  part  of  Asia  Minor,  which  formed 
an  important  part  of  the  Rom  province  of  Asia. 
Though  its  boundaries  were  always  vague,  it  may 
be  said  to  have  extended  on  the  N.  to  the  Sea  of 
Marmora,  on  the  E.  to  Bithynia  and  Phrygia,  on 
the  S.  to  Lydia,  and  on  the  W.  to  the  Hellespont. 
According  to  some  authors  it  included  the  Troad. 
Its  history  is  chiefly  that  of  its  important  cities,  of 
which  Assos,  Troas,  and  Adramyttium  on  the 
border  of  Lydia,  are  mentioned  in  the  NT.  When 
Mysia  became  a  part  of  the  Rom  province  of  Asia 


Mystery 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2104 


in  190  BC,  its  old  name  fell  into  disuse,  and  it  was 
then  generally  known  as  the  Hellespont  us.  Ac- 
cording to  Acts  16  7.8,  Paul  passed  through  the 
country,  hut,  without  stopping  to  preach,  until  he 
reached  Troas  on  the  coast,  yet  tradition  says  that 
he  founded  churches  at  Poketos  and  Cyzicus. 
Onesiphorus,  who  was  martyred  some  time  be- 
tween 109  and  114  AD,  during  the  proconsulate  of 
Adrian,  is  supposed  to  have  evangelized  this  part  of 
Asia.     See  Expos  T,  IN,  495  f.  E.  J.  Banks 

MYSTERY,  mis'ter-i  ([ivcmripiov,  musterion;  from 
|xvo-Tr|s,  mtistes,  "one  initiated  into  mysteries"; 
mueo,  "to  initiate,"  mud,  "to  close"  the  lips  or  the 
eyes;  stem  mu,  a  sound  produced  with  closed  lips; 
cf  Lat  mutus,  "dumb"):  Its  usual  modern  meaning 
(  =  something  in  itself  obscure  or  incomprehensible, 
difficult  or  impossible  to  understand)  does  not  con- 
vey the  exact  sense  of  the  Gr  musterion,  which 
means  a  secret  imparted  only  to  the  initiated,  what  is 
unknown  until  it  is  revealed,  whether  it  be  easy  or 
hard  to  understand.  The  idea  of  incomprehensibility, 
if  implied  at  all,  is  purely  accidental.  The  history 
of  the  word  in  ancient  paganism  is  important,  and 
must  be  considered  before  we  examine  its  Bib. 
usage. 

In  the  extant  classics,  the  sing,  is  found  once  only 
(Menander,  "Do  not  tell  thy  secret  [musterion]  to 
thy  friend").  But  it  is  frequently  found 
1.  In  in  the  pi.  td  musttria,  "the  Mysteries," 

Ancient  the  technical  term  for  the  secret  rites 

Pagan  and  celebrations    in    ancient   religions 

Religions  only  known  to,  and  practised  by,  those 
who  had  been  initiated.  These  are 
among  the  most  interesting,  significant,  and  yet 
baffling  religious  phenomena  in  the  Gr-Rom 
world,  esp.  from  the  6th  cent.  BC  onward.  In 
proportion  as  the  public  cults  of  the  civic  and  na- 
tional deities. fell  into  disrepute,  their  place  came 
more  and  more  to  be  filled  by  secret  cults  open  only 
to  those  who  voluntarily  underwent  elaborate  pre- 
liminary preparations.  There  was  scarcely  one  of 
the  ancient  deities  in  connection  with  whose  wor- 
ship there  was  not  some  subsidiary  cult  of  this  kind. 
The  most  famous  were  the  Mysteries  celebrated  in 
Eleusis,  under  the  patronage  and  control  of  the 
Athenian  state,  and  associated  with  the  worship  of 
Demeter  and  her  daughter  Persephone.  But  there 
were  many  others  of  a  more  private  character  than 
the  Eleusinian,  e.g.  the  Orphic  Mysteries,  associated 
with  the  name  of  Dionysus.  Besides  the  Gr  Mys- 
teries, mention  should  be  made  of  the  Egyp  cults 
of  Isis  and  Serapis,  and  of  Pers  Mithraism,  which  in 
the  3d  cent.  AD  was  widely  diffused  over  the  whole 
empire. 

It  is  difficult  in  a  brief  paragraph  to  characterize  the 
Mysteries,  so  elaborate  and  varied  were  they,  and  so 
completely  foreign  to  the  modern  mind.  The  following 
are  some  of  their  main  features:  (1)  Their  appeal  was 
to  tln>  emotions  rather  than  to  the  intellect.  Lobeck 
in  his  famous  Aglaophamus  destroyed  the  once  prevalent 
view  that  the  Mysteries  enshrined  some  profound  reli- 
gious truth  or  esoteric  doctrine.  They  were  rather  an 
attempt  to  find  a  more  emotional  and  ecstatic  expression 
to  religious  aspiration  than  the  public  ceremonies  pro- 
vided. Aristotle  (as  quoted  by  Rynesius)  declared  that 
the  initiated  did  not  receive  definite  instruction,  but 
were  put  in  a  certain  frame  of  mind  (ov  na8eiv  ti  Self 
diAAa  na.Belv,  on  mathein  ti  dein  alld  pathein).  This 
does  not  mean  that  there  was  no  teaching,  but  that  the 
teaching  was  vague,  suggestive  and  symbolic,  rather 
than  didactic  or  dogmatic.  (2)  The  chief  purpose  of  the 
rites  seems  to  have  been  to  secure  for  the  votaries  a 
mystic  union  with  some  deity  and  a  guaranty  of  a  bliss- 
fid  immortality.  The  initiated  was  made  to  partake 
mystically  in  the  passing  of  the  deity  through  death  to 
life,  and  this  union  with  his  saviour-god  (0e6?  a-uiT-qp, 
theds  sdtfir)  became  the  pledge  of  his  own  passage  through 
death  to  a  happy  life  beyond.  This  was  not  taught  as 
an  esoteric  doctrine;  it  was  well  known  to  outsiders  that 
the  Mysteries  taught  the  greater  blessedness  of  the  ini- 
tiated in  the  under- world;  but  in  the  actual  ceremony 
the  truth  was  vividly  presented  and  emotionally  realized. 


(3)  The  celebrations  wen;  marked  by  profuse  symbolism 
of  word  and  action.  They  were  preceded  by  rites  of 
purification  through  which  all  the  mystae  had  to  pass. 
The  celebrations  themselves  were  in  tin:  main  a  kind  of 
religions  drama,  consisting  of  scenic  representations 
illustrating  the  story  of  some  deity  or  deities,  on  the 
basis  of  the  old  mythologies  regarded  as  allegories  of 
Nature's  productive  forces  and  of  human  immortality; 
combined  with  the  recital  of  certain  mystic  formulae  by 
the  hierophant  (the;  priest).  The  culminating  point 
was  the  eiro7TT6i'a,  epopteia,  or  full  vision,  when  the 
hierophant  revealed  certain  holy  objects  to  the  assembly. 

(4)  The  cults  were  marked  by  a  strict  exclusiveness  and 
secrecy.  None  but  the  initiated  could  be  present  at  the 
services,  and  the  knowledge!  of  what  was  said  and 
done  was  scrupulously  kept  from  outsiders.  What  they 
had  seen  and  heard  was  so  sacred  that  it  was  sacrilege 
to  divulge  it  to  the  uninitiated.  (5)  Yet  the  Mys- 
teries were  not  secret  societies,  but  were  open  to  all  who 
chose  to  be  initiated  (except  barbarians  and  criminals). 
They  thus  stood  in  marked  contrast  to  the;  old  civic  and 
national  cults,  which  were  confined  to  states  or  cities. 
They  substituted  the  principle  of  initiation  for  the  more 
exclusive  principle  of  birthright  or  nationality;  and  so 
foreshadowed  the  disintegration  of  old  barriers,  and  pre- 
pared the  way  for  the  universal  religion.  Thus  the 
mystery-religions  strangely  combined  a  strict  exclusive- 
ness with  a  kind-  of  incipient  catholicity.  This  brief 
account  will  show  that  the  Mysteries  were  not  devoid 
of  noble  elements.  They  formed  "the  serious  part  of 
pagan  religion"  (Kenan).  Hut  it  must  also  be  remem- 
bered that  they  lent  themselves  to  grave  extravagances 
and  abuses.  Esp.  did  they  suffer  from  the  fact  that 
they  were  withheld  from  the  light  of  healthy  publicity. 

The  religion  of  the  OT  has  no  Mysteries  of  the 

above  type.     The  ritual  of  Israel  was  one  in  which 

the    whole    people    partook,    through 

2.  In  the       their      representatives      the      priests. 
OT  and  There   was   no   system   of   ceremonial 
the  Apoc        initiation  by  which  the  few  had  privi- 
leges denied  to  the  many.     God  has 

His  secrets,  but  such  things  as  He  revealed  belonged 
to  all  (Dt  29  29);  so  far  from  silence  being  en- 
joined concerning  them,  they  were  openly  pro- 
claimed (Dt  6  7;  Neh  8  1  ff).  True  piety  alone 
initiated  men  into  confidential  intercourse  with 
Jeh  (Ps  25  14;  Prov  3  32).  The  term  "mystery" 
never  occurs  in  the  Eng.  OT.  The  Gr  word  muste- 
rion occurs  in  the  LNN  of  the  OT  only  in  Dnl,  where 
it  is  found  several  times  as  the  tr  of  $\~},  raza',  "a 
secret,"  in  reference  to  the  king's  dream,  the  mean- 
ing of  which  was  revealed  to  Daniel  (2  18.19.27- 
30.47). 

In  the  Apoc,  musterion  is  still  used  in  the  sense  of  "a 
secret"  (a  meaning  practically  confined  to  the  IjXX  in 
extant  Gr);  of  the  secrets  of  private  life,  esp.  between 
friends  (Sir  22  22;  27  10.17.21),  and  of  the  secret 
plans  of  a  king  or  a  state  (Tob  12  7.11;  Jth  2  2;  2 
Mace  13  21).  The  term  is  also  used  of  the  hidden  pur- 
pose or  counsel  of  God  or  of  Divine  wisdom.  The 
wicked  "knew  not  the  mysteries  of  God,"  i.e.  the  secret 
counsels  that  govern  God's  dealings  with  the  godly 
(Wisd  2  22);  wisdom  "is  initiated  [//lio-ris,  milstis] 
into  the  knowledge  of  God"  (8  4),  but  (unlike  the  pagan 
mystagogues)  the  writer  declares  he  "will  not  hide 
mysteries,"  but  will  "bring  the  knowledge  of  her  [wis- 
dom] into  clear  light"  (6  22).  Hatch  maintains  that 
the  analogy  here  is  that  of  an  oriental  king's  secrets, 
known  only  to  himself  and  his  trusted  friends  (Essays 
in  Bib.  Gr,  58);  but  it  is  more  likely  that  the  writer  here 
betrays  the  influence  of  the  phraseology  of  the  (ir  Mys- 
teries (without  acquiescing  in  their  teaching).  In 
another  passage,  at  any  rate,  he  shows  acquaintance 
with  the  secret  rites  of  the  Gentiles,  viz.  in  14  15.23, 
where  the  "solemn  rites"  and  "secret  mysteries"  of 
idolaters  are  referred  to  with  abhorrence.  The  term 
"mystery"  is  not  used  in  reference  to  the  special  ritual 
of  Israel. 

In  the  NT  the  word  occurs  27  or  (if  we  include 

the  doubtful  reading  in  1  Cor  2  1)  28  t;   chiefly  in 

Paul  (20  or  21  t),  but  also  in  one  pas- 

3.  In  the  sage  reported  by  each  of  the  synopists, 
NT  and  4  t  in  Rev.     It  bears  its  ancient 

sense  of  a  revealed  secret,  not  its 
modern  sense  of  that  which  cannot  be  fathomed  or 
comprehended.  (1)  In  a  few  passages,  it  has  refer- 
ence to  a  symbol,  allegory  or  parable,  which  conceals 
its  meaning  from  those  who  look  only  at  the  literal 
sense,  but  is  the  medium  of  revelation  to  those  who 
have  the  key  to  its  interpretation  (cf  the  rabbinic 


2105 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Mystery 


use  of  N7"1,  ruza1 ,  and  TIC ,  sodh,  "the  hidden  or 
mystic  sense")-  This  meaning  appears  in  Rev  1 
20;  17  5.7;  probably  also  in  Eph  5  32,  where 
marriage  is  called  "a  mystery,"  i.e.  a  symbol  to  be 
allegorically  interpreted  of  Christ  and  His  church. 
It  also  seems  implied  in  the  only  passage  in  which 
the  word  is  attributed  to  Our  Lord,  ''Unto  you  is 
given  the  mystery  of  the  kingdom  of  God:  but 
unto  them  that  are  without,  all  tilings  are  done  in 
parables"  (Mk  4  11;  cf  ||  Mt  13  11;  Lk  8  10). 
Here  parables  are  spoken  of  as  a  veiled  or  symbolic 
form  of  utterance  which  concealed  the  truth  from 
those  without  the  kingdom,  but  revealed  it  to  those 
who  had  the  key  to  its  inner  meaning  (cf  Mt  13  35; 
Jn  16  29  m).  (2)  By  far  the  most  common  mean- 
ing in  the  NT  is  that  which  is  so  characteristic  of 
Paul,  viz.  a  Divine  truth  once  hidden,  but  now  re- 
vealed in  the  gospel.  Rom  16  25  f  might  almost 
be  taken  as  a  definition  of  it,  "According  to  my 
gospel  and  the  preaching  of  Jesus  Christ,  according 
to  the  revelation  of  the  mystery  which  hath  been  kept 
in  silence  through  times  eternal,  but  now  is  mani- 
fested" (cf  Col  1  20;  Eph  3  3  ff).  (a)  It  should 
be  noted  how  closely  "mystery"  is  associated  with 
"revelation"  (aTroi<d\v\pts,  apokdlupsis),  as  well  as 
with  words  of  similar  import,  e.g.  "to  make  known" 
(Eph  1  9;  3  3.5.10;  6  19),  "to  manifest"  (Col 
4  3.4;  Rom  16  20;  1  Tim  3  10).  _  "Mystery"  and 
"revelation"  are  in  fact  correlative  and  almost 
synonymous  terms.  The  mysteries  of  Christianity 
are  its  revealed  doctrines,  in  contrast  to  the  wisdom 
of  worldly  philosophy  (see  esp.  1  Cor  2  1-10;  cf 
Mt  11  25  f);  the  point  of  contrast  being,  not  that 
the  latter  is  comprehensible  while  the  former  are 
obscure,  but  that  the  latter  is  the  product  of  intel- 
lectual research,  while  the  former  are  the  result  of 
Divine  revelation  and  are  spiritually  discerned. 
(b)  From  this  it  follows  that  Christianity  has  no 
secret  doctrines,  for  what  was  once  hidden  has  now 
been  revealed.  But  here  arises  a  seeming  contra- 
dict ion.  On  the  one  hand,  there  are  passages  which 
seem  to  imply  a  doctrine  of  reserve.  The  mystery 
revealed  to  some  would  seem  to  be  still  concealed 
from  others.  The  doctrines  of  Christ  and  of  His 
Kingdom  are  hidden  from  the  worldly  wise  and  the 
prudent  (Mt  11  25;  1  Cor  2  0  if),  and  from  all 
who  are  outside  the  kingdom  (Mt  13  11  ff  and  ]), 
and  there  are  truths  withheld  even  from  Christians 
while  in  an  elementary  stage  of  development  (1  Cor 
3  Iff;  He  5  11-14).  On  the  other  hand,  there 
are  many  passages  in  which  the  truths  of  revelation 
art;  said  to  be  freely  and  unreservedly  communicated 
to  all  (e.g.  Mt  10  27;  28  19;  Acts  20  20.27; 
2  Cor  3  12  f;    Eph  3  9,   "all  men";    6  19  f;    Col 

1  28;  1  Tim  2  4).  The  explanation  is  that  the 
communication  is  limited,  not  by  any  secrecy  in  the 
gospel  message  itself  or  any  reserve  on  the  part  of 
the  speaker,  but  by  the  receptive  capacity  of  the 
hearer.  In  the  case  of  the  carnally-minded,  moral 
obtuseness  or  worklliness  makes  them  blind  to  the 
light  which  shines  on  them  (2  Cor  4  2-4).  In  the 
case  of  the  "babe  in  Christ,"  the  apparent  reserve  is 
due  merely  to  the  pedagogical  principle  of  adapting 
the  teaching  to  the  progressive  receptivity  of  the 
disciple  (Jn  16  12  f).  There  is  no  esoteric  doctrine 
or  intentional  reserve  in  the  NT.  The  strong 
language  in  Mt  13  11-15  is  due  to  the  Heb  mode 
of  speech  by  which  an  actual  result  is  stated  as  if  it 
were  purposive,  (c)  What,  then,  is  the  content  of 
the  Christian  "mystery"?  In  a  wide  sense  it  is  the 
whole  gospel,  God's  world-embracing  purpose  of 
redemption  through  Christ  (e.g.  Rom  16  25;  Eph 
6  19;  Col  2  2;  1  Tim  3  9).  In  a  special  sense 
it  is  applied  to  some  specific  doctrine  or  aspect  of 
the  gospel,  such  as  the  doctrine  of  the  Cross  (1  Cor 

2  1.7),  of  the  Incarnation  (1  Tim  3  10),  of  the 
indwelling  of  Christ  as  the  pledge  of  immortality 


(Col  1  27),  of  the  temporary  unbelief  of  the  Jews 
to  be  followed  by  their  final  restoration  (Rom  11 
25),  of  the  transformation  of  the  saints  who  will 
live  to  see  the  Second  Advent,  (1  Cor  15  51),  and 
of  the  inclusion  of  the  Gentiles  in  the  gospel  sal- 
vation (Eph  3  3-0).  These  are  the  Divine  secrets 
now  at  last  disclosed.  In  direct  antithesis  to  the 
Divine  mystery  is  the  "mystery  of  lawlessness" 
(2  Thess  2  7)  culminating  in  the  coming  of  the 
Antichrist.  Here,  too,  the  word  means  a  revealed 
secret,  only  in  this  case  the  revelation  belongs  to 
the  future  (ver  8),  though  the  evil  forces  which  are 
to  bring  about  its  consummation  are  already  silently 
operative.  (Besides  the  references  in  this  para- 
graph, the  word  occurs  in  1  Cor  4  1;  13  2;  14  2; 
Rev  10  7.  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  the  Vulg 
sometimes  renders  musterion  by  Lat  sacramentum, 
viz.  in  Eph  1  9;  3  3.9;  5  32;  1  Tim  3  10;  Rev 
1  20.  This  rendering  in  Eph  5  32  led  to  the 
ecclesiastical  doctrine  that  marriage  is  a  "sacra- 
ment.") 

The  question  is  now  frequently  discussed,  how 
far  the  NT  (and  esp.  Paul)  betrays  the  influence  of 

the  heathen  mystery-cults.  Hatch 
4.  The  maintains  that  the  Pauline  usage  of 

Pagan  the  word   musterion  is  dependent  on 

Mysteries  the  LXX,  esp.  on  the  Apoc  (op.  cit.), 
and  the  NT  and  in  this  he  is  followed  by  Anrich, 

who  declares  that  the  attempt  to  trace 
an  allusion  to  the  Mysteries  in  the  NT  is  wholly 
unsuccessful;  but  Lightfoot  admits  a  verbal  de- 
pendence on  the  pagan  Mysteries  (Comm.  on  Col 
1  20). 

At  present  there  is  a  strong  tendency  to  attribute  to 
Paul  far  more  dependence  than  one  of  phraseology  only, 
and  to  find  in  the  Mysteries  the  key  to  the  non-Jewish 
side  of  Paulinism.  A.  Loisy  finds  affinity  to  the  mystery- 
religions  in  Paul's  conception  of  Jesus  as  a  Saviour-God, 
holding  a  place  analogous  to  the  deities  Mithra,  Osiris, 
and  Attis;  in  the  place  Paul  assigns  to  baptism  as  the 
rite  of  initiation;  and  in  his  transformation  of  the  Lord's 
Supper  into  a  symbol  of  mystic  participation  in  the  flesh 
and  blood  of  a  celestial  being  and  a  guaranty  of  a  share 
in  the  blissful  immortality  of  the  risen  Saviour.  "In 
its  worship  as  in  its  belief,  Christianity  is  a  religion  of 
mystery"  (art.in  Hibbert  Journal,  October,  1911).  Percy 
<  '•  ardner  traces  similar  analogies  to  the  Mysteries  in  Paul, 
though  he  finds  in  these  analogies,  not  conscious  plagiar- 
ism, but  "the  parallel  working  of  similar  forces"  (Ite- 
ligious  Experience  of  Paul,  chs  iv,  v).  Kirsopp  Lake 
writes,  "  Christianity  has  not  borrowed  from  the  mystery- 
religions,  because  it  was  always,  at  least  in  Europe, 
mystery-religion  itself"  (The  Earlier  Epp.  of  Paul,  215). 
On  the  other  hand,  Schweitzer  wholly  denies  the  hypothe- 
sis of  the  direct  or  indirect  influence  of  the  Mysteries 
Oil  Paul's  thought  (Geachichle  der  Paulinischen  Forschung). 

The  whole  question  is  sub  judice  among  scholars, 
and  until  more  evidence  be  forthcoming  from  in- 
scriptions, etc,  we  shall  perhaps  vainly  expect  a 
unanimous  verdict.  It  can  hardly  be  doubted  that 
at  least  the  language  of  Paul,  and  perhaps  to  some 
extent  his  thought,  is  colored  by  the  phraseology 
current  among  the  cults.  Paul  had  a  remarkably 
sympathetic  and  receptive  mind,  by  no  means 
closed  to  influences  from  the  Gr-Rom  environment 
of  his  day. 

Witness  his  use  of  illustrations  drawn  from  the  athletic 
festivals,  the  Or  theater  (1  Cor  4  9)  and  the  Rom 
camp.  He  must  have  been  constantly  exposed  to  the 
contagion  of  the  mystic  societies.  Tarsus  was  a  seat 
of  the  Mithra  religion;  and  the  chief  centers  of  Paul's 
activities,  e.g.  Corinth,  Antioch  and  Ephesus,  were  head- 
quarters of  mystic  religion.  We  are  not  surprised  that 
he  should  have  borrowed  from  the  vocabulary  of  the 
Mysteries,  not  only  the  word  musterion,  but  /u.e^cii7)|U.ai, 
memuemai,  "I  learned  the  secret,"  lit.  "I  have  been 
initiated"  (Phil  4  12);  <r<ipa-yt£to-«ai.  sphragizesthai,  "to 
be  sealed"  (Eph  1  13,  etc);  reAtios,  teleios,  "perfect,"  a 
term  applied  in  the  Mysteries  to  the  fully  instructed 
as  opposed  to  novices  (1  Cor  2  6.7;  Col  1  28,  etc)  (note, 
outside  of  Paul,  eno-nrai.,  epdptai,  " eye- witnesses,"  2  Pet 
1  10). 

Further,  the  secret  of  Paul's  gospel  among  the 
Gentiles  lay,  humanly  speaking,  in  the  fact  that  it 


Mythology 
Nabataeans 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2106 


contained  elements  that  appealed  to  what,  was  best 
and  most  vital  in  contemporary  thought;  and 
doubtless  the  Mysteries,  by  transcending  all  lines 
of  mere  citizenship,  prepared  the  way  for  the  uni- 
versal religion.  On  the  other  hand,  we  must  beware 
of  a  too  facile  acceptance  of  this  hypothesis  in  its 
extreme  form.  Christianity  can  be  adequately  ex- 
plained only  by  reference,  not  to  what  it  had  in 
common  with  cither  religions,  but  to  what  was  dis- 
tinctive and  original  in  it.  Paul  was  after  alia  Jew 
(though  a  broad  one),  who  always  retained  traces 
of  his  Pharisaic  training,  and  who  viewed  idolatry 
with  abhorrence;  and  the  chief  formative  factor  of 
his  thinking  was  his  own  profound  religious  expe- 
rience. It  is  inconceivable  that  such  a  man  should 
so  assimilate  gentile  modes  of  thought  as  to  be  com- 
pletely colored  by  them.  The  characteristics  which 
his  teaching  has  in  common  with  the  pagan  religions 
are  simply  a  witness  to  the  common  religious  wants 
of  mankind,  and  not  to  his  indebtedness  to  them. 
What  turned  these  religions  into  Mysteries  was  the 
secrecy  of  their  rites;  but  in  the  NT  there  an;  no 
secret/ rites.  The  gospel  "mystery"  (as  we  have 
seen)  is  not  a  secret  deliberately  withheld  from  the 
multitude  and  revealed  only  to  a  privileged  religious 
aristocracy,  but  something  which  was  once  a  secret 
and  is  so  no  longer.  The  perfect  openness  of  Christ 
and  His  apostles  sets  them  in  a  world  apart  from 
the  mvstic  schools.     It  is  true  that  later  the  Mys- 


teries exercised  a  great  influence  on  ecclesiastical 
doctrine  and  practice,  esp.  on  baptism  and  the 
Eucharist  (see  Hatch,  Hibbert  Lects,  eh  x).  Put 
in  the  NT,  acts  of  worship  are  not  as  yet  regarded 
as  mystic  rites.  The  most  we  can  say  is  that  some 
NT  writers  (esp.  Paul)  make  use  of  expressions  and 
analogies  derived  from  the  mystery-religions;  but, 
so  far  as  our  present  evidence  goes,  we  cannot  agree 
that  the  pagan  cults  exercised  a  central  or  formative 
influence  on  them. 

Literature. — There  is  a  large  and  growing  lit.  on  this 
subject.  Its  modern  scientific  study  began  with  C.  A. 
Lobeck'sAglaophamus(lS29).  The  following  recent  works 
may  be  specially  mentioned:  (iustav  Anrich,  Das  antike 
Mysterienwesen  (1894);  G.  Wobbermin,  Religiongeschicht- 
liche  Studien  zur  Frage,  etc  (1896);  E.  Hatch,  Essays  in 
Bib.  Gr  (1889)  and  Hibbert  Lects,  1888  (pub.  1S90);  F.  B. 
Jevons,  An  Intro  to  the  History  of  Religion  (1896) ;  S.  Chee- 
tham,  The  Mysteries,  Pagan  and  Christian  (1897);  R.  Reit- 
zenstein,  Die  helleuistischen  M ysterienreligionen  (1910); 
P.  Gardner,  The  Religious  Experience  of  Paul  (1911);  K. 
Lake,  The  Earlier  Epp.  of  Paul  (1911);  arts,  on  "Mys- 
tery" in  Eur  Brit,  cd  9  (W.  M.  Ramsay),  and  ed  11  (L.  R. 
Famed),  EB  (A.  Jtilicher),  11 D  B  (A.  Stewart),  1-vol  II DB 
(G.  G.  Findlay),  DCG  (R.  W.  Bacon);  arts,  on  ixv<tti)Pioi'  in 
Cremer  and  Grimm-Thayer  NT  Lexicons;  the  comms., 
including  J.  B.  Lightfoot  on  Col,  J.  Armitage  Robinson 
on  Eph,  II.  Lietzmann  on  1  Cor;  9  arts,  in  Expos  on  "St 
Paul  and  the  Mystery  Religions"  by  Professor  II.  A.  A. 
Kennedy  (April,  1912,  to  February,  1913). 

D.  Miall  Edwards 

MYTHOLOGY,  mi-thol'o-ji.  See  Fable;  Baby- 
lonia and  Assyria,  Religion  of;  Greece,  Reli- 
gion of. 


N 


NAAM,  na'am  (D?5,  naxam)\  A  son  of  Caleb 
(1  Ch  4  15). 

NAAMAH,  na'a-ma  ("P^=  ,  na(amdh,  "pleasant"; 
No£|xd,  Noemd) : 

(1)  Daughter  of  Lamech  and  Zillah,  and  sister 
of  Tubal-cain  (Gen  4  22;   cf  Jos,  Ant,  I,  ii,  2). 

(2)  An  Ammonitish  woman  whom  Solomon 
married,  and  who  became  the  mother  of  Rehoboam 
(1  K  14  21;  2  Ch  12  13).  According  to  an  addi- 
tion in  LXX  following  1  K  12  24,  "her  name  was 
Naaman,  the  daughter  of  Ana  [Hanun]  son  of  Na- 
hash,  king  of  the  sons  of  Amnion"  (see  Benzinger, 
Konige,  in  loc). 

NAAMAH: 

(1)  One  of  a  group  of  16  lowland  (Shephelah) 
cities  forming  part  of  Judah's  inheritance  (Josh  15 
41). 

(2)  The  home  of  Zophar,  one  of  Job's  friends 
(Job  2  11,  etc).     See  Naamathite. 

NAAMAN,  na'a-man  ("'£'?}.  ,  nof&man,  "pleasant- 
ness"; LXX  BA,  Nai(xdv,  Naimdn;  so  WH  in 
the  NT;  TR,  Neemdn): 

(1)  A  successful  Syrian  general,  high  in  the  con- 
fidence and  esteem  of  the  king  of  Syria,  and  honored 
by  his  fellow-countrymen  as  their  deliverer  (2  K 
5  1  27).  Afflicted  with  leprosy,  he  heard  from  a 
Heb  slave-maid  in  his  household  of  the  wonder- 
working powers  of  an  Israelitish  prophet.  Sent 
by  his  master  with  a  letter  couched  in  somewhat 
peremptory  terms  to  the  king  of  Israel,  he  came 
to  Samaria  for  healing.  The  king  of  Israel  was 
filled  with  suspicion  and  alarm  by  the  demands  of 
the  letter,  and  rent  his  clothes;  but  Elisha  the 
prophet  intervened,  and  sent  word  to  Naaman 
that  he  must  bathe  himself  seven  times  in  the  Jor- 
dan. He  at  first  haughtily  resented  the  humil- 
iation and  declined  the  cure;  but  on  the  remon- 
strance of  his  attendants  he  yielded  and  obtained 
cleansing.     At  once  he  returned  to  Samaria,  testi- 


fied his  gratitude  by  the  offer  of  large  gifts  to 
the  prophet,  confessed  his  faith  in  Elisha's  God, 
and  sought  leave  to  take  home  with  him  enough 
of  the  soil  of  Canaan  for  the  erection  of  an  altar 
to  Jeh. 

The  narrative  is  throughout  consistent  and  natu- 
ral, admirably  and  accurately  depicting  the  con- 
dition of  the  two  kingdoms  at  the  time.  The  char- 
acter of  Naaman  is  at  once  attractive  and  manly. 
His  impulsive  patriotic  preference  for  the  streams  of 
his  own  land  does  not  lessen  the  reader's  esteem  for 
him,  and  the  favorable  impression  is  deepened  by 
his  hearty  gratitude  and  kindness. 

The  Israelitish  king  is  most  probably  Jehoram, 
son  of  Ahab,  and  the  Syrian  monarch  Ben-hadad  II. 
Jos  (Ant,  VIII,  xv,  5)  identifies  Naaman  with  the 
man  who  drew  his  bow  at  a  venture,  and  gave  Ahab 
his  death  wound  (1  K  22  34).  There  is  one  ref- 
erence to  Naaman  in  the  NT.  In  Lk  4  27,  Jesus, 
rebuking  Jewish  exclusiveness,  mentions  "Naaman 
the  Syrian." 

(2)  A  son  of  Benjamin  (Gen  46  21.6).  Fuller 
and  more  precise  is  the  description  of  Nu  26  38.40, 
where  he  is  said  to  be  a  son  of  Bela  and  grandson  of 
Benjamin  (see  also  1  Ch  8  3  f).     John  A.  Lees 

NAAMATHITE,  na'a-ma-thit,  na-am'a-thit 
prray?  ,  ncf&mathl,  "a  dweller  in  Naaman";  6  M[c]i- 
vaCwv  pao-iXevs,  ho  M[e]inaion  basileus):  The  de- 
scription of  Zophar,  one  of  Job's  friends  (Job 
2  11;  11  1;  20  1,  etc).  Naamah  is  too  com- 
mon a  place-name  to  permit  of  the  identification 
of  Zophar's  home;  LXX  renders  "king  of  the 
Minaeans." 

NAAMITE,  na'a-mit  PWfW,  ha-na'dml,  "the 
Naamite"):  A  family  which  traced  its  descent  from 
Naaman  (Nu  26  40).     See  Naaman,  (2). 

NAARAH,  na'a-ra  (H^D,  na'drah,  "a  girl"): 
One  of  the  two  wives  of  Ashhur,  father  of  Tekoa 
(1  Ch  4  5). 


NOV   1  3  1985 


